64 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Shareholder information Shares held by category of shareholder Shares held by category of shareholder % of total shareholders % of total ordinary shares 1 Individual and 92.21% 1 Individual and 13.23% 2 1 1 joint accounts joint accounts 2 2 Others 7.79% 2 Others 86.77% Others e. g. insurance companies, nominee companies, banks, pension funds, other corporate bodies, limited and public limited companies.
Shareholdings Financial calendar Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2003 Announcement of results The results of the group will normally be published Percentage Number of Percentage of total ordinary of ordinary at the following times: Number of shareholders shares shares Interim results for the six months to 30 September December shareholders % million % Preliminary results for the year to 31 March June 1-499 58,456 59.7%11.4 3.3% Report and accounts for the year to 31 March June 500-999 22,621 23.1%15.5 4.5% 1,000-4,999 15,069 15.4%23.4 6.8% 5,000-9,999 578 0.6% 3.9 1.1% Dividend payments 10,000-49,999 601 0.6% 12.9 3.8% Dividend payments in respect 50,000-99,999 155 0.2% 10.9 3.2% of the year ended 31 March 2003: over 100,000 375 0.4% 266.0 77.3% Interim dividend paid 7 April 2003 97,855 100.0% 344.0 100.0% Proposed final dividend payable 1 October 2003 Annual General Meeting Electronic proxy appointments should, expects, believes, intends, 30 July 2003, 2.30pm at the National For this years Annual General Meeting you plans, targets, goal or estimates.
Motorcycle Museum, Birmingham may, if you wish, register the appointment By their very nature forward-looking of a proxy electronically by logging onto the statements are inherently unpredictable, Registrars website www.
You will need speculative and involve risk and uncertainty Lloyds TSB Registrars your voting reference numbers the three 8 because they relate to events and depend on The Causeway digit numbers shown on your form of proxy.
circumstances that will occur in the future.
Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Alternatively if you have registered for a There are a number of factors that could Telephone 0870 600 3967 Shareview portfolio, log onto your portfolio at cause actual results and developments to www.
co. uk and click on Company differ materially from those expressed or Severn Trent Plc Meetings.
implied by these forward-looking statements.
Registered number: 2366619 These factors include, but are not limited Registered ofce: Please note that any electronic to, changes in the markets in which the 2297 Coventry Road communication that is found to contain group operates: changes in the regulatory Birmingham B26 3PU a computer virus will not be accepted.
frameworks in which the group operates: the Telephone 0121 722 4000 impact of legal or other proceedings against Forward-looking statements or which affect the group: and changes in Shareview This document contains certain forwardinterest and exchange rates.
co. uk is a service offered by looking statements with respect to Severn Lloyds TSB Registrars that enables you to Trents financial condition, results of All subsequent written or verbal forwardcheck your holdings in many UK companies operations and business and certain looking statements attributable to Severn and helps you to organise your investments of Severn Trents plans and objectives Trent or any other member of the group or electronically.
You can register for this with respect to these items.
persons acting on their behalf are expressly free portfolio service by logging onto qualied in their entirety by the factors www.
co. uk and following Forward-looking statements are sometimes, referred to above.
Severn Trent does not a simple registration process.
but not always, identied by their use of intend to update these forward-looking a date in the future or such words as statements.
anticipates, aims, due, could, may, We are constantly looking at how best to provide the information our stakeholders need quickly and cost effectively.
We also seek to minimise the resources used wherever possible.
If you are a shareholder you too can do your bit.
If you currently receive the full Annual Report and Accounts why not consider switching to the Annual Review only?
You can still view or download a copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts on-line at www.
You can also elect not to receive paper copies of the Annual Report and other shareholder documents.
Instead you will receive an email containing a link to a website, where electronic copies of the documents can be viewed or downloaded.
Please call Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3967 to request the Annual Review only or to register for e-delivery.
For more information about Severn Trent Plc and its businesses see our website www.
com The following publications are also available Severn Trent Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements Stewardship Sustainable Development report Severn Trent Water Annual Report and Accounts including Regulatory Accounts Delivering Sustainability Biodiversity Action Plan Conservation, Access Recreation and Education Report Biffa Biffaecology Environment report Future Perfect Biffa Book V Biffa and Biodiversity Biffaward Annual Report and Accounts Contact us at the address below for copies of publications Severn Trent Plc 2297 Coventry Road Birmingham B26 3PU United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 121 722 4000 Severn Trent Plc For more information about Severn Trent Plc 2297 Coventry Road and its businesses see our website Birmingham B26 3PU United Kingdom www.
com Telephone 44 0 121 722 4000 The paper used in the production of this report, Zanders Megamatt, is produced using chlorine free processes from 50% recycled pre and post consumer waste.
It is certied to the Nordic Swan Standard, which requires products to meet a strict range of standards.
In addition the printing process is taken into account this report is printed by WACE who operate an Environmental Management System certied to ISO 14001.
Front cover: Lisa Roberts Severn Trent Laboratories Neville Moore Biffa eet maintenance team Ben Young Severn Trent Water ranger services Back cover: Alex Mirkovic Biffa business development team Designed and produced by CGI BrandSense Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Delivering environmental sense This is Severn Trent Severn Trent Plc is a leading environmental services group providing water, waste and utility services.
Our objective is to grow by providing services that solve environmental problems, that respond to new environmental expectations and that help to deliver sustainable development.
Our businesses activities Severn Trent Water is the groups Severn Trent Services supplies products Severn Trent Retail Services provides regulated water business.
It supplies and services associated with water, a series of products to domestic and water and wastewater collection wastewater and contaminated land.
commercial markets including energy, and treatment services for around insurance, telecoms and conveyancing 8 million people across the Midlands Severn Trent Water International services.
provides a range of private sector management and consultancy services Severn Trent Utility Services provides Biffa is one of the largest single suppliers in Europe and the developing world.
asset management and customer of waste management services in the UK.
service solutions to other utilities and It collects, treats, recovers and disposes Severn Trent Systems Aseriti supplies local authorities.
of municipal, commercial and industrial IT services and solutions focusing upon waste nation-wide and in Belgium.
managed services, e-business and Severn Trent Property develops facilities consultancy.
Worksuite supplies a range in the UK primarily for the distribution, Severn Trent Laboratories is a leading of work management software products retail and industrial sectors.
environmental testing laboratory and related services.
company in the US and the UK.
Charles Haswell and Partners is an international consultancy with experience in a wide range of engineering and environmental disciplines.
You can nd out more about Severn Trent Plc and the businesses within our group by visiting our website www.
com or the sites listed below: Severn Trent Water: www.
co. uk Severn Trent Laboratories, US: www.
stl-inc. com Severn Trent Laboratories, UK: www.
co. uk Severn Trent Services: www.
com Severn Trent Water International: www.
com Severn Trent Systems: www.
com Severn Trent Energy: www.
co. uk Severn Trent Utility Services: www.
co. uk Severn Trent Property: www.
com Charles Haswell and Partners: www.
Group turnover of 1,852.0 million 1,794.3 million.
Group profit before tax of 184.4 million 216.3 million : before exceptional items 225.2 million 233.3 million.
Earnings per share of 28.9p 45.9p : before exceptional items and deferred tax 58.1p 63.2p.
Severn Trent Water achieves its best ever customer service performance.
425 million invested in capital schemes.
Leadership positions in the UK waste market and in environmental testing in the USA and the UK.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Annual Report and Contents Accounts 2003 01 Financial and other highlights You can view and download 02 Chairmans statement a copy of the groups 04 Group Chief Executives review Delivering Annual Report and environmental sense 06 The environment is our business Accounts on our website 08 Summary review of operations at www.
com 15 Corporate social responsibility reports2003 or request a 16 Board of Directors copy free of charge 18 Independent auditors statement by contacting us using the details on the back cover of 18 Summary Directors report this report.
19 Summary group profit and loss account 20 Summary group balance sheet 20 Summary group cash ow statement 21 Summary remuneration report 24 Shareholder information 02 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Chairmans statement Group turnover was up 3.2% at 1,852.0 million Introduction During a turbulent economic and political year, Severn Trent was a haven of stability for investors.
Against a background of a fall of around 30% in the FTSE All-Share Index, our share price remained relatively stable.
In addition, our shares delivered one of the higher dividend yields in the index.
We made a clear statement that it is the Boards intention that for the period up to 31 March 2005, barring unforeseen circumstances, full year dividends per share would be a minimum of 45.9p this being the full year dividend for 2001 2002.
In line with our longer-term goals of delivering attractive yields and sustainable dividends, we also worked to grow the business.
We made a clear statement that for Business performance To achieve continued stability, Severn Trent the period up to 31 March 2005, concentrated on further reducing the risks barring unforeseen circumstances, facing the company and our investors.
In 2002 2003, we strengthened our focus full year dividends per share would on our core business areas of water, waste, and laboratories.
In line with Our organisational and financial management our longer-term goals of delivering systems are designed to help protect us from risk.
In particular, Severn Trents mixed equity attractive yields and sustainable and debt model is, we believe, the best way to dividends, we also worked to grow provide continued investment for the water industry.
However, the regulatory regime the business.
must allow an adequate rate of return and encourage management incentives.
Severn Trent Waters debt was 49.5% of regulatory capital value, at 31 March 2003.
The Severn Trent Water team convinced the regulator, OFWAT, to allow us to recover David Arculus some of the growing cost pressures on the Chairman company by increasing charges.
As a result, water bills will rise slightly above the rate of ination for the next two years.
This will mean that prices to customers are still below those in 2000, the beginning of the last regulatory review.
Contributing to Severn Trents drive for growth is a move towards public sector contracts.
We were named as preferred bidder for a 03 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 There are significant opportunities for the group, Turnover by business % of group total in 2002 2003 particularly from the increasing pace of legislation 1 Water 47% 917.9m in the waste sector, with Biffa well positioned to 4 1 2 Waste 26% 510.9m take advantage of growing demand for predisposal 3 Services 20% 385.4m 3 4 Others 7% 134.3m treatment and sorting.
2 substantial long-term strategic partnership Corporate social responsibility However, Clare Tritton has now decided to with Solihull Metropolitan Borough Council.
Severn Trent is committed to high standards stand down as a non-executive Director after In our non-regulated businesses, Biffa won a of corporate governance.
We are actively almost 12 years and I would like to thank significant contract to manage the collection, involved in the debate surrounding the her for her outstanding contribution to the recycling and disposal of waste for Leicester Higgs Report into the role of non-executive Board.
Eric Anstee took over the Chairmanship City Council.
Directors, which was published following of the Audit Committee and Marisa Cassoni recent, high-prole corporate failures.
succeeded him as Chairman of the Treasury In Severn Trent Services, our successful While many of the Higgs recommendations Committee.
Laboratories operation, STL, strengthened are sound, we feel that the report is too their suite of water, ground and air testing prescriptive and we are articulating our My greatest thanks, however, must go to products, growing their profits organically by concerns in the hope of achieving a sensible our hard working staff in the UK, US, Europe over 10%.
Severn Trent Water International, conclusion to the debate.
and other parts of the world, who once again led by Tony Hill, recently awarded an MBE, worked tirelessly to achieve our business continued to pursue opportunities in the Severn Trent aims to achieve high goals and uphold our reputation for both UK, Belgium, Italy and further aeld.
service delivery and environmental concern.
We were ranked top of our sector in the Our continuing success will be due to their Group results Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the skill and dedication.
Group turnover was 1,852.0 million, up 3.2%.
The non-regulated businesses increased Outlook turnover by 5.0% to 1,030.6 million.
Biffa is recognised as making a substantial There are significant opportunities for the Turnover from water and sewerage increased and positive contribution to the national group, particularly from the increasing pace by 2.0% to 917.9 million.
environmental debate as well as boosting of legislation in the waste sector, with Biffa sustainability through its landll gas well positioned to take advantage of growing Goodwill amortisation was 25.2 million to energy projects.
During 2002 2003, demand for predisposal treatment and sorting.
There was a net exceptional our landll tax credit scheme, Biffaward, charge in the year of 40.8 million which recycles landll tax credits, provided Growing synergies between our water and waste 17.0 million.
17 million for environmental and companies will lead to future opportunities.
A significant proportion of Severn Trent Group profit before interest, tax, goodwill Waters income comes from processing amortisation and exceptional items was Through our group community affairs waste products and we see considerable 2.1% lower at 409.8 million.
The water programme we have 11 long-term scope for sharing expertise and technology.
and sewerage business was down by partnerships with Midlands charities.
2.6% to 325.5 million reecting the tight Many of our employees have given their In the current financial year our key virtues of regulatory determination whilst the groups own time to help community projects.
integrity, consistent performance and sound non-regulated businesses were up 3.7% to Employee volunteering is now being used management will be more important than ever 104.5 million, representing 24.3% of the by many businesses within the group as a given the continuing economic challenges.
way of enhancing and introducing new skills Looking further ahead, the dual drivers of to employees.
We are a founding member increasing environmental legislation and Group profit before interest, tax and of Birmingham Cares which delivers greater understanding of the water industrys exceptional items was 384.6 million volunteering opportunities in Birmingham.
investment needs offer further growth 392.3 million.
Group profit before interest opportunities.
and tax was 343.8 million 375.3 million.
We are also members of Business in the Communitys PerCent Club, by virtue of The groups strategy continues to be to After interest charges of 159.4 million, investing more than 1% of our pre-tax increase shareholder value by establishing group profit before tax, goodwill amortisation profits in the community.
Severn Trent as the UKs leading integrated and exceptional items was 3.6% lower environmental services business.
Group profit before tax Management and staff aims to build on the groups leadership and exceptional items was 225.2 million Our Board and top management team positions in the UK waste market and in 233.3 million, a reduction of 3.5%.
remained unchanged during the year, environmental testing in the USA and the Group profit before tax was 184.4 million bringing stability and consistency of vision UK, with Severn Trent Water continuing 216.3 million.
to outperform its regulatory targets.
04 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Group Chief Executives review 2 billion Severn Trent Water continued to deliver efficiencies against its 2 billion investment programme for the five-year period 2000 2001 to 2004 2005.
I am pleased to report a satisfactory set of results achieved in what can be described as a difficult year, with broadly unchanged pricing in the water business and challenging economic conditions in our main UK and US markets.
The groups core businesses water, waste and laboratories all nished the year in robust shape with waste and laboratories particularly well positioned to take advantage of the economic upturn, whenever it comes.
Management confronted problem areas and has largely dealt with them.
Agreement has been reached with those customers in the US over the Systems contracts that were in dispute: the Water Purication Division of Services showed a strong improvement The groups core businesses water, in the second half and Biffa Belgium had a signicantly better year.
waste and laboratories all nished the year in robust shape with waste And we have successfully targeted major multi-year contracts in highly competitive and laboratories particularly well areas of our business.
positioned to take advantage of the Water The water and sewerage business produced economic upturn whenever it comes.
another creditable performance, given broadly unchanged pricing and continuing cost pressures, which mostly offset the companys outperformance against regulatory targets for gross operating cost efficiencies.
The business continues on track to outperform its regulated targets, and indeed, to meet its own stretched targets.
Gross operating Robert Walker cost efficiencies amounted to 61 million Group Chief Executive per annum in 2002 2003.
However, these savings are being offset by cost pressures.
That is why it is important to continue to look for new opportunities to make operating cost savings.
Severn Trent Water continued to deliver efficiencies against its 2 billion investment programme for the five-year period 2000 2001 to 2004 2005 and is on track to deliver average capex efficiencies of around 7% over that period.
I am pleased that the company has achieved its best ever customer service 05 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 The water and sewerage business produced another creditable performance, given broadly unchanged pricing and continuing cost pressures.
The markets for Biffa and Services are expected to remain difficult into 2003 2004, though their leadership positions in waste in the UK and in environmental testing in the US and the UK should provide platforms for future growth when the economic climate improves.
performance, as measured against the OFWAT We remain convinced of our analysis of In addition, we have been shortlisted to the customer service standards.
the attractiveness of the waste sector.
final two on long-term contracts with the The UK waste sector has the most Ministry of Defence 1 billion revenues In addition, of course, there are increased potential for growth in Europe: and another integrated waste contract.
costs that are specic to the water sector.
Our integrated business model of These formed the basis of our successful collection, landll disposal and special These all demonstrate the groups abilities IDOK application last Autumn and most waste treatment is right for the future: to bring resources together from all our of these costs were allowed.
Our focus on industrial and commercial companies to compete for valuable longwaste remains the right one: term business.
The AMP4 pricing review process is now New municipal contracts combining well under way.
collection, recycling, treatment and Core businesses disposal open up a significant market Our core businesses of water, waste and While we are pleased with the Regulators opportunity for Biffa.
laboratories have four basic advantages: commitment to greater transparency in the Leadership, scale and low cost advantage: process and the considerable efforts he is I am confident Biffa will continue to be Among the best management teams in making with City and investor audiences, we the benchmark waste operator in the UK.
each sector: remain concerned about three central issues: Consistent strong past performance: The need to retain equity in the sector, both Services Long-term opportunities for profitable growth.
as a source of capital and as an incentive Severn Trent Laboratories STL, performed towards greater efficiency, is as critical strongly throughout the year, delivering These will stand us in good stead as we face as ever it is the best way of ensuring organic growth in profit before interest, tax up to another testing year in 2003 2004 sustained investment and performance: and goodwill amortisation of over 10%, and with confidence and commitment.
There is still uncertainty about the is now well positioned to take advantage of varying demands of the quality regulators, growth opportunities in new areas of testing.
People particularly the EA, around the capital None of what I have reported would programme.
We must have clear guidance Operating Services continued to add have been possible without the excellent and coordination between the various profitable new municipal outsourcing performance of our staff throughout this regulators: businesses, although weaknesses remain year.
I am grateful for the resourcefulness We need to improve the mechanics and in the smaller pipeline services businesses.
and enthusiasm shown by employees in effectiveness of interim price determinates the face of continual challenge.
The objective should be Reecting management actions, Water to deal with material charges to company Purications performance improved in Outlook obligations as and when they occur, leaving the second half.
Overall, the group is likely to experience companies in the same financial position another challenging year in 2003 2004. as if the charges had been foreseen during Severn Trent Water International STWI, Severn Trent Water will benefit from the the review.
improved profitability in its Aquan outcome of the IDOK and is expected to investment in Belgium and commenced continue to outperform its regulatory Waste work at Terni, the only privatised contract targets for gross operating cost efficiencies.
The key theme for the whole year has been in Italy to start operations so far.
However offsetting cost pressures are lower industrial and commercial volumes, expected to grow.
In addition, increases in resulting from the slowing down in the UKs Major long-term contracts depreciation are also expected, reecting manufacturing and commercial sectors.
This We have successfully bid for long-term the growing capital expenditure programme.
has impacted all three of Biffas UK divisions contracts amounting to more than 1 billion collection, landll and special waste.
The markets for Biffa and Services are A contract to operate a strategic expected to remain difficult into 2003 2004, However, Biffa has delivered a solid partnership with Solihull Metropolitan though their leadership positions in waste performance in difficult market conditions, Borough Council.
This is worth 750 million in the UK and in environmental testing in particularly in the UK.
Excluding the in revenues over the next 15 years, and is the US and the UK should provide platforms contribution from foot-and-mouth, in due to be signed in the Autumn of 2003: for future growth when the economic climate 2001 2002 Biffa has produced a broadly The integrated City of Leicester waste improves.
at performance year on year.
contract, producing revenues of 300 million over 25 years.
06 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 The environment is our business As part of a continuing process aimed at gaining permits for all our sites that fall under the IPPC legislation, our partnership with Severn Trent Water has been key as we prepare for the implementation of our environmental management system.
Brian How Operations Manager, Rank Hovis Ltd I am consistently impressed by the managements in-depth understanding of the commercial and regulatory framework in which its three core businesses operate.
Verity Mitchell Utilities Analyst, HSBC Corporate Banking Severn Trent has been a component of the DJSI for four years in a row and has consistently outperformed the rest of the industry.
Over the years, the company has displayed superior strategy, management tools and improvement programs in all three dimensions of corpor ate sustainability.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index Commenting on Severn Trents performance in the 2003 Index To ensure compliance with our environmental, health and safety standards we have created a database Its fundamental that we continue to management system that deliver a high-quality service to our allows managers to constantly customers.
In ensuring this happens, track their performance and its really our people who make the measure exposure to risks at difference, constantly striving to every Biffa site across the UK.
improve efficiency and environmental, Amanda Richards health and safety performance.
Business Systems Improvement Manager, Biffa Pervinder Johal Head of Microbiology, Severn Trent Laboratories In the long run we recognise that exemplary environmental and social performance contributes to raising our financial performance and increasing shareholder value.
Roger Peace Director of Sustainable Development and Risk Assurance, Severn Trent Plc 08 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Summary review of operations Water and sewerage Turnover profit before interest 917.9 325.4 million million 2002 2003 performance During the year, we achieved further operating In 2002 2003, turnover from water and cost efficiencies through a wide range of measures sewerage increased by 2.0% to 917.9 million 899.9 million.
profit before interest, tax including the better use of new technology and and goodwill amortisation was down 2.6% to 325.5 million 334.1 million.
After goodwill by generating more of our own power.
amortisation of 0.1 million nil, profit before interest and tax was 325.4 million 334.1 million.
Direct operating costs of the regulated water business were 362.5 million, a reduction in real terms of 1.4 million or 0.4%.
Excluding the impact of ination, gross operating cost efficiencies in 2002 2003 amounted to 14.4 million, a reduction of 4.1% compared to the previous year.
However, these efficiencies were offset by cost pressures of 13.0 million.
The programme for reducing costs in Severn Trent Water has continued to make good progress.
Since the beginning of the third asset management plan post privatisation AMP3, gross operating cost efficiencies have now reached 61 million per annum, offset by cost pressures amounting to 49 million.
The 61 million of gross operating cost efficiencies is 16 million ahead of the OFWAT target for Year 3 of the 5 year Plan period.
The interim determination Last autumn, OFWAT allowed our appeal to increase prices to finance several new challenges faced by the company since the last price review in 1999 when customer charges were reduced by almost 12%.
The new price limits bills will rise by 2.1% above ination in 2003 and 2.2% above ination in 2004 will mean that average household bills will rise by around 10 in 2003 2004.
Beating the regulatory contract During the year, we achieved further operating cost efficiencies through a wide range of measures including the better use of new technology and by generating more of our own power.
In the year we invested approximately 425 million to deliver improvements in 09 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Highlights Market opportunities Continued to deliver capital expenditure Awarded further contracts across The strengthening of our account efficiencies against our 2 billion the UK with such organisations as management and the quality of our investment programme for the period Rank Hovis McDougalls, Dairy Crest service means we are well-positioned to 2000 2001 to 2004 2005.
On track to and Northampton General Hospital.
benefit from greater competition amongst deliver around 7% efficiencies over AMP3.
Also, our business Named as the preferred bidder for has opportunities to grow in the areas of Won a Customer Care Award at the Utility a 15-year contract, with revenues of debt management, local authority contracts, Industry Achievement Awards.
750 million, with Solihull Metropolitan conveyancing searches and telecoms.
customer service and higher standards in drinking water and sewage efuent quality.
Severn Trent Water continued to deliver We are working closely efficiencies against its approximate 2 billion with OFWAT and the other investment programme for the five-year period 2000 2001 to 2004 2005 and is regulatory bodies to improve on track to deliver average capex efficiencies the regulatory framework to of around 7% over the AMP3 period.
ensure that the needs of both Service and quality customers and shareholders In the year we delivered our best ever levels of are met.
service as measured by the OFWAT customer service standards.
We continued to maintain Brian Duckworth the highest levels of drinking water quality Managing Director, and protection for our rivers.
Severn Trent Water Our efforts to provide a top quality service to our customers were recognised when we won a Customer Care Award at the Utility Industry Achievement Awards for the success of measures to tackle sewer ooding.
Industry competition Previous page: We believe that the quality of our services Upgrading the sewerage Community and environment positions us well to benefit from greater infrastructure in Redditch.
Investment to alleviate and We strive to be a responsible company and competition.
avoid sewer-ooding incidents support many hundreds of projects all with is a high priority.
a sustainability agenda across the Severn During 2002 2003, we continued to cultivate Trent region.
Our achievements in this area opportunities across the UK and won further Above right: are measured externally and ranked against contracts with such organisations as Rank Hovis Derby sewage treatment our peers in the Business in the Community works, where a 70 million McDougalls, Dairy Crest and Northampton investment programme corporate responsibility index.
is delivering significant improvements to the Outlook Growing the business River Derwent.
To ensure that we can deliver what In 2002 2003, Severn Trent Utility Services, customers want and meet rising costs, which provides asset management and Below: it seems likely that water bills will need Working closely with PZ Cussons, customer service solutions became the Nottingham, on initiatives to rise after the next pricing review.
preferred bidder for a 15-year contract covering waste minimisation, with Solihull Metropolitan Borough Council.
Severn Trent is working closely with OFWAT and the other regulatory bodies to improve Our Severn Trent Retail Services business, the regulatory framework to ensure that the which was created to offer products needs of both customers and shareholders such as gas, electricity, insurance and are met.
telecommunications services, continued to perform strongly.
While there are challenges ahead, we believe that the strengthening of dialogue with The 2005 pricing review government, coupled with our ability to take During the year we began to prepare our advantage of a more competitive environment, submission to OFWAT for the next pricing positions us well for future growth.
These plans will take into account the state of our existing assets and new legislation which we have to meet.
10 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Summary review of operations Waste Turnover profit before interest and goodwill amortisation 510.9 67.9 million million goodwill amortisation 16.6 million This increased focus on alternatives to landll In the UK, we saw significant growth in the municipal enabled us to extend and win significant sector, pre treatment activities and electricity generation.
For example, we were awarded a 25-year contract to Biffa Belgium also performed well.
manage all waste collection, recycling and disposal facilities for Leicester City Council with revenues of 300 million.
Collection Our collection turnover in the UK was 270.7 million 260.8 million.
The economic slowdown affected industrial commercial collection volumes, resulting in a decline volumes down 3%.
Before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation, the collection division contributed a profit of 43.6 million 45.3 million.
Biffa services a total of 53 municipal collection contracts which include waste and recyclables, collection, street cleaning, civic amenity and transfer station sites.
Biffa also works with more than 60,000 industrial and commercial clients in the UK.
Biffa Our long-running contract on the Isle of A raft of legislation and In 2002 2003, conditions in the UK waste Wight provides essential experience for such increases in landll tax are market were difficult as the economic slowdown integrated municipal contracts.
During the likely to drive further demand impacted industrial and commercial volumes year, 49% of the islands waste was diverted in Biffas three business sectors of collection, from landll, and Island Waste Services for recycling, composting and landll and special waste.
was awarded European Eco-Management other alternatives to landll.
and Audit Scheme EMAS accreditation.
However, in the UK, we saw significant growth Our experience in the in the municipal sector, pre treatment activities We took steps to reduce the environmental European waste disposal and electricity generation.
Biffa Belgium also impact of our trucks by switching the entire sector leaves us well placed performed well.
eet to ultra low sulphur diesel, the cleanest mass-market fuel available.
to seize these growing In 2002 2003, waste managements turnover opportunities.
Turnover Landll in the UK increased by 1.7% to 457.3 million, Despite the growing demand for Martin Bettington while Belgian turnover increased by 18.3% recycling, landll remains the UKs Managing Director, to 53.6 million.
Biffas profit before interest, major waste disposal route.
In 2002 2003, Biffa tax and goodwill amortisation including Biffa our landll turnover in the UK was 141.6 Belgium was down by 7.0%, to 67.9 million million 147.4 million.
Landll volumes but broadly at year-on-year if the contribution decreased by around 7% 3% for sites from foot-and-mouth in 2001 2002 is excluded.
open in both 2001 2002 and 2002 2003 After goodwill amortisation of 16.6 million and average unit revenues were up by 16.8 million, profit before interest and tax around 2% excluding the impact of was 51.3 million 56.2 million.
profit from the landll division, before interest, tax and goodwill Legislation continued to drive the move away amortisation, was down 15.2% at 28.9 from landll towards alternative methods of million 34.1 million.
disposal, such as recycling and composting.
11 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Highlights Market opportunities Awarded a contract to manage all Awarded a three year contract by Shell Biffas integrated business model of waste collection and disposal facilities to service 630 retail forecourts, collect collection, landll disposal and special for Leicester City Council with revenues ofce waste from distribution terminals, waste treatment positions the company as of 300 million over 25 years.
and manage waste at the Stanlow and the benchmark waste company in the UK.
The Landll Directive opens up significant Eastham oil reneries.
Reduced the environmental impact of opportunities for long-term municipal our trucks by switching the entire eet significant growth in the municipal, contracts and this combined with a focus to ultra low sulphur diesel, the cleanest pre-disposal treatment and electricity on industrial and commercial waste mass-market fuel available.
The EU Landll Directive started to take effect during 2002.
Special waste The special waste division in the UK, which includes the important power generation activity, achieved a 9.0% increase in turnover to 45.0 million and contributed profit before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation of 5.9 million 6.1 million.
In 2002 2003, we were awarded a three year contract by Shell to service 630 retail forecourts, collect ofce waste from distribution terminals, and manage waste at the Stanlow and Eastham oil reneries.
Previously, Shell employed several regional waste management companies for this work.
We continued to generate electricity from landll gas, having increased our interests in capacity to 83MW in the UK.
We are seeking to increase our generating capacity to around Previous page: Above: 100MW by 2006.
Skelton Grange Waste The new Leicester City Management Centre, Council integrated waste Belgium near Leeds.
One of management contract will In Belgium, turnover increased by 18.3% around 30 landll aim to reach a recycling to 53.6 million and profit before interest, sites operated target of 40% by 2005. nationally by Biffa.
tax and goodwill amortisation increased to Below: 3.1 million 1.3 million.
Biffas largest landll gas generation location Environment and community at Risley.
The plant is During the year we provided significant support capable of generating more than 10MW of to environment and community initiatives.
Our Landll Tax Credit Scheme, Biffaward, provided 17 million to community and environment projects.
Since Biffaward began in 1997 we have donated 57 million to more than 600 schemes.
We also launched our third biannual environmental report Biffaecology.
Outlook A raft of legislation and increases in landll tax are likely to drive further demand for recycling, composting and other alternatives to landll.
Our experience in the European waste disposal sector leaves us well placed to seize these growing opportunities.
12 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Summary review of operations The Services Group Turnover profit before interest goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 385.4 34.2 million million goodwill amortisation 8.5 million and exceptional charges 46.8 million 2002 2003 performance The scale and breadth of Severn Trent Laboratories Services turnover increased by 1.0% to offering remains key to our success.
profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional business works for 200 of the Fortune 500 companies items increased by 6.9% to 34.2 million.
After goodwill amortisation of 8.5 million and, during 2002 2003, continued to win new work 9.6 million, profit before interest, tax with large blue chip clients.
and exceptional items was 25.7 million 22.4 million.
After an exceptional charge of 46.8 million, Services profit before interest and tax was a loss of 21.1 million profit of 22.4 million.
The exceptional charge of 46.8 million, represents a write down for impairment in the carrying value of Water Purication and Operating Services principally in pipeline services.
The charge for impairment has no impact on cash ows.
Some 81% of Services turnover arose in the USA.
Excluding the impact of exchange rates, Services turnover increased by approximately 7% and profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items increased by approximately 10%.
After eliminating the share of associated undertakings profit, where the corresponding turnover is not consolidated into Services results, Services sales margin increased to 6.3% 6.0%.
Above: At the STL Business Centre, Coventry, the laboratory processes around 2 million test results a year for more than 1,000 UK customers.
STLs leadership position and Right: wide spectrum of services BP taking water samples places us in pole position at their Llandarcy site, South Wales, that will to win major contracts and then be analysed at the continue to improve our STL Bridgend facilities.
Rachel Brydon Jannetta President and Chief Executive officer, Severn Trent Laboratories 13 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Highlights Market opportunities Launched a major restructuring In STL, we continued to expand our For laboratories, the scale and breadth programme that integrated some US and geographic presence with new service of our offering remains key to its success.
centres in key locations in the US.
In the UK, to offset potential reduced demand from the water sector STL are Severn Trent Water International begun In Water Purication Solutions we seeking to capitalise on new legislation a 30-year contract to supply water and increased the proportion of our sales such as the Landll Directive and IPPC wastewater services in Terni, Italy.
outside the US to 45% as we renewed regulations.
For our services businesses our focus on global markets.
we will continue to increase our focus on international markets.
ltration systems, as industrial clients reined Severn Trent Laboratories in spending and municipal clients reallocated Leadership already tight budgets to security areas.
In 2002 2003, Severn Trent Laboratories However, following management action, The restructuring of the STL, strengthened its leadership position in performance improved in the second half.
the US and UK environmental testing markets business has laid a strong despite the difficult economic conditions.
Operating Services including Severn Trent foundation for growth when Turnover increased by 0.1% to 171.8 million, Water International but turnover in the US in US$ grew by 4.4%, the economy recovers.
The Operating Services division operates and turnover in the UK in grew by 24.0%.
water and wastewater facilities plus other Len Graziano related services for customers who are President and STL serves these markets with 29 laboratories largely based in the US.
Its experience in Chief Executive officer, in the US and 4 in the UK.
realising operating efficiencies and delivering Severn Trent Services new technology enables the division to achieve Scale and breadth significant cost savings for many clients.
The scale and breadth of STLs offering remains Turnover in Operating Services increased key to our success.
The laboratories business by 4.6% to 126.1 million.
works for 200 of the Fortune 500 companies and, during 2002 2003, continued to win Contract operations delivered organic new work with large blue chip clients.
It was buoyed by demand from US municipalities UK seeking ways to reduce costs in order to In the UK, STL has two centres of excellence ease budget deficits.
in Coventry, which specialise in waste water and soil analysis, one in South Wales, that Pipelines services performed poorly in a focuses on drinking water, and another in difficult market, as municipalities sought Cheshire, with expertise in eco-toxicity, to rein in spending on their water and microbiology and biology.
In response to the fall in demand for pipeline assessment Outlook work, we closed sites in Texas, Tennessee, STLs leadership and wide spectrum of services North Carolina and Connecticut.
places us in pole position to win major contracts and continue to improve our business model.
During the year, we combined the US and European operations of our water metering Severn Trent Services business and introduced new software that Below: Improving efficiency will enable us to read a wider range of water In Italy, Severn Trent Water In 2002 2003 Severn Trent Services took meters in use across the US.
International remains in a action to both improve efficiency and reduce strong position as the market its exposure to the troubled US economy.
Our international arm, Severn Trent Water for regional water service managers continues to grow.
International, focused on providing private We appointed a new chief executive who sector management in Western Europe, where launched a major restructuring programme state-owned water authorities are being that integrated some US and European restructured.
In 2002 2003, it increased businesses, reduced layers of management, turnover by 43%.
We began our 30-year Italian consolidated manufacturing operations and contract to operate water and wastewater closed four US sites, which reduced headcount services in Terni, Umbria.
Outlook Water Purication Solutions The restructuring of the business has laid Our Water Purication division delivers a strong foundation for growth when the water disinfection and ltration products economy recovers.
We also believe that our to municipal and industrial customers.
Its increased focus on international markets turnover decreased by 2.1% to 87.5 million.
will help to insulate the business from future Its performance was impacted by its difficult economic difficulties in particular regions.
market place: there was a fall in demand for 14 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Summary review of operations Other businesses Highlights Aseriti, the new brand for Severn Trent Systems work management business, Systems in the UK, was created to help under the Worksuite brand, is being move the business forward with a new transformed into a stand-alone business.
and exciting strategy of development Based in Houston, it has global reach and growth.
Through restructuring, it lowered its cost base while retaining its leadership position in North America.
Systems Property, Engineering consultancy and Insurance 2002 2003 performance Total turnover for Systems reduced to 2002 2003 performance 61.3 million 62.0 million.
Systems Total turnover from these businesses in produced a loss before interest, tax and the year was 73.0 million 43.0 million exceptional items of 3.1 million loss of generating profit before interest and tax 5.8 million.
After an exceptional credit of 5.5 million 1.5 million.
of 6.0 million net exceptional charge 17.0 million, profit before interest and Property tax was 2.9 million loss of 22.8 million.
Development activity during 2002 2003 continued at an encouraging level, with Agreement has been reached with those significant progress being made.
customers in the US over the CIS-Open Vision contracts that were in dispute, with the At Thorpe Park, Leeds, which has an Above: associated costs of these problem contracts ultimate capacity of 1.8 million sq.
ft of Aseriti, the new brand name expected to be covered by the 25.0 million ofce development, pre let buildings are for Severn Trent Systems in exceptional charge in 2001 2002.
An in course of construction for WS Atkins plc the UK.
exceptional credit of 6.0 million has been and Boxwood plc, whilst a regional ofce taken in the year, representing the release of for Bryant Homes Limited was handed over part of the 25.0 million exceptional charge.
Systems continues to provide some support and maintenance for these customers.
Daventry International Rail Freight Terminal remains the largest scheme to be undertaken Aseriti, the new brand for Severn Trent by the company.
Systems in the UK, was created to help move the business forward with a new and Engineering consultancy exciting strategy of development and growth.
During the year Charles Haswell and Partners has been recognised as one of the top three In Severn Trent Water, Aseriti delivered a medium-sized consulting engineers by a number of very large projects, including a leading industry journal.
eld asset management system, and 5,000 seat technology refresh.
The company has continued to make a major contribution to the successful delivery Systems work management business, under of Severn Trent Waters capital programme the Worksuite brand, is being transformed for 2002 2003. into a stand-alone business.
Based in Houston, it has global reach through its partner network.
Charles Haswell and Partners is a key member Through restructuring, it lowered its cost base of the team delivering the Dublin Port Tunnel while retaining its leadership position in North Project which is the largest civil engineering America.
Its customer reception continues to project in Ireland and is a major contributor be strong.
National Grid became a Worksuite to the Channel Tunnel Rail Link project.
customer in the past year.
Industry leaders such as AEP, LG&E, PPL, and We Energies Insurance put Worksuite products into production.
Derwent Insurance, based in Guernsey, provides insurance cover to Severn Trent group companies.
15 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Corporate social responsibility Above: We continue to support the Fairbridge charity in the West Midlands, offering disadvantaged young people long-term personal development programmes.
Left: A restored area of the Risley landll site.
Biffa are now undertaking ecological assessments to establish the biodiversity signicance of land under their stewardship.
To set an ethical framework for our activities we have published our values Our corporate vision is to be at the forefront of and a code of business principles, the environmental services industry.
Our corporate which are available on our website www.
com values of environmental leadership, service and quality, enshrined in our Code of Business Principles The code of business principles guides our people as they face day-to-day challenges and Conduct, define our business culture and guide and covers issues ranging from obeying the law to displaying integrity.
Our policy people as they face day-to-day challenges Around the world We strive to be a responsible corporate and covers issues ranging from obeying Severn Trent Water International shares citizen and recognise that Severn Trent the law to displaying integrity.
its skills to improve water management in has an important role to play in achieving the developing world and in Eastern and sustainable development for society as a Community support Central Europe.
As part of this commitment we seek Our community affairs programme focuses to conserve natural resources and to support on the key themes of environmental For example, we are an active participant in the communities in which we operate.
education, the built environment and the the UK Governments Partners for Water and natural environment.
Under this scheme, we Our role as an environmental services are working to improve water and sanitation company means that our activities are In 2002 2003, we donated more than services in Nigeria, South Africa and Uganda.
of intrinsic benefit to society.
However, 0.2 million to community projects.
Among our ability to achieve business success also the charities to benefit were Bridle Gate in Environmental management makes a significant contribution to building Staffordshire, which provides educational We have a robust environmental management a sustainable future.
As well as delivering opportunities for children with special system, which has achieved the international shareholder value, we support the wider needs, and the Cromford Venture Centre ISO 14001 accreditation.
To ensure that community in ways that range from the in Derbyshire, which helps young people environmental management is pursued employment opportunities we offer to our build confidence and self-esteem.
at a strategic level, it is overseen by our charitable donations.
Environmental Advisory Committee, which Through our employee volunteering reports directly to the Board.
Vision, values and principles programme, we encourage our people We aspire to high standards of corporate to share their expertise with the charities Our progress behaviour as we pursue our vision of leadership we support.
In 2002 2003, we supported We are committed to being open about our in the environmental services industry.
To employees in holding workshops with the corporate social responsibility performance.
set an ethical framework for our activities Fairbridge charity in the West Midlands During the year we were again ranked top we have published our values and a code to provide disadvantaged young people of our sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability of business principles, which are available with guidance about setting up their Index and featured in the FTSE4Good Index.
We publish full details of our progress in our Stewardship report and on our website.
Our values articulate the companys In addition to the community affairs commitment to disposing of waste safely, programme, our Biffaward landll tax providing value for money, conserving natural credit scheme, which is administered by resources, maintaining infrastructure, and the Royal Society for Nature Conservation, complying with all appropriate standards.
provided 17 million for environment and The code of business principles guides our community projects.
16 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Board of Directors Alan Perelman David Arculus Robert Walker Derek Osborn Eric Anstee Marisa Cassoni Brian Duckworth Clare Tritton John McAdam Martin Bettington Martin Flower John Banyard Board Committees Environmental and Corporate Social Remuneration Committee Senior independent non-executive Responsibility Advisory Committee Director Membership of Board Committees M C Flower Chairman is as detailed below: F A Osborn Chairman T D G Arculus M C Flower T D G Arculus J D G McAdam Audit Committee Group General Counsel and Company M J Bettington Secretary P P Davies Secretary E E Anstee Chairman R Brydon Jannetta Nominations Committee T D G Arculus B Duckworth P P Davies LL.
Solicitor M L Cassoni LF Graziano T D G Arculus Chairman F A Osborn J W Oatridge M C Flower Secretary P P Davies R M Walker J D G McAdam Secretary P P Davies Secretary P P Davies Charitable Contributions Committee Executive Committee Treasury Committee B Duckworth Chairman RMWalker R M Walker Chairman ML Cassoni Chairman Secretary P P Davies T D G Arculus E E Anstee J K Banyard T D G Arculus M J Bettington T E Jack P P Davies and Secretary A S Perelman B Duckworth R M Walker PJ Gavan M R Wilson JW Oatridge Secretary P P Davies A S Perelman PKTandon 17 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 David Arculus MA MSc Chairman 57 Martin Bettington BSc MechEng MBA 50 Derek Osborn CB 62 Mr Arculus joined the Board in May 1996 as Mr Bettington joined the Board in November Mr Osborn joined the Board on a non-executive Director and was appointed 1994.
He is the Managing Director of Severn 21 September 1998 and is a leading Chairman on 29 July 1998.
He is Chairman Trents waste management business, Biffa gure in the environmental world.
He of Earls Court & Olympia Group Ltd and is Waste Services.
Mr Bettington was previously was Chairman of the UK Round Table on a non-executive Director of Barclays PLC.
employed by BET Plc, Biffas former holding Sustainable Development from 1999 to He was recently appointed as a non-executive company.
He holds an MBA from Manchester 2000 and is now a member of the UK Director of Mm0.
From 1998 to October Business School.
2 2001 he was Chairman of IPC Group Ltd.
He has been Chairman of UNED UK since Until 1997 he was Group Managing Director Marisa Cassoni BSc ACA 51 1996 and was Chairman of the International of Emap Plc, the international media Ms Cassoni joined the Board on Institute for Environment and Development company, where he played a significant role 1 September 2001.
She is currently Group from 1998 to 2002.
He is Chairman of in the growth of that company.
Mr Arculus Finance Director of Royal Mail plc, having Jupiter Global Green Investment Trust was formerly a journalist and a producer at previously been Group Finance Director at and of the international advisory board of the BBC.
In April 2002, he was appointed by Britannic Assurance plc from 1998 to 2001.
Mr Osborn was Director General the Government to chair its Better Regulation Ms Cassoni qualied as an accountant with of Environment Protection in the Department Task Force.
Deloittes where she rose to be Corporate of the Environment from 1990 to 1995 and Finance Manager.
She later moved to the Chairman of the Management Board of the Robert Walker MA 58 Prudential Corporation, becoming Group European Environment Agency from 1995 Mr Walker joined the Board in May 1996 as Finance Director of the Prudentials UK to 1999. a non-executive Director.
He was appointed Division in 1994.
Deputy Chief Executive in July 1999 and Alan Perelman MA MSc 55 became Group Chief Executive in August Brian Duckworth BA FCCA FCIWEM Mr Perelman joined the Board in October 2000.
He has previously worked for Procter FIWO 54 2001 and was appointed Group Finance & Gamble, McKinsey & Company and Mr Duckworth joined the Board in Director in December 2001.
Prior to this PepsiCo Inc. where he was a Division November 1994.
He has worked in various he was Group Finance Director at Whitbread President.
Mr Walker is also a non-executive roles since joining Severn Trent in 1974 from 1990 to 2001.
Previous positions held Director of Wolseley Plc.
and was appointed Managing Director of were Group Finance Director at The Gateway Severn Trent Water Limited on 1 April 1995.
Corporation and various positions at Rio Eric Anstee FCA 52 Mr Duckworth was appointed as a nonTinto both in the UK and overseas.
Mr Anstee joined the Board in July 1999.
He is executive Director of Avon Rubber plc Chairman of Mansell plc and a non-executive and Redrow Plc in 2002.
He has served Clare Tritton BA QC 67 Director of SSL International plc.
He was as the President of the Institution of Water Mrs Tritton joined the Board in November appointed Chairman of D P Communications Ofcers and Chairman of Water UK, the 1991.
She is also a Trustee Director of UK plc in May 2002.
Until August 2001 water industrys trade association.
certain of the Severn Trent pension schemes.
he was Chief Executive Financial Services Mrs Tritton has wide legal experience with of Old Mutual Group, having been Group Martin Flower BA 56 emphasis on European Community law and Finance Director from November 1998 to Mr Flower joined the Board in June 1996 particularly on competition law.
Prior to that, he was Group and is the senior independent non-executive on the Monopolies and Mergers Commission Finance Director of The Energy Group PLC, Director.
He is Group Chief Executive of Coats and on FIMBRA until May 1998.
Mrs Tritton which was acquired by Texas Utilities in plc and, during his career at Coats, has been is Chief Executive of Throckmorton Estates 1998, and Group Finance Director of Eastern based in different parts of Europe, Asia Pacic and was, until recently, a non-executive Group plc between 1993 and 1995 prior to and South America.
He has a particular Director of the Birmingham Royal Ballet its acquisition by Hanson plc.
Before joining interest in and knowledge of European and Trust Company.
She is also Chair of the Eastern, he was a senior partner with Ernst EU affairs.
Primary Immunodeciency Association and & Young and a member of the Management serves on the Country Land and Business Board of the Management Consultancy arm.
John McAdam BSc PhD 55 Association.
He is a member of the Accounting Standards Dr McAdam joined the Board on Boards Urgent Issues Task Force and a 18 September 2000.
He is Chief Executive Non-executive Director member of the Senate of the Institute of and a member of the Board of ICI PLC.
He Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
joined ICI in 1997 following the acquisition of the Specialty Chemical Businesses from John Banyard BScEng FREng FICE Unilever where he held a number of senior FCIWEM 58 positions in Birds Eye Walls Ltd, Unichema Mr Banyard joined the Board in January International and Quest International.
He is an executive Director of Severn He was appointed Executive Vice President Trent Water Limited with responsibility for Coatings and Chief Executive of ICI Paints in asset management.
He is also a Director 1998, and joined the Board of ICI PLC soon of UK Water Industry Research Limited, a after when he also became responsible for member of the Court of Craneld University Corporate Research & Technology.
He took and the Royal Academy of Engineering over as Chief Executive of ICI PLC in April Visiting Professor of Water Engineering at 2003.
He is a member of the University of Loughborough University.
Mr Banyard is Surrey Business Advisory Group.
a Chartered Civil Engineer and has worked in a number of engineering roles within the group since joining Severn Trent in 1974.
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering in 1997.
He is currently President of the Pipeline Industries Guild.
18 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Summary financial statement Independent auditors statement to the members of Severn Trent Plc We have examined the summary financial report if we become aware of any apparent the Auditing Practices Board for use in the statement of Severn Trent Plc.
misstatements or material inconsistencies United Kingdom.
with the summary financial statement.
Respective responsibilities of Directors Opinion and auditors This statement, including the opinion, has In our opinion the summary financial The Directors are responsible for preparing been prepared for and only for the companys statement is consistent with the annual the Annual Review 2003 in accordance with members as a body in accordance with financial statements, the directors report applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and and the directors remuneration report of to you our opinion on the consistency of for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 the summary financial statement within the this opinion, accept or assume responsibility March 2003 and complies with the Annual Review 2003 with the annual financial for any other purpose or to any other person applicable requirements of Section 251 statements, the directors report and the to whom this statement is shown or into whose of the Companies Act 1985, and the directors remuneration report, and its hands it may come save where expressly regulations made thereunder.
compliance with the relevant requirements agreed by our prior consent in writing.
of Section 251 of the United Kingdom  LLP Companies Act 1985 and the regulations Basis of opinion made thereunder.
We also read the other We conducted our work in accordance with Chartered Accountants and Registered information contained in the Annual Review Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on Auditors, Birmingham 10 June 2003 2003 and consider the implications for our the summary financial statement issued by Summary Directors report Principal activities Corporate governance appropriate ethical direction to sustain their The principal activities of the group The Board is committed to business integrity achievement.
The Code is available at the continued to be the supply of water and and professionalism in all its activities.
sewerage services, waste management and As part of this commitment the Board supports the provision of environmental services.
the highest standards of corporate governance Further details of the companys A review of the groups business activities, and the development of best practice.
The achievements vis--vis our stated sustainable their performance and future developments Annual Report and Accounts 2003 contains development targets are detailed in the can be found on pages 8 to 14. the full corporate governance statement.
Final dividend Health and safety Whistle blowing procedures are in place in Subject to approval at the Annual General The company continues to pro-actively every group company to deal with allegations Meeting the recommended final dividend address the management of health and of harassment, bullying etc.
and any other of 28.56p 2002: 28.56p net for each safety issues across the group.
breaches of the companys codes and values.
ordinary share will be paid on 1 October 2003 to shareholders on the register at the Employees Diversity close of business on 20 June 2003.
Group companies continue to encourage Group companies continue to review their communication with and between employees.
diversity policies and practices to ensure that Directors Each of the major business units has its own they comply with the legislative requirements Details of the current members of the in-house magazine, uses employee surveys, of each location in which we operate and Board are shown on pages 16 and 17. team briengs and tool box talks, and also meet the companys Code of Business has an intranet facility covering all of their Principles and Conduct.
Mr E E Anstee, Mr T D G Arculus and main locations.
Mr R M Walker retire from the Board by Further information on the groups diversity rotation in accordance with the Articles Intranets are increasingly used as the position is detailed in the companys of Association of the company and, being basis for open forum discussions and Stewardship report.
eligible, offer themselves for reappointment.
Auditors report Mrs C Tritton will retire from the Board Group companies continue to maintain good The auditors report on the full annual at the conclusion of this years Annual relationships with the recognised trade unions accounts of the group for the year ended General Meeting but will not be seeking and their directly elected representatives.
31 March 2003 was unqualied and did reappointment.
not contain a statement under either section Severn Trent Water have successfully 237 2 accounting records or returns Mr Walker has a service contract which implemented a new Partnership Agreement inadequate or accounts not agreeing with provides for not less than 12 months written with its recognised trade unions and this records and returns or 237 3 failure to notice of termination by the company and has received recognition from the TUC and obtain necessary information and explanations not less than 12 months written notice by Government ministers.
of the Companies Act 1985. him expiring at any time.
Mr Anstee and Mr Arculus, being non-executive Directors, do The Board endorsed Code of Business By order of the Board not have service contracts with the company.
Principles and Conduct defines the values P P Davies LL.
B Solicitor and vision of the group and underpins the Group General Counsel strategies that guide business activities.
The and Company Secretary groups business goals are long term and 10 June 2003 the Code has been developed to provide 19 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Summary group profit and loss account Year ended 31 March 2003 2003 2002 m m Turnover 1,852.0 1,794.3 Operating costs before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 1,453.0 1,385.4 Goodwill amortisation 25.2 26.5 Exceptional impairment of goodwill and tangible xed assets 46.8 Exceptional contract provision release costs 6.0 25.0 Total operating costs 1,519.0 1,436.9 Group operating profit 333.0 357.4 Share of operating profit of joint ventures and associates 10.8 9.9 Exceptional profit on disposal of business 8.0 profit before interest, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 409.8 418.8 Goodwill amortisation 25.2 26.5 profit before interest and exceptional items 384.6 392.3 Exceptional costs 46.8 25.0 Exceptional provision release profits 6.0 8.0 profit before interest 343.8 375.3 Net interest payable 159.4 159.0 profit after interest before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 250.4 259.8 Goodwill amortisation 25.2 26.5 profit after interest before exceptional items 225.2 233.3 Exceptional items 40.8 17.0 profit on ordinary activities before taxation 184.4 216.3 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities current tax 24.8 16.1 deferred tax 59.5 42.3 Total taxation 84.3 58.4 profit on ordinary activities after taxation 100.1 157.9 Equity minority interests 0.9 0.6 profit for the financial year 99.2 157.3 Dividends 157.6 157.6 Retained loss for the financial year 58.4 0.3 Earnings per share pence Basic 28.9 45.9 Adjusted basic before exceptional items and deferred tax 58.1 63.2 Important note: The summary financial A copy can be obtained, free of charge, statement does not contain sufficient by writing to the Company Secretary at information to allow a full understanding 2297 Coventry Road, Birmingham B26 3PU.
of the results of the group and of the state Alternatively it can be accessed on the of affairs of the company or of the group nor website at www.
com of the policies and arrangements concerning reports2003.
Shareholders can elect to Directors remuneration.
For further details, obtain the full Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report and Accounts 2003, for all future financial years by contacting which includes the Directors report and the the companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Auditors report on the financial statements, Registrars whose details appear on page 24. should be consulted.
20 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Summary financial statement continued Summary group balance sheet At 31 March 2003 2003 2002 m m Fixed assets 5,480.6 5,395.7 Current assets 583.1 535.7 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,219.2 1,112.8 Net current liabilities 636.1 577.1 Total assets less current liabilities 4,844.5 4,818.6 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 2,101.6 2,042.8 Provisions for liabilities and charges 523.1 480.4 Net assets 2,219.8 2,295.4 Capital and reserves 2,217.6 2,294.0 Minority shareholders interest equity 2.2 1.4 2,219.8 2,295.4 Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the accounts on 10 June 2003.
David Arculus Alan Perelman Chairman Group Finance Director Summary group cash ow statement Year ended 31 March 2003 2003 2002 m m m m Net cash inow from operating activities 682.7 665.5 Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 1.6 1.2 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 146.7 144.9 Taxation 14.3 6.7 Capital expenditure and financial investment 454.0 352.1 Acquisitions and disposals 11.5 Equity dividends paid 157.5 154.1 Net cash outow inow before use of liquid resources and nancing 99.7 8.9 Management of liquid resources 6.5 62.0 Financing Increase decrease in debt 114.1 81.5 Issue of shares 3.3 3.4 117.4 78.1 Increase decrease in cash 11.2 7.2 21 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Summary remuneration report Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Remuneration package for executive Directors The Remuneration Committee determines, on The companys ongoing remuneration policy The remuneration package for executive behalf of the Board, the companys policy on for executive Directors is to review regularly Directors comprises the following elements: the remuneration of executive Directors.
and update as appropriate the framework to Base salary and benets: provide remuneration in a form and amount Annual bonus plan: The Committee determines the total which will attract, retain, motivate and reward Long Term Incentive Plan: remuneration packages and contractual high calibre individuals.
To achieve this, the Post-retirement benets.
terms and conditions for these individuals.
remuneration package is based on the following principles: The performance related elements, when The policy framework for remunerating Incentives are aligned with the interests valued at on-target performance, comprise all senior executives is consistent with the of shareholders and reward the creation more than 60% of the total potential package approaches taken for executive Directors.
of long-term value: excluding post-retirement benets.
Reward elements are designed to reinforce The Remuneration Committee is comprised the link between performance and reward.
Details of each of the above elements are exclusively of independent non-executive Performance related elements should as follows: Directors of the company.
The members form a significant proportion of the total of the Remuneration Committee during remuneration package and at maximum Base salaries and benets the year were: vary between 120% and 150% of basic pay: Base salaries are a xed cash sum payable M C Flower Chairman The total compensation package for monthly.
The companys policy is to set the T D G Arculus on-target performance should be fully salary for each executive Director within a J D G McAdam competitive in the relevant market: range having regard to the market median for Packages are structured exibly to meet critical similar roles in large publicly quoted companies.
The Committee members have no personal resource needs and retain key executives.
Salaries for individual Directors are reviewed financial interest, other than as shareholders, annually by the Remuneration Committee in the matters to be decided.
The Committee seeks to take a prudent and recognising the individuals performance responsible approach taking into account and contribution and developments in the The constitution and operation of the the interests of shareholders, customers, relevant employment market.
Committee complies with the Combined Code employees and the local community.
for Corporate Governance of the Financial The principal non-salary benets for executive Services Authority.
In setting performance Personal shareholdings Directors include the use of a motor car, fuel, related remuneration the Committee has The company does not have a policy private medical insurance, life assurance and regard to the provisions set out in Schedule A which requires executive Directors to have an incapacity benets scheme.
Since January to the Code.
a minimum holding of ordinary shares in 2002, the executive Directors have been allowed Severn Trent but, through a variety of share to ex these benets under the companys Advisers schemes, encourages all employees to hold Lifestyle scheme.
As they are exing within the To ensure that Severn Trents remuneration shares in the company.
same value of overall package, their individual practices are market competitive, the choices are not reected in the table of Remuneration Committee has access to External directorships Directors emoluments on page 23. detailed external research on market data Executive Directors are encouraged to take and trends from experienced international on external non-executive directorships.
In Annual bonus plan consultants.
order to avoid a conict of interest all such Executive Directors are eligible for annual appointments are subject to the approval of bonuses to encourage improved performance, The Committee has received material the Remuneration Committee and the Board.
measured by reference to both financial and advice from Deloitte & Touche who Directors are normally only able to retain the non-financial factors.
Performance targets are replaced Andersen on 1 August 2002, Hay fees arising from one such appointment.
established by the Remuneration Committee Management Consultants and Watson Wyatt to align executive Directors interests with who have been appointed by the Committee Chairman and other non-executive Directors shareholders and are measured by reference to for the purpose of providing this advice.
The remuneration policy for non-executive profitability, together with specic targets for Directors is determined by the Board, within quality, service, environmental performance In relation to other services provided to the the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
and the achievement of personal objectives.
group, Deloitte & Touche provide overseas tax The maximum amount payable under the advice and Watson Wyatt are the actuaries Remuneration comprises an annual fee for bonus scheme in 2002 2003 was 50% of base to the groups main UK pension schemes.
acting as a non-executive Director of the salary which is paid only for superior financial company and additional fees for acting as: performance.
Financial performance accounts All three consultants provide employee Chairman of a Board Committee: for 60% of the total bonus potential and benets services and or remuneration Senior non-executive Director: 40% is dependent on performance in respect advice to the group below Board level.
Trustee of a company pension scheme: of the remaining factors.
The performance Non-executive Director of a subsidiary company: requirements are stretching and involve an The appointment of the principal adviser Chairman of the company.
assessment of up to ten parameters for each currently Deloitte & Touche will be executive Director.
Annual bonus payments are formally reviewed by the Committee Non-executive Directors are not eligible not taken into account in calculating pension during the financial year 2003 2004. to participate in incentive plans nor is any entitlements.
The actual bonuses awarded pension provision made except as detailed by the Remuneration Committee for the year The Group Chief Executive and the Group in relation to Mr Arculus.
ended 31 March 2003 are shown in the table Services Director also provide advice and of Directors emoluments on page 23. are invited to attend meetings to respond to Non-executive Directors receive payment of specic questions raised by the Committee.
part of their fees in the form of Severn Trent Long-term incentives ordinary shares.
A Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP for This specically excludes any matter executive Directors was approved by concerning their own remuneration.
The The non-executive Directors do not have shareholders at the 1997 Annual General Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary service contracts or consultancy agreements Meeting and amended with shareholder to the Committee.
approval at the 2001 Annual General Meeting.
22 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Summary remuneration report continued The performance for the 2001 and 2002 share price and dividends in the period.
The A pension payable in the event of LTIPs is measured by reference to a calculations of EP will be based on information retirement on grounds of ill health: combination of Total Shareholder Return from the companys financial statements and A spouses pension on death.
TSR and Economic profit EP targets.
will be veried by external advisers.
The five executive Directors are members of The maximum allocation that may be made The performance period for allocations of dened benefit pension arrangements and in to an individual executive Director in any year shares made in 2000 ended on 31 March the year to 31 March 2003 the company is such number of shares as have a market 2003.
The Remuneration Committee has contributed 501,355 on their behalf into these value equal to 100% of base salary.
Shares determined, based on the companys TSR arrangements.
In addition, 436,319 was are allocated annually by the Committee but performance over the three year performance charged to the profit and loss account in the are not released to executive Directors for a period, that participants are entitled to year in respect of an unfunded obligation to period of three years thereafter, provided that 50% of the shares allocated.
In respect provide pension benets based on salaries in the TSR has achieved a prescribed ranking in of the 2000 LTIP the qualifying condition excess of the Inland Revenue earnings cap.
The comparison with a number of selected for vesting was that the companys TSR company also contributes 28,680 per annum comparator companies and that the EP performance was ranked median against the to Mr Arculuss private pension arrangement.
targets have also been met.
The performance following comparators: AWG, BG, National criteria are specic to each Award.
For Power, Kelda, Pennon, ScottishPower, Scottish Forward-looking statement the performance periods effective from and Southern Energy and United Utilities.
The Committee will keep the existing 1 April 2001 and 1 April 2002, Mr Walker Hyder, Powergen and Thames Water were remuneration arrangements, as detailed received an allocation of shares equivalent constituents of the original comparator group in this report, under review during the next to 100% of his salary and the remaining but were acquired during the performance year to ensure that the companys reward executive Directors received allocations period and it was determined that they programmes remain competitive and provide equivalent to 70% of their salaries.
should be excluded from the comparator appropriate incentives.
The measurement of the performance changes to the reward arrangements for For the 2001 and 2002 Awards the of BG and National Power incorporated executive Directors are anticipated.
However, comparator group consists of: the performance of Innogy and Lattice as usual there will be individual reviews of subsequent to the demerger.
The shares base salary, annual bonus and LTIP awards.
AWG Plc, Kelda Plc, Pennon Group Plc, in respect of the 2000 award will be released The performance targets for incentive Shanks Plc, United Utilities Plc and Waste to executive Directors as soon as practicable arrangements will also be reviewed to Recycling Group Plc.
following the announcement on 10 June ensure alignment with the group strategy.
2003 of the companys results for the year For the executive Directors an award under ended 31 March 2003.
Directors service agreements and letters the 2001 and 2002 LTIP schemes will be of engagement triggered if the comparator TSR performance Post-retirement benets The current policy of the Remuneration is at the median or above and the EP meets The companys policy is to offer all executive Committee is that executive Directors are the scaled targets set.
EP is calculated Directors membership of the Senior Staff employed on contracts subject to no more by reference to a rate of return of 7.5%.
All current than 12 months notice, in accordance with executive Directors participate in the Scheme.
current corporate governance best practice.
It is considered that the performance The executive Directors are required to conditions are appropriate since we The Scheme is a funded Inland Revenue give not less than six months notice of compare our performance against approved final salary occupational pension termination 12 months in the case of the companies in a similar sector, whilst at scheme which provides: Group Chief Executive.
In the case of new the same time strengthening the alignment A normal retirement age of 60 years: appointments from outside the group, with shareholders by placing emphasis on An overall pension at normal retirement in order to attract and retain high calibre EP and sustained long-term value creation.
age of two-thirds of final pensionable individuals, there may be an entitlement salary, subject to the completion of to a 24 months notice period reducing to TSR performance will be assessed using an 20 years pensionable service: 12 months at the end of the first year of external data source such as Datastream, for Life cover of 4 x pensionable earnings: employment.
In the case of executive Directors who were appointed prior to 1999 and who previously Performance graph had written notice periods in excess of 12 months, contractual terms were put Our reward programmes are designed to support the generation of total shareholder return.
The graph below shows the total shareholder return for the FTSE 100 and the company since 1 April 1998.
The in place in March 2000 which define levels of FTSE 100 has been chosen because it is considered to be the most appropriate basis for comparison compensation payments that might as it is a broad equity index in which the company is a constituent.
be payable in the event of redundancy or breach of contract, such payment not 120 being triggered in the event of dismissal for misconduct or poor performance.
110 The obligations under the arrangements are 100 service related with four weeks pay for each year of service to a maximum of 25 years, 90 one years bonus and 20,000 for loss of 80 benets car, health insurance etc.
70 There are no specic contractual payments or benets which would be triggered in the 60 event of a change in control of the company.
50 Page 23 and the table thereon comprise 98 99 00 01 02 03 the auditable part of the summary remuneration report, being the information Year ended March Severn Trent FTSE 100 index required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
98 100 23 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 The dates of the current executive Directors agreements, the dates on which their appointments became effective and the current expiry dates of their agreements are as follows: Executive Director Date of agreement Effective date Expiry date J K Banyard 20 April 1998 23 January 1998 Terminable on 12 months notice M J Bettington 28 December 1994 8 November 1994 Terminable on 12 months notice B Duckworth 11 January 1995 8 November 1994 Terminable on 12 months notice A S Perelman 11 September 2001 1 October 2001 Terminable on 12 months notice R M Walker 7 July 1999 12 July 1999 Terminable on 12 months notice Mr R M Walker is the subject of reappointment as an executive Director at the Annual General Meeting and the Committee believes that his extensive knowledge and experience fully justifies the continuation of the contractual arrangement outlined above.
In respect of the Chairman and current non-executive Directors the dates on which their appointments took effect and the current expiry dates are as follows: Chairman and non-executive Directors Effective date Current expiry date T D G Arculus 20 May 1996 28 July 2004 E E Anstee 30 July 1999 29 July 2005 M L Cassoni 1 September 2001 31 August 2004 M C Flower 11 June 1996 10 June 2005 J D G McAdam 18 September 2000 17 September 2003 D A Osborn 21 September 1998 20 September 2004 C Tritton 1 November 1991 30 July 2003 It is the normal practice of the company for non-executive Directors to serve three three-year terms.
Non-executive Directors have no right to compensation on the early termination of their appointment.
2 Aggregate emoluments for Mr Walker, as highest paid Director, amounted to 611,500 2002: 492,700.
3 Included within fees for the non-executive Directors, are amounts elected to be received by way of shares rather than as emoluments, to encourage participation in line with corporate governance best practice.
224 shares with a gross value of 2,500 were received by all of the non-executive Directors for the period, with the exception of Mr Arculus who received 908 shares with a gross value of 10,000.
Mr Simon, who resigned in the year, received his time apportioned award of 801 in cash.
4 Mr Costins salary and benets in kind in the previous financial year are those amounts earned up to the date he retired as a member of the Board 21 December 2001.
In the remainder of the previous financial year he received a further 52,700 in salary and 6,100 of benets in kind in relation to the period following his retirement from the Board to 31 March 2002.
Mr Costin retired from the company on 12 May 2002 aged 59.
He received a further 214,925 of salary, bonus of 58,963 and 25,732 of benets in kind in the current financial year being the balance of his contract which terminated at the age of 60.
5 Benets in kind include the use of a motor car, fuel, private medical insurance, life assurance and an incapacity benets scheme.
6 During the year two executive Directors exercised share options with an aggregate gain on exercise of 6,083.
Since the year-end they have exercised further share options with an aggregate gain on exercise of 5,551.
No awards vested during the year under the Severn Trent Plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and, consequently, there has been no gain on vesting 2002: nil.
Since the year-end, the Remuneration Committee has determined that 50% of the 2000 LTIP award should vest but, as at 10 June 2003, this has not taken place.
24 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2003 Shareholder information Key dates in 2003 Dividends ordinary shares Shareholder communications 18 June 2003 30 July 2003 Ex-dividend date for final dividend Annual General Meeting at the 20 June 2003 National Motorcycle Museum, Birmingham Record date for final dividend December 2003 1 October 2003 Announcement of half year results Payment of final dividend Annual General Meeting Electronic proxy appointments Forward-looking statements are sometimes, The Annual General Meeting will be held For this years Annual General Meeting you but not always, identied by their use of at 2.30pm on Wednesday 30 July 2003 may, if you wish, register the appointment a date in the future or such words as at the National Motorcycle Museum, of a proxy electronically by logging onto the anticipates, aims, due, could, may, Birmingham B92 0EJ.
The Notice of the website www.
You will need should, expects, believes, intends, Meeting and a form of proxy are enclosed your voting reference numbers the three 8 plans, targets, goal or estimates.
digit numbers shown on your form of proxy.
their very nature forward-looking statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative Registrars Alternatively if you have registered for a and involve risk and uncertainty because Lloyds TSB Registrars are the companys shareview portfolio, log onto your portfolio they relate to events and depend on share registrars and they will deal with at www.
co. uk and click on circumstances that will occur in the future.
any queries you may have regarding: Company Meetings.
Shareholdings There are a number of factors that could Dividends Please note that any electronic cause actual results and developments to Lost share certicates communication that is found to contain differ materially from those expressed or Change of name or address a computer virus will not be accepted.
Death of a shareholder These factors include, but are not limited Request for the full Report and Accounts Low cost postal dealing service to, changes in the regulatory framework Lloyds TSB Registrars also offer a low cost in which the group operates: the impact If you wish to have your dividends paid postal dealing service for anyone who wishes of legal or other proceedings against or directly into your bank or building society to buy or sell Severn Trent Plc shares.
which affect the group: and changes in account you should contact the registrars interest and exchange rates.
and they will send you a dividend mandate The charge for this service is 0.5% of the form.
Alternatively, you will nd a form of transaction value minimum charge 7.50 All subsequent written or verbal forwardmandate attached to your last dividend and deals are completed once a week on looking statements attributable to Severn mailing which you may complete and return Fridays.
Stamp Duty of 0.5% is payable, in Trent or any other member of the group or to the registrars.
Please note you will still addition to the above charge, on the value persons acting on their behalf are expressly receive tax vouchers at your usual address.
qualied in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Severn Trent does not Their contact details are: See left for contact details.
intend to update these forward-looking Lloyds TSB Registrars statements.
The Causeway Unsolicited mail Worthing We are obliged, whenever requested, to www.
com West Sussex BN99 6DA provide copies of our shareholder register Shareholders are likely to nd the You can also ring them on the Severn Trent to any third parties so it is quite likely that Financial Performance section of particular dedicated telephone line: 0870 600 3967. you may receive unsolicited mail from time interest, containing a range of shareholder to time.
information such as detailed coverage of our Alternatively, if you have access to the share price, dividend payments, key dates, Internet, you can look directly at details You can limit the amount of unsolicited our registrars as well as corporate, financial of your shareholder account by visiting mail you receive by contacting: and environmental news releases and City www.
This is a service offered The Mailing Preference Service presentations.
by Lloyds TSB Registrars that enables you to Freepost 22 check your holdings in many UK companies London W1E 7EZ Our Annual Review and Annual Report and helps you to organise your investments and Accounts are available on the electronically.
You can register for this Forward-looking statements website, accessed directly via free portfolio service by logging onto This document contains certain forwardwww.
co. uk and following looking statements with respect to a simple registration process.
Severn Trents financial condition, results of operations and business and certain of Severn Trents plans and objectives with respect to these items.
We are constantly looking at how best to provide the information our stakeholders need quickly and cost effectively.
com The following publications are also available Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts Stewardship Sustainable Development report Severn Trent Water Annual Report and Accounts including Regulatory Accounts Delivering Sustainability Biodiversity Action Plan Conservation, Access Recreation and Education Report Biffa Biffaecology Environment report Future Perfect Biffa Book V Biffa and Biodiversity Biffaward Annual Report and Accounts Contact us at the address below for copies of publications Severn Trent Plc 2297 Coventry Road Birmingham B26 3PU United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 121 722 4000 Severn Trent Plc For more information about Severn Trent Plc 2297 Coventry Road and its businesses see our website Birmingham B26 3PU United Kingdom www.
Front cover: Lisa Roberts Severn Trent Laboratories Neville Moore Biffa eet maintenance team Ben Young Severn Trent Water ranger services Back cover: Alex Mirkovic Biffa business development team Designed and produced by CGI BrandSense
