notice of annual general meeting.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Shanks Group plc will be held at the Glasgow Hilton, 1 William Street, Glasgow on Thursday 24 July 2003, at 11.00 a. m. for the purpose of transacting the following business: Routine ordinary business 1 To receive the reports of the Directors and auditors, the balance sheets of the Company and of the Group as at 31 March 2003 and the profit and loss account of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2003.
2 To approve the Remuneration Committees report for the year ended 31 March 2003.
4 To re-elect Mr Clubb as a Director.
5 To re-elect Mr Pointon as a Director.
6 To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special business 7 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution of the Company.
THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended and from time to time in force of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company Ordinary Shares provided that: a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 23,400,000: b the maximum price which may be paid for any such Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased, and the minimum price which may be paid for any such share is 10 pence in each case exclusive of associated expenses : and c the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 18 months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be completed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
8 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution of the Company.
THAT in substitution for any existing power under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended and from time to time in force the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the Directors be and are hereby empowered until 23 October 2004, pursuant to section 95 of the Act, to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority available to the Directors under section 80 of the Act as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with any rights issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register on a date fixed by the Directors in proportion as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of such ordinary shares held by them on that date provided that the Directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal requirements under the laws of, or the regulations of, any recognised regulatory body or stock exchange, in any territory: or b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a of this resolution of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,170,000, but so that this authority shall allow the Company, before the expiry of this authority, to make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
By Order of the Board Registered office: Shanks House P Kaye A8 Edinburgh Road Secretary Coatbridge Lanarkshire 28 May 2003 ML5 4UG The notes overleaf form part of this notice.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened by the foregoing Notice is entitled to appoint one or more proxies who need not be a member or members to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him her.
A prepaid form of proxy accompanies this Notice.
The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, should be delivered to the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol, BS99 3FA not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
The return of a completed form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person at the meeting should he she so wish.
The register of interests of the Directors and of their families in the shares of the Company and copies of all service contracts under which Directors are employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company at Shanks House, A8 Edinburgh Road, Coatbridge, Lanarkshire ML5 4UG during normal business hours, on any weekday Saturday and public holidays excluded from the date of this Notice up to the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the Glasgow Hilton on 24 July 2003, at least 15 minutes prior to, and during, the meeting.
