Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the sixty-eighth annual general meeting of the company will be held at The Royal Garden Hotel, 2-24 Kensington High Street, London W8 4PT on Friday 5 December 2003 at 11.00 am to transact the following business: Ordinary business Resolution 1 To receive the accounts and the reports of the directors and the auditors thereon for the year ended 13 September 2003.
Resolution 2 To receive and approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 13 September 2003.
Resolution 3 To re-elect Peter J Jackson as a director.
Resolution 4 To re-elect the Rt.
Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market, OBE as a director.
Resolution 5 To elect Jeffery F Harris as a director.
Resolution 6 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the shareholders, and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
Special business To propose and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: Resolution 7 That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all the powers of the company to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 2 of that Act 15 up to a maximum of 263 million ordinary shares of 5 22p each provided that this authority shall expire on 4 December 2008, save that the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all unexercised authorities previously granted to the directors to allot relevant securities be and are hereby revoked.
80 Associated British Foods plc To propose and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: Resolution 8 That the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of that Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 7 above as if Section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date s as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on any such record date s, but subject to such exclusion or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of the overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter whatever: and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above to any person or persons of equity securities up to an 15 aggregate of 39 million ordinary shares of 5 22p each: and shall expire upon the date of the next annual general meeting of the company after the passing of this resolution or 31 December 2004, whichever is sooner, save that the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
To propose and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: Resolution 9 a and b a That the directors be and they are hereby authorised to establish the proposed Associated British Foods Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003 the terms of which are tabled at the meeting and the principal terms of which are described in the Explanatory Notes to the notice convening the annual general meeting.
b That the directors be and they are hereby authorised to establish such further plans using shares or cash based on the Associated British Foods Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003 but modified to take account of overseas tax, exchange control or securities laws.
By order of the board Paul Lister Company Secretary Weston Centre, Bowater House, 68 Knightsbridge, London SW1X 7LQ Registered in England and Wales Company No.
293262 4 November 2003 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 81 Notes to the notice of meeting 1.
Resolution number 2 The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 which amended the Companies Act 1985 require that the Report on Directors Remuneration the Report be put to a vote by shareholders.
The Report is set out on pages 39 to 45 of the annual report and accounts.
Resolutions number 3 to 5 In accordance with the Articles of Association, all directors who held office at the time of the two preceding annual general meetings, and who did not put themselves forward for re-election should do so.
The Combined Code of best practice recommends that all directors should be required to submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, JF Harris, having been appointed a director since the last annual general meeting, is required to retire at this meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
Resolutions number 7 and 8 The Companies Act 1985 prevents directors allotting unissued shares without the authority of shareholders in general meeting.
At the annual general meeting held in December 2002 shareholders gave the directors a general authority to allot shares up to a limit not exceeding one third of the ordinary shares in issue.
The authority is valid for the maximum period of five years as permitted by that Act and expires on 4 December 2007.
The directors, however, propose to renew this authority every year asking, on each occasion, for the authority to be granted for a further period of five years.
Resolution number 7 will authorise the directors to allot substantially all of the present unissued ordinary share capital, which represents approximately 25% of the companys authorised share capital, and approximately 33% of the companys issued ordinary share capital at 4 November 2003, at any time within the next five years.
The proposed renewal of the authority should not be taken as an indication that the directors have any current plans to make an issue of shares.
Where shares are allotted pursuant to a general authority as provided in resolution number 7 and shareholders are required to pay for them in cash, that allotment is subject to Section 89 of the Companies Act, which requires new shares to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
There may, however, be circumstances where directors wish to allot shares for cash other than by way of rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities and this cannot be done unless shareholders have first waived their pre-emption rights.
Resolution number 8 asks shareholders to do this by allowing the directors to allot for cash i by way of a rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities to all shareholders subject to certain exclusions and ii up to 5% of the companys present issued ordinary share capital as at 4 November 2003 to persons other than existing shareholders.
By setting the 5% limit, interests of existing shareholders are protected, as their interest in the company cannot, without their consent, be reduced by more than 5% by the issue of new shares for cash to new shareholders.
Resolution number 9 The Remuneration committee proposes the establishment of the Associated British Foods Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003 the plan.
This follows a review of senior executive incentives by the Remuneration committee, with the assistance of Towers Perrin.
The plan will normally replace share options and benefits will be non-pensionable and will confer no tax advantages on participants.
Details of the plan including the performance targets, which the Remuneration committee considers challenging, are as follows: Introduction the plan takes the form of conditional allocations of shares by the trustee which will be released if, and to the extent, certain performance targets are satisfied over a three year performance period.
The initial allocation will be made in December 2003 in respect of the financial years 2003 4 to 2005 6.
Further allocations may be made in the future with performance targets specifically designed for such allocations.
82 Associated British Foods plc Plan shares plan shares are ordinary shares in Associated British Foods plc.
The plan allows for the use of either newly issued shares or existing shares.
However, it is intended that allocations will normally be satisfied with existing shares purchased by the trustee.
Allocation no amount is payable on allocation.
Allocations may be made once a year by the trustee, normally in December.
Allocations will be made over shares worth up to 150% of base salary at the Allocation Date.
Eligibility all employees, including part-time employees, are eligible to participate in the plan.
However, participation will only be extended to a limited number of senior managers.
Plan limits there are limits on the number of new shares which may be issued: an overall limit in respect of allocations under all schemes of 10% in 10 years and a limit on allocations under all executive schemes of 5% in 10 years.
Performance targets allocations will be released upon satisfaction of challenging performance targets preset by the Remuneration committee.
The initial allocation will be based upon targets relating to operating profit but will also be underpinned by minimum targets relating to the achievement of an earnings per share growth of at least 4 percentage points above the annual percentage increase in the retail price index compounded over the performance period, and a minimum return on capital employed.
Release of shares shares will be released to participants who remain in employment in accordance with the achievement of the performance targets at the end of three years after allocation.
PAYE and NICs apply on the value of the shares released.
Good leavers the plan provides for the trustee at its discretion to release shares to participants who leave early on account of injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or on a sale of the business or subsidiary for which the participant works or any other reason with the approval of the Remuneration committee.
Except in the case of a sale of the business or subsidiary for which the participant works, the trustee may defer release until the end of the performance period.
If shares are released early, the trustee may release only a proportion of the shares.
Early release may also be approved in the event of death.
Takeover, reconstruction, voluntary winding-up in the case of a takeover or reconstruction, all shares will be released early to the extent justified by the performance to the date of that event.
The plan also includes provision for release on a demerger or a voluntary winding-up.
In the case of an internal reorganisation, the allocations may be compulsorily rolled over.
Transfer of employment overseas participants may be allowed to receive an early release of shares at the discretion of the Remuneration committee if transferred abroad but subject to performance in line with the performance target.
Variation of capital the number of shares comprised in the allocation may be adjusted at the discretion of the trustee to take into account a variation of share capital.
Alterations the rules of the plan may at any time be altered by the directors in any respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders is required in respect of any proposed alterations to the benefit of present or future participants in respect of eligibility, plan limits, individual entitlements or the basis of determining a participants entitlement including the adjustments which may be made on a variation of capital, except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the plan, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants in the plan or for the company or group.
The trustee, after consultation with the Remuneration committee, may alter or vary the terms of the performance targets as it considers appropriate.
Further share schemes for overseas employees the directors may also establish further plans which will be based on the plan, but modified to take account of overseas tax, exchange control or securities laws.
All allocations will count against the individual limits under the plan and all allocations involving newly issued ordinary shares will count against the limits on the number of shares which may be issued under any existing schemes.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 83 Notes to the notice of meeting continued 5.
The company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the company at 6.00 pm on Wednesday 3 December 2003 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the annual general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register after 6.00 pm on Wednesday 3 December 2003 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint a proxy who need not be a member of the company to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his her place.
The instrument appointing a proxy should be deposited either with Lloyds TSB Registrars at The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6BG or at the companys registered office not later than 11.00 am on Wednesday 3 December 2003.
The register of directors interests in the ordinary shares of the company and the rules of the Associated British Foods Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003 will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays excepted from the date of this notice until the date of the annual general meeting at the registered office of the company and at The Royal Garden Hotel 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Directions to the annual general meeting Shareholders are asked to use the Palace Suite entrance from the forecourt.
Those requiring the lift should descend to the Palace Suite from the main hotel reception.
84 Associated British Foods plc Company directory Associated British Foods plc Registered ofce Weston Centre Bowater House 68 Knightsbridge London SW1X 7LQ Company registered in England, number 293262 Company secretary Paul Lister Registrars and transfer ofce Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Auditors KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Bankers Bank of Scotland Barclays Bank plc Lloyds TSB Bank plc The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Brokers Hoare Govett WestLB Panmure 250 Bishopsgate 25 Basinghall Street London EC2M 4AA London EC2V 5HA Timetable First interim dividend paid 29 August 2003 Second interim dividend to be paid 18 February 2004 Annual general meeting 5 December 2003 Interim results to be announced 14 April 2004 Website http: www.
co. uk Designed and produced by Sheppard Day Associated British Foods plc Weston Centre, Bowater House, 68 Knightsbridge, London SW1X 7LQ Tel 020 7589 6363 Fax 020 7584 8560 Web www.
