Notice of meeting The 22nd Annual General Meeting AGM of meeting at which accounts are laid before the Resolution 11 The authority will expire on the date of the next Associated British Ports Holdings PLC will take company.
THAT the directors be authorised to allot relevant AGM after the passing of the resolution, although place at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the the directors may still allot shares to complete an Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London Resolution 8 Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal offer or agreement made before the expiry date.
SW1P 3EE on Wednesday 21 April 2004 at THAT the directors be authorised to set the amount of 27,498,996 being the lesser of the 12 noon for the following purposes: remuneration of  LLP unissued ordinary share capital of the company Resolution 13 as auditors.
and one-third of the issued equity share capital of THAT the company be authorised to make one or Ordinary resolutions the company until the date of the AGM in 2005, more market purchases of the companys own Resolution 9 and at any time afterwards, pursuant to any offer or shares see Section 163 3 of the Companies Act Resolution 1 THAT the company be authorised for the agreement made by the company during that time.
1985 on the London Stock Exchange of up to the THAT the directors report and the audited purposes of Part XA of the Companies Act 1985 lesser of: accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 to make Donations to EU Political Organisations Special resolutions be received and adopted.
and to incur EU Political Expenditure as such i 32.9 million ordinary shares of 25 pence each terms are defined in Section 347A of the said Act Resolution 12 being 10 per cent of the companys issued Resolution 2 up to a maximum aggregate amount of 50,000 THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 11, the ordinary share capital as at 18 February 2004 : THAT the remuneration report, as set out on over a period of four years ending at the directors be empowered pursuant to Section 95 of pages 78 to 84 of the Annual Report & Accounts, conclusion of the AGM in 2008: provided that the the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities ii 10 per cent of the companys issued ordinary be approved.
company may enter into a contract or undertaking within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for share capital as at the date this resolution is under this authority before its expiry which would cash and or where such allotment constitutes an passed Resolution 3 or might be performed wholly or partly after its allotment of shares by virtue of Section 94 3A of the THAT a final dividend of 8.50 pence per ordinary expiry and may make Donations to EU Political said Act, as if Section 89 1 of the said Act did not at a price per share of not less than 25 pence and share of the company be declared.
Organisations and incur EU Political Expenditure apply to any such allotment, provided that this not more than 105 per cent of the average of the pursuant to such contract or undertaking.
power shall be limited to an offer of shares, for a middle market quotations as derived from the Resolution 4 period determined by the directors, by way of rights London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the THAT Mr A H Simon be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 10 to holders of ordinary shares on the register on a five business days prior to the day of purchase.
THAT the directors be authorised to amend the fixed date in proportion to their respective holdings Resolution 5 Rules of the Associated British Ports Share or in accordance with the rights attached to them Unless revoked or varied, this authority will expire THAT Mr D S Sach be re-elected as a director.
Incentive Plan, the Associated British Ports but subject to such exclusions or other at the conclusion of the AGM in 2005, although Executive Share Option Scheme, the Associated arrangements as the directors may deem necessary the company may still buy shares at any later date Resolution 6 British Ports Savings-Related Share Option or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements that in order to fulfil a contract or contracts made THAT Mr T J Bowdler be re-elected as a director.
Scheme, the Associated British Ports Long Term would otherwise arise, or with legal or practical before the expiry date.
Incentive Plan and the Associated British Ports problems under the law or requirements of any Resolution 7 US and Californian Employee Stock Purchase regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory THAT  LLP be Plans, as summarised in the Directors Report, up to an aggregate nominal value of 4,124,849 reappointed as auditors of the company to hold and to do all such acts and things as may be being not more than 5 per cent of the issued office until the conclusion of the next general necessary to carry the same into effect.
ordinary share capital of the company.
88 All of the companys own shares purchased Copies of the amended rules of the employee The electronic proxy appointment service is pursuant to said authority shall be either a share schemes referred to in Resolution 10 and of optional.
Shareholders may continue to submit cancelled immediately upon completion of the the revised Articles of Association referred to in their proxy card by post, if preferred.
Under purchase: or b held, sold, transferred or Resolution 14 are available for inspection at the regulation 20 and schedule 4 of the Uncertificated otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in registered office of the company and at the offices Securities Regulations 2001, only shareholders on accordance with the provisions of the Companies at Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London the Register of Members as at 12 noon on Act 1985.
EC1Y 8YY from the date of this notice until the 19 April 2004 will be entitled to attend or vote at AGM and at the AGM itself from at least 15 the AGM in respect of the number of ordinary Resolution 14 minutes prior to the meeting until the conclusion shares registered in their name at that time.
THAT the Articles of Association in the form of the meeting.
Changes to entries in the Register after 12 noon produced to the meeting and signed by the on 19 April 2004 will be disregarded in determining Chairman for identification purposes only be The register of directors shareholdings will be the rights of any person to attend or vote at the adopted as the Articles of the company in available for reference at the AGM.
substitution for the existing Articles of entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting Association.
are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote instead of them: a proxy By order of the board need not be a member.
To be effective, proxies must be lodged at Computershare Investor Services PLC, Registrars, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS13 8FB, no later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Hywel Rees Company Secretary Shareholders may appoint a proxy electronically.
150 Holborn To submit a proxy form via the internet, London EC1N 2LR shareholders will need an internet-enabled PC 9 March 2004 with Internet Explorer 4 or Netscape 4 or above.
A shareholder reference number SRN and Personal Identification Number PIN, both of which are on the proxy form, are required to access the service.
Associated British Ports Holdings PLC 89
