ABPs operational Paul Allen, 47 John Copping, 56 management Managing Director, ABP Connect Port Director, Grimsby & Immingham Paul has been the Managing Director of John joined ABP in 1985, since when he ABP Connect since its launch in April has held a number of senior 2001, when he also joined the operational management positions.
He was Each member of our board.
He is responsible for the strategy appointed Port Manager for the Port and development of the growing valueof Ipswich following its acquisition in added services division, which now 1997.
As Port Director for the South operational team offers employs more than 1,000 people.
Paul Wales Ports, he was instrumental in has spent much of his career in the consolidating Barry, Cardiff, Newport, logistics and supply chain management Port Talbot and Swansea into a single, sector.
He joined ABP from Exel, where he cohesive business unit.
Since taking unique skills: together they was Global Customer Director for Nokia.
over at Grimsby & Immingham, John has He started out as a research chemist at ICI led a number of initiatives to increase in 1978 before going on to work for Mars operational capacity, including Humber in a number of management roles and for International Terminal Phase 2 and the create a formidable team MSAS McGregor Cory.
Before joining ABP, he worked at the cutting edge of port development in the UK and internationally.
Andrew Kent, 56 Budha Majumdar, 57 Doug Morrison, 52 Port Director, Southampton Port Director, South Wales Ports Port Director, Hull & Goole Andrew was appointed Port Director in Budha joined ABP in 1998 from Mersey Doug has worked at ABP for his entire 1989 and has been a board member since Docks & Harbour Co. where he held a career: he joined the company from 1999.
He has worked in the ports and number of senior management posts.
Doug worked in ports transport industry for more than 30 years.
joined the operational board in 1999 when administration for 11 years before moving As Port Director, Andrew has overseen the he was promoted to Port Director for the to the dock operation side of the business growth in Southamptons container Shortsea Ports, where he was as a trainee supervisor.
Within 10 years, he business, which now handles 50 per cent responsible for establishing Troon as a was responsible for all port operations at of the UKs entire trade with the Far East.
major ferry port and building a modern Ayr & Troon.
He became Port Manager in He has also led his team in growing the and versatile silo facility at Kings Lynn.
1998 and the port grew significantly and ports cruise business to establish Much of Budhas focus in his current role won considerable volumes of new Southampton as the UKs premier cruise is on cultivating closer personal business under his leadership.
Since port and establishing it as the UKs relationships with major customers and taking control of Hull & Goole and joining principal port for importing and exporting increasing awareness of the importance the operational board in 2003, Doug has vehicles.
He has held a number of senior of the South Wales ports to the Welsh overseen considerable investment in new management roles in the company, economy.
Important customers he has facilities at the ports.
including Marketing Manager and secured on long-term contracts include Operations Manager at Southampton, Saint-Gobain Building Distribution and and Port Manager at Kings Lynn.
is also a director of two of ABPs associated companies Southampton Container T erminals and Tilbury Container Services.
Photographs of the team can be found on pages 18 and 19 Biographies of Richard Adam and Bo Lerenius are set out on pages 68 and 69, respectively.
24 Nick Palmer, 44 Hywel Rees, 45 Ian Schofield, 42 David Twidle, 55 Port Director, Shortsea Ports Company Secretary & Head of Engineering Director Assistant to Group Chief Executive Group Personnel Nick was appointed Port Director and Hywel joined ABP in 1984.
By 1987, he Ian became Engineering Director in 2002.
David has been Assistant to Bo Lerenius became a member of the operational had been promoted to Secretary of ABP In addition to overseeing engineering since 1999.
He has worked for ABP for 36 board in 2002, since when he has and he became Company Secretary two matters at the ports, he is responsible for years in a variety of senior management supervised the development of a number years later.
He was appointed Head of health and safety across the group.
He is and accounting roles at head office and of new facilities across ABPs Group Personnel in 1999.
Hywels working consistently to improve the the ports, and consequently has a 11 shortsea ports.
Nick has held a number accomplishments include modernising companys safety culture.
Current thorough knowledge of the business and of management positions since joining ABPs personnel policies and launching a initiatives include externally accredited the ports industry.
He was Group ABP as a graduate trainee in 1980.
He was number of employee share schemes.
health and safety training and a Management Accountant at head office Assistant Port Manager for Kings Lynn Other initiatives introduced under his programme to reduce the number of in London for 10 years and prior to that before moving to former ABP subsidiary leadership include an employeework-related accidents.
Ian joined ABP in Port Accountant for the North-West ports Red Funnel Group as General Manager assistance programme and flexible 1991 as Assistant Port Engineer for in Fleetwood.
Davids achievements in his for Ferries.
In 1997, he returned to ABP as working hours.
Hywel has also worked to Goole: he then worked at Hull and the current role include improving Deputy Port Manager for Grimsby & extend employee choice by reactivating groups North-East ports before he was communications within the group, Immingham, where he played a leading ABPs relationship with the Transport and appointed Port Manager for Kings Lynn in encouraging a more transparent role in the development of Humber General Workers Union.
He spent 11 years in the mining corporate culture and devolving ABPs International Terminal.
industry prior to joining ABP.
marketing functions from head office to the ports and business units.
Stephen Walsh, 39 Phillip Williams, 46 General Counsel Group Property Director Stephen was appointed to the new role of Phillip has worked for ABP since 1994 and General Counsel in May 2002.
He is joined the operational board in 2002.
He is responsible for providing the group with responsible for the groups entire property legal support.
As ABP had not had inportfolio, including AMPORTS in the USA.
house legal representation for several Since assuming the role, he has years before his arrival, he has had to developed the long-term property learn quickly about the unique legal disposal strategy, identified profitable circumstances of each ABP port.
Before land disposal opportunities, increased joining ABP, Stephen worked for British the efficiency of the estate management Airways for more than 10 years: latterly as functions and directed land assembly for Legal Director.
Having originally joined the company as Development Manager for ABPs property subsidiary, Phillip went on to become Head of ABP Group Property before he was promoted to his current position.
He joined ABP from the Port of Pembroke.
Associated British Ports Holdings PLC 25
