reconciliation to US accounting principles Reconciliation to Accounting Principles The financial statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with UK GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles which differs in certain respects from US GAAP.
The tables below summarise the material adjustments to the loss profit for the year and shareholders funds which would be required if US GAAP had been applied instead of UK GAAP.
Year to Year to 31 December 2003 31 December 2002 Notes 000 000 Loss profit under UK GAAP 43,223 1,109 US GAAP adjustments: Purchase accounting and goodwill Amortisation of goodwill and other intangibles 1a, c, d 3,664 3,399 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 1b 823 518 Investments 1c 1,893 Write-off of acquired in-process R&D 1e 4,646 Deferred taxes 1c 139 401 Share-based compensation 4 751 181 Revenue recognition 5 13,386 26,987 Sale of royalty interests Revenue recognition 6 6,126 14,219 Interest expense 6 9,609 5,850 Royalty payments 6 3,144 664 Financial instruments 8 146 531 Net loss under US GAAP 37,084 45,261 Net loss per Ordinary Share under US GAAP pence 6.1p 7.8p 31 December 2003 31 December 2002 Notes 000 000 Shareholders funds under UK GAAP 86,265 124,270 US GAAP adjustments: Purchase accounting and goodwill Goodwill 1a, c, d 85,226 83,719 Other intangible fixed assets 1a, c 4,378 4,344 Tangible fixed assets 1b 7,946 7,930 Investments 1c 1,893 Deferred taxes 1c 1,578 1,439 Contingent consideration charged to goodwill reserve 1e 22,620 22,620 Shares issued relating to contingent consideration 3 11,310 11,310 Shares and warrants to be issued, deferred shares and shares issued 2 11,310 11,310 Share-based compensation 4 1,056 305 Employee benefit trust 7 1,800 1,859 Deferred revenue 5 10,887 23,179 Funding liabilities 6 51,224 37,698 Financial instruments 8 354 500 Shareholders funds under US GAAP 101,732 138,530 SkyePharma annual report 2003 86 87 reconciliation to US accounting principles continued Summary of Material Differences between UK and US GAAP The adjustments between UK and US GAAP relating to the RTP acquisition are mainly differences in i the valuation 1 Business combinations Under both UK and US GAAP of contingent purchase price consideration and ii the methods the acquisitions of Jago Holdings AG, SkyePharma Production of purchase price allocation.
SAS formerly Laboratories Novalis Production SAS, SkyePharma Inc. formerly DepoTech Corporation, SkyePharma Canada Inc.
Contingent consideration Under UK GAAP, contingent consideration formerly RTP Pharma Inc. and SkyePharma AB are accounted had not been recognised as part of the acquisition cost.
The deferred for as acquisitions purchases.
Both UK and US GAAP require the consideration became payable on 30 June 2003 and the fair value purchase consideration to be allocated to the net assets acquired of 3,690,211 additional SkyePharma shares were recorded as at their fair value at the date of acquisition, with the difference goodwill during the year.
Under US GAAP, the Company applied between the consideration and the fair value of the net assets EITF 97-15, Accounting for Contingency Arrangements Based on acquired treated as goodwill.
In the allocation of consideration, Security Prices in a Purchase Business Combination to estimate and the treatment of contingent consideration, certain differences the contingent consideration as of the acquisition date.
Under between UK and US GAAP arise as set out below.
EITF 97-15 a contingency arrangement that does not result in a guarantee of the minimum value of the total consideration should a Goodwill and other intangible fixed assets Prior to the be recorded at an amount equal to the maximum number of shares introduction of FRS10, as permissible under UK GAAP, no that could be issued multiplied by the fair value per share at the intangible assets had been recognised as a result of purchase date of the acquisition.
However, the recorded amount may not accounting as the intangible assets were considered to be an exceed the target value of the consideration issued at the date integral part of the business acquired and were, therefore, included of acquisition i. e. the lowest total value at which additional within goodwill and eliminated against shareholders funds.
Where consideration would not be required to be issued.
The subsequent the aggregate of the fair values of the net assets acquired exceeded issuance of additional consideration resulting from either of these the cost of the acquired net assets resulting in negative goodwill, security price contingencies does not change the recorded cost such excess was credited directly to reserves.
The Group adopted of the acquisition.
The application of the provisions of EITF 97-15 transitional provisions under FRS10 and accordingly did not reinstate has resulted in a 2.6 million increase in the purchase consideration.
goodwill previously eliminated against reserves as an intangible asset.
Purchase price allocation Under US GAAP an intangible asset US GAAP requires an allocation of the purchase consideration shall be recognised as an asset apart from goodwill if it arises to identifiable intangible assets, including any resulting from from contractual or other legal rights or if it is separable, that is, research and development.
Goodwill and identifiable intangible it is capable of being separated or divided from the acquired entity fixed assets are reflected as assets.
Prior to 2002, goodwill was and sold, transferred, licensed, rented, or exchanged.
In addition, amortised over its useful life, with the exception of goodwill arising US GAAP requires amounts allocated to acquired in-process on acquisitions made after 30 June 2001.
Effective 1 January 2002 research and development that do not have an alternative use goodwill is no longer amortised under US GAAP, but instead subject to be expensed through earnings in the period of acquisition.
This results in a reversal of goodwill Under US GAAP, the investment in Waratah Pharmaceuticals Inc amortisation charged under UK GAAP.
"Intangible fixed assets ""Waratah"" was fair valued based on prices quoted by the recognised under US GAAP purchase accounting requirements Canadian Venture Stock Exchange as of each acquisition date."
are amortised over their estimated revenue earning life.
Negative The difference between the fair value and the equity value of goodwill, if any, is eliminated by reducing the value of all nonthe investment was allocated to goodwill.
Under UK GAAP, current assets acquired.
the investment was fair valued when the Company gained control in December 2001.
The deferred taxation impact of all these b Tangible fixed assets Prior to the introduction of FRS10 differences has been recognised in the purchase price allocation under UK GAAP for business acquisitions, where the aggregate of for US GAAP purposes.
the fair values of the net assets acquired exceeded the cost of the acquired net assets resulting in negative goodwill, such excess In January 2002 Waratah merged with Transition Therapeutics Inc. was credited directly to reserves.
"Under US GAAP such excess is ""Transition"" and Waratah shareholders were awarded 0.83333 eliminated by proportionately reducing the value of the non-current Transition shares for every one share of Waratah held."
GAAP, the Group continued to account for the investment at cost less provision for permanent diminution in value.
S GAAP, c Acquisition of RTP In 2001, the Group purchased the majority on the merger date the Group ceased to apply the equity method of interest of RTP through a two-step acquisition effected in July and accounting and carries the investment in Transition at adjusted December 2001.
Under UK GAAP, the aggregate purchase price was cost less provision for permanent diminution in value.
39.4 million, including 35.3 million of ordinary shares, 3.5 million of cash, and 0.6 million in acquisition costs.
The acquisition was d Goodwill Under UK GAAP goodwill is being amortised over recorded using the purchase method of accounting under both 20 years on a straight-line basis.
Under US GAAP, goodwill is not UK and US GAAP.
Goodwill was determined as the difference amortised but is subject to regular impairment tests.
In addition, between the purchase price and the fair value of the net assets under US GAAP, the excess of the fair value of the net assets acquired acquired.
Under both UK and US GAAP the investment in RTP was in December 2001 over the purchase consideration negative equity accounted for until control was gained on 27 December 2001 goodwill resulting from difference in the purchase price allocation and consolidated from that date on.
SkyePharma annual report 2003 has been allocated as a pro rata reduction of the non-current 3 Shares issued related to contingent consideration In April 2002, assets acquired including in-process research and development.
all contingencies related to the Deferred A Shares were removed based on the first commercial launch of Paxil CR.
e In-process research and development costs In 2002, the Group In connection with the removal of these contingencies, in 2002 acquired the drug delivery business of Bioglan AB.
A charge of the Group issued 12 million Ordinary Shares to Dr. Gonella, 4.6 million was expensed in the year ended 31 December 2002 the vendor of Jago.
Under US GAAP, these shares were recorded whereas under UK GAAP this was treated as goodwill.
In 2001, the within shareholders funds at the market value at the date the Group purchased the majority interest of RTP through a two-step contingencies were removed.
acquisition effected in July and December 2001.
The acquisitions were recorded using the purchase method of accounting under Under UK GAAP the shares were recorded at the market price both UK and US GAAP.
at the date of issuance of deferred shares 20 July 2000.
The adjustment reverses the value of equity share capital and The adjustments between UK and US GAAP in respect of the premium in the amount of 11.3 million.
A corresponding RTP acquisition relate mainly to differences in the valuation of adjustment in the amount of 9.4 million has been recorded within purchase price consideration, the methods of purchase price Goodwill and other intangible fixed assets that represents the fair allocation and the amortisation of goodwill.
In 2001, this resulted value of shares issued under US GAAP.
in a 5.3 million increase in purchase consideration and differences in the amounts assigned to certain tangible and 4 Share-based compensation Under UK GAAP, the Company does intangible fixed assets, investments and related deferred taxes.
not recognise compensation expense associated with its stock Under US GAAP amounts allocated to acquired in-process option plans granted to employees as the exercise price of the research and development that do not have an alternative use options equal the market value at the date of grant.
have been expensed through earnings in the period of acquisition: under UK GAAP, certain of these amounts are not separately Under US GAAP, the Group applies Accounting Principles Board identified but considered part of goodwill.
In addition, under UK Opinion APB No.
25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, GAAP goodwill is being amortised over 20 years on a straight-line and related interpretations in accounting for its plans.
Accordingly, basis while under US GAAP, goodwill resulting from this compensation expense has been recognised for performance-based acquisition was not amortised.
compensation plans variable plans where it is probable that the performance criteria will be met and the options exercised prior f Contingent consideration charged to goodwill The Group to the expiration of the options issued under these plans.
No effected the acquisition of Jago and Krypton through the exchange compensation expense has been recognised for those plans that of warrants and shares.
The issuance of certain of these warrants are considered fixed option plans under APB 25 and where the and shares is contingent upon the occurrence of certain future options granted under the plans are granted at a price that equals events.
Under UK GAAP, the Group estimated the fair value of the market price at the date of grant.
the contingent consideration to determine the acquisition cost.
The resulting goodwill was eliminated against shareholders funds.
5 Revenue recognition Under UK GAAP contract revenue is recognised when it is earned and non-refundable and to the extent Under US GAAP the acquisition cost has been adjusted to remove that there are no future obligations pursuant to the revenue, in the contingent consideration, which is only recognised when it accordance with the contract terms.
Refundable contract revenue is determinable beyond reasonable doubt, therefore contingent is treated as deferred until such a time as it is no longer consideration charged to goodwill reserves has been reversed refundable.
Under US GAAP, SAB 101 requires deferral and out of shareholders funds under US GAAP.
amortisation of up-front licensing fees where there is a continuing involvement with the licensed asset through the provision of 2 Deferred shares and shares and warrants to be issued Under research and development services, manufacturing services or UK GAAP, contingent consideration payable in connection with other similar activities even if the fee is non-refundable.
As a the acquisition of Jago is included within shareholders funds as result, under US GAAP certain non-refundable up-front payments deferred shares.
have been deferred over the development period of the contract term on certain agreements.
Under US GAAP, contingent consideration is recognised only when determinable beyond reasonable doubt, therefore deferred shares Deferred revenue reflects the amount of revenue not currently and shares and warrants to be issued have been reversed out of eligible for recognition under US GAAP as well as the reversal shareholders funds under US GAAP.
of 8.8 million 31 December 2002: 7.8 million deferred income under UK GAAP related to the sale of royalty interests, which is treated as debt under US GAAP.
SkyePharma annual report 2003 88 89 reconciliation to US accounting principles continued 6 Sale of royalty interests Under UK GAAP payments received from is not available for the delivered items then the residual method a third party in return for the sale of a proportion of potential future must be used.
This method requires that the amount allocated royalty streams from a selection of products, and used to fund the to the undelivered items in the arrangement is their full fair value.
internal research and development of products, are reflected within This would result in the discount, if any, being allocated to the other operating income when the risk of reimbursement has delivered items.
This consensus is effective prospectively for effectively been transferred to the third party.
Royalties paid arrangements entered into in fiscal periods beginning after to third parties are treated as cost of goods sold.
15 June 2003, which, for the Group, is 1 January 2004.
The Group is assessing the impact of this interpretation.
US GAAP requires such payments to be recorded as debt where there is continuing involvement in the generation of the cash flows In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No.
The US GAAP adjustment for the statement Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities FIN 46 and in of operations includes the reversal of other operating income December 2003 issued FIN46 R, a revision of this interpretation.
recorded from the third party as well as recording the interest Under this interpretation, certain entities known as Variable charge for the period on the outstanding debt balance.
Repayments Interest Entities VIE must be consolidated by the primary made to third parties in the form of royalty payments that are beneficiary of the entity.
The primary beneficiary is generally expensed under UK GAAP are reversed under US GAAP and are defined as having the majority of the risks and rewards arising treated as repayment of debt.
For VIEs in which a significant but not majority variable interest is held, certain disclosures are required.
The 7 Employee Benefit Trust Under UK GAAP the Ordinary Shares of the Group is in the process of assessing the impact of this interpretation Company held by the SkyePharma PLC General Employee Benefit as it will be effective for the Group beginning 1 January 2004.
The Trust are recorded at cost and accounted for as investments.
effect of this interpretation could be that minority investments The difference between the purchase price of the shares and the that the Group holds in certain companies and which it is also the exercise price of the award is charged, or credited, to the profit major provider of development services may required to be and loss account over the period of service in respect of which the consolidated if, within the definitions of the interpretation, the award has granted.
Group maintains the majority of the risks and rewards of this third-party entity.
Under US GAAP the Ordinary Shares of the Company purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust are accounted for at cost as treasury In May 2003, the FASB issued FAS 150, Accounting For Certain shares which reduce shareholders funds.
Gains or losses arising Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities on subsequent issuance of the shares to employees are recorded and Equity FAS 150.
This standard establishes how an issuer as adjustments to shareholders funds.
The reduction in cost, which classifies and measures certain financial instruments with is expensed under UK GAAP, is reversed under US GAAP to maintain characteristics of both liabilities and equity and requires that the treasury shares at cost.
All employee compensation expense is an issuer classify a financial instrument that is within its scope recorded under APB 25. as a liability or an asset in some circumstances.
FAS 150 will be effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after 8 Financial instruments Under UK GAAP, periodic gains and losses 31 May 2003, and otherwise is effective for the group for periods on interest and foreign currency derivatives are not recognised beginning after 10 June 2003.
The Group believes that the adoption until the operational transactions to which they are linked occur.
of this standard will not have a material effect on the groups Under US GAAP, the Group records all derivative instruments on results of operation or financial position.
the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair values are recorded in earnings.
The Group has also reviewed its contractual arrangements for the existence of embedded derivatives that should be separately accounted for under SFAS 133.
If embedded derivatives are identified, they are recorded separately from their host contracts at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in current earnings.
"Recent US GAAP Pronouncements In November 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force EITF reached a consensus on EITF 00-21, ""Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables, "" related to the timing of revenue recognition for arrangements in which goods or services or both are delivered separately in a bundled sales arrangement."
The EITF requires that when the deliverables included in this type of arrangement meet certain criteria they should be accounted for separately as separate units of accounting.
This may result in a difference in the timing of revenue recognition, but will not result in a change in the total amount of revenue recognised in a bundled sales arrangement.
The allocation of revenue to the separate deliverables is based on the relative fair value of each item.
If the fair value SkyePharma annual report 2003 company information and advisors Registered and Head Office Bankers 105 Piccadilly, National Westminster Bank plc London W1J 7NJ Bishopsgate Business Centre Telephone: 020 7491 1777 PO Box 34 Fax: 020 7491 3338 15 Bishopsgate Registered No: 107582 London EC2P 2AP Secretary: Douglas Parkhill Registrars Auditors Capita Registrars  LLP The Registry Chartered Accountants 34 Beckenham Road 1 Embankment Place Beckenham London WC2N 6RH Kent BR3 4TU Solicitors Depository UK The Bank of New York Stringer Saul 101 Barclay Street 17 Hanover Square New York London W1S 1HU NY 10286 USA US Sullivan & Cromwell One New Fetter Lane London EC4A 1AN Corporate Broker and financial adviser Credit Suisse First Boston 20 Columbus Courtyard London E14 4DA skyepharma.
