STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires the directors to make judgements and estimates that The directors are responsible for keeping prepare accounts for each financial year are reasonable and prudent: proper accounting records which disclose which give a true and fair view of the state state whether applicable accounting with reasonable accuracy at any time the of affairs of the company and the group standards have been followed, subject financial position of the company and at the end of the year, and of the profit to any material departures disclosed enable them to ensure that the accounts or loss of the group for that period.
In and explained in the accounts: and comply with the Companies Act 1985. preparing those accounts, the directors prepare the accounts on the going They are also responsible for safeguarding are required to: concern basis unless it is inappropriate the assets of the company and hence for select suitable accounting policies and to assume that the company will continue taking reasonable steps for the prevention then apply them consistently: in business.
of fraud and other irregularities.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SMITHS GROUP PLC We have audited the financial statements properly prepared in accordance with the the companys circumstances, consistently which comprise the consolidated profit Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you applied and adequately disclosed.
and loss account, the balance sheet, the if, in our opinion, the directors report is not We planned and performed our audit cash-flow statement, the statement of consistent with the financial statements, if so as to obtain all the information and total recognised gains and losses and the the company has not kept proper accounting explanations which we considered related notes, which have been prepared records, if we have not received all the necessary in order to provide us with under the historical cost convention and information and explanations we require sufficient evidence to give reasonable the accounting policies set out in the for our audit, or if information specified assurance that the financial statements statement of accounting policies.
We by law regarding directors remuneration and the auditable part of the directors have also audited the disclosures required and transactions is not disclosed.
remuneration report are free from material by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies We read the other information contained misstatement, whether caused by fraud Act 1985 contained in the directors in the Statutory Reports and Accounts or other irregularity or error.
In forming remuneration report the auditable part.
and consider the implications for our our opinion we also evaluated the report if we become aware of any apparent overall adequacy of the presentation of RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF misstatements or material inconsistencies information in the financial statements.
DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS with the financial statements.
The other The directors responsibilities for information comprises only the Annual OPINION preparing the Statutory Reports and Review 2003, the directors report, the In our opinion: Accounts, comprising the Annual Review unaudited part of the directors remuneration the financial statements give a true 2003 and the Directors Report and report, the statement of directors and fair view of the state of affairs of the Financial Statements 2003, in accordance responsibilities and the five year review.
company and the group at 31 July 2003 with applicable United Kingdom law and and of the result and cash-flows of the accounting standards, are set out in the We review whether the corporate group for the year then ended: governance statement in the directors statement of directors responsibilities.
The the financial statements have been directors are also responsible for preparing report reflects the companys compliance properly prepared in accordance with with the seven provisions of the Combined the directors remuneration report.
the Companies Act 1985: and Code specified for our review by the Listing Our responsibility is to audit the financial those parts of the directors remuneration Rules of the Financial Services Authority, statements and the auditable part of report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A and we report if it does not.
We are not the directors remuneration report in to the Companies Act 1985 have been required to consider whether the Boards accordance with relevant legal and properly prepared in accordance with statements on internal control cover all regulatory requirements and United the Companies Act 1985. risks and controls, or to form an opinion Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by on the effectiveness of the companys or  LLP the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, groups corporate governance procedures Chartered Accountants and Registered including the opinion, has been prepared or its risk and control procedures.
Auditors for and only for the companys members London as a body in accordance with Section 235 BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other 24 September 2003 We conducted our audit in accordance purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, with auditing standards issued by the accept or assume responsibility for any NOTES Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes other purpose or to any other person to a The maintenance and integrity of the Smiths Group plc examination, on a test basis, of evidence whom this report is shown or into whose website is the responsibility of the directors: the work relevant to the amounts and disclosures in hands it may come save where expressly carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration the financial statements and the auditable of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no agreed by our prior consent in writing.
part of the directors remuneration report.
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred We report to you our opinion as to It also includes an assessment of the to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
whether the financial statements give a significant estimates and judgements true and fair view and whether the financial made by the directors in the preparation b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the statements and the auditable part of the of the financial statements, and of whether preparation and dissemination of financial statements directors remuneration report have been the accounting policies are appropriate to may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
12 SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
