ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING CONVENTION Payments made under operating leases overseas subsidiaries and their results The accounts have been prepared in are charged to the profit and loss account for the year at closing rates, and the accordance with the Companies Act 1985, as incurred over the term of the lease.
translation of foreign currency borrowings as amended and with all applicable financial to match overseas investments, are taken to reporting and accounting standards under FREEHOLD PROPERTIES the statement of total recognised gains and the historical cost convention modified to These financial statements include losses.
All other exchange gains and losses include the revaluation of certain properties.
certain properties at 1974 valuation, are taken to the profit and loss account.
FRS17 Retirement Benefits has been less depreciation on the enhanced values adopted during the year to 31 July 2003. calculated in accordance with the policy TAXATION set out above.
The directors have decided to Deferred tax is recognised in respect of BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION invoke the transitional provisions of FRS15 timing differences that have originated The consolidated financial statements Tangible Fixed Assets, and do not intend but not reversed as at the balance sheet include those of the parent company and to revalue these properties every year.
Timing differences are differences its subsidiary undertakings.
between the groups taxable profits and LEASED PROPERTIES its results as disclosed in the financial The results of subsidiaries acquired during Where a leasehold property is vacant, or statements, arising from the inclusion the year are consolidated from the date of sub-let under terms such that the rental of gains and losses in tax assessments in acquisition.
income is insufficient to meet all outgoings, periods different from those in which they provision is made for the anticipated future are recognised in the financial statements.
Up to 1 August 1998, goodwill arising on shortfall up to termination of the lease.
consolidation was set against reserves in Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the the year of acquisition.
Goodwill impairment STOCKS retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries on prospective disposals is recognised Stocks and work in progress are valued at and associates only to the extent that, at through the profit and loss account.
cost, including related production overheads, the balance sheet date, dividends have reduced to estimated net realisable value been declared or an obligation is present Goodwill arising from acquisitions after where appropriate.
Profit is taken on longto distribute past earnings.
Deferred 1 August 1998 is capitalised at cost, and term contracts by reference to the work tax is not recognised on any fixed assets amortised on a straight-line basis over completed.
Provision for losses is made that have been revalued unless there is an estimated useful economic life of up as soon as they are recognised.
a binding agreement to sell the asset.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS TURNOVER Financial assets are recognised in the balance For defined benefit schemes, the cost of Turnover represents the invoiced amount sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable benefits accruing during the year in respect of goods sold and services provided during value.
Discounts, premia and related costs of current and past service is charged the year, after the deduction of trade of issue are charged or credited to the profit against operating profit.
The expected discounts and sales related taxes, and the and loss account over the life of the asset or return on the schemes assets and the value of work undertaken during the year liability to which they relate.
increase in the present value of the on long-term contracts.
schemes liabilities arising from the The company uses derivative financial passage of time are included in other RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT instruments to hedge its exposure to finance income.
Actuarial gains and Expenditure, other than that recoverable fluctuations in interest rates and foreign losses are recognised in the statement from third parties, is written off in the year exchange rates.
of total recognised gains and losses.
The in which it is incurred.
balance sheet includes the surplus deficit Receipts and payments on interest rate in schemes taking assets at their year-end FIXED ASSETS instruments are recognised on an accruals market values and liabilities at their Depreciation is provided at rates estimated basis over the life of the instrument.
actuarially calculated values discounted at to write off the relevant assets by equal year-end AA corporate bond interest rates.
annual amounts over their expected Foreign currency assets and liabilities useful lives.
In general, the rates used are: covered by forward contracts are translated Amounts charged in respect of defined Freehold and long leasehold buildings at the contract rates of exchange.
Other contribution schemes are the contributions 2%, Short leasehold property over the assets and liabilities in foreign currencies payable in the year.
period of the lease, Plant, machinery, etc.
are translated at closing rates.
10% to 20%, Motor vehicles 25%, Tools and other equipment 10% to 33%.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES The profit and loss accounts of overseas Fixed assets held under finance leases are subsidiaries are translated into sterling capitalised and depreciated in accordance at average rates of exchange for the year.
with the companys depreciation policy.
The capital element of future lease payments is Exchange adjustments arising from the included in creditors.
retranslation of opening net assets in 16 SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
