internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, monthly financial information which includes key performance such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of and risk indicators.
Regular reports on significant legal issues failure to meet business objectives and can provide only and insurance matters are received from the company secretary.
Review 2003 reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Going concern previous next Having reviewed the groups plans and available financial facilities, Following publication of the guidance for directors on internal the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group has control Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing foreseeable future.
For this reason it continues to adopt the going process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant concern basis in preparing the groups accounts.
risks faced by the group, that this has been in place for the year Contents under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report Directors responsibilities 3Financial highlights and accounts, that this process has been reviewed by the Board Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 4Focusing on niche applications during the year and that the group accords with the guidance.
statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view 6Helping customers to meet of the state of affairs of the company and of the group and of global challenges The processes which the Board and the audit committee have the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial 8 Building customer advantages 10 Chairmans statement applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the groups system statements, the directors are required to: 12 Chief Executives review of internal controls are summarised below: 16 Board of directors select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 18 Financial review Risk assessment and evaluation for each business unit takes consistently 20 Directors report 23 Directors responsibilities place as an integral part of the annual strategic planning cycle.
24 Directors remuneration report Having identified the principal risks to achievement of their make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 30 Corporate social responsibility strategic business objectives, each business unit is required to prudent 34 A better environment document the management and mitigating actions in place and 35 Directory of companies proposed.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and The principal risks identified during the annual strategic explained in the financial statements planning cycle and the effectiveness of the management and mitigating actions in place are reviewed regularly by the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis executive directors and twice yearly by the audit committee.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company and the group will continue in business.
Additionally, the executive directors consider those risks to the groups strategic objectives which are not addressed within the The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting business units and develop appropriate approaches to records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the managing and mitigating these risks.
financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act Annual financial plans for each business unit, significant capital 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are investments or contractual commitments and major acquisitions reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group or divestments are all subject to review and approval by the and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
By order of the Board There is a Group Accounting and Policies Manual which sets out the minimum standards and procedures to be applied in relation to those risk areas which are regarded as significant in a group context.
A process of self assessment of compliance with the Manual and reporting thereon has been established, providing for a documented trail of accountability from business unit presidents R J Stephens and finance directors to the audit committee.
Planned corrective Secretary actions are monitored for timely completion.
16 March 2004 The executive directors report to the Board on changes in the business and external environment which present significant risks.
The group finance director provides the Board with
