79 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Shareholder Information Shareholder Analysis At 25 February 2004, the number of registered shareholders was 8,081 and the number of Ordinary shares in issue was 948.4 million.
They also provide a range of online shareholder information services at www.
co. uk, where shareholders can check their holdings and nd practical help on transferring shares or updating their details.
Dividend Mandate Shareholders who wish to have any future dividends paid directly into their nominated bank or building society account and who have not already done so should request a BACS dividend mandate from Lloyds TSB Registrars, or visit www.
co. uk Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Spirent operates a DRIP under which shareholders can mandate to invest any future cash dividends in Ordinary shares, which are purchased in the market at competitive dealing rates.
Application forms and further information can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars who administer the plan on behalf of the Company.
Spirent Single Company ISA Lloyds TSB Registrars a division of Lloyds TSB Bank plc, which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority operate a Single Company Individual Savings Account ISA in which Spirent Ordinary shares can be held in a tax efficient manner.
Full details and an application form can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 242 4244.
Internet, Telephone and Postal Share Dealing Services Lloyds TSB Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars Shareview Dealing is a telephone and Internet service that provides a simple and convenient way of selling Spirent Ordinary shares.
For telephone sales call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for Internet sales visit www.
co. uk dealing A postal dealing service for buying and selling Ordinary shares is also available and a dealing form can be obtained by calling 0870 242 4244.
Share Price Information The Spirent share price is available via the Companys website www.
com and also in various newspapers published in the UK.
UK Capital Gains Tax For the purposes of capital gains tax, the market value of an Ordinary share on 31 March 1982, as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation issues, was 97.233 pence per share.
80 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Shareholder Information continued American Depositary Receipts ADRs The Bank of New York The Companys shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange ticker: SPM in the form of American Depositary Shares ADS and these are evidenced by ADRs, each one of which represents four Ordinary shares.
The Bank of New York is the authorised Depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme.
The Companys ADS price is quoted daily in the Wall Street Journal and can be obtained from either the Spirent website or via the New York Stock Exchange website at www.
com Spirent Website at www.
com The Spirent website provides further information about Spirent and its operating groups and also provides access to annual reports, press releases, share price information and links to Spirent operating group websites.
Unsolicited Mail The Company is obliged by law to make its share register available upon request to the public and to other organisations, which may use it as a mailing list, resulting in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
Shareholders wishing to limit the receipt of such mail should write to the Mailing Preference Service, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS or call 44 0 20 7291 3310 for an application form or visit www.
uk ShareGIFT Shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, where dealing costs may make it uneconomical to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGIFT, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
The relevant share transfer form can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Further information is available at www.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 10am on Tuesday, 11 May 2004 at Spirent House, Fleming Way, Crawley, West Sussex RH10 9QL.
Advisers Auditor Ernst & Young LLP Brokers Cazenove & Co. Ltd Citigroup formerly Schroder Salomon Smith Barney Financial Adviser N M Rothschild & Sons Limited Contact details appear on the inside back cover.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements subsequent ability to integrate businesses: our ability to meet and achieve the benets of our Certain statements provided in this Annual Report may contain forward-looking statements as that term is dened in the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based cost reduction goals and otherwise successfully adopt cost structures to respond to changes in business conditions: risks that our cost cutting initiatives will impair our ability to develop products on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
You can sometimes, but not always, identify these statements by the use of a date in the future or such words as will, and remain competitive: our ability to improve efficiency and adapt to economic changes and other changes in demand: changes in the business, financial condition or prospects of one or more anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, should, may, assume and other similar words.
By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently predictive and speculative and of our major customers: our reliance on third party manufacturers and suppliers: risks of not retaining or increasing market share: our exposure to liabilities for product defects: our reliance involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, on proprietary technology: our ability to attract and retain qualied personnel: risks of doing business internationally: changes in exchange rate or market conditions in the markets in which which are not a guarantee of future performance and are subject to factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements.
Such factors we participate or in general economic or political conditions: and other risks described from time to time in Spirent plcs Securities and Exchange Commission periodic reports and lings.
include, but are not limited to: the effects of competition on our business: the extent of recovery in telecoms capital spending: our ability to develop and commercialise new products and services The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
and realise product synergies: risks relating to the acquisition or sale of businesses and our Financial Calendar 2004 Annual General Meeting 11 May Announcement of 2004 Interim Results August Financial Year End 31 December Contact Details Head Ofce and Registered Ofce Registrar Spirent plc Lloyds TSB Registrars Spirent House The Causeway Crawley Business Quarter Worthing Fleming Way West Sussex BN99 6DA Crawley United Kingdom West Sussex RH10 9QL Service Helplines: United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 870 600 3964 UK Tel: 44 0 1293 767676 Tel: 44 121 415 7047 overseas Fax: 44 0 1293 767677 Website: www.
com ADR Depositary Spirent plc The Bank of New York Registered in England No: 470893 Investor Relations PO Box 11258 Auditor Church Street Station Ernst & Young LLP New York 1 More London Place NY 10286-1258 London USA SE1 2AF Tel: 1 888 BNY ADRS toll free United Kingdom or 1 610 312 5315 outside US Tel: 44 0 20 7951 2000 Fax: 1 973 742 2875 Website: www.
com Designed and produced by CGI BrandSense.
Front cover photography by Andrew Hall.
Spirent and the Spirent logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Spirent plc.
Board photography by Ric Gemmell.
All other trademarks or registered trademarks are held by their respective companies.
Printed by royle corporate print.
The paper used in this report is elemental chlorine-free.
com Spirent plc, Spirent House, Crawley Business Quarter, Fleming Way, Crawley, West Sussex RH10 9QL, United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1293 767676 Fax: 44 0 1293 767677
