17 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Employee Share Schemes Going Concern The Company operates a number of share incentive schemes, details After making enquiries, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable of which can be found in note 32 to the Accounts.
The Company operates expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in all employee share plans in the UK, the US and Canada.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing the Accounts.
Social Responsibility and Donations The Groups Corporate Social Responsibility Statement appears on Annual General Meeting pages 12 and 13.
Charitable donations of 63,000 were made in the year The AGM will be held at 10am on Tuesday, 11 May 2004 at Spirent House, 2002 90,000.
This amount excludes operating units support and Crawley Business Quarter, Fleming Way, Crawley, West Sussex RH10 9QL, participation in local community activities.
No political donations were United Kingdom.
Auditors Creditor Payment Policy A resolution to re-appoint Ernst &Young LLP as auditors and authorising Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers forthcoming AGM.
are conducted and it is Group policy to comply with those terms and to make suppliers aware of them.
By Order of the Board At 31 December 2003 the Company had an average of 52 days purchases Paul Eardley outstanding in trade creditors 2002 47 days.
Company Secretary 25 February 2004 Corporate Governance The Directors Statement on Corporate Governance is set out on pages 18 to 20.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of preparing the Accounts appears below.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Companies Act 1985 requires directors to prepare accounts for each The directors are responsible for: accounting period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the accounting period and of keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the accounts accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the the directors are required to: Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to make judgements and estimates that are both reasonable and prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
prudent: and The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, the Companys website on the Internet.
Financial information published subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained in on the website is based on legislation in the UK governing the the notes to the accounts.
preparation and dissemination of accounts that may be different from comparable legislation in other jurisdictions.
