14 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Board of Directors and Operations Management Team 13 5 7 24 6 8 A R N Board of Directors 5.
James A D Wyness 66 UK resident James Wyness was appointed to the Board in 1979.
Mr Wyness is the Executive Directors senior independent non-executive director and was Chairman of the N 1.
Nicholas K Brookes 56 UK resident Audit Committee until the end of 2003.
He was formerly Senior Partner of Linklaters, one of the Companys UK legal advisers, from where he Chief Executive Nicholas Brookes was previously a Vice President of Texas Instruments Inc retired in 1997.
He is a non-executive director of Saracens Limited.
from where he joined the Board as Deputy Chief Executive in 1995, A R N becoming Chief Executive in 1996.
He is also the senior independent 6.
Marcus Beresford CBE 61 UK resident Marcus Beresford was appointed to the Board in 1999 and is Chairman non-executive director of fide La Rue plc and a non-executive director of Corporacion Financiera Alba, S. A. Mr Brookes intends to retire as Chief of the Remuneration Committee.
He was Chief Executive of GKN plc from 2001 to 2002 and has over 30 years managerial experience in the Executive and as a director of the Company at the end of June 2004. automotive and electronic industries.
He is also non-executive Chairman of Ricardo plc, a director of the Engineering Technology Board and, from 2.
My E Chung 51 US resident Group President, Spirent Communications March 2004, will serve as a non-executive director of Cobham plc.
My Chung was appointed to the Board in 2001 and has specic operating responsibility as Group President, Spirent Communications.
Paul M F Cheng 67 Hong Kong resident Paul Cheng was appointed to the Board in 1996 and retired on joining the Company in 1998 he spent 11 years with Telecommunications Techniques Corporation TTC, most latterly as Division President.
He is a founding partner of China Key Consultants Limited.
He was formerly Chairman of Inchcape Pacic Limited and 3.
Eric G Hutchinson 48 UK resident N M Rothschild & Sons Hong Kong Limited as well as a member of Hong Kongs Legislative Council.
Finance Director Eric Hutchinson was appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 2000 R N 8.
Frederick DAlessio 55 US resident having previously been responsible for all financial reporting and control within the Group.
He joined the Company in 1983, was appointed Chief Frederick DAlessio was appointed to the Board in January 2004.
He has over 30 years experience in the telecoms industry, most Accountant in 1987 and became Head of Corporate Accounting in 1997. recently holding the position of President of Advanced Services at Verizon Communications Inc.
Since 2002 he has been a general partner Non-executive Directors and founder of Capitol Management Partners, a consultancy for early R N 4.
John P Weston CBE 52 UK resident stage communications companies, and currently sits on the boards of Chairman three emerging US telecoms companies, SS8 Networks, Inc.
Aware, Inc. John Weston joined the Board and was appointed Chairman in 2002.
He and Hatteras Networks, Inc. is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He was Chief Executive of BAE SYSTEMS plc from 1998 to 2002 and has over 30 years senior experience in aerospace, engineering and related technology industries.
He is also Chairman of Acra Controls, a small Dublin based company, Inbis Plc, a design engineering consultancy and Deputy Chairman of the University for Industry.
Gran Ennerfelt 63 Swedish resident Operations Management Team Gran Ennerfelt was appointed to the Board in 2000.
He is President Spirents Operations Management Team develops and oversees the and Chief Executive of Axel Johnson AB, a member of the Axel Johnson Groups corporate strategy and reviews annual business plans, budgets Group.
He is also Chairman of the Swedish Federation of Trade, the Board and operational and financial performance.
It agrees and monitors of Trustees of SNS Centre for Business and Policy Studies and the policies and other matters not reserved for the Board.
Stockholm Institute of Transition Economics at the Stockholm School of Economics.
He is a director of Svenska Handelsbanken, the Confederation 1.
Nicholas K Brookes 56 of Swedish Enterprise and the Swedish National Committee of the Chief Executive International Chamber of Commerce.
My E Chung 51 Group President, Spirent Communications A R N 10.
Andrew F Given 56 UK resident Andrew Given was appointed to the Board in October 2003 and is the 3.
Eric G Hutchinson 48 current Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was formerly Deputy Chief Finance Director Executive of Logica plc having previously served as Group Finance Director.
Paul R Eardley 43 He has substantial experience of international high technology markets Company Secretary and General Counsel and companies, particularly in telecoms.
He is also the senior independent non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of both 13.
W Barry Phelps 56 VT Group plc and Spectris plc.
President, Performance Analysis Broadband, Spirent Communications 14.
Richard M Moley 64 US resident Group President, Network Products Richard Moley was appointed to the Board in 2000.
He was previously a main board director and Senior Vice President of Cisco Systems from 15.
James H Schleckser 41 where he retired in 1997.
He currently serves as a director of a number President, Service Assurance Broadband, Spirent Communications of US high technology public and start up companies including Linear 16.
Geoffrey P L Zeidler 41 Technology Corporation, Echelon Corporation, Calient Networks Inc and President, Europe, Spirent Communications Polaris Networks Inc. AAudit Committee RRemuneration Committee N Nomination Committee Indicates that the director is considered independent of the management of the Company
