Operating Statement A DTI-commissioned investigation into the October 2002 storm concluded that Scottish and Southern Energy was a benchmark company, highlighting that it mobilised early in response to severe weather warnings and that plans were well-executed.
Units Distributed GWh Units Supplied GWh 99 37,964 99 36,609 00 38,602 00 34,786 01 40,152 01 42,071 02 40,833 02 38,201 03 41,239 03 35,835 Scottish and Southern Energys financial overhead lines and 700km of low voltage performance and, in particular, the growth overhead lines refurbished.
This included in earnings per share and the dividend, the replacement of some low voltage is based on the effective management of overhead lines with aerial bundled operations.
This means there is a strong conductor ABC, which involves replacing emphasis on achieving the highest standards four separate wires with individually across all aspects of SSEs activities, all of insulated lines which are then woven which should be carried out in a way which together to form one robust line.
Around is safe, responsible, customer-focused and 30% of the low voltage network now commercially aware.
Power Systems Similarly, replacement of high voltage Power Systems is responsible for managing overhead lines which have no protective one electricity transmission network and two covering with new cable covered in very distribution networks, serving 3.3 million strong polyethylene called BLX continued.
Its Regulated Asset Base RAB Around 30% of high voltage overhead lines is just over 2.5bn.
have now been replaced with BLX.
Transmission and distribution of electricity The substantial programme of network within specified areas is a monopoly activity automation has continued, with another and the income which each business is able 66 substations completed, allowing for to earn by charging electricity customers faster restoration of supply to customers.
for the use of their wires is closely regulated by Ofgem, as is the level of Over the past year SSE has also invested investment which is made in electricity heavily in its underground cable network networks.
SSE has completed the third with 50km of older high voltage cable year of the price controls set for the period replaced.
SSE has also continued to up to 31 March 2005. address the marked increase in fault rate on its low voltage consac cable laid Against this background, SSEs objective throughout Southern Electrics area in is to manage the consequences of the growth the 1970s and 1980s.
in demand for electricity, and ensure the network has the minimum number of faults In the Scottish Hydro-Electric Power and the maximum robustness in the face of Distribution and Transmission area, another severe weather and other supply interruption 2,400km of high voltage rural network has risks.
The programme of investment is been refurbished, along with 300km of geared to achieving these goals.
The programme of network automation saw seven urban In line with this, a total of 143m was schemes and 130 rural schemes completed.
invested in the electricity networks in the year, taking the total investment to 455m In Scotland, the benefits of sustained since the current price control review period investment in the network, well-established started in 2000.
Investment of this kind and effective operating practices and upgrades the electricity network and reasonable weather conditions resulted in the reinforces the value of the RAB which, best-ever performance: the average number in turn, supports the ongoing value of the of minutes of lost supply per customer was Power Systems business.
87, compared with the target of 195 minutes set by Ofgem under its Information and In the Southern Electric Power Distribution Incentives Programme IIP.
area, the programme to upgrade and refurbish the network has continued during In England, however, the network was the year, with 1,390km of high voltage subjected a major storm on 27 October Scottish and Southern Energy plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating Statement Scottish and Southern Energy remains the leading generator from renewable sources in the UK, owning and operating almost half of the countrys total capacity.
The ability of electricity distribution energy trading conditions within NETA the companies to cope with the consequences New Electricity Trading Arrangements.
of the storm became a major issue, That, combined with SSEs well-established and prompted the Department of Trade ability to forecast accurately demand for and Industry to commission a electricity, and a strong risk management post-emergency investigation.
function, means SSE continues to perform well within NETA.
It also bodes well for the The resulting report, published in December forthcoming introduction of British 2002, concluded that SSE was a Electricity Trading and Transmission benchmark company, highlighting that Arrangements BETTA.
SSE mobilised early in response to severe weather warnings, was well-prepared to The high thermal efficiency of SSEs gasdeal with the emergency and that plans fired power stations means that they have, were well-executed.
It also said that SSE relatively, a lower fuel intake for a similar demonstrated strength in key areas such output of electricity.
As a result, they as telephony and call handling.
The review are less exposed to high gas prices and also confirmed the benefits of SSEs produce fewer carbon emissions than other investment in ABC and BLX, with very power stations.
few of the faults that arose following the 27 October storm occurring where these Sixty years on from the founding of the have been installed.
North of Scotland Hydro-Electric Board in 1943, SSE, as its successor, remains the Excluding the effects of the storm, the leading generator from renewable sources average number of minutes of lost supply in the UK, owning and operating almost per customer in the Southern Electric area half of the countrys total capacity.
was 82, which compared favourably with the target set by Ofgem under IIP.
SSEs 450m investment programme in renewable energy is now well under way.
SSE intends to continue with and enhance A total of nine hydro-electric power investment in these areas, subject to the stations, totalling 130MW in capacity, have correct incentives being in place for such been refurbished.
Upon refurbishment, the investment to be made.
output of these stations became eligible for the governments renewable energy Generation incentive, Renewable Obligation Certificates Within SSEs integrated energy business, ROCs.
The output from SSEs refurbished the generation portfolio supports hydro stations qualifying for ROCs was performance as a supply company.
Comprising almost entirely gas-fired, hydro-electric and wind power stations, The refurbishment programme is it is the greenest, most thermally efficient continuing, with a further 14 hydro-electric and flexible amongst major generators in power stations, totalling 190MW in the UK.
capacity, due to be refurbished by the end of 2004.
Based on average rainfall, the output The flexibility of the portfolio reflects from SSEs refurbished hydro-electric the fact that the gas-fired power stations stations in 2003 04 is expected to be which SSE either owns or has an ownership around 1,000GWh.
A planning application interest in, such as Keadby, Peterhead and has also been submitted in respect of a new Seabank, have all been developed or 50MW hydro scheme near Loch Ness, the repowered within the past 10 years.
The use output of which would qualify for ROCs.
of modern technology makes them reliable.
Reliability is also underpinned by long-term SSEs first wind farm, a 12MW service agreements with the original development at Tangy in Argyll, produced equipment manufacturers, which means its first electricity in December 2002, and that the flexible operation of the plant has it performed well in its first four months of their endorsement and operational support.
Planning applications have been submitted to the relevant authorities in This access to flexible generation plant respect of around a further 250MW of new means SSE is able to increase or decrease wind farm capacity.
output in response to rapidly-changing Scottish and Southern Energy plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 In the year to March 2003, Scottish and Southern Energy achieved a net gain of around 250,000 customers.
This was the fastest organic growth in the UK and the energy supply business now has more customers than ever before.
All of the output from SSEs renewable In addition, the Customer Service operation generation portfolio, including large-scale has been re-shaped to take advantage of hydro, should benefit from the governments contacts with customers to promote a more plans to introduce a Renewable Energy value-added energy supply offering.
In Guarantee of Origin scheme, a certification particular, the Retail business adds value scheme which the government said should be to the energy supply brands by providing easy for generators to take advantage of.
customers with access to electric and gas appliances at very competitive prices.
Supply As a result of these initiatives, during The competitive nature of the UKs energy 2002 03, the proportion of new customers supply market was confirmed when Ofgem gained through customer service removed all remaining supply price controls operations doubled.
Given all of the Groups energy supply customers have been In order to continue to offer energy managed using a single advanced customer customers attractive value, SSE is now service system since the end of 2001, launching a low cost telephone call charge SSE has been well-placed to compete offering.
This has already been trialled and is in the market.
now being made available to all customers.
Its key aim is to support the energy supply Since then, there has been a net gain business, but it should also make a modest of nearly 300,000 customers, including contribution to operating profit.
around 250,000 gained in the year to 31 March 2003.
SSE has maintained the Contracting and Connections fastest organic growth of any supply SSEs contracting business comprises business in the UK.
This includes a mainly Southern Electric Contracting significant gain in the number of business SEC and Thermal Transfer.
SEC also customers, which now cover nearly 300,000 trades as Hydro Contracting in Scotland sites throughout Great Britain, through and SWALEC Contracting in Wales, focusing on multi-site contracts.
SSE now thus benefiting from the strengths of the has 4.85m energy supply customers, which regional brands.
It has three main areas of activity: The enduring value inherent in the Southern Electric, SWALEC and Scottish Hydro-Industrial, commercial and domestic Electric brands is illustrated by their contracting.
This involves everything success in retaining and attracting a higher from household wiring to electrical than average number of domestic customers installations for major projects.
For in their traditional areas.
example, SEC has just completed one of the most significant contracts in its The supply business is geared to delivering history the redevelopment of the North quality customer service, which is a key Andover site for Defence Estates.
This differentiator in a highly-competitive market.
was the first capital contract to be Towards the end of 2002, the industryplaced by the Ministry of Defence using leading survey by JD Power confirmed that the prime contracting method of SSE has the joint highest customer procurement, and it is likely to be used satisfaction amongst all UK energy suppliers.
as a benchmark for an increasing The survey looked at key areas such as number of contracts in the future.
billing, payment, price and value.
Electrical and Instrumentation High standards have not been sacrificed Engineering.
This specialist part of SEC in the drive to win new customers: indeed, provides highly technical services for SSE believes they are a prerequisite to clients in a wide variety of industries.
sustainable success in energy supply.
For example, around 60 SEC employees Against a background of concern about are based permanently at Europes so-called doorstep selling generally, SSE biggest oil refinery, Fawley, in recorded the lowest level of complaints in Hampshire, where they won a prestigious energywatchs analysis of energy direct safety performance award in March selling complaints published in April 2003.
This contract has just been Scottish and Southern Energy plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating Statement Southern Electric Contracting SEC is now established as the UK's largest street lighting contractor, responsible for maintaining 850,000 lighting units, which is 12% of the UK's total.
renewed for a period of five years, with a 4,500km telecoms network in the UK, a total value of 20m.
extending from Aberdeen to London and Lands End.
It too provides network and Street and highway lighting.
SEC is now infrastructure capacity and other services established as the UKs largest street to more than 300 commercial and public lighting contractor, responsible for sector customers and is one of the fastestmaintaining 850,000 lighting units, growing companies in the UK.
The combined business has almost 7,000km Thermal Transfer is one of the UKs leading of network.
It will capture synergy benefits specialist contractors for the turnkey design, and will have the financial strength and build, refurbishment and upgrading of a flexible range of services to meet facilities where there is a need for clean, customers needs as the market develops sterile, contained or controlled environments.
It gives SSE a UK-wide For example, in early 2003, it completed a telecoms network and greater operational 2.3m mechanical and electrical contract capability in the telecoms market.
It is for office refurbishment on behalf of BAE presently undertaking technical and Systems, which has now become BAE commercial pilots of powerline carrier Systems flagship office refurbishment.
technology, which uses electricity networks to deliver broadband communications.
The new connections business provides a wide range of utility services, installing electricity, Gas Storage gas, water and telecommunications services SSE Hornsea was acquired in September for leading UK housebuilders, business 2002 for 132.7m.
Hornsea is a major premises and major industrial installations.
facility which has a total gas storage It completed 37,000 new electrical capacity of 326 million cubic metres, which connections in 2002 03. is 9% of the total UK gas storage capacity.
It can deliver gas rapidly more than It also trades as SSE Network Solutions, 18 million cubic metres of gas in one day, which looks to expand the portfolio of equivalent to the gas requirements of utility networks that SSE owns and around four million homes.
operates beyond its existing in-area networks.
For example, it constructed and There was record demand for the facility owns the electricity network for the new in the six months from October 2002.
High Bull Ring development in Birmingham.
demand for the facility is likely to continue, and its importance should increase further SSE Pipelines is SSEs licensed gas as gas trading arrangements are reformed transporter business, which owns and and as the UK becomes increasingly operates gas mains and services throughout dependent on imports of gas.
It has more than 15,000 SSE has decided to proceed with the domestic, commercial and industrial investment of around 120m to develop premises connected to its gas networks.
a new gas storage facility at the nearby Aldbrough site.
This should give SSE an Telecommunications additional 170 million cubic metres of Prior to April 2003, SSE gas storage.
It will also have a very fast Telecommunications SSET managed injection capability, meaning customers 2,300km of fibre optic cable and 15,000 stocks of gas can be cycled rapidly as sites, mainly installed on SSEs own and when the need arises.
electricity infrastructure in the Scottish Hydro-Electric and Southern Electric Retail areas, with further links to London, The online retail business, which offers over Glasgow and Edinburgh.
It provides 1,500 domestic appliances at discounts of network and infrastructure capacity and up to 30% on high street prices, continues other services to over 100 commercial to perform well.
It secured sales over and public sector organisations.
double that achieved in the previous year.
The Scottish Hydro-Electric shops in In April 2003, it acquired Neoscorp Ltd the north of Scotland also continue to Neos for 13.4m.
Neos has established grow their profitability.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2003
