Directors Responsibilities for preparation of the Accounts The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to the statement of auditors responsibilities included in the Auditors safeguard the assets of the company and Group and to prevent and Report below, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders detect fraud and other irregularities.
the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the Accounts.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the Accounts on pages 20 to 42, the company and the Group have used appropriate accounting The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting the state of affairs of the company and the Group as at the end of standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The Directors are required to use a going concern basis in preparing the Accounts unless this is inappropriate.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the company and which enable them to ensure that the Accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have a general Independent Auditors Report to the members of Scottish and Southern Energy plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 20 to 42.
Basis of Audit Opinion We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued report that is described as having been audited.
by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of members those matters we are required to state to them in an the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone adequately disclosed.
other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors directors remuneration report.
As described on page 25, this includes remuneration report to be audited are free from material responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and affairs of the company and the Group as at 31 March 2003 and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept Companies Act 1985. proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the KPMG Audit Plc Group is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor We review whether the statement on page 13 reflects the companys 21 May 2003 compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the un-audited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2003
