Shareholder information Analysis of shareholders as at 30 April 2003 Range of holdings No.
of holders % Shares held % Individuals 62,057 96.09 425,922,132 32.24 Other corporate bodies 74 0.11 9,689,593 0.73 Banks and Nominees 2,209 3.42 817,816,640 61.92 Insurance and assurance companies 1 0.00 152,616 0.01 Limited companies 231 0.36 67,157,356 5.08 Pension funds 10 0.02 207,675 0.02 64,582 100.00 1,320,946,012 100.00 Registrar and transfer office All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings should, in the first instance, be directed to the Companys registrar and clearly state the shareholders name and address.
Please write to: Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland, PO Box 28448, Finance House, Orchard Brae, Edinburgh EH4 1WQ.
Stagecoach individual savings accounts The Company has appointed Halifax Share Dealing Limited as an ISA provider and shareholders who would like further information should contact their help desk on 08457 22 55 25.
The Company has also made arrangements with Stocktrade for Maxi and Mini ISAs.
Full details and an application form are available from Stocktrade a division of Brewin Dolphin, 10 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 2PZ.
Low cost share dealing facility The Group has set up a low cost execution only share dealing facility with a division of Brewin Dolphin, Stocktrade, exclusive to Stagecoach shareholders.
The commission is 0.6% up to 10,000 with 0.2% being charged on the excess thereafter, subject to a 15 minimum.
Shareholders who would like further information should write to Stocktrade, PO Box 1076, 10 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 2PZ.
Telephone 0845 601 0995, quoting dealing reference Low Co020.
Postal dealing packs are available on request.
Payment of dividends by BACS Many shareholders have already arranged for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to their bank or building society account.
The mandates enable the Company to pay dividends through the BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
The benefit to shareholders of the BACS system is that the registrar posts the tax vouchers directly to them, whilst the dividend is credited on the payment date to the shareholder bank or building society account.
Shareholders who wish to benefit from this service should request the Companys registrar address above to send them a dividend interest mandate form or alternatively complete the mandate form attached to the next dividend tax voucher they receive.
Dividend Re-Investment Plan The Company operates a Dividend Re-Investment Plan which allows a shareholders cash dividend to be used to buy Stagecoach shares at favourable commission rates.
Shareholders who would like further information should telephone LLoyds TSB Registrars Scotland on 0870 241 3018.
75 Five year financial summary 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 m m m m m Results Total turnover 2,076.6 2,114.4 2,083.5 2,179.1 1,548.4 Operating loss profit 466.2 96.5 268.8 198.6 274.9 Finance charges net 33.5 59.8 76.0 144.6 61.0 Loss profit before tax 500.2 42.0 335.2 255.3 210.4 Tax charge 25.0 15.0 19.1 50.1 60.5 Loss profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 525.2 27.0 354.3 205.2 150.0 Net assets Fixed assets 1,259.8 1,981.0 2,047.3 2,304.1 2,107.6 Net current liabilities assets 49.2 40.4 109.1 250.8 189.9 Long term creditors 640.7 808.1 816.8 1,039.4 950.8 Provisions 252.8 223.4 201.1 192.9 374.8 Tangible fixed assets Additions 71.1 103.3 141.8 376.7 263.1 Depreciation 105.3 112.7 111.2 218.7 186.0 Cash and debt Cash at bank and in hand 164.7 150.0 160.4 816.0 321.8 Gross debt 724.7 924.6 946.1 1,365.6 1,226.7 Securitised debt included within gross debt Nil Nil Nil Nil 482.7 Net debt 560.0 774.6 785.7 549.6 904.9 Cash flow Free cash flow 217.8 184.3 228.1 283.9 279.8 Ratios Earnings per share` 6.4p 6.3p 7.5p 12.8p 11.9p Dividends per ordinary share 2.6p 2.6p 3.8p 3.6p 3.0p Free cash flow per ordinary share 16.6p 14.1p 17.0p 18.9p 21.2p Shares in issue at year end 1,320.9m 1,320.9m 1,318.6m 1,407.0m 1,382.5m Average number of employees 38,876 38,783 40,002 41,254 31,920 2001 and 2000 have been restated following adoption of FRS 19 1999 summary information has been restated following adoption of FRS 15 and FRS 19 `before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 76 Registered office and advisers Company Secretary Derek Scott Merchant Bankers Principal Bankers Noble Grossart Limited Bank of Scotland Registered Office 48 Queen Street New Uberior House 10 Dunkeld Road Edinburgh EH2 3NH 11 Earl Grey Street Perth PH1 5TW Edinburgh EH3 9BN Telephone 44 0 1738 442 111 Auditors The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Facsimile 44 0 1738 643 648  LLP 24 25 St Andrew Square Email info@stagecoachgroup.
com Kintyre House Edinburgh EH2 1AS 209 West George Street Company number SC 100764 Glasgow G2 2LW Solicitors Shepherd & Wedderburn, WS Registrars Stockbrokers Saltire Court Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland Credit Suisse First Boston Europe Limited 20 Castle Terrace PO Box 28448 1 Cabot Square Edinburgh EH1 2ET Finance House London E14 4QJ Orchard Brae Herbert Smith Edinburgh EH4 1WQ Exchange House Telephone 44 0 870 601 5366 Primrose Street London EC2A 2HS Financial Calendar Annual General Meeting 29 August 2003 Final Dividend 8 October 2003 Interim Report December 2003 Interim Dividend March 2004 Road King Infrastructure Limited Company websites www.
co. uk Designed by McKinstrie Wilde, Edinburgh.
Principal Photography by Jeremy Hardie.
Printed by Pillans & Waddies, Edinburgh.
Annual Report 2003 Annual Report 2003 Group Headquarters 10 Dunkeld Road Perth PH1 5TW Scotland T 44 0 1738 442 111 F 44 0 1738 643 648 www.
com Summary Annual Report 2003 STAGECOACH GROUP PLC Company No.
SC100764 turnover m 598.4 Stagecoach has around 16% of the UK Bus UK Bus operating profit m 67.0 market making it one of the largest bus operators in the UK.
of vehicles 7,100 across the country, principally focused on no.
of employees 17,900 providing scheduled passenger services.
Rail subsidiaries Our Rail division comprises three subsidiary turnover m 413.6 Rail operating companies: South West Trains operating profit m 38.2 one of the largest UK rail franchises, Island no.
of vehicles 1,300 Line Isle of Wight and Sheffield Supertram no.
of employees 5,250 which runs 29km of rail routes across the Virgin Rail Group city.
The Group also holds a 49% equity turnover ` m 276.1 stake in Virgin Rail Group which operates operating profit ` m 7.2 the West Coast Mainline and CrossCountry rail franchises.
turnover m 603.0 Coach USA is one of the largest providers of Coach USA operating profit m 14.0 motorcoach, charter, tour and sightseeing services in the United States.
of vehicles 12,600 currently being restructured to concentrate no.
of employees 10,600 on the substantial North East and North Central regions.
New Zealand Stagecoach New Zealand and Citybus are turnover m 51.0 Overseas Bus the largest providers of scheduled bus services operating profit m 11.2 in New Zealand and on Hong Kong Island 1,050 no.
There are also small bus 1,850 no.
of employees operations in mainland China and the Group Citybus operates Fullers Ferries in Auckland, New turnover m 132.3 Zealand.
The Hong Kong and China operations operating profit m 19.1 were sold by Stagecoach in June 2003. no.
of employees 3,250 The Group owns 31.2% of the ordinary Investments shares of Road King Infrastructure Limited Turnover and operating profit figures are for which operates over 1,000km of toll roads the year ended 30 April 2003.
Operating Road King profit refers to operating profit before Infrastructure throughout China.
Limited goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Stagecoach holds a 49% equity stake in Vehicle and employee numbers are as at 30 April 2003. thetrainline.
com which operates a rail Internet and call centre booking service in `Stagecoachs share.
Stagecoach Group is a leading international transport provider, committed to developing innovative solutions across our operations Highlights 2003 Business highlights Continued profitability in all four key operating divisions Good progress in restructuring Coach USA c. 300m of disposals announced post year-end Terms of new franchise at South West Trains finalised Improved operational performance benefiting Rail Division Margin improvements at UK Bus Contents Strong revenue and volume growth in New Zealand 1 Highlights 2 Chairmans statement 4 Chief Executives statement Financial highlights 6 Summary operating review Turnover 2,077m 2002 2,111m 18 Board of directors 19 Summary directors report Total operating profit 146m 2002 167m 20 Summary remuneration Profit before tax 113m 2002 107m report 22 Independent auditors 575m of exceptional write-downs from Coach USA statement review resulting in a statutory loss before tax of 22 Registered office and 500m 2002 profit of 42m advisers Earnings per share 6.4p: up from 6.3p 23 Summary consolidated profit and loss account Free cash flow up 18% to 218m 24 Summary consolidated Net debt down 215m to 560m balance sheet Final dividend 2.6p 2002 2.6p 24 Summary consolidated cash flow statement excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Shareholder information 1 Stagecoach Group has made positive progress this year towards achieving its key strategic objectives despite challenging issues within the transport sector and a difficult economic environment.
Chairmans statement 2003 Stagecoach Group has made positive progress this year towards comprises the interim dividend of 0.8 pence 2002 1.3 pence achieving its key strategic objectives despite challenging issues and a proposed final dividend of 1.8 pence per share 2002 within the transport sector and a difficult economic environment.
The Board has firm confidence in the future prospects for the Group and, based on continued strong and stable Across the Group, we are seeing strong cash generation from cashflows and profits within the business, we will look to each of our four key operating divisions and all are trading increase the dividend each year.
In the UK, our bus division has had a successful year and is delivering increased operating margins with solid revenue Our two key priorities in recent months have been the and passenger volume growth.
We have agreed terms with the restructuring of our Coach USA operations following a Strategic Rail Authority SRA for a new three-year franchise comprehensive business review and finalising the new South at South West Trains, which is one of the UKs largest rail West Trains franchise.
Focused management action on both franchises.
We are awaiting final approval of this new franchise of these issues will deliver greater stability and certainty.
Restructuring of our Coach USA division is progressing well.
Earlier this month, we At Coach USA we remain on course to deliver on our key completed the disposal of our Citybus business in Hong Kong restructuring objectives within the 12 to 18 month timetable while our New Zealand bus business continues to deliver strong we set out in December 2002 and this will produce a smaller growth.
but nevertheless substantial and more robust business.
The Groups strong cash flow generation coupled with the We believe the financial and commercial terms we have agreed favourable movement in exchange rates, has allowed us to with the SRA for the new franchise at South West Trains will reduce debt for the long-term benefit of the business.
Net deliver a good and predictable return for our shareholders.
debt reduced by 214.6m in the year ended 30 April 2003, from 774.6m to 560.0m.
Subsequent to the year-end we have Virgin Rail Group in which we have a 49% interest is announced disposals with a gross consideration of approximately continuing to work with the SRA with a view to negotiating new 300m.
Of these proceeds, approximately 20m relates to long-term commercial arrangements for both the West Coast deferred consideration and the remainder will initially be used and CrossCountry franchises.
Both franchises are presently to reduce Group debt.
receiving SRA funding on the basis of a one year budget set by the SRA for the period to February 2004.
We remain confident Turnover for the year ended 30 April 2003 was 2,076.6m that new franchise terms can be agreed that will secure 2002 2,111.4m.
Total operating profit before goodwill shareholder value for Stagecoach.
amortisation and exceptional items was 146.4m 2002 166.6m.
Earnings per share on an equivalent basis were up Our UK Bus operations are producing revenue and passenger at 6.4 pence 2002 6.3 pence.
volume growth, most notably where we work closely with forward-looking local authorities.
We have been particularly The Board of Directors is recommending that the total dividend successful in the London market.
We are also pleased that the for the year is 2.6 pence per share 2002 2.6 pence.
This Government has taken forward our Kick Start proposals for 2 Robert Speirs Chairman targeted funding to support the introduction of new services and Following the business review in North America, I was delighted help reinvigorate the UK Bus network.
to announce six months ago that Brian Souter had taken up the position of Chief Executive on a permanent basis.
His energy and In the Overseas Bus division, performance at our New Zealand entrepreneurial vision have been the driving force behind the businesses, where we are seeing strong growth, continues to be Group and the considerable work he has done in restructuring very satisfactory.
Citybus, our Hong Kong bus operation, has our US operations is laying firm foundations for a stronger been an excellent investment for the Group since 1999.
the Board received an approach for the business and felt it was appropriate to review the strategic options for Stagecoach Group I was happy to accept the invitation, in December 2002, to in the region.
In view of the limited opportunities to develop continue as Chairman of the Board.
We have been working significantly elsewhere in other Pacific Rim countries and the closely to refocus the company and I am confident Stagecoach long-term prospects for the business in Hong Kong, we believe Group has a dedicated senior management team and a the offer was a good one and that selling the business at this committed Board that will ensure the Group continues to time was in the best interests of our shareholders.
thrive and deliver shareholder value.
We have a clear strategy for the Group and are on schedule with our sales programme and restructuring at Coach USA.
The sale of Citybus has put the Group in a strong financial position, further fide-risking the Groups portfolio, and will allow management to focus on developing our UK bus and rail businesses, a smaller but more robust North American business and our successful New Zealand operations.
The Group continues to be a leading ROBERT SPEIRS international transport company with a strong portfolio of cash Chairman generative businesses.
25 June 2003 3 Management has been clearly focused on the twin priorities of restructuring Coach USA and securing the new franchise at South West Trains.
I have been particularly pleased at the progress we have made and this will give greater certainty to shareholders.
Chief Executives statement 2003 Management has been clearly focused on the twin priorities of UK rail market and combines the right balance of risk and return restructuring Coach USA and securing the new franchise at South for our shareholders.
Our Rail division has delivered a strong operating profit for the year.
At South West Trains, our concentration on driving up We are seeing steady performance benefits across the Group as operational performance has resulted in significant improvements a result of our concentration on operationally led management.
and we are progressing well with the planned introduction of our I believe this has reinvigorated the entrepreneurial approach of new 1bn Desiro train fleet.
At Virgin Rail Group, the business is management and we are well placed to deliver growth in our benefiting from the focus on service delivery and significant operations, despite the worldwide economic slowdown.
The replacement of the entire CrossCountry fleet has been completed with the introduction of I am pleased to report that we remain on course to restructure new Virgin Voyagers, while the first of the new state-of-the-art our Coach USA division and to meet our strategic aims for the Pendolino trains are also in service.
business within the 12 to 18 month timetable we outlined in December 2002.
We have already announced the disposals of Network infrastructure difficulties remain a concern, however, Coach USAs Transit division, New England, West, and South and we have implemented a range of measures to mitigate the Central regions and a number of its taxi businesses.
Together, effects on our operation as well as working closely with Network the gross consideration for these amounts to over US$220m.
Rail and the Strategic Rail Authority.
We intend to retain the North East and North Central regions, Our UK Bus division, the traditional core of the Group, is which together accounted for around one-third of Coach USAs performing well.
We are benefiting from revenue and passenger turnover in the year ended 30 April 2003.
We are developing growth in provincial towns where we are working in partnership the businesses within the Coach USA portfolio that perform well with forward-looking local authorities.
We have been particularly and have predictable revenue streams, as well as reducing our successful in the London market, where we have retained and won exposure to charter and leisure-related businesses.
In addition, we a number of tenders.
New tenders and the operation of additional have successfully retained key management and further reduced vehicles on behalf of Transport for London have added 14.6m in our corporate and regional overhead base.
Trading at Coach USA, revenue in the year ended 30 April 2003.
Passenger volumes in as we predicted, remains challenging and we have not seen any London are up 8.8% and we see further opportunities for growth major improvement in the trading environment.
Nevertheless, following the introduction of congestion charging earlier this year.
Coach USA remains cash generative and profitable.
We have Operating profits and margins for the UK Bus division have risen, many strong performing businesses in the residual Coach USA despite increases in pension and other labour costs.
portfolio and we are continuing to redeploy existing assets to maximise asset utilisation and to eliminate unnecessary capital We are taking an industry lead in generating new ideas and expenditure.
believe our Kick Start proposal, which is now being taken forward by the UK Government, can benefit communities across We have now agreed financial and commercial terms with the country.
The proposal is that the Government sets asides the SRA for a new three-year franchise at South West Trains.
funds, which are used to give short-term impetus for the The deal, which has been recommended to the Department introduction of new services with the aim that such services for Transport and the Treasury by the SRA Board, is currently would become commercially viable within three years from their awaiting final approval.
Together with the current one-year commencement.
It can deliver more comprehensive bus services, extension, this would result in a franchise for the period until reduced road congestion, better value for the taxpayer with February 2007.
This will cement our leading position within the important environmental and social inclusion benefits.
As well 4 Brian Souter Chief Executive as bidding for Government funding in this area, we will continue the profitability and capital requirements of the business and not with our own Kick Start programme of investment in buses for the immediate trading conditions.
The market for franchised routes identified as having organic growth potential and we are bus operations is competitive and the purchaser already had an looking at the development of a number of new products and interest in a significant franchised bus operation.
The proposed ideas targeted for growth in the next twelve months.
combination will benefit from synergies and economies of scale and this will give a solid platform for the further investment that In New Zealand, where we are the biggest bus operator, our is required in the Hong Kong franchised bus market.
On that operations have delivered further strong growth.
We continue basis, we believe the sale of Citybus was in the best interests to work in close partnership with national and local government of the business and Stagecoach shareholders, and it will allow to improve bus services, investing heavily in our operation.
Kick Stagecoach management to continue to deliver our strategy as Start pump-priming funding has helped enhance services on key a leading international transport provider.
corridors and bus passenger growth in Auckland has continued to be strong.
In addition, we remain actively interested in running While still early in the new financial year, the Group has started the suburban rail networks in both Wellington and Auckland.
the year well and is trading in line with our expectations.
Under our ownership since 1999, our Hong Kong Citybus I am delighted with the contribution our people across the globe operation has produced strong organic growth in passenger have made in meeting the challenges of the past year and I would volumes and a significant reduction in operating costs.
Following like to thank them and our customers for their continued an approach for the business, we reviewed the strategic options support.
I am certain we can deliver better services, more value for Stagecoach Group in the region.
It was our view that there to shareholders, and continued security for our employees.
were limited opportunities to develop significantly elsewhere in other Pacific Rim countries and the long-term prospects for the business in Hong Kong were uncertain.
A number of factors were assessed in coming to a decision, including the future economic climate in Hong Kong, the growing levels of regulation and the inability to grow profit without very significant investment or critical mass synergies.
While the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome SARS earlier this year continues BRIAN SOUTER to impact the profitability of the Hong Kong business, our Chief Executive assessment of the sale was based on a long-term view of 25 June 2003 5 Stagecoach continues to be one of the leading UK bus operators, with a 16% share of a highly competitive market.
Our UK Bus business, the traditional core of the Group, remains a strong source of cash flow.
As one of the biggest bus operators in the UK, we are at the cutting edge in developing new and innovative products and we are committed to playing a key part in achieving the Governments objectives of increased use of public transport and greater integration.
Summary operating review UK Bus 2003 Stagecoach continues to be one of the leading UK bus operators, compared to 62.7m in the previous year, and this is after with a 16% share of a highly competitive market.
Our UK Bus taking account of increases in insurance costs and labour costs, business, the traditional core of the Group, remains a strong including an increase in pension costs.
The operating profit figure source of cash flow.
As one of the biggest bus operators in the is stated after the financing element of vehicle operating leases, UK, we are at the cutting edge in developing new and innovative which amounted to 0.5m.
This represents an operating margin products and we are committed to playing a key part in of 11.2% 2002 11.0% and reflects the benefits from a wide achieving the Governments objectives of increased use of range of local initiatives to grow revenue, despite a continuing public transport and greater integration.
fall in the cost of car ownership.
Across the UK, we have invested in new buses with a total capital value of 40.7m during the Turnover in our UK Bus division has increased by 5.4% to year to develop our on-the-road product.
Operating profit was 67.0m, volumes across our UK Bus business have increased by 3.2%.
6 My proudest moment was when Ive looked after we won the Bus Industry Marketing travelling passengers for Project of the Year Award this 10 years now and know year.
Our teams priority is to that, above all, our provide existing passengers with customers value good up-to-date, useful information and communication.
If services to stimulate passenger growth dont run smoothly they through innovative promotions.
Karen Best Chris Pearce Marketing Manager Standards Controller UK Bus UK Bus In London, where we have a 16% share of the market, we have using the Internet to access information about our services and increased our fleet size by 10% and recruited 200 more drivers in pay for specific tickets, particularly in the student market.
Some 88.5% of our London fleet is now low floor, innovative Unirider campaign, targeted at the sizeable student with a significant proportion of vehicles having been replaced market, is being rolled out from Manchester to other student within the last five years.
Passenger growth in London was 8.8% centres such as Newcastle, Warwick, Lancaster and Aberdeen, for the year and we have purchased new depot space at with further areas to be targeted at a later date.
A new improved Stratford for future expansion.
Internet sales system is being introduced in the autumn of 2003.
We have introduced 100 new vehicles to meet the extra demand Sophisticated research and marketing techniques pioneered by generated by congestion charging, negotiating improved margins the retail industry are being used by Stagecoach to attract more and enlarged contracts to operate buses on behalf of Transport people to public transport.
Customers can now be profiled, for London TfL.
In partnership with TfL, we launched the UKs segmented and targeted on a geographical basis and the first 24-hour, round-the-clock articulated bus service in London in information used to tailor direct marketing campaigns, including March 2003. telemarketing.
In trial areas in Perth and Grimsby, between 7% and 9% of customers targeted have switched to the bus, well Outside London, total passenger volumes have increased by above the normal 2% conversion rate for these campaigns.
The trend in passenger volumes varies significantly by geographical area.
We have initiatives in place to encourage Stagecoach is a frontrunner within the UK bus industry in further growth and we have been particularly successful in supporting and developing new approaches to bus provision to increasing volumes in areas where congestion is causing some draw increasing numbers of passengers to public transport.
commuters to switch to using public transport.
At national level, Stagecoach has taken an industry lead by Our major operation at Ferrytoll Park and Ride in Fife, Scotland, presenting plans to the Government to help reinvigorate the which at peak times runs buses every five minutes into UK Bus network.
We believe our Kick Start proposal for Edinburgh, has seen passenger volumes increase by 30% in targeted funding to support the growth of existing services the past year.
The Scottish Executive has approved additional can benefit communities across the country, delivering more investment to double the size of the facility to 1,000 car parking comprehensive bus services, reduced congestion and better value spaces.
Successful park and ride operations are also running in for the taxpayer, with important environmental and social Cambridge, Canterbury and Exeter.
Our pilot project in Perth, Scotland, has seen network and fleet of 40 easy-access lowfloor buses was substantial passenger growth in the first three years.
The Kick introduced in Cambridge city centre around 18 months ago and Start proposal has received widespread support from politicians we are still achieving annual passenger growth of around 17%.
and from across the UK Bus industry.
Both the Department Further development of the rebranded Citi network is planned for Transport and The Scottish Executive are considering pilot later this year.
We have seen strong levels of passenger growth projects and we have more Stagecoach-funded schemes planned in other areas, including Manchester and Kingston-upon-Hull.
In certain rural areas, where traditional bus services do not Stagecoach is supporting Government moves to improve suit the needs of the community, we are working with local integration between rail and bus travel.
We have a growing authorities to deliver transport solutions.
Known as demand network of bus links across our South West Trains operation, responsive transport, these taxi-bus style services run on a allowing passengers to buy a combined bus and rail ticket, and skeleton timetable, and also take pre-booked pick-ups arranged we fully support the Governments PlusBus through-ticketing via call centres, helping to boost social inclusion.
We are also working with the Government and local helping run similar services in Strathclyde, Hampshire and authorities to introduce the benefits of smartcard technology to Newcastle, with some systems using sophisticated on-board buses in areas such as Aberdeen, Nottinghamshire, South Wales computers and the latest Global Positioning Systems technology.
Stagecoach is working in partnership with the devolved We firmly believe the future of the bus industry and, administrations in Scotland and Wales on the successful ultimately, the long-term interests of passengers is best served operation of the free concessionary fares schemes.
We also by operators, government, local authorities and customers worked with Manchester City Council and Greater Manchester working together to improve our public transport system.
Passenger Transport Executive to deliver an enhanced network Passenger growth, improved reliability and reduced congestion for the Commonwealth Games last year.
in our towns and cities can all be achieved without the need for Our emphasis continues to be on strong local marketing, increased regulation.
We believe that improved partnerships with simplified fares and ticketing, and improved information, local authorities and quicker progress on bus priority measures including the introduction of online access to timetables for all are key in unlocking passenger growth and achieving the Stagecoach bus services.
An increasing number of customers are government objective of modal shift.
Operating profit of a particular business unit referred to in the summary operating review is operating profit before restructuring costs, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
7 Stagecoach Group continues to hold a significant share of the UK rail market, including South West Trains, which is one of the largest UK rail franchises, Island Line, and Sheffield Supertram.
In addition, our rail business includes our joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, which operates the West Coast Main Line and CrossCountry franchises.
Summary operating review Rail 2003 Stagecoach Group continues to hold a significant share of the in relation to late delivery and reliability of new Class 458 UK rail market, including South West Trains, which is one of the trains.
Rail profits are stated after the costs of bidding for new largest UK rail franchises, Island Line, and Sheffield Supertram.
In addition, our rail business includes our joint venture, Virgin Financial performance has benefited from significant operational Rail Group, which operates the West Coast Main Line and improvements at South West Trains.
performance in the UK remains a major concern as the backlog Turnover for our wholly-owned rail subsidiaries in the year was of maintenance work continues, costs continue to rise and up 2.7% at 413.6m 2002 402.8m.
Operating profit was Network Rail has indicated that it is likely to be 2008-09 before 38.2m 2002 31.0m, representing an operating margin of punctuality returns to the levels achieved before the incident at 9.2% 2002 7.7%.
This includes liquidated damages of 8.5m Hatfield two years ago.
8 The safety of our trains is I passionately believe that always my top priority.
Its our customers should always my job to ensure that our have the best service they drivers have everything they have ever had, not only need to run a safe reliable when the service is running train service for our well but also in times of passengers.
Sharon Smith John Downes Head of Drivers Customer Care South West Trains South West Trains A reliable, right-first-time railway is a top priority for us as a major Communications and Security Centre at Wimbledon.
A new train operator and a key requirement for our customers.
Despite customer information system, fully implemented across the the difficulties we face with network infrastructure, we are working network in partnership with Network Rail, provides audible and very hard to mitigate the effects on our operation.
We have visual information to customers about trains at our 176 stations.
reviewed the resourcing and control of our services to improve Marketing activity has focused on developing our off-peak leisure their resilience.
An integrated control centre is planned at Waterloo market.
We have worked with the Mayor of London in promoting where South West Trains and Network Rail personnel will work train travel to London and its nearby attractions.
The number of together to ensure that real-time management of the network is revenue protection staff has been increased, particularly at properly co-ordinated and disruption to passengers is minimised.
Waterloo Station, as part of a successful campaign to target South West Trains is also working in partnership with Network Rail ticketless travel and this is having a positive impact on revenue.
and infrastructure contractors Balfour Beatty to address infrastructure maintenance issues.
We are working closely with the SRA on the new strategic Island Line direction for our railways.
Recent SRA announcements outlining Stagecoach Groups contract to operate the Island Line franchise the future direction of the industry, the focus on performance on the Isle of Wight runs until September 2003.
We are currently and the steps already taken to reduce congestion on the rail participating in single party negotiations with the SRA regarding network, have been welcome.
a new franchise that would run concurrently with the new South West Trains franchise until February 2007.
Performance initiatives at South West Trains have helped deliver a notable increase in train punctuality on suburban services.
Fleet reliability measures have also assisted in reducing the number Sheffield Supertram of delays.
Our Supertram operation in Sheffield which includes three routes covering 29 kilometres across the city continues to South West Trains generate increased patronage.
Total passenger numbers for the We have achieved a major step forward at South West Trains year ended 30 April 2003 were 11.5 million 25% more than with the completion of negotiations with the SRA and the when Stagecoach took over the operation over five years ago.
agreement of financial and commercial terms for a new franchise.
In April 2003, the Group took over responsibility for maintenance of both the Sheffield Supertram system and the trams.
The new three-year franchise, which is awaiting Government approval, places responsibility for funding and delivering infrastructure projects with the SRA, leaving South West Trains Virgin Rail Group to focus on delivering a better train service to passengers.
It will Our share of Virgin Rail Groups turnover for the year amounted bring certainty and stability to our rail portfolio and we believe to 276.1m 2002 261.2m and our share of operating profits it is an excellent deal for government, our passengers, our before exceptional items was 7.2m 2002 10.8m.
Passenger shareholders and our people.
volumes for the year are 4.7% above the prior year.
We are now working hard to deliver on our promises to improve Virgin Rail Group is continuing to work with the SRA with a view the quality of service to our customers with the introduction of to negotiating new long-term commercial arrangements for both a 1 billion fleet of new Desiro trains and a comprehensive the West Coast and CrossCountry franchises.
Both franchises are refurbishment of our suburban Class 455 trains.
The new Desiro presently receiving SRA funding on the basis of a one-year trains are on schedule to be delivered into passenger service later budget set by the SRA for the period to February 2004. in 2003.
The first of the new tilting Pendolino trains have gone into Safety remains South West Trains highest priority and we passenger service on the West Coast Main Line.
When the continue to monitor and improve our internal systems, as well as programme is completed, a fleet of 53 Pendolinos will be investing in the safety of our rolling stock.
We have now almost regularly linking London Euston to Manchester, Liverpool, completed the fitting of the Train Protection Warning System the West Midlands and Glasgow.
TPWS to all our trains, and we believe it offers enormous benefit and reassurance to passengers.
Virgin CrossCountry, which links 110 towns and cities and carries We remain committed to giving our customers the best service 16 million people a year, has substantially increased services they have ever had and have invested in a new Customer featuring new Voyager trains.
9 Coach USA is clearly focused on delivering the 12 to 18 month strategy to restructure the business.
This strategy will produce a stronger business base, ensuring greater management and geographic focus.
Summary operating review Coach USA 2003 Coach USA is clearly focused on delivering the 12 to 18 month in like for like revenues in our coach and bus operations, strategy to restructure the business.
This strategy will produce increased insurance costs and a significant fall in taxicab a stronger business base, ensuring greater management and utilisation and sales.
Action is continuing to maintain strict geographic focus.
controls on our cost base and improve operating efficiency.
The trading environment continues to be challenging as the In December 2002, we announced the way forward for Coach uncertain global economic climate continues.
Coach USAs USA, following a detailed six-month business review.
As a result turnover for the year was 603.0m, compared to 682.3m in the of the review, in our interim results for the six months ended previous year.
Operating profit was 14.0m, compared to 38.4m 31 October 2002, we wrote down the carrying value of Coach in 2002, representing a reduction in operating margin from 5.6% USA by 575.0m, to 376.9m excluding net debt and tax.
The reduction in operating margin reflects a fall of 0.4% taking account of goodwill amortisation and exchange rate 10 I see so many new places We really value our and meet such fun people customers in Chicago and I driving around the country.
I like to give them a friendly really enjoy making their trip and reliable service.
Clint Malcome Kim Rodriguez Driver Driver Coach USA Coach USA movements, the equivalent carrying value of Coach USA as of Our Shortline business is working in partnership with Rockland 30 April 2003 was 330.5m.
County, the New York State Department of Transportation and the New York Thruway Association to run minibuses on a special Key actions being taken at Coach USA are to: route that bypasses the toll barriers at the Tappanzee Bridge.
The initiative, which provides faster journeys for passengers and Concentrate on the North East and North Central regions of less congestion at toll barriers, has achieved passenger growth of the USA: more than 24% since May 2002.
The contract has recently been extended, along with many others with Rockland County.
Focus on large business units and predictable revenue streams including commuter line runs scheduled services and contract Further growth is being achieved with our popular New York services: Sightseeing product, which runs high-quality double decker Focus on businesses which perform well and where Stagecoach vehicles on Manhattan.
In February 2003, we launched the has proven management experience: Showbiz Insiders Tour, which takes in the major entertainment locations in New York City.
In April, we added Philadelphia to the Reduce exposure to charter and leisure-related businesses: list of day-trip locations running from New York City, working in partnership with Amtrak, the Philadelphia Convention and Reduce corporate and regional overhead base in line with the Visitors Bureau and other organisations.
downsizing of the business: and Retain and focus key management.
During the last six months, we have re-branded our Olympia Trails fleet, which is the primary bus operator from Newark International We remain on target to complete the restructuring as planned Airport to New York City.
As well as presenting a new, fresher and are proceeding with discussions for the sale of various parts image to customers, round trip fares were reduced and a kids ride of Coach USA.
We have already announced the sale of twofree programme was implemented to entice additional ridership.
thirds of the businesses we planned to dispose of for a combined In addition, in March 2003, Olympia re-instated its bus service to consideration of over US$220m.
downtown New York for the first time since September 11, 2001.
The return of this service ensures essential airport connections for Work to restructure the taxi division, where financial the communities of lower Manhattan and contributes to the performance in the first six months of the year was particularly continuing regeneration of the area.
disappointing, is well underway with a number of businesses already sold.
The management team has been strengthened and In the North Central region, the Chicago sightseeing market has specific action plans for improvement are being implemented in returned to pre-September 11 levels following the introduction of the two largest and poorest performing taxi companies.
We will 75-seat double-deckers to complement our already strong Trolley consider opportunities to exit the taxi market in the next Tour service.
In addition, our Chicago-Airport Express scheduled 12 months.
service operation saw continued ridership growth of 14% above pre-acquisition results, due to an enhanced schedule, improved As a result of these measures, we are confident we will equipment and a focused marketing strategy.
In the Wisconsin significantly reduce the level of our leisure-dependent operations.
market, we will have further revenue growth from August 2003 Despite the continuing uncertain US economy, we believe that as a result of the renewal of an important contract with the these changes will result in a smaller but more predictable Milwaukee Public School District.
business in North America with a sustainable earnings profile.
In March 2003, Coach USA acquired Lafayette and Greenville Bus We have many strong performing businesses in the residual Company, a line run company located in Jersey City, New Jersey.
Coach USA portfolio and we are continuing to redeploy existing There are many synergies between the two operations and the assets to maximise asset utilisation and to eliminate unnecessary 1.4m acquisition provides Coach USA with a strong foothold in capital expenditure.
Work is also ongoing to target opportunities the Jersey City and Bayonne markets.
arising out of consolidation in the fragmented US transport market or where there are potential complementary acquisitions.
While trading conditions continue to be challenging, we are seeing passenger growth as a result of new commercial initiatives and partnerships with other stakeholders.
11 Our Overseas Bus division continues to perform satisfactorily.
We remain the largest provider of scheduled bus services in New Zealand.
Strong public and government  our New Zealand bus business.
Summary operating review Overseas Bus 2003 Our Overseas Bus division continues to perform satisfactorily.
and Portugal, movements in foreign exchange rates applied in We remain the largest provider of scheduled bus services in New translating overseas profits to sterling and the impact of SARS Zealand.
Strong public and government support for passenger and a sluggish economy on our Hong Kong operations.
transport continues to underpin our New Zealand bus business.
The results for Overseas Bus include turnover in respect of Citybus of 132.3m 2002 148.6m and operating profit Turnover for the year in Overseas Bus was 183.7m, compared of 19.1m 2002 25.2m.
Operating profit was 30.3m, compared to 33.4m in the previous year.
This represents an Our bus operations in New Zealand are centred on the operating margin of 16.5% 2002 17.2%.
The reduction in countrys two largest metropolitan areas, Auckland and operating profit reflects the disposals of operations in Australia Wellington.
We are closely involved with national and 12 Its my responsibility to I see my job as more than ensure that we provide a a driver.
Im an ambassador consistent service to our for our company and customers every single day.
Phil Andrews Li Hoi Fung Operations Manager Airport Driver Fullers Ferries Citybus local government in assessing how best to organise and develop On receiving an initial approach about the possibility of bus services.
disposal the Board reviewed the strategic options for Stagecoach Group in the region in view of the limited Stagecoach New Zealand continues to work closely with regional opportunities to develop significantly elsewhere in other Pacific and city councils to improve services and introduce new bus Rim countries and the long-term prospects for the business in priority measures.
The successful Quality Partnership Agreement Hong Kong.
with Wellington Regional Council and Wellington City Council was renewed during the year for a further four years.
A similar The Board believes that a combination of the uncertainties agreement exists with Auckland City Council and informal about the economic climate in Hong Kong, the growing levels working parties operate in other areas.
of regulation to which the business is becoming subject and the inability to grow profit without very significant investment or In Auckland, Stagecoach has continued to enhance bus service critical mass synergies required it to take very seriously the frequencies, using Kick Start pump-priming funding provided approach and to negotiate terms which were in the best interests by the Government and Auckland Regional Council.
service improvements this year have been concentrated on peak period commuter services.
The outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome SARS earlier this year continues to impact the profitability of the Hong Stagecoach New Zealand also runs Fullers Ferries based in Kong business but the Boards assessment of the disposal has Auckland, which operates ferry services.
Ferry passenger volumes been based on a long-term view of the profitability and capital grew by 6% over the year and a successful programme of special requirements of the business and not the immediate trading trips for spectators attending the Americas Cup yachting regatta conditions.
Fullers is also working closely with a special purpose company owned by the city councils in Citybus has two franchise operations, one on Hong Kong Island Auckland to plan a major upgrade programme for ferry wharves and the other operating to and from the international airport.
These franchises expire in June 2006 and May 2013 respectively.
The business will require significant new investment in property On 9 June 2003, we announced the sale of Citybus to Delta and vehicles to ensure that the franchises are retained and Pearl Limited, a 100% indirect subsidiary of Chow Tai Fook renewed.
The purchaser already has a relationship with a Enterprises Limited, the privately owned company of the Cheng significant franchised bus operation in Hong Kong and the Yu Tung family and the major shareholder in New World proposed combination can benefit from synergies and economies Development Company Limited which in turn has an interest in of scale which will give a solid platform for any further New World First Bus Services Limited, one of Hong Kongs major investment that is required in the Hong Kong franchised bus bus operators.
The sale was completed on 23 June 2003. market.
The gross consideration for the disposal was HK$2,200m The Board therefore believes that the sales price represents fair approximately 176m.
The net cash amount received by value for Citybus and that the disposal is in the best interests of Stagecoach was HK$1,646m approximately 132m which Stagecoach shareholders.
represented the gross consideration less the amount of net third party debt as at 30 April 2003, being HK$554m approximately The transaction will reduce Group consolidated net debt 44m.
The purchaser assumed all of the net third party debt of by HK$2,200m approximately 176m in the year ending Citybus.
It will also reduce Group consolidated capital commitments by HK$239m approximately 19m.
The purchaser will also assume capital commitments of approximately HK$239m approximately 19m relating mainly The consideration is broadly in line with the anticipated book to the completion of a new depot for Citybus at Chaiwan in value of the net assets at completion and accordingly, the Hong Kong.
transaction will not result in a material gain or loss on disposal The acquisition of Citybus has been successful for Stagecoach in the consolidated accounts of Stagecoach Group plc.
Sales and has delivered good financial returns.
Under our ownership proceeds will initially be used to reduce the Groups outstanding since 1999, the business has produced strong organic growth in debt.
The disposal will result in a small reduction in annual passenger volumes and a significant reduction in operating costs.
13 Road King Infrastructure Limited Summary operating review Investments 2003 movements in foreign exchange rates applied in translating thetrainline.
com overseas profits to sterling.
com is firmly established as the largest UK rail internet and call centre booking service.
A joint venture between Road King is benefiting from Chinas positive economic outlook the Stagecoach and Virgin Groups, it helps rail travellers plan and the continuing improvement in living standards, both of their journeys and buy train tickets to anywhere in the UK.
which have resulted in a surge in car ownership.
Total traffic and toll revenue on Road Kings highway projects in the year ended Now with over 7 million registered users, thetrainline.
com has 31 December 2002 increased by 9.7% and 14% respectively scope for considerable growth going forward.
com is compared to 2001. part of Stagecoachs commitment to devising transport solutions and continues to benefit from technical support by Cap Gemini Work on Anhui Bengbu Chaoyanglu Bridge, Road Kings only Ernst and Young, which has made significant investment to outstanding construction project, was completed in December support the business.
Stagecoachs share of the business is 49%.
2002 and toll collection has commenced.
In line with the business development strategy, Road King has signed an Our share of trainlines operating losses has reduced from 4.4m agreement to dispose of its interest in Shanxi Provincial to 4.3m.
Highway Huanggu Route Xiaodian Fenhe Bridge project to its Peoples Republic of China PRC partner.
Road King Infrastructure Road King Infrastructure is one of the leading highway investors Road King expects to secure additional cash revenue and profit and developers in China.
Based in Hong Kong, it operates around from its investment in and operation of the Baoding-Tianjin 1,000 km of road tolls throughout China on over 20 toll roads Expressway project in Hebei Province.
The Hebei Provincial and bridges in partnership with the Chinese Provincial Authorities.
Government has agreed the investment and, subject to the Following the mandatory conversion of our preference shares on fulfilment of conditions, Road King will sign an unconditional 12 June 2003, Stagecoach now has a 31.2% holding in Road King.
The Group results for the year ended 30 April 2003 include our Performance of highway projects in the early months of 2003 share of Road Kings results for the year ended 31 December continued to be encouraging with double-digit revenue and 2002.
Our share of operating profits for the year was 10.5m traffic volume growth.
Road King has not experienced any 2002 12.9m.
The fall in profitability reflects a reduction in notable adverse effects from the spread of SARS in the region.
certain minimum income undertakings from joint ventures and 14 Stagecoach Group is committed to taking our wider corporate responsibilities seriously and building positive relationships with our stakeholders.
This contribution to the wider community has been part of the companys ethos since it was formed more than two decades ago.
Summary operating review Corporate Social Responsibility 2003 Stagecoach Group is committed to taking our wider corporate Both our UK Bus and South West Trains businesses are working responsibilities seriously and building positive relationships with together to develop the managers of the future through our UK our stakeholders.
This contribution to the wider community has Graduate Recruitment Programme The two-year management been part of the companys ethos since it was formed more than training programme combines practical experience with off-thetwo decades ago.
Within UK Bus, we also have a staff development programme for internal management training.
We have a consistent track-record in supporting and working Stagecoach is working with government-funded enterprise with customers, investors, employees, suppliers and local agencies in the UK to get the long-term unemployed back into communities.
As a public transport operator, we have a key role work.
Our Engineering Apprenticeship Programme promotes to play in delivering essential services to our customers and careers in local schools and we are now looking forward to our helping to deliver social inclusion within our communities.
second intake following a successful first year.
Our commitment to responsible business practice means we We also want to help build a healthy workforce that feels proud continually strive to improve our impact on society and the to work for our business.
At South West Trains, for example, the environment through our mainstream business practices.
This in-house occupational health organisation has held a number of is not just about our operations, products and services.
We health fairs and our employee well-being initiative offered seek to combine building our business, through efficiency and influenza injections to all staff.
competitiveness, with building the people who work for our business and building trust with the broader community.
Access for all Stagecoach continues to work hard to meet the needs of all our Stagecoachs commitment to being a socially responsible customers.
We are very aware of the special needs of particular business has been recognised by a number of external people that rely on our services and a number of our businesses interested parties.
We are a constituent of the FTSE4Good have received special commendations for their work.
Index, which aims to set a global standard for sociallyresponsible investment.
In the UK, we were among the first Stagecoach was one of the first operators to start a programme companies and the only major public transport operator of significant investment in low-floor accessible vehicles and our to take part in Business in the Communitys first Corporate progress towards making all Stagecoach bus services in the UK Responsibility Index.
low-floor is well on track.
We recognise these vehicles, which have dedicated wheelchair ramps and some of which have special Our people kneeling mechanisms, are extremely important to our elderly Respect and value for our people lies at the core of Stagecoach customers, people with disabilities or families with young children.
Group and its businesses around the globe.
The people who The interiors of our new low-floor buses in the UK were specially deliver our frontline services from drivers to engineers and designed with input from individuals representing various disability support staff are the backbone of our operation and we want groups.
The vehicles have helpful features such as special walkway all our people to share in the success of the business.
surfacing, brightly coloured grab handles, clearly defined seating areas and space for wheelchairs.
Our new Desiro fleet of South We are an equal opportunities employer and consistently aim to West Trains will also offer significant accessibility benefit.
work in partnership with trade unions to improve the pay and conditions of our people.
We also liaise with local authorities and disability support groups to get the benefit of the latest training advice.
A pilot scheme Our commitment to our people starts with the recruitment for assisting deaf people using public transport is underway in process and flows through in our approach to their induction South Tyneside and is being rolled out throughout our bus to the company and on-going training and development.
company in North East England.
At South West Trains, we have In our UK Bus division, we are working hard to improve skills and appointed a Disability Services Manager to ensure we follow best raise standards of customer service through the roll-out of a practice in the design of station improvements and train programme of vocational qualifications in our bus companies.
We have also issued all our frontline staff with a More than 2,100 Stagecoach drivers now have an S NVQ, with booklet that gives thorough guidance on how best to meet the a further 1,000 in the process of achieving this qualification.
15 Ive been driving for 30 years and make sure that the children get to school safely and return home safely.
Cleveland Brady School bus driver UK Bus South West Trains has continued to invest in improving the Safety safety of our rolling stock.
The fitting of the Train Protection Safety and security is our top priority both for our passengers Warning System to all our trains is nearly complete, well ahead and our people.
A proactive culture of safety runs through all our of the statutory deadline.
Our South West Trains business also businesses and we firmly believe good safety is part of good has more Secure Station awards than any other train operating commercial practice.
Virgin Rail Group, our joint venture, is involved in Buses, coaches and trains are the safest forms of transport far similar initiatives and its Annual Safety Plan is recognised within safer than cars.
We have a clear and simple policy no service the UK rail industry as an example of best practice.
runs unless we are 100% convinced it is safe.
We are committed Our New Zealand bus and ferry operations have robust procedures to ensuring the highest standards of safety for our passengers in place, involving formal employee participation, to ensure the and improving health and safety standards for our employees.
health and safety of our staff and customers.
The Accident This area is monitored and reported on across all our companies Compensation Corporation, which is the countrys statutory and immediate action is taken to address issues in our business provider of accident insurance for employers, has audited our processes.
procedures and safety record and placed our operations in the top Safety is part of a well-defined risk management process across 1% of New Zealand companies.
Coach USA has a comprehensive our business.
A main board executive director, Graham Eccles, safety programme in operation in all of its locations and continues has executive responsibility for safety issues across the Group to monitor its effectiveness on a regular basis.
and safety matters are considered at management meetings of each of our businesses.
Stagecoach Group has a good safety record, but we are never complacent and we constantly keep our safety arrangements The Group has established a Health, Safety and Environmental under review.
We are working with external consultants to Committee chaired by one of the non-executive directors, Janet review our current safety governance arrangements and we Morgan, and also comprising Graham Eccles.
It has access to are committed to putting in place any improvements required.
internal safety executives and external consultants, and reports regularly to the Board on safety matters.
Community Stagecoach services play a vital role in connecting communities In the UK, Stagecoach and the bus industry as a whole is working around the globe in both urban and rural areas, ensuring social with the Government to address issues around bus safety and inclusion through convenient and affordable public transport.
Crime on buses is low, but we are very aware that even the fear of crime affects the working environment However, we see our role as a socially responsible company as for our people and can act as a deterrent in terms of people far more than a service provider and major employer.
As well as choosing to travel by bus or any other form of public transport.
modernising public transport systems across the country, we share our success with the local communities we serve.
During the year, Our security programme involves on-bus measures, infrastructure 0.7m was donated to a wide range of local, national and issues, staff training and support as well as working in the international charities, helping them to continue their vital work.
We have used CCTV to deter vandalism and crime, while high-quality video evidence has helped secure a number Stagecoach was at the heart of a major TV fund-raising drive last of convictions in the courts.
In London, three of our buses have summer to help some of the UKs lesser-known charities.
The been converted into mobile police stations for use by the company kick-started the annual GMTV Get Up and Give appeal Metropolitan Police in problem areas.
Extra police and dedicated with a 25,000 donation and provided an open-top bus to help traffic wardens in London are also helping address the most the fund-raising effort around the country in aid of charities crimeand congestion-hit bus routes.
helping children, disabled and disadvantaged people.
Across our businesses, we work in close partnership with the police We have continued to support a number of childrens and cancer and schools as part of citizenship programmes to tackle the root charities throughout the year, as well as matching the fundraising problems of anti-social behaviour and encourage transport safety.
efforts of our staff in national UK campaigns such as the BBC Safety remains a key management priority at our rail businesses.
Health and safety planning and monitoring as well as staff Education and young people the future of our world are at the training are firmly embedded in the culture of the organisations.
heart of much of the support we provide.
In our home base of We have reaffirmed our commitment to retain guards on all our Perth, Scotland, for example, we have been working with the local passenger trains which some other operators have withdrawn authority and police to fund the supply of high-visibility waistcoats because we believe railway safety should also extend to the for local primary school children to improve their safety.
16 Everybody likes a clean environment it has a huge impact on customers perceptions of public transport.
Our cleaners take a real pride in their job and none of our buses leave the depot unless Im sure they will give a firstclass, clean travelling environment.
Siu Chong Cleaning Inspector Citybus Community support goes well beyond just money, with hundreds Continuously Regenerating Particulate Traps, which are a proven of our people, from managers to frontline staff, devoting many method of reducing particulate emissions by up to 90%, have hours of their own time every day to local projects.
Our been fitted to 50 of our vehicles in Manchester as part of a businesses also provide a huge amount of in-kind support, partnership with Greater Manchester Passenger Transport including vehicles to help community projects with transport.
We are also planning to bring a new low emission Some of our staff have also given charities the benefit of their dual power electric-diesel bus from New Zealand for extensive expertise during secondments.
demonstration trials in the UK.
Stagecoach is helping create the entrepreneurs of tomorrow Stagecoach is also working with major banks, local authorities, through its long-standing support for the UK educational charity hospitals and education providers to develop green travel businessdynamics.
Youngsters take part in courses designed to plans that reduce the dependence on the car to get to work.
build their personal skills and confidence.
Our partnership with pharmaceutical giant Pfizer delivers one of the most comprehensive travel plans in the UK and has In New Zealand, we are helping children from all over the helped cut car commuting among its staff.
In Cambridge, country who require specialist care through our three-year a partnership with the local authorities and Addenbrookes sponsorship of the Starship Childrens Hospital in Auckland.
Hospital has seen an on-site bus station replace 100 car Stagecoachs funding will initially provide extra specialist parking spaces, with Stagecoach offering discounted tickets to equipment for the hospitals intensive care unit.
Community arts projects are also flourishing, whether it is South West Trains 1 billion order for new Desiro coaches will through free travel to visit galleries or significant sponsorship mean faster trains providing an incentive for people to cut the funding for organisations.
In Wellington, we are helping fund the number of journeys they make by car.
The high-tech trains will refurbishment of the Embassy Theatre, a landmark communityalso create less noise pollution than the existing slam door units.
owned art deco style theatre.
Overseas, Stagecoach businesses are conducting trials of new Our involvement with good causes goes beyond areas where vehicles designed to cut the impact of operations on the local we have our operations.
One of our buses, for example, is now environment.
stationed permanently in Romania where it has been fitted out as a mobile dental unit through our work with the charity CX999 In New Zealand, a prototype trolley bus featuring a stylish Aid.
We have also helped support the provision of medical care new body with electrical components and axles recycled from an to people in Africa and supplied badly needed computer equipment.
older vehicle is on trial in Wellington and it is hoped this will be the first of 60 rebuilt trolley buses for the area.
Three ultraEnvironment low emission hybrid-electric buses have also been purchased for Stagecoach is committed to playing its part in building a trial operation in Auckland.
sustainable environment and improving the environmental management of our operations.
Across its global operations, Stagecoach continues to provide support and training to its employees to ensure compliance with Transport has an inevitable impact on our environment and legislation, as well as effective waste management, and improved we are continuing to work hard to develop policies that will energy consumption and environmental performance.
We believe that integrated public transport systems will form the central core of future efforts to reduce Despite the huge progress and investment we have made, we pollution levels, alleviate road congestion and improve the quality realise that this is only a start and we have a long way to go.
of life in our towns and cities.
Stagecoach Group has been working with external consultants to review our environmental arrangements and work is continuing Not only do we work hard to ensure that our day-to-day to raise awareness of these issues across our management team.
transport operations interact with the environment in a A series of key performance indicators are being put in place to responsible manner, environmental considerations are also measure our performance year on year.
This will cover areas such included in all capital investment decisions taken by our business.
as reducing emissions, water and energy consumption, minimising In the UK, we have invested 120 million over the last three waste and identifying opportunities for recycling.
years alone in new state-of-the art bus fleets with improved energy consumption and reduced emissions.
All new Stagecoach We are currently updating our Environmental Policy, first issued vehicles meet tough Euro III emissions standards and in the UK in 2000, and a fuller separate report will be published later in all our buses have changed to use low sulphur fuel.
17 Board of directors 2003 1 Robert Speirs, Non-Executive Chairman 5 Ewan Brown CBE, Non-Executive Director A non-executive director of the Group since March 1995.
In July 2002, he Ewan Brown has been a non-executive director of the Group since 1988. was appointed by the Board as Non-Executive Chairman.
A former Group He is an executive director of Noble Grossart Ltd and Chairman of Lloyds Finance Director of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Robert Speirs is also TSB Scotland plc.
His other non-executive directorships include John Wood Chairman of the Miller Group Ltd and Bell Group plc.
His other nonGroup plc, Transport Initiatives Edinburgh Limited and Lloyds TSB Group plc.
executive directorships include Canary Wharf Group plc, and Martin Currie Aged 61.
6 Iain Duffin, Non-Executive Director 2 Brian Souter, Chief Executive Iain Duffin became a non-executive director of the Group in September A co-founder of Stagecoach, Brian Souter has extensive knowledge of the 2001.
He was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on ground transportation industry around the world.
Brian was Chairman of 1 May 2003.
He is non-executive Chairman of Origo Services.
He has the Group throughout the year ended 30 April 2002.
Following Keith previously held executive positions in the UK and the US with a number Cochranes resignation, the Board appointed him Chief Executive on of organisations including Macfarlane Group plc, Hughes MicroElectronics, 21 July 2002.
He is now responsible for managing all of the Groups ITT Canon and LucasVarity.
He is also a board member of Road King Infrastructure.
7 Ann Gloag, Non-Executive Director Brian Souter is also Chairman of ScotAirways Group Ltd and was a Ann Gloag co-founded Stagecoach in 1980 and served as an executive director of Scottish Enterprise until November 2002.
He is a Chartered director until May 2000.
She is a past winner of the Businesswoman of Accountant.
Aged 49. the Year Award and European Women in Achievement Award.
She is a 3 Martin Griffiths, Finance Director trustee of the Princess Royal Trust for Carers and an international Board Appointed Finance Director in April 2000, Martin Griffiths is responsible member of Mercy Ships.
Aged 60. for the Groups overall financial policy and treasury management.
He also has responsibility for the overall management of the Groups property 8 Dr Janet Morgan, Non-Executive Director portfolio.
Dr Janet Morgan, Lady Balfour of Burleigh, became a non-executive director in April 2001.
She is Chairman of the Health, Safety & 4 Graham Eccles, Executive Director Rail Environment Committee.
She is also a non-executive director of Cable Graham Eccles has over 35 years experience in the rail industry and has & Wireless plc, BPB plc, NMT Group plc and other companies.
Dr Morgan held a number of senior management posts.
He has been a member of is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, a Trustee of the Carnegie the Board since September 2000 and prior to that was managing director Trust for the Universities of Scotland and Chairman of the Scottish of South West Trains from 1999.
He is responsible for the management Cultural Resources Access Network.
She was a member of the Central of all the Groups rail operations and business development opportunities Policy Review Staff of the Cabinet Office.
He also has main board responsibility for Group safety matters.
Graham Eccles is a director of Virgin Rail Group Holdings.
9 Russell Walls, Non-Executive Director Aged 56.
Appointed as a non-executive director in June 2000, Russell Walls is the current Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Following Robert Speirs appointment as Chairman in July 2002, Russell Walls was appointed the senior independent non-executive director.
He is a non-executive director Key to photograph of Signet Group plc.
He was previously Group Finance Director of BAA plc and Wellcome PLC.
For many years he worked abroad with Coats Viyella plc where he was Group Finance Director from January 1990.
He is a 483219567 fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
18 Summary directors report 2003 Important note Post balance sheet events This summary financial statement is a summary of the i Disposal of Citybus information in the 2003 Annual Report and Accounts.
It does not On 9 June 2003, the Group announced the disposal of Citybus to contain sufficient information to allow for a full understanding of Delta Pearl Limited, a 100% indirect subsidiary of Chow Tai Fook the results of the Group and state of affairs of the company or Enterprises Limited, the privately owned company of the Cheng the Group.
For further information, the full annual accounts, the Yu Tung family and the major shareholder in New World auditors report on those accounts and the report of the directors Development Company Limited which in turn has an interest in should be consulted.
All shareholders receive either the Summary New World First Bus Services Limited, one of Hong Kongs major Annual Report or the full Annual Report and Accounts.
The sale was completed on 23 June 2003. of the full 2003 Annual Report and Accounts may be obtained, The gross consideration for the disposal is HK$2,200m.
The net free of charge, from the companys registrar at the address and cash amount received was HK$1,646m, which was the gross telephone number shown on page 22.
If you wish to receive consideration less the amount of net third party debt as at the full Annual Report and Accounts for all future financial years 30 April 2003, being HK$554m.
The purchaser assumed all of you should inform Lloyds TSB Registrars in writing, at the the net third party debt of Citybus.
The purchaser also assumed capital commitments of approximately HK$239m relating mainly to the completion Principal activity and business review of a new depot for Citybus at Chaiwan in Hong Kong.
The Groups principal activity is the provision of public transport services in the UK and overseas.
Further details on the disposal were given in the Groups announcement on 9 June 2003.
A review of the Groups business performance, developments during the year, its position at the year end and likely future ii Disposal of businesses at Coach USA prospects is contained on pages 2 to 17.
Since 30 April 2003, the Group has announced the disposals of a number of parts of Coach USA in line with the restructuring plan Directors for Coach USA announced in December 2002.
The disposals The names, responsibilities and biographical details of the announced were as follows: directors appear on page 18.
On 6 June 2003, the Group announced that it had agreed Following Keith Cochranes resignation as Group Chief Executive terms for the sale of the South Central and West Regions of on 21 July 2002, the Board subsequently appointed Brian Souter Coach USA to a newly formed affiliate of Kohlberg & Co. LLC.
as Group Chief Executive, and Robert Speirs as Non-Executive Completion of the transaction is subject to regulatory Chairman.
approval, final confirmation of financing and normal closing conditions.
The gross consideration for the sale is US$155m, Brian Cox retired as a director on 3 July 2002. to be satisfied by cash of US$128.5m and an interest-bearing Ann Gloag, Martin Griffiths and Russell Walls retire by rotation loan note receivable of US$26.5m repayable no later than at the 2003 Annual General Meeting in accordance with the 63 months from date of close.
Articles of Association and being eligible offer themselves for On 2 June 2003, the Group announced that it had completed re-election.
the sale to Peter Pan Bus Lines of the business and assets of the New England Region of Coach USA.
The business has been Report of the auditors sold for a consideration of US$40m, satisfied by cash of The auditors report on the full accounts for the year ended US$33m and loan notes receivable of US$5m and US$2m 30 April 2003 was unqualified, and did not contain any repayable after three years and four years respectively, both statement under section 237 2 or section 237 3 of the interest bearing.
On 22 May 2003, the Group announced that it had agreed terms for the sale to First Transit, a US subsidiary of First Corporate governance combined code statement Group plc, of the business and assets of the Transit Division of The Group recognises the importance of, and is committed to, Coach USA.
The transaction is subject to normal commercial high standards of corporate governance.
The Stock Exchange closing conditions, including approval from affected public published the Combined Code in June 1998, which incorporated authorities, with completion anticipated before 30 June 2003. the work of the Cadbury, Greenbury and Hampel Committees.
The consideration for the transaction is US$22.5m, satisfied The Group has complied with the requirements of the Combined by cash.
Code throughout the year except that one director who was not independent of management was a member of the Remuneration These transactions will not result in a material gain or loss on Committee during the year.
The Remuneration Committee now disposal in the consolidated accounts of Stagecoach Group plc.
comprises four independent non-executive directors and the Further details on the disposals were given in the Groups director who was not independent is no longer a member.
19 Summary remuneration report 2003 The Board supports the principles of good corporate governance performance.
The Remuneration Committee believes that relating to directors remuneration and has applied them as such packages should contain significant performance related described below.
In accordance with Schedule 7A Directors elements.
Performance targets are established to achieve Remuneration Report of the Companies Act 1985, those consistency with the interests of shareholders, with an paragraphs that have been audited have been highlighted as such.
appropriate balance between shortand long-term targets.
Performance targets include not only traditional financial This is the Summary remuneration report.
The full version of the indicators but also personal targets, successful investment, Remuneration report is contained in the 2003 Annual Report and innovation, staff development, customer satisfaction, and Accounts.
As stated on page 19, the full 2003 Annual Report and achievement of regulatory requirements, including health Accounts may be obtained form the Companys registrar at the and safety and environmental targets.
address and telephone number shown on page 22.
To this end, the Remuneration Committee reviews the existing Performance graph remuneration of the executive directors in consultation with the The graph below charts the performance of the Stagecoach Chief Executive making comparisons with peer companies of Group Total Shareholder Return TSR share value movement similar size and complexity and with other companies in the plus reinvested dividends over the past 5 years compared with public transport industry in the UK and overseas.
Proposals for that of the FTSE Transport All-Share Index, the FTSE Mid 250 the forthcoming year are then discussed in the light of the Index and the FTSE All-Share Index.
We have included a further growth prospects for the Stagecoach Group.
The Remuneration graph on page 21 to highlight the Companys more recent Committee is also kept informed of the salary levels of other performance, charting TSR for the 6 months up to 30 April 2003. senior executives employed by the Stagecoach Group and of In assessing the performance of the Companys TSR the Board average earnings for all employees.
With regard to pensions, believes the comparator groups it has chosen represent a fair the Remuneration Committee receives reports from the trustees benchmark both in terms of the nature of the business activity and scheme actuaries regarding the cost of pension obligations and size of company.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee believes that remuneration Our remuneration policy is consistent with our prior year policy, packages should reward the efforts of all staff since a motivated which was approved by the shareholders at the 2002 AGM.
workforce is a key element of Group performance.
The Committee recognises that executive directors bear greatest In determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the responsibility for delivering corporate strategy which underpins executive directors, the Remuneration Committee aims to long-term sustainable performance.
While the Remuneration provide overall packages of terms and conditions that are Committees report focuses on incentive schemes for senior competitive in the UK and will attract, retain and motivate high executives, there are also a number of performance-related bonus quality executives capable of achieving the Stagecoach Groups schemes within group companies, in addition to the UK-only objectives and to ensure that they are fairly rewarded for their SAYE schemes.
individual responsibilities and contributions to the Groups overall Stagecoach TSR Comparative Performance since 1 May 1998 Stagecoach TSR FTSE Transport TSR FTSE A S TSR FTSE 250 TSR 120 90 60 30 0 Jul 98 Oct 98 Jan 99 Apr 99 Jul 99 Oct 99 Jan 00 Apr 00 Jul 00 Oct 00 Jan 01 Apr 01 Jul 01 Oct 01 Jan 02 Apr 02 Jul 02 Oct 02 Jan 03 Apr 03 20 Summary remuneration report 2003 Stagecoach TSR Comparative Performance since 31 October 2002 Stagecoach TSR FTSE Transport TSR FTSE A S TSR FTSE 250 TSR 300 250 200 150 100 50 31 October 02 30 November 02 31 December 02 31 January 03 28 February 03 31 March 03 30 April 03 Directors remuneration audited was as follows in Table 1 amounts in 000 : Table 1 Salary fees Performance Benefits in kind Compensation Non-pensionable Total related bonus for loss of office allowances 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 Executive directors Brian Souter 460 447 322 Nil 18 18 Nil Nil n a n a 800 465 Keith Cochrane 81 338 Nil 85 8 18 543 Nil 108 81 740 522 Brian Cox 37 206 Nil 16 4 13 Nil Nil n a n a 41 235 Graham Eccles 190 175 114 25 13 14 Nil Nil 26 16 343 230 Frank Gallagher Nil 93 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a Nil 93 Martin Griffiths 180 150 108 25 20 19 Nil Nil 23 11 331 205 Non-executive directors Ewan Brown 27 25 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a n a n a 27 25 Ann Gloag 27 25 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a n a n a 27 25 Barry Sealey Nil 14 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a n a n a Nil 14 Robert Speirs 72 25 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a n a n a 72 25 Russell Walls 27 25 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a n a n a 27 25 Janet Morgan 27 25 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a n a n a 27 25 Iain Duffin 27 16 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a n a n a 27 16 Total 1,155 1,564 544 151 63 82 543 Nil 157 108 2,462 1,905 Resigned or retired prior to 30 April 2003.
Non-pensionable allowances represent additional taxable remuneration paid to provide pension benefits.
Directors pension benefits audited were as follows amounts in 000 : Table 2 Additional accrued benefits Accrued pension Accrued lump sum Transfer value Increase in earned in the year of increase transfer excluding inflation value less Excluding Including directors inflation inflation 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 contributions Executive directors Brian Souter 51 60 209 192 348 305 138 147 116 Keith Cochrane 63 63 84 68 252 205 111 54 105 Brian Cox 4 4 108 107 143 140 18 123 17 Graham Eccles 11 11 7 4 20 12 26 22 25 Frank Gallagher Nil Nil n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Martin Griffiths 9 10 19 16 58 50 9 6 8 Resigned or retired prior to 30 April 2003 21 Independent auditors statement to the members of Stagecoach Group plc 2003 We have examined the summary financial statement of Basis of opinion Stagecoach Group plc.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United The directors are responsible for preparing the summary annual Kingdom.
report in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary Opinion financial statement within the summary annual report with the In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent annual accounts, the Directors report and the Remuneration with the annual accounts, the Directors report and the report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Remuneration report of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the 30 April 2003 and complies with the applicable requirements of regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations contained in the summary annual report and consider the made thereunder.
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
This opinion has been prepared for and only for the Companys members in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any  LLP other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent Glasgow in writing.
25 June 2003 Registered office and advisers 2003 Company Secretary Merchant Bankers Principal Bankers Derek Scott Noble Grossart Limited Bank of Scotland 48 Queen Street New Uberior House Registered Office Edinburgh EH2 3NH 11 Earl Grey Street 10 Dunkeld Road Edinburgh EH3 9BN Perth PH1 5TW Auditors The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Telephone 44 0 1738 442 111  LLP 24 25 St Andrew Square Facsimile 44 0 1738 643 648 Kintyre House Edinburgh EH2 1AS Email info@stagecoachgroup.
com 209 West George Street Glasgow G2 2LW Solicitors Company number Shepherd & Wedderburn, WS SC 100764 Stockbrokers Saltire Court Credit Suisse First Boston Europe Limited 20 Castle Terrace Registrars 1 Cabot Square Edinburgh EH1 2ET Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland London E14 4QJ PO Box 28448 Herbert Smith Finance House Exchange House Orchard Brae Primrose Street Edinburgh EH4 1WQ London EC2A 2HS Telephone 44 0 870 601 5366 22 Summary consolidated profit and loss account Year ended 30 April 2003 2003 2002 Performance Goodwill Results for Performance Goodwill Results for pre goodwill and the year pre goodwill and the year and exceptional and exceptional exceptionals items exceptionals items m m m m m m Turnover: Group and share of joint ventures 2,076.6 Nil 2,076.6 2,111.4 Nil 2,111.4 Less: Share of joint ventures turnover 277.9 Nil 277.9 263.7 Nil 263.7 Group turnover 1,798.7 Nil 1,798.7 1,847.7 Nil 1,847.7 Operating costs including asset impairment 1,752.6 603.6 2,356.2 1,753.8 61.3 1,815.1 Other operating income 87.7 Nil 87.7 54.2 Nil 54.2 Operating loss profit of Group companies 133.8 603.6 469.8 148.1 61.3 86.8 Share of operating loss of joint ventures 2.6 8.7 6.1 6.1 8.4 2.3 Share of operating profit from interest in associates 10.0 0.3 9.7 12.4 0.4 12.0 Total operating loss profit: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 146.4 612.6 466.2 166.6 70.1 96.5 Loss profit on sale of properties Nil 0.5 0.5 Nil 0.5 0.5 Profit on disposal of overseas operations Nil Nil Nil NIl 4.8 4.8 Loss profit on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 146.4 613.1 466.7 166.6 64.8 101.8 Finance charges net 33.5 Nil 33.5 59.8 Nil 59.8 Loss profit on ordinary activities before taxation 112.9 613.1 500.2 106.8 64.8 42.0 Taxation on loss profit on ordinary activities 28.8 3.8 25.0 24.2 9.2 15.0 Loss profit on ordinary activities after taxation 84.1 609.3 525.2 82.6 55.6 27.0 Dividends 34.3 Nil 34.3 34.1 Nil 34.1 Retained loss for the year 49.8 609.3 559.5 48.5 55.6 7.1 Loss earnings per share Adjusted Basic 6.4p 40.0 p 6.3p 2.1p Diluted 6.4p 40.0 p 6.3p 2.1p All operations in the years ended 30 April 2003 and 30 April 2002 are classed as continuing.
23 Summary consolidated balance sheet As at 30 April 2003 2003 2002 m m Fixed assets 1,259.8 1,981.0 Current assets 455.0 483.6 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 504.2 524.0 Net current liabilities 49.2 40.4 Total assets less current liabilities 1,210.6 1,940.6 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 640.7 808.1 Provisions for liabilities and charges 252.8 223.4 Net assets 317.1 909.1 Capital and reserves Equity share capital 6.6 6.6 Share premium account 386.1 384.4 Profit and loss account 77.3 514.8 ESOP distribution reserve Nil 1.6 Capital redemption reserve 1.7 1.7 Shareholders funds Equity 317.1 909.1 The profit and loss reserve deficit of 77.3m is the consolidated position after taking account of cumulative goodwill of 113.8m that was written off against reserves in periods prior to the adoption of FRS 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
The holding companys distributable reserves as at 30 April 2003 were 57.5m 2002 670.1m.
Signed on behalf of the Board on 25 June 2003 BRIAN SOUTER MARTIN A GRIFFITHS Chief Executive Finance Director Summary consolidated cash flow statement Year ended 30 April 2003 2003 2002 m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 272.2 256.9 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 5.3 5.0 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 51.9 60.9 Taxation 7.8 16.7 Capital expenditure and financial investment 32.8 77.0 Acquisitions and disposals 4.8 9.5 Equity dividends paid 27.6 49.8 Net cash inflow before financing 152.6 48.0 Financing 165.3 19.5 Decrease increase in cash during the year 12.7 28.5 Free cash flow 217.8 184.3 Free cash flow per share 16.6p 14.1p Free cash flow comprises net cash inflow from operating activities, dividends from joint ventures and associates, net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance, and taxation.
24 Shareholder information 2003 Analysis of shareholders as at 30 April 2003 Range of holdings No.
Shareholders who would like further information should telephone Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland on 0870 241 3018.
Company websites More information can be found on the internet at: www.
