Accounting Policies Accounting convention No depreciation is provided on land.
Depreciation on other The Financial Statements have been prepared under the assets is calculated so as to write off the cost or valuation of historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of tangible fixed assets, less their estimated residual values, over certain properties and licences, and in accordance with the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned, applicable accounting standards.
at the following rates: Basisofconsolidation Freehold and long leasehold 2% per annum on a straightline basis properties The consolidated FinancialStatements include those of the Short leasehold Over the term of the associated lease on Company and all of its subsidiaries.
Financial Statements are properties a straightline basis prepared for the financial year ending on the Sunday nearest In view of the high residual values of casino and betting office licences, to 30 April.
For the current year this Sunday was 27 April 2003, properties are reviewed annually for potential impairment.
resulting in a 52 week trading period.
The results of businesses Leasehold improvements Over the shorter of the term of the associated lease or 50 years on a acquired or disposed of are accounted for from or to the straightline basis effective date of acquisition or disposal.
Fixtures, fittings and 15-25% per annum on a reducing equipment balance basis Goodwill Motor vehicles 25% per annum on a straightline basis Since 2 May 1999, goodwill arising on consolidation being the excess of cost of acquisition over the fair value of net assets Gross interest costs incurred in funding the construction of of subsidiaries at the date of acquisition and purchased properties are capitalised at the weighted average cost of the goodwill are capitalised and amortised over their estimated related borrowings during the period of construction.
useful economic lives, up to a maximum of 20 years, in accordance with FRS 10.
Prior to 2 May 1999, goodwill was Listed investments written off to reserves in the year in which it arose.
This Listed investments held for long term strategic purposes are goodwill will be charged to the profit and loss account as disclosed as fixed asset investments and stated at cost less appropriate on any subsequent disposal of the business to provision for impairment.
Other listed investments are stated which it relates.
at the lower of cost and mid-market value at the Balance Sheet date.
Turnover Betting Pension costs Turnover represents total amounts staked by customers on The costs of contributions to the Groups defined benefit betting activities including FOBTs and numbers bets and pension arrangements are charged to the Profit and Loss net takings from customers from AWPs excluding VAT.
account on a systematic basis allowing the expected pension costs to be spread over the remaining service lives of the Gaming scheme members, as calculated by a qualified independent Turnover represents gross gaming yield received from actuary.
casino gaming activities including casino gaming machines excluding VAT.
The costs of the Groups defined contribution pension arrangements are charged to the Profit and Loss account Fixed assets and depreciation on the basis of contributions payable in respect of the The Groups properties are carried at an open market, existing accounting period.
use valuation including the benefit of casino and betting office licences where applicable.
Foreign currencies The balance sheets of overseas undertakings are translated The Groups properties are revalued by professionally qualified into sterling at the rates ruling at the year-end.
Trading results external valuers every five years with interim valuations are translated into sterling at the average rates ruling during performed at least every third year.
The Groups properties the year.
Translation differences arising on foreign currency were revalued as at 27 April 2003.
Net revaluation surpluses loans which finance investments in overseas undertakings are credited to reserves.
are offset against the differences arising on the retranslation at closing rates of the opening net assets and trading results of those undertakings and the resulting translation differences are accounted for through reserves.
Differences on exchange arising in the normal course of trading are dealt with in the Profit and Loss account.
26 Stanley Leisure plc Accounting Policies continued Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Operating leases The cost of operating leases is charged to the Profit and Loss account as incurred.
Leased assets Assets subject to finance leases or hire purchase agreements are shown as fixed assets and depreciated over the asset life.
The corresponding liability for the capital element is shown as a finance lease or hire purchase creditor and the interest element is charged to the Profit and Loss account over the period of the lease or agreement.
Taxation Corporation tax is provided on the assessable profits of the Group at the appropriate rates in force.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Balance Sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Groups taxable profits and its results as stated in the Financial Statements.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are revalued unless by the Balance Sheet date there is a binding agreement to sell the revalued assets and the gain or loss expected to arise on the sale has been recognised in the Financial Statements.
Neither is deferred tax recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is expected that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Financial instruments The Group uses instruments to hedge the risk associated with interest rates.
Interest differentials on financial instruments are recognised by adjusting net interest payable.
Gains or losses on the hedges are recognised in the period to which they relate.
Costs of arranging debt finance are amortised over the life of the related borrowing facilities.
