Operating margin is based restaurant areas.
upon turnover exclusive of VAT.
8 Average store size excludes 2 Underlying profit, underlying earnings Express and T&S stores.
per share and underlying diluted earnings 9 Based on average number of fullper share exclude net loss on disposal of time equivalent employees in the UK.
xed assets, integration costs and 10 2003 ratios have been impacted by goodwill amortisation.
the acquisition of T&S Stores PLC.
3 2003, 2002 and 2001 statistics have 11 Based on turnover exclusive of VAT, been calculated based on the adoption underlying operating profit and total of FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
staff cost per full-time equivalent 4 Market capitalisation plus net debt.
5 Underlying profit divided by average 12 Based on weighted average sales shareholders funds.
area and sales excluding property 6 profit divided by average capital development.
56 TESCO PLC Designed and produced by Corporate Edge 020 7855 5888 Cover photography by Arnhel fide Serra Printed by CTD Capita Tesco PLC, Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire EN8 9SL TESCO PLC ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2003 NEW STORES OPENED INC.
PLANNED NUMBER ACQUISITIONS OPENINGS OF STORES SALES AREA IN 2002 03 IN 2003 04 we go the extra mile for customers making shopping better, simpler, cheaper 1,982 21.8m sq ft 1,265 59 in every store, in every country in which we operate 77 1.7m sq ft 1 6 53 2.5m sq ft 5 5 66 3.4m sq ft 20 5 17 1.6m sq ft 2 4 17 1.4m sq ft 4 4 52 4.8m sq ft 17 6 21 2.1m sq ft 7 8 2 Financial highlights 3 Chairmans statement 4 Chief Executives review 6 United Kingdom review 3 0.3m sq ft 1 1 12 Europe review 18 Asia review 24 Tesco Personal Finance 26 tesco.
com 28 Corporate social responsibility 3 0.3m sq ft 3 1 30 Board of directors 32 Summary directors report 34 Summary financial statement and operating and financial review 36 Investor information 2,291 39.9m sq ft 1,325 99 UNITED KINGDOM REPUBLIC OF IRELAND HUNGARY POLAND CZECH REPUBLIC SLOVAKIA THAILAND SOUTH KOREA TAIWAN MALAYSIA Uraiwan and Suwimol, Lotus Rama IV, Thailand 2 TESCO PLC FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GROUP SALES 11.5% UNDERLYING GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2003 2002 Group sales m 14.7% including value added tax 28,613 25,654 Underlying pre-tax profit m 1,401 1,221 GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX Pre-tax profit m 1,361 1,201 13.3% Underlying diluted earnings per share p 13.98 12.14 UNDERLYING DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Diluted earnings per share p 13.42 11.86 15.2% Dividend per share p 6.20 5.60 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Group enterprise value m market capitalisation plus net debt 16,896 21,290 13.2% Excluding net loss on disposal of xed assets, DIVIDEND PER SHARE integration costs and goodwill amortisation.
10.7% Tesco is now recognised as an International Group.
We operate successfully in ten countries.
We are market leader in six countries and profitable in eight.
This year has seen Tesco deliver a third consecutive year of double digit profit growth.
All four parts of the Tesco strategy, the core UK business, non-food, retailing services and international, have contributed to this growth.
John Gardiner Chairman TESCO PLC 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY Following a strong performance This year we have reported excellent UK gures with sales up last year, the Tesco Group has delivered another year of 7.9% and underlying operating profit up 6.9%.
For the full year, Group sales have risen market share has increased to 5%.
We have delivered our by 11.5% to 28.6bn.
Underlying pre-tax profit is 1.4bn up international targets that we set out in 1999 for 2002 03.
14.7% and underlying diluted earnings per share is 13.98p We achieved underlying operating profit of 141m and up 15.2%.
cash return on investment of 9.7%.
DIVIDEND The Board propose a final dividend of 4.33p.
This, profit has grown signicantly in retailing services.
Pre-tax, post together with the interim dividend of 1.87p, gives a total dividend minority interest, Tesco Personal Finance achieved profit of 96m of 6.20p, up 10.7% on last year.
Dividend cover increases from and tesco.
com grew profit from 0.4m last year to 12m this year.
Our people are key to delivering for our customers.
Without their efforts we would not have delivered such strong results.
PERFORMANCE Our customer focused strategy for long-term I would like to thank everyone in the Tesco Group for their growth has already increased sales by 61% and underlying contribution.
We now employ 296,000 people worldwide, of pre-tax profit by 68% over the last five years.
We will create a further 20,000 We first set out our strategy six years ago.
All four elements new jobs worldwide in the coming year.
of the strategy have contributed to outstanding growth, a strong UK core, non-food, retailing services and international.
Our BOARD CHANGES David Reid will be taking over as Nonstrategy for growth is underpinned by the Tesco core purpose executive Chairman in March 2004.
We are also appointing and values.
Rodney Chase as Deputy Chairman and senior Non-executive Director at the same time.
David has been at the heart of the business for many years and continuity will be valuable at a challenging time for the industry.
T R S E R A E T M P O E T O S P U L C E R H O O F W R E W 4 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Six years ago we first talked about our four part strategy for growth.
It is clear, visible, simple and is delivering strong results.
In this time we have grown sales by 91% and underlying profit by 87%.
We have won 3.3 million new customers in the UK, and more than trebled Group nonfood sales.
We have developed the worlds best grocery internet business, tesco.
com, and Tesco Personal Finance, which has been hugely successful.
We have also delivered underlying international operating profit of 212m and now almost half our space is outside the UK.
CREA CREATING TING V VALUE FOR ALUE FOR CUST CUSTOMERS OMERS T TO EARN O EARN THEIR LIFETIME THEIR LIFETIME LO LOY YAL ALTY TY D E R L A I H K E S T E I O R T B E E T N R O E - A O T N E D TESCO PLC 5 bringing value, choice and convenience to millions of customers every week UK BUSINESS The UK is our core business.
consolidation of the four national players in We are moving into new areas of retailing We have grown market share through our our industry.
If four were to become three, services.
In January we announced that we customer focused strategy.
we believe consumers would be better would launch a xed line phone service off if Tesco led that change.
Uniquely, Tesco later in the year.
We are now into our second billion of brings together the qualities of consumer price cuts following further price investment INTERNATIONAL Our strategy of building champion, experience across a broad range this year.
This represents an 11% price drop a profitable international business of scale, of formats and a world-class management in real terms and combined with service, both in Europe and Asia continues to make team.
No matter what the outcome, the stores, and the products people want, excellent progress.
In a six-year period we Tesco will remain focused on delivering the explains why Tesco is Britains best value have built up a substantial chain of hyperbest for customers, staff and shareholders.
Our overseas operation now At Tesco there is a product range for everyone, accounts for almost half of Group space.
NON-FOOD Half our new space in the from Value to Finest.
Our brands have broad UK this year has been for non-food.
This, We are market leader in six countries appeal.
We are a fully inclusive business.
along with improved capability has seen and profitable in eight of our ten markets.
our non-food market share grow to 5%.
Innovation is part of our everyday job for Our teams have done an excellent job customers.
This year we have introduced This year we have achieved a 16% share by improving their operating margin over 5,000 new food products, increased of chart music sales, introduced our Finest performance.
They have controlled our Finest brand to nearly 1,100 products brand to non-food, and extended the branch and distribution costs as well and introduced 500 Grab & Go counters Value brand.
We have gained share on as buying better.
Health and Beauty extending our volume We purchased the HIT chain of hypermarket leading position.
Our Step Change programme has markets in Poland this year.
We have delivered over 230m of efficiency savings Cherokee, our exclusive clothing range rebranded all HIT stores introducing which we pass on to our customers.
These is available in over 300 stores.
Cherokee, own-label, extensive non-food ranges programmes have focused on primary Florence & Fred and the Value clothing and Tesco systems.
distribution, labour schedulers and brand have gone from strength to strength.
Our overseas business is, and will continue Continuous Replenishment, which has Our clothing range has driven sales to be, successful, as we tailor our offer to been fully implemented in our stores.
increases of almost four times the market meet local customer needs and leverage This makes the shopping experience better rate this year.
the scale we have already achieved.
We for customers and simpler for stores.
will introduce different store types, rollRETAILING SERVICES Our joint venture We now have 62 Extra stores and we out central distribution to most countries with the Royal Bank of Scotland, Tesco opened 34 Express stores in the year.
and improve our capability through buying Personal Finance, made a profit of 96m We acquired T&S Stores, a leading better and the introduction of own label.
in the year, of which our share was 48m.
This acquisition We have become one of the leading and In just five years we have grown a subincreases our share of the convenience most profitable international retailers in stantial business delivering strong profits.
We will convert both regions.
In 2002 03 we added over 1.4 million new 450 T&S stores to our Express format accounts and policies.
Six years on, our strategy remains the over the next three to four years bringing same, but it is not the same Tesco.
the Tesco range and offer to many more TESCO.
Our UK We have faster growth and now access customers in neighbourhood locations.
grocery home shopping business covers more areas of opportunity.
We were not surprised by the Governments 96% of the population and has over 110,000 decision to refer all potential supermarket weekly orders.
Our home shopping model bids for Safeway to the Competition is working in the Republic of Ireland, South Commission in March 2003.
We have always Korea, and the USA in our joint venture understood that competition policy limited with Safeway Inc. Terry Leahy Chief Executive 6 United Kingdom overview This year sales in our core UK market have grown by 7.9% and underlying operating profit by 6.9% reinforcing our position as the number one food retailer in the UK.
Our strong UK performance allows us to expand into retailing services and international markets.
62 new openings 1,982 305,000 sq ft of extensions STORES 1,202 T&S stores 21.8 million sq ft 62 Extras 442 Superstores 167 Metro High street 109 Express Graham Silcock and Dave Banter, Tesco Extra, Altrincham 221,000 In the UK we opened 62 new We tailor our stores to meet We listen to customer and Our loyal and committed staff stores this year adding a further our local customers needs.
staff feedback to continually have helped make us Britains 1.4 million sq ft. We also acquired We have four different store improve our stores.
This year 1,202 T&S Stores, a leading formats: Extra, Superstore, our UK development plan has we have taken on an additional convenience retailer, giving us Metro and Express.
All formats seen Refresh and extension 9,000 people, with a further an additional 1.8 million sq ft. provide a different shopping programmes, tailored to local 5,000 over Christmas, to help This brings the total number experience for our customers, customer requirements, serve our customers better.
of stores in the UK to 1,982. but all offer the same improve over 200 stores.
104,000 of our staff are outstanding value.
number of stores four store formats store development staff TESCO PLC 7 Clubcard is the UKs most We have an inclusive offer Each week a dedicated team One of our goals is to be popular loyalty scheme.
You catering for all tastes.
This of price checkers compares as strong in non-food as in can collect AIR MILES with year we relaunched our Value the prices on over 70% of food.
Two hundred million brand, and we now stock the basket, to make sure that offers the value, choice AIR MILES have been issued to over 1,200 lines.
We have also no-one sells for less.
Customers and convenience that our customers this year.
Clubcard extended our Finest range can now log on to tesco.
This year holders can collect points at to include non-food items for a price comparison.
we launched our exclusive over 3,000 UK outlets including from lead crystal glasses to Cherokee clothing range.
10 million Clubcard customers customer loyalty Tesco own-brand we sell for less non-food 8 United Kingdom We are the UKs biggest private sector employer and we currently have 221,000 people who are committed to going the extra mile for our customers.
We look after our staff so that they in turn can look after our customers.
PRICE Our latest price campaign saw 80m invested to cut prices on 1,000 everyday products.
We are now into our second billion of price cuts.
NUMBER ONE FOR SERVICE Everything we do is customer focused.
We are an inclusive business, catering for all tastes and all customers needs.
This year we launched Health and Beauty advisors in our Extra stores.
ONESTOP SHOP Tesco has acquired T&S Stores, one of the UKs leading convenience retailers, in a deal that will see around 450 stores converted to Tesco Express over the next three to four years.
OneStop Shop, Shenley Miggy Firth, Tesco Extra, Cambridge Tesco Extra, Altrincham 9 EXTRA Our expanding portfolio of Extra stores delivers a fantastic destination shopping experience for our customers, with an extensive food and non-food offer.
EXPRESS We are opening our convenience offer Express at a rate of CHEROKEE The exclusive Cherokee clothing range has been designed one a week.
This year we launched our first stand-alone Express store to suit the British market, combining high quality, fashionable, branded wear, in Southborough.
Paul Sheppard, Tesco Express, Southborough Tesco Extra, Altrincham Cherokee, Tesco Extra, Cambridge 10 United Kingdom review This year our strong UK performance has seen our market share continue to grow.
Our investment in price, combined with service, the stores and the products people want, explains why we are the first choice for British consumers and Britains best value supermarket.
21,615 20,052 18,372 16,958 15,835 99 00 01 02 03 TURNOVER m strategy The key to our successful UK strategy is customers the chance to stock up on that we deliver first-class value, choice and shopping at their convenience at a diverse convenience throughout our customer offer.
range of locations, from inner city stores To create value for customers to earn their such as Maida Vale, London, to villages like lifetime loyalty is the Tesco core purpose.
This year we also We have brought it to life under the banner launched the first stand-alone Express store Every Little Helps.
This means keeping the without a petrol station.
This new concept aisles clear, ensuring that customers can will focus on bringing convenience and quality buy what they want, that our prices are low, to local communities.
Although on a smaller that we have smaller queues at the checkout scale than larger supermarkets, it will provide and that every customer is offered help.
a broad but carefully selected range of essential everyday products.
We have acquired T&S Stores with We are now into our second billion their 870 convenience outlets.
We of price cuts for the customer, making us will convert around 450 shops to Britains best value supermarket.
This year we celebrated the fifth anniversary of the our Express format over the next Finest brand by expanding the range to three to four years.
Finest is a c. 600m brand around 1,400 new jobs in the heart in its own right.
We have continued to grow of small neighbourhoods.
the convenience business with a like-for-like growth in ready meals of 23%.
We lead In the stores that convert to Express, the way in product development with our customers will benefit from lower prices, Healthy Living and Meals for One ranges.
improved service, better fresh food ranges and store environment, as well as better availability, quality and choice.
This will allow convenience us to accelerate our growth in the 20bn We develop formats to meet our convenience market.
We will continue to customers needs.
This year we opened run the remainder as OneStop Shops.
Express offers TESCO PLC 11 STORE DEVELOPMENT We have four different store formats in the UK: Extra, Superstore, Metro and Express.
We now have 62 Extra stores and we are currently opening at least one Express every week.
This year we have invested over 150m into our Refresh programme to help serve customers better and improve availability, operations and store environment.
A quarter of Superstores have received the customer-focused improvements in key areas including car parking, trolleys, signage, counters and availability.
innovation Responding to our customers needs we people how we like to be treated and Replenishment system.
This has delivered have introduced over 5,000 new food lines No-one tries harder for customers are the substantial benets to the business and this year.
We have led the way in bringing two main Values and this year we issued reduced the time it takes for a product in screw-cap wines and our own label range over 125,000 awards.
We have relaunched to get from supplier to shelf.
We are now Unwind is on-track to be a 5m brand exible staff benets including a childcare able to order seven days a week, twice this year.
Grab and Go counters have been voucher scheme and Shares in Success, a day to ensure that our customers get introduced into over 500 stores, offering where staff with more than a years the right product at the right time.
customers a huge choice of cheese and service will be eligible for free shares.
hot chicken without having to queue, We have an award winning dened benets non-food making it simpler and cheaper to operate.
pension scheme, with 120,000 members, Our strategy is to be as good in non-food giving our staff the security they deserve.
We have expanded our This year we have also launched our non-food offer to provide the value, choice Healthy Living Club that has so far In February 2003 68m was and convenience that our customers expect.
paid out to 40,000 staff when We now have a 5% share of the UK nontwo of our Save As You Earn food market.
looking after our people schemes matured.
We have a 16% share of chart music We are committed to developing our sales, up from 4% five years ago.
people to be the best, so that they can step change go the extra mile for our customers.
This Since the launch of our exclusive Cherokee year we have introduced a 12-week training clothing range, we have increased our Our step change programme has programme to further develop store clothing market share.
This year Cherokee, delivered 230m of new efficiency managers.
TWIST Tesco Week In Store Florence and Fred, our Value and ownsavings this year and over 600m Together saw directors and managers from brand clothing offer has grown at four in the past three years.
all parts of the business working in-store times the market rate.
We opened our to listen to the views of staff and see how first Nutri Centre concession in our This year saw great progress with Primary to deliver initiatives simply and successfully.
Kensington store, London, with a range of Distribution, allowing us to take control over 3,000 products.
This year we became of product from the factory gates to our The Tesco Values are a set of principles the UKs volume market leader in vitamins, distribution centres, improving efficiency that describe the way we work together.
minerals and supplements, and extended and delivering cost benets that we reinvest Values awards allow us to reward our our volume market leading position in in customer initiatives.
All products have people for the great things they do for Health and Beauty.
now been transferred to our Continuous each other and our customers.
Treat Tesco Extra, Altrincham 12 Europe overview REPUBLIC OF IRELAND In our European business sales have grown by 22.5% HUNGARY and underlying operating profit by 56.7%.
We have opened 18 hypermarkets in the year, making us the largest hypermarket operator in Central Europe.
POLAND CZECH REPUBLIC 77 Republic of Ireland 53 Hungary SLOVAKIA 66 Poland Racz Zoltanne Erika, Pesti store, Budapest, Hungary 17 Czech Republic REPUBLIC 47,500 OF IRELAND 17 Slovakia POLAND 230 STORES CZECH REPUBLIC SLOVAKIA HUNGARY 10.6 million sq ft Tesco now operates in five We now have a total of Our expansion programme has This year we have taken on countries in Europe as well 230 stores across Europe seen our total European sales 6,500 extra staff and we now as the UK: Republic of Ireland, and this year we became the area increase to 10.6 million sq ft employ 47,500 people across Hungary, Czech Republic, leading hypermarket retailer in in the past 12 months, a rise of our European operation.
In Slovakia and Poland, accessing Central Europe.
This includes Hungary we are the countrys 68 million people.
plans for the region will see the 13 hypermarkets acquired second biggest private employer, us expand next year to over from the HIT chain in Poland.
with 11,000 members of staff 100 hypermarkets, growing working across our operation.
our market share even further.
five countries number of stores Budars store, Budapest, Hungary sales area staff TESCO PLC 13 24hrs We have increased the number We have introduced thousands of We deliver unbeatable value Our customers want of own-brand lines available, new non-food lines this year.
Our for our customers in every convenient shopping, and with over 1,400 Value lines customers can buy everything market that we operate.
We to cater for their differing across our Central European from handmade wooden sledges have adapted our successful needs we were the first stores.
In Poland, our 1,200 ownin Slovakia, to ski equipment in UK template to launch regular company to introduce brand products now account Poland.
We also stock electricals, initiatives to cut prices, giving 24-hour opening in many of for over 14% of total sales.
Over home entertainment and clothing customers even better value.
95% of customers recognise in all our Central European Value as a unique Tesco range.
Tesco own-brand Pesti store, Budapest, Hungary non-food we sell for less customer focus 14 Europe REPUBLIC OF IRELAND In our European operation, we HUNGARY are constantly looking for ways of getting better for customers, simpler for staff and cheaper POLAND for Tesco.
CZECH REPUBLIC SLOVAKIA HIT ACQUISITION This year we acquired a chain of 13 hypermarkets across Poland from the German operator HIT, giving us a market leading position in Poland.
OWN BRANDS By introducing the Tesco brand, we have made quality products at affordable prices available to even more customers.
Our Tesco Value brand is the cheapest in the marketplace.
Value doughnuts, Pesti store, Budapest, Hungary Mory store, Poland 15 PRICE We have launched price campaigns in all of our European countries this year.
We are the leading retailer in price investment for the customer, cutting the prices of 1,000s of lines across our European markets.
HUNGARY DISTRIBUTION Herceghalom is our first state-of-the-art STAFF Our staff are what set us apart from our competitors.
In Ireland, centralised distribution centre in Central Europe.
This has increased supply chain as throughout the Group, we have supported our people through training efficiencies.
Further depots are planned in Poland and the Czech Republic.
and development programmes to help deliver even better service.
Herceghalom distribution centre, Hungary Budars store, Budapest, Hungary Aisling, Clearwater store, Ireland 16 Europe review REPUBLIC OF IRELAND Our local customer focused approach has ensured we have HUNGARY market leading positions in our European operation.
We have 83 hypermarkets and are profitable in all of our European countries.
POLAND 2,689 2,203 CZECH REPUBLIC 1,756 1,374 1,167 SLOVAKIA 99 00 01 02 03 TURNOVER m strategy Hungary Our international strategy for long-term This year we opened five new hypermarkets, growth is focused on our developing including a new 50,000 sq ft format store markets.
We tailor everything around the at Ezstergom.
We are the clear market customer and build the best store network.
leader in Hungary with a market share of 13%.
We have 26 hypermarkets and In Central Europe and the Republic 27 supermarkets.
of Ireland we now employ 47,500 In Hungary each week we serve people in five countries.
Republic of Ireland Poland Tesco market share has grown Our first store opened in Poland in 1998 this year to 24.1%, maintaining and in just four years we have become market leader with 34 hypermarkets.
year we opened seven new hypermarkets, We completed two major store extensions bringing our total number of stores in at Navan and Gorey.
A record six new Poland to 66.
The acquisition of 13 stores will open in 2003 2004.
This year we hypermarkets from German retailer HIT opened our first petrol station at Killarney gave us a 23.2% market share of hypermarket and will soon commence work on our first sales, and brings Tesco value, choice and hypermarket in Dublin.
Grocery homeconvenience to even more customers.
shopping sales have doubled and the service has been extended across the country.
Czech Republic This year we opened two new Central Europe stores in the Czech Republic.
We have a profitable business of scale, built around state-of-the-art hypermarkets, We have 11 hypermarkets and six ranging from 50,000 sq ft to 160,000 sq ft. department stores.
Our store at Letnany is the biggest hypermarket in the Czech Republic.
TESCO PLC 17 STORE DEVELOPMENT This year we have opened a further 18 hypermarkets in Central Europe, making us the leading hypermarket retailer in Central Europe.
own-brand values This year in the Czech Republic, we Our own-brand and Value products are We encourage all our staff to go the extra have introduced Permanently low prices, available at all our stores across Europe, mile for our customers and we look after monitoring the price of 2,000 lines bringing providing quality products at affordable prices.
our staff so that they can look after our even better value to our customers.
All managers receive Values In Poland we now have 1,200 ownalso have over 700 own-brand products.
We have exported our successful brand lines including 600Value lines.
UK Values award scheme internationally.
In the Czech Republic all parts of the company This year we have reduced the prices Slovakia pulled together to help out during the ood on over 1,000 everyday household items This year we opened four new crisis.
As well as organising a collection and in Hungary under the banner We are stores in Slovakia.
sending aid to the worst affected areas, cheaper.
In Poland, we launched two price employees who were affected were given Tesco is the clear market leader in Slovakia campaigns this year, using our successful immediate financial help and accommodation.
with 12 hypermarkets and five department UK model and guaranteeing that we are stores, serving nearly a million customers cheaper on 4,000 everyday items.
Slovakia is the first country in step change Central Europe to launch the Tesco Charity To make our operation better for people of the Year.
In our stores you will nd over customers, simpler for staff and cheaper Our aim is to develop a world-class team 300 Tesco Value lines and 400 Tesco ownfor the business, Step Change programmes to look after our customers.
based on our successful UK template have management allows us to understand the been established across Europe.
This year marketplace and customers better than we built a world-class distribution operation non-food anyone.
Our in-country teams are made in Hungary with the opening of a state-ofWe tailor our non-food offer to suit our up of 100% local store managers in Poland, the-art distribution centre in Herceghalom.
local customers needs across Central Czech Republic and Slovakia.
We offer a wide variety of non-food supported by a small number of people The centre can handle over lines from Value umbrellas to car tyres.
Our from the UK, to help share best practice.
one million cases and makes ranges include home entertainment, clothing Our Central European teams have won over 500 deliveries each week.
and electricals, including washing machines, a number of awards including Business TVs and fridges.
Woman, and Retail Manager of the Year in The fresh and frozen supply chain in Hungary.
We have 74 management trainees Hungary is now temperature controlled.
Over 50% of our Central and 130 of the Central European team are This allows our customers to enjoy European oor space is on educational support programmes.
the improved quality and availability dedicated to non-food lines.
of fresh produce that this delivers.
Bagoly Attila, Budars store, Budapest, Hungary 18 Asia overview THAILAND This year our Asian operation has delivered sales growth SOUTH KOREA of 45.5% and underlying operating profit growth of 144.8%.
We operate in four countries across South East Asia including our latest market, Malaysia.
TAIWAN MALAYSIA 79 7.5 million sq ft SOUTH KOREA STORES Halisa and Gouri, Melaka hypermarket, Malaysia 52 Thailand 28,000 21 South Korea TAIWAN 3 Taiwan 3 Malaysia THAILAND 69 Hypermarkets 1 Supermarket 1 Value store 8 Express MALAYSIA This year we opened our first A total of 28 new stores We have continued to develop This year we recruited a further stores in Malaysia.
We continue were opened across the four our formats to suit our different 4,000 local managers and staff to build a business of scale in countries, including seven customers needs.
In Taiwan, to deliver for our customers.
our developing markets of Homeplus stores in South plans are in place to open our We now employ a total of Thailand, South Korea, Taiwan Korea.
These new stores have first city-format store in the 28,000 people across Asia.
and Malaysia, accessing a boosted our total oor space capital Taipei later this year.
In Thailand we had over 600 population of 155 million.
across Asia to 7.5 million sq ft, In Thailand we now have eight internal promotions last year.
Express stores, a supermarket, and our first Value store.
four countries store development store formats staff TESCO PLC 19 Just as in the UK and Tesco Homeplus launched its This year we launched Tesco A typical Asian hypermarket Europe we carry out price first loyalty card Familycard, Value lines in Taiwan and has 55% of the sales area campaigns to offer value for based on the successful UK Thailand.
In the first two dedicated to non-food.
Customers receive weeks of their launch in now have opticians in many of in Taiwan cut prices on 1,000 points with a cash value to use Taiwan, 20 tons of rice, 10,000 our hypermarkets.
Thailand is everyday household items.
Familycard packets of tissues, 3,000 pork becoming the supply centre for In South Korea we cut the price already has a million members dumplings and 20,000 litres many non-food items purchased of 1,000 products by 10-30%.
of bottled water were sold.
Melaka hypermarket, Malaysia we sell for less customer loyalty Tesco own-brand Bangkapi hypermarket, Bangkok, Thailand non-food 20 Asia THAILAND We have 79 stores in Asia SOUTH KOREA including 69 hypermarkets.
In Thailand, our lead country, we now have hypermarkets, TAIWAN Express stores, a trial supermarket and a Value store format for up-country towns.
MALAYSIA FORMAT DEVELOPMENT We are continually developing formats to deliver for our customers.
This year saw the opening of the first Value or Khum Ka store at Roi Et in Thailand.
Bangkapi hypermarket, Bangkok, Thailand Phongpet supermarket, Bangkok, Thailand Senanikom Express store, Bangkok, Thailand Roi Et Value store, Thailand 21 MALAYSIA Our first store in Malaysia opened at Puchong, on the outskirts of the capital city Kuala Lumpur, with a sales area of 109,500 sq ft. We have continued to expand throughout Asia and plan to open a further 16 hypermarkets in Asia by the end of 2003.
DISTRIBUTION Our operation in Thailand is now benefiting from NUMBER ONE FOR SERVICE As we expand internationally we continue a state-of-the-art distribution centre that has been extended this year to develop a world-class team by employing local staff and managers.
to 750,000 sq ft making it the largest in Asia.
Wang-noi distribution centre, Thailand Melaka hypermarket, Malaysia Kim, Soon Ok, Ansun Homeplus store, South Korea 22 Asia review THAILAND After a successful year we are well positioned to become the leading SOUTH KOREA retailer in Asia.
In just five years we have built a substantial business of scale.
We are profitable in two of our four markets and have delivered our targeted returns.
TAIWAN 2,033 MALAYSIA 1,398 860 464 156 99 00 01 02 03 TURNOVER m strategy Our international strategy is one for longCustomers can enjoy all of the benets term growth.
We focus on a few chosen of home shopping after the launch developing markets, tailor everything around of e-homeplus.
The service uses the the local customer and build the best exclusive tesco.
com model of picking store networks.
We concentrate on internet ordered groceries from local countries where we can get a leading stores.
Tesco Homeplus won ten awards position.
This allows us to access growth, last year.
Most recently our Korean team apply capability and gain scale benets, won the Korea Retail Award, presented as our strategy continues to accelerate.
by the Korea Chamber of Commerce in the hypermarkets category.
In the four Asian countries where we operate, we now have Taiwan an annual turnover of 2,033m.
We opened our third store in Taiwan in the northern part of the country in Chungli and have plans in place to open a fourth Thailand store in 2003.
In Thailand we are clear market leader.
This year we have continued to develop Our stores at Chungli and Chingkuo offer our hypermarket network with the 24-hour shopping and this year both stores opening of nine new hypermarkets four broke all existing Taiwanese records for in the capital Bangkok and a further five hypermarket sales.
We also offer Tesco in regional centres around the country.
Value lines in our Taiwanese stores.
We are now serving eight million customers each month in Thailand.
Malaysia This year we opened our first Malaysian store with our partner Sime Darby, at South Korea Puchong.
Since then we have opened The successful development of seven two further stores at Melaka and Klang.
Homeplus stores this year has seen us The performance of these new stores is grow to a nationwide chain.
encouraging, and we have a good number of planning applications in the pipeline.
We now have a total of 21 stores.
TESCO PLC 23 STORE DEVELOPMENT We continue to develop our formats to suit our different customers needs.
This year we opened our first hypermarket on the island of Koh Samui in the Gulf of Thailand.
Our Bangkapi store which opened this year is our largest development in the Group.
new formats people We have launched Familycard Across Asia we have been developing In our Asian operation, we employ local a range of store formats to meet our people and have reduced the amount of in South Korea, based on our customers differing needs.
As in our UK expatriates working in these markets.
We successful UK Clubcard and operation, the Express stores are located recognise the importance of developing over a million members have in local neighbourhoods and offer local management teams who have the already signed up.
expertise and knowledge to deliver for our local customers.
All of our store In Thailand we are currently managers in Thailand, South Korea, Taiwan logistics trialing an Express pilot scheme and Malaysia are local.
We have exported We are continuing to develop our Asian at eight sites.
our Values award scheme and are supply chain by exporting best practice committed to looking after our people from the UK and Europe.
This year we Our stores in Taiwan are based in shopping so they can look after our customers.
have joined together with supply chain centres and over 200 tenants operate systems company Retek, who work closely in the Tesco malls, from multinationals with us in the UK and Europe, to launch to local businesses.
We understand local step change their computerised warehouse manageneeds and Kanchanaburi store in Thailand A state-of-the-art IT system links our ment system in Thailand and South Korea.
is the first hypermarket in the country to UK head ofce with our global sourcing The extended Tesco Lotus Distribution feature a permanent area where the local hubs based in Bangalore, Bangkok and Centre at Wang Noi is capable of Tambon people can sell their produce.
This allows us to source from processing 800,000 cases every day.
anywhere in the world and track progress We also started work on our South and costs in all of the countries in which non-food Korean distribution centre which is we operate.
We have continued to This year we have launched a Value due to open early in 2003 04. export best practice and this year we clothing brand in Thailand.
Early customer have introduced our latest UK checkout reaction to our Malaysian clothing line scanning system to our Malaysian stores.
is that it is good value and high quality.
Our non-food offer has benefited the local economy.
Over 500m Baht of export orders for non-food items have been secured for Thai companies this year.
Bangkapi hypermarket, Bangkok, Thailand 24 Savings balances grew to over The internet is a key channel We have issued over 1.5 million We now have over 750 TPF 2bn in 2002.
Our customers for our product delivery.
We currently have branded cash machines at our can now enjoy all the benets 20% of sales are now through one of the best introductory stores.
This year we raised over of 24-hour banking after we the internet.
Innovations this rates on the market and our 112,000 for Cystic Fibrosis rolled out an initiative to 540 year included a new facility customers earn Clubcard by contributing 1p every time stores this year, introducing that allows customers to view points with every transaction.
a withdrawal was made from cheque deposit facilities at their account details on-line.
our cash machines during a checkouts and customer promotional period.
savings internet credit card cash machines TESCO PLC 25 In only five years, Tesco Personal Finance TPF, has achieved a profit of 96m.
Over 1.4 million new accounts were opened to give us a total of 3.4 million customers.
We have 15 products and services, from lending, savings and MOTOR investment, to general insurance and are one of the UKs top ten providers for credit cards and motor insurance.
TRAVEL HOME PET This year TPF advanced 700m in Our Life Insurance policy was enhanced Over 500,000 new motor insurance personal loans, making it our most successful to include mortgage protection and critical customers signed up this year, bringing year to date.
In recognition of this, we illness options and won the MoneyFacts our total number of in-force policies to were awarded Best Loans Provider in Awards 2002, Most Competitive Life 750,000.
Our travel service, Instant Travel 2002 by Personal Finance magazine, Highly Insurance and Your Money Best Direct Insurance, allows Clubcard holders to Commended Direct and Personal Loan Life Insurance Provider of 2002. pick up a pack in-store and buy their Provider 2002 by Your Money and Best holiday insurance at the checkout.
Since Loans Provider in the MORI poll of financial the launch of Instant Travel Insurance, journalists for the third successive year.
loans life insurance general insurance 26 TESCO PLC tesco.
com is the largest e-grocer and most profitable e-retail business in the world.
This year our turnover reached 447m.
Each week in the UK we deliver over 110,000 orders.
We have 65% share of the UK internet grocery market.
447 356 237 52 00 01 02 03 SALES m In the week before Christmas we received Our Flower site attracted record numbers over 12m worth of orders and one of of sales this year and customers take our grocery vans was making a delivery advantage of free delivery in the UK.
somewhere in the UK every three seconds.
In the run up to Mothers Day We are the only UK supermarket 20,000 bouquets were ordered, to offer a nationwide service, an increase of 300% on last year.
covering 96% of the population with our eet of nearly 1,000 dedicated delivery vans.
com site even better value for customers we have launched online Clubcard vouchers this year, allowing our tesco.
com shoppers to redeem their Clubcard points on the website.
TRAINED PICKERS Our successful home sales shopping model uses personal shoppers On-line sales for cases of Sales have increased by 26% to hand-pick all our customers shopping champagne were up by 287% in our store.
We then deliver direct to on last year.
customers homes, at their convenience.
over the Valentines Day period.
We have made the site bigger and better this year with over 1.2 million books, To offer even more value for our customers, 25,000 videos, 7,500 DVDs and 1,800 a team of price trackers ensure that we are electrical goods.
Our Wine Warehouse now cheaper than HMV and Amazon.
co. uk continues to grow from strength to on the top 50 chart music CDs, DVDs strength and customers can now choose and videos.
from over 800 wines available by the case, including mixed case deals.
Graham Chadwick, Tesco Extra, Altrincham TESCO PLC 27 HOME DELIVERY tesco.
com now operates in the UK, Republic of Ireland, South Korea and in a joint venture with Safeway Inc. in the USA.
com overseas technology At the beginning of the year we launched We continue to tailor our tesco.
com offer our first venture into the Asian hometo meet our customers developing needs.
shopping market with the start up of This year we launched technology that allows shoppers to order their groceries on www.
co. kr their handheld pocket computer wherever they are.
The breakthrough downloads the A team of experts from the UK worked details of over 20,000 grocery items onto closely with our South Korean colleagues, the handheld computers allowing customers ensuring that the launch was successful.
We to compile their shopping list off-line.
When anticipate this to be a growing market as they log on to the internet later, the list is South Korea has the third-largest internet automatically forwarded to tesco.
penetration in the world and over 70% of the population have internet access.
This year we also cut the cost In the Republic of Ireland, tesco.
com of logging on to the internet to now covers 70% of the population.
In the Republic of Ireland, dot com Tesco.
net provides customers with an sales doubled last year.
excellent product which is cheaper than many competitors.
In the USA, GroceryWorks, our partnership with Safeway Inc, has expanded from our first coverage area of Portland, Oregon to encompass San Francisco and the Bay area.
The successful venture uses the tesco.
com home-shopping model of using trained pickers to select orders from stores for home delivery.
28 TESCO PLC supporting our local communities Corporate social responsibility makes good business sense.
At Tesco we aim to make a positive contribution to society.
Our CSR programme builds on this commitment and is backed by our Every Little Helps approach.
COMMUNITY Communities The Tesco Charity Trust gives help to local charities and each year The Community Award Scheme distributes 350,000 in the communities where our stores are based.
This year we joined forces with the Police and Parents and Abducted Children Together PACT to run a nationwide poster campaign in stores appealing for information about missing children.
We make a positive contribution to local communities by giving over 1% of pre-tax profit to charity and community good causes every year.
Charity of the year Cystic Fibrosis was our charity of the year for 2002 and thousands of staff have already raised over 1m to tackle the inherited life-threatening disease.
The Charity of the Year provides a focus for staff fundraising and all money raised is topped up by 20% by the Tesco Charity Trust.
The Charity of the Year for 2003 will be Barnardos.
Regeneration We now have six regeneration schemes around the UK which have created over 1,300 jobs for the long-term unemployed.
In recognition of the companys partnerships in Scotland, we were presented with the New Deal Golden Jubilee Award.
Our latest store at Beckton, East London, has created 400 jobs.
We have planning permission for three further sites.
EDUCATION Computers for schools Since 1992, we have given away over 77m of computer equipment through our Computers for Schools scheme, including 50,000 computers, and over 468,000 other items such as printers and software.
In 2002, over 273 million vouchers were given to customers and more than 1,000 new schools registered to join the scheme.
Over 23,000 schools across the UK benefit from participation in this initiative.
ENVIRONMENT Recycling Tesco has a comprehensive recycling programme for customers and its own operations.
There are recycling banks at over 500 of our larger stores, and Christmas card and carrier bag recycling facilities too.
Our in-store mobile phone and inkjet cartridge recycling schemes have raised over 1m for charity to date, as well as helping the environment.
This year we won the Challenge to Care Award Best Marketing Initiative for our phone recycling scheme.
Tesco sets itself challenging environmental targets each year and aims to minimise the amount of waste produced by recycling wherever possible.
This year we have recycled nearly 80% of our packaging waste.
FTSE4Good Our continued efforts have ensured that we remain in the latest FTSE4Good index of socially responsible companies.
WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS We have a long-standing commitment to source as much UK produce as possible.
We also launched a farming website for UK farmers, producers and suppliers to help increase knowledge of the supply chain, to explain what Tesco standards are and what our customers want.
We now stock over 7,000 regionally sourced products.
com For information about our corporate social responsibility strategy and programme, our CSR Review is available on-line at www.
com everylittlehelps 29 Race for Life In 2002, Tesco became the national presenting sponsor of Cancer Research UKs Race for Life, helping raise 15.6m for the charity.
Women of all ages and tness levels ran, jogged or walked their way around the five kilometre courses, at 100 venues, to raise funds to help nd a cure for cancers that touch womens lives.
An overwhelming response saw over 250,000 women take part, including 17,000 Tesco staff.
And the good news is that Tesco will be the main sponsor of the race again in 2003!
Tina Price, Brenda Blethyn and Sarah Escott 30 TESCO PLC board of directors 1.
PHILIP CLARKE 42 NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN CA DEPUTY CHAIRMAN LOGISTICS AND IT DIRECTOR John Gardiner was appointed a David Reid became Deputy Philip Clarke was appointed to Non-executive Director in 1988, Chairman in 1996.
Prior to his and Non-executive Chairman appointed to the Board in 1985, appointment he held a number in 1997.
He is a Non-executive having joined Tesco in the same of roles in store operations, Director of The Economist.
He is responsible for commercial and marketing.
international development and operations and strategic planning.
JOHN GILDERSLEEVE 58 CHIEF EXECUTIVE COMMERCIAL AND TRADING DIRECTOR Terry Leahy became Chief Executive 4.
ROWLEY AGER 57 John Gildersleeve was appointed in 1997.
Joining Tesco in 1979, he COMPANY SECRETARY to the Board in 1984.
He is a held a number of marketing and Rowley Ager was appointed Non-executive Director of Gallaher commercial positions prior to being to the Board in 1992.
He joined Group PLC and The Carphone appointed to the Board of Tesco Tesco in 1986 and became Warehouse Group PLC.
VERONIQUE MORALI 44 FINANCE DIRECTOR RETAIL DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE Andrew Higginson was appointed to David Potts was appointed to the Dr Harald Einsmann was appointed Veronique Morali was appointed the Board in 1997.
He joined Tesco in a Non-executive Director in 1999. a Non-executive Director in 2000. of the 100 Group of Finance 1973 and has held a number of He is a Non-executive Director She is Chief Operating officer Directors and Non-executive store and head ofce positions.
of EMI Group PLC, is on the Board and Director of Fimalac S. A.
From 1997 he directed the of Stora Enso Oyj, part of the integration of our businesses in Wallenberg Group, and is a Director 8.
TIM MASON 45 Northern Ireland and the Republic of British American Tobacco PLC.
GRAHAM PIMLOTT 53 MARKETING AND of Ireland before returning to the SENIOR NON-EXECUTIVE E-COMMERCE DIRECTOR UK in his current role in July 2000.
RODNEY CHASE 59 Tim Mason was appointed to the a Non-executive Director in NON-EXECUTIVE Board in 1995.
CHARLES ALLEN CBE 46 Rodney Chase was appointed in 1982.
He is a Non-executive of Hammerson PLC.
NON-EXECUTIVE a Non-executive Director in Director of Capital Radio PLC.
He is also a Non-Executive Member of the Audit Committee a Non-executive Director in Director of Diageo plc and Member of the Compliance Committee 1999.
He is Executive Chairman Computer Sciences Corporation.
Member of the Nominations Committee of Granada PLC.
Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 6 13 4 11 12 10 32 TESCO PLC summary directors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW The principal activity of the Group is the operation STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF of food stores and associated activities in the UK, Republic of Ireland, France, Hungary, Poland, Czech TESCO PLC Republic, Slovakia, Thailand, South Korea, Taiwan and Malaysia.
The operating and financial review is We have examined the Summary on pages 34 to 35.
Financial Statement of Tesco PLC.
DIVIDENDS The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 4.33p per ordinary share to RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The be paid on 27 June 2003 to members on the Register at the close of business on 22 April 2003.
Together Directors are responsible for with the interim dividend of 1.87p per ordinary share paid in November 2002 the total dividend for the preparing the Annual Review and year comes to 6.20p, compared with 5.60p for the previous year, an increase of 10.7%.
Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable law.
DIRECTORS Details of the current members of the Board are shown on pages 30 and 31.
Mr R S Ager, Our responsibility is to report to Mr R F Chase appointed during the year, Mr J A Gardiner, Mr A T Higginson and Mr D E Reid retire you, our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement, from the Board by rotation.
Being eligible, they offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General the Directors emoluments and the Meeting.
Their service contracts are terminable on two years notice from the company, with the summary of executive share options exception of Mr R F Chase and Mr J A Gardiner, who do not have service contracts.
and disclosable shareholdings within the Annual Review and Summary CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The company has complied with all the provisions of the Combined Code Financial Statement with the Annual of Best Practice except as with regard to the provision on the length of the Directors service contracts.
Report and Financial Statements and the Directors report and its The Remuneration Committee has agreed that, in future, new appointments of Executive Directors compliance with the relevant would normally be based on a notice period of 12 months.
The company has established a framework requirements of Section 251 of of internal control which is reviewed by the Audit Committee and has a separate Executive Committee, the Companies Act 1985 and the Remuneration Committee, Nominations Committee and Compliance Committee.
A full corporate regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information governance statement is contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003. contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our Summary report of the Directors on remuneration report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The remuneration packages, including contract periods, of inconsistencies with the summary Executive Directors are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
It ensures that the remuneration financial statement.
package is appropriate for their responsibilities, taking into consideration the overall financial and business BASIS OF OPINION We conducted position of the Group, the highly competitive industry of which the Group is part and the importance our work in accordance with of recruiting and retaining management of the appropriate calibre.
Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors Executive Directors are members of the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme, which is a dened benefit statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing scheme approved by the Inland Revenue.
Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
COMPLIANCE The Remuneration Committee has been constituted and operated throughout the period in accordance with the principles outlined in the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules derived from OPINION In our opinion the summary Schedule A of the Combined Code.
In framing the remuneration policy, full consideration has been given financial statement is consistent with the Annual Report and to the best practice provisions set out in Schedule B, annexed to the Listing Rules.
Financial Statements and the Directors report of Tesco PLC for A summary of Directors emoluments and interests, including executive options, is set out on page 33. the year ended 22 February 2003 A more detailed analysis is provided in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003.
Copies of the and complies with the applicable Executive Directors contracts of employment are available for inspection by shareholders as required.
requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the The Groups total shareholder return performance can be found on page 35. regulations made thereunder.
Options granted include new family interests that fall to be reported during the year.
In addition, certain Directors held options under the companys savings-related share option scheme.
34 TESCO PLC summary financial statement and operating and financial review The summary financial statement on PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT This was another successful trading year for the Group.
Sales increased by pages 34 and 35 and the summary 11.5% to 28,613m and underlying pre-tax profit, excluding net loss on disposal of xed assets, integration Directors report on pages 32 and costs and goodwill amortisation, increased by 14.7% to 1,401m.
Underlying diluted earnings per share 33 are a summary of information rose 15.2% to 13.98p.
A final dividend of 4.33p per share is proposed, making the full year dividend in the Annual Report and Financial 6.20p, an increase of 10.7% over last year.
This summary UK sales have grown 7.9% to 23,407m.
Like-for-like sales were up 4.1%, including strong volume growth financial statement does not contain of 5.0%.
New stores continue to perform well, contributing 3.8% to sales growth, 0.7% of which relates to T&S sufficient information to allow for a full understanding of the results of Stores.
UK underlying operating profit increased to 1,297m up 6.9% on last year.
Our UK operating margin the Group and the state of affairs remained at at 6.0% in a year when we again made substantial investments in price.
of the company and the Group.
Our world-leading change programmes continue to deliver increasing levels of efficiencies enabling us to invest for customers.
In 2003, they exceeded our expectations with over 230m of savings.
The Directors report, the accounts and Auditors report on those Sales in the Rest of Europe increased to 3,032m, up 22.5% and contributed an underlying operating accounts, which is unqualied, are profit of 141m, up 56.7%.
In Asia, sales were up 45.5% to 2,174m and we made an underlying operating contained in a separate publication profit of 71m, up 144.8% on last year.
Our businesses in Thailand and South Korea have seen strong entitled Annual Report and Financial sales growth.
Stores in Taiwan are performing well and early Malaysia performance is encouraging.
Copies may be Total profit from joint ventures and associates for the year was 72m, before goodwill of 2m, compared obtained free of charge by writing to 42m last year.
Tax on underlying profit has been charged for the year at an effective rate of 29.6%.
to: Net interest payable for the year was 180m, an increase of 27m over the previous year: including The Company Secretary, 10m relating to the additional debt taken on for the HIT and T&S acquisitions.
Tesco PLC, Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Continuing operations Hertfordshire EN8 9SL.
2003 2003 2003 2002 Shareholders wishing to receive SUMMARY PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT m m m m the Annual Report and Financial Sales at net selling prices 28,352 261 28,613 25,654 Statements as well as the Annual Turnover including share of joint ventures 26,300 230 26,530 23,804 Review and Summary Financial Less: share of joint ventures turnover 193 193 151 Statement in future years should Group turnover excluding value added tax 26,107 230 26,337 23,653 write to this address.
Normal operating expenses 24,558 219 24,777 22,273 Employee profit-sharing 51 51 48 The summary financial statement Integration costs 4 4 was approved by the Board Goodwill amortisation 10 11 21 10 on 7 April 2003.
Operating profit 1,488 4 1,484 1,322 Terry Leahy profit from joint ventures and associates 70 70 42 Andrew Higginson Net loss on disposal of xed assets 13 13 10 Directors Interest 180 180 153 profit before tax 1,365 4 1,361 1,201 Underlying profit before net loss on disposal of xed assets, integration costs and goodwill amortisation 1,401 1,221 Integration costs 4 Net loss on disposal of xed assets 13 10 Goodwill amortisation 23 10 Tax 415 371 Minority interests profit for the financial year 946 830 Dividends 443 390 Retained profit 503 440 Underlying diluted earnings per share 13.98p 12.14p Diluted earnings per share 13.42p 11.86p Dividend per share 6.20p 5.60p Excluding net loss on disposal of xed assets, integration costs and goodwill amortisation.
TESCO PLC 35 SUMMARY CASH FLOW STATEMENT CASH FLOW STATEMENT Cash ow from 2003 2002 operations was strong, generating 2,375m.
m m Interest and tax payments were 218m and Cash from operations 2,375 2,038 366m respectively for the year.
Interest 218 192 Group capital expenditure was 2,134m.
Tax 366 378 UK capital expenditure was 1,228m, Gross trading cash ow 1,791 1,468 including 558m on new stores and 335m Net capital expenditure 2,052 1,920 on extensions and rets.
Total international Changes in nancing 73 82 capital expenditure was 906m, 527m in Dividends 368 297 Asia and 379m in Europe.
In the year ahead Normal cash ow 556 667 we forecast Group capital expenditure to be around 2.2bn.
Business changes 597 81 Net debt at the year end was 4,737m, Non-cash movements 24 8 an increase of 1,177m on the previous year, Movement in net debt 1,177 756 and gearing was 73%.
This reects our longOpening net debt 3,560 2,804 term strategy for growth.
Closing net debt 4,737 3,560 This primarily consists of consideration paid for the HIT acquisition and net debt acquired with T&S Stores PLC.
SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET BALANCE SHEET Net assets have increased 2003 2002 by 993m over last year to 6,559m.
Fixed m m assets increased by 2,558m, after charging Fixed assets 14,061 11,503 depreciation and goodwill amortisation of Current assets 2,440 2,053 602m, an increase of 68m.
Short-term creditors 5,372 4,809 Net current liabilities 2,932 2,756 Total assets less current liabilities 11,129 8,747 Long-term creditors 4,049 2,741 Provisions 521 440 Net assets 6,559 5,566 Equity shareholders funds 6,516 5,530 Minority interests 43 36 Total capital employed 6,559 5,566 PERFORMANCE GRAPH The Groups total shareholder return performance i. e. share price movements plus dividends reinvested 150 over the last five financial years relative to the FTSE 100 index of companies is shown to the left.
This index has been selected Tesco to provide an established and broad-based 100 comparator group of retail and non-retail companies of similar scale to Tesco, against FTSE which the Groups TSR performance can 50 be measured.
2003, 2002 and 2001 statistics have been calculated based on the adoption of FRS 19, Deferred Tax.
2003 ratios have been impacted by the acquisition of T&S Stores PLC.
TESCO PLC 37 REGISTRAR AND SHAREHOLDING ENQUIRIES FINANCIAL CALENDAR Administrative enquiries about the holding of Tesco PLC 2003 shares other than ADRs and enquiries in relation to the Financial year end 22 February scrip dividend scheme should be directed to: Results announced 8 April Final dividend: Lloyds TSB Registrars ex-dividend date 16 April The Causeway, Worthing, Final dividend: West Sussex BN99 6DA record date 22 April Telephone 0870 600 3970 Annual Report posted 9 May AGM and trading LOW COST DEALING statement 13 June The company has arranged a low cost postal share Final dividend pay date 27 June dealing service through Lloyds TSB Registrars.
For details Half year end 9 August and a dealing form please telephone 0870 600 3970.
Interim results announced 16 September TESCO WEBSITES Interim dividend: Tesco information, including the Annual Report and ex-dividend date 24 September Financial Statements 2003, is available on the internet Interim dividend: record date 26 September at www.
com corporateinformation Trading statement mid November SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ONLINE Interim dividend: pay date 28 November Tesco shareholders have the option of viewing the Annual Report through the internet.
2004 Financial year end 28 February The information will be exactly the same as the printed Results announced mid April version, but using the internet has clear advantages such as lowering our costs and reducing environmental waste.
CUSTOMER SERVICES Tesco Customer Services Freepost SCO2298 Baird Avenue, Dundee, DD1 1YP Telephone 0800 505555 e-mail customer.
co. uk INVESTOR RELATIONS Investor Relations Department Tesco PLC, Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire EN8 9SL Telephone 01992 646484 e-mail investor.
com SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE Rowley Ager Tesco PLC, Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire EN8 9SL Telephone 01992 632222 Designed and produced by Corporate Edge 020 7855 5888 Photography by Arnhel fide Serra Printed by CTD Capita Tesco PLC, Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire EN8 9SL
