28 TESCO PLC accounting policies BASIS OF PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over These financial statements have been prepared under the the anticipated useful economic lives of the assets.
historical cost convention, in accordance with applicable The following rates applied for the Group and are accounting standards and the Companies Act 1985. consistent with the prior year: As in the prior year, the Group has continued to account Land premia paid in excess of the alternative use for pensions and other post-employment benets in accordance value at 2.5% of cost.
with SSAP 24 but has complied with the transitional disclosure Freehold and leasehold buildings with greater than requirements of FRS 17.
These transitional disclosures are 40 years unexpired at 2.5% of cost.
Leasehold properties with less than 40 years unexpired are amortised by equal annual instalments over the BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Group financial statements unexpired period of the lease.
consist of the financial statements of the parent company, Plant, equipment, xtures and ttings and motor its subsidiary undertakings and the Groups share of interests vehicles at rates varying from 10% to 33%.
in joint ventures and associates.
The accounts of the parent companys subsidiary undertakings are prepared to dates around 22 February 2003 apart from Global T. H. Tesco Polska GOODWILL Goodwill arising from transactions entered into Sp.
z o. o. Tesco Stores CR a. s. Tesco Stores SR a. s. Samsung after 1 March 1998 is capitalised and amortised on a straightTesco Co. Limited, Tesco Malaysia Sdn Bhd, Tesco Taiwan Co. line basis over its useful economic life, up to a maximum of Limited and Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Ltd which 20 years.
In the opinion All goodwill arising from transactions entered into prior of the Directors it is necessary for the above named to 1 March 1998 has been written off to reserves.
subsidiaries to prepare accounts to a date earlier than the rest of the Group to enable the timely publication of the IMPAIRMENT OF FIXED ASSETS AND GOODWILL Fixed Group financial statements.
assets and goodwill are subject to review for impairment The Groups interests in joint ventures are accounted in accordance with FRS 11, Impairment of Fixed Assets and for using the gross equity method.
Any impairment is recognised in the profit and in associates are accounted for using the equity method.
loss account in the year in which it occurs.
TURNOVER Turnover consists of sales through retail outlets LEASING Plant, equipment and xtures and ttings which and sales of development properties excluding value are the subject of finance leases are dealt with in the financial added tax.
statements as tangible xed assets and equivalent liabilities at what would otherwise have been the cost of outright STOCKS Stocks comprise goods held for resale and properties purchase.
held for, or in the course of, development and are valued at Rentals are apportioned between reductions of the the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Stocks in stores are respective liabilities and finance charges, the latter being calculated at retail prices and reduced by appropriate margins calculated by reference to the rates of interest implicit in to the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The finance charges are dealt with under interest payable in the profit and loss account.
MONEY MARKET DEPOSITS Money market deposits are Leased assets are depreciated in accordance with the stated at cost.
All income from these investments is included depreciation accounting policy over the anticipated working in the profit and loss account as interest receivable and lives of the assets which generally correspond to the primary similar income.
The cost of operating leases in respect of land and buildings and other assets is expensed as incurred.
FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION Fixed assets are carried at cost and include amounts in respect of interest paid on DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax is recognised in respect of funds specically related to the nancing of assets in the all timing differences that have originated but not reversed course of construction.
Interest is capitalised on a gross basis.
by the balance sheet date and which could give rise to an TESCO PLC 29 obligation to pay more or less taxation in the future.
Deferred FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Derivative instruments utilised tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded by the Group are interest rate swaps and caps, forward as recoverable.
They are regarded as recoverable to the start interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward extent that on the basis of all available evidence, it is regarded rate agreements and forward exchange contracts and as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable options.
Termination payments made or received in respect profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing of derivatives are spread over the life of the underlying differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a exposure in cases where the underlying exposure continues non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to to exist.
Where the underlying exposure ceases to exist, any apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based termination payments are taken to the profit and loss account.
on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance Interest differentials on derivative instruments are sheet date.
recognised by adjusting net interest payable.
Premia or discounts on derivative instruments are amortised over the shorter of PENSIONS The expected cost of pensions in respect of the life of the instrument or the underlying exposure.
the Groups dened benefit pension schemes is charged to Currency swap agreements and forward exchange the profit and loss account over the working lifetimes of contracts are valued at closing rates of exchange.
Resulting employees in the schemes.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits gains or losses are offset against foreign exchange gains or are spread over the expected remaining working lifetimes losses on the related borrowings or, where the instrument is of employees.
used to hedge a committed future transaction, are deferred until the transaction occurs or is extinguished.
POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS The cost of providing other post-retirement benets, which comprise private healthcare, is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost over the service lives of relevant employees in accordance with the advice of qualied actuaries.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits are spread over the expected remaining working lifetimes of relevant employees.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the financial year end exchange rates.
profits and losses of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange.
Gains and losses arising on the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries, less exchange differences arising on matched foreign currency borrowings, are taken to reserves and disclosed in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are recognised in the profit and loss account when the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised.
