General Information Taxation The following is a general guide to certain aspects of current United Kingdom law and Inland Revenue practice to which holders of the company's ordinary shares are subject as of the date of this document.
The information provided is of a general nature and only relates to the position of persons who are absolute beneficial owners of ordinary shares and may not apply to certain classes of persons including in particular dealers in securities and references to holders or shareholders should, where relevant, be construed accordingly.
Dividends Under current United Kingdom taxation legislation, no tax will be withheld from dividend payments by the company.
"An individual shareholder who is resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes will be entitled to a tax credit in respect of any dividend received from the company and will in general be taxable on the aggregate of the dividend and the tax credit the ""gross dividend""."
The value of the tax credit will be equal to one ninth of the dividend received.
The gross dividend will be treated as the top slice of an individual's income.
A United Kingdom resident individual who is not liable to income tax in respect of the gross dividend will generally not be able to reclaim the tax credit or part thereof from the Inland Revenue.
In the case of a United Kingdom resident individual shareholder who is liable to income tax at only the lower rate or the basic rate the tax credit will in each case satisfy his tax liability in full and there will be no further tax to pay.
A United Kingdom resident individual shareholder who is liable to income tax at the higher rate will be subject to income tax on the gross dividend at 32.5%, but the tax credit will be set against part of his tax liability.
A corporate shareholder which is resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes will generally not be subject to corporation tax on any dividend received.
United Kingdom resident pension funds are not entitled to reclaim the tax credit on dividends paid by the company.
Transitional provisions apply to dividends received by charities and in respect of shares held in personal equity plans and individual savings accounts.
A shareholder resident outside the United Kingdom may also be subject to foreign taxation on dividend income under local law.
A shareholder resident outside the United Kingdom will not, in almost all cases, be able to obtain payment of any tax credit.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Transfers of ordinary shares out of the Euroclear and Clearstream Banking Systems.
Transactions in the company's ordinary shares executed on Nasdaq Europe were settled by delivery through Euroclear or Clearstream Banking.
Following the closure of Nasdaq Europe, where no sale is involved, and the company's ordinary shares are transferred by Euroclear or Clearstream Banking or its nominee to the beneficial owners of the company's ordinary shares, no UK ad valorem stamp duty or Stamp Duty Reserve Tax, or SDRT, should be payable.
By contrast, such a transfer directly to a purchaser for consideration may give rise to a liability to ad valorem stamp duty or SDRT calculated by reference to the amount or value of the consideration.
Transfers of our ordinary shares into, within and out of CREST.
Transactions in the company's ordinary shares executed on the London Stock Exchange will be settled by delivery through CREST.
No ad valorem stamp duty or SDRT is generally payable on the deposit of shares into CREST unless the transfer into CREST is made for consideration.
SDRT at a rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration is payable for the account of the purchaser, on paperless transfers of our ordinary shares within CREST and no ad valorem stamp duty should be payable.
There is no additional ad valorem stamp duty or SDRT liability where ordinary shares are taken out of CREST except pursuant to a transfer on sale.
Transfer of our ordinary shares in Registered Form.
Ad valorem stamp duty is generally payable on instruments conveying or transferring shares or securities on sale and SDRT is imposed on agreements for the transfer of certain shares and securities.
In the case of stamp duty the charge is normally at the rate of 0.5 percent rounded up to the nearest 5 of the amount or value of the consideration given for the transfer and in the case of SDRT is 0.5 percent of such amount or value.
Stamp duty and SDRT are generally payable by the purchaser.
Where a charge to SDRT arises on an unconditional agreement to transfer shares or securities and before the expiry of a period of six years beginning with the date of that agreement, an instrument of transfer is duly stamped, any liability for SDRT will be cancelled or SDRT repaid.
A transfer of ordinary shares for no consideration whatsoever should not give rise to payment of ad valorem stamp duty or SDRT, and it should not be necessary to pay the fixed duty of 5 thereon.
Capital gains tax UK resident or ordinarily resident individual holders of the company's ordinary shares or persons who hold their ordinary shares through a permanent establishment of branch in the UK may be liable to capital gains tax on any chargeable gain realized on the disposal of ordinary shares, subject to any allowances, reliefs or exemptions that may be available to them.
Special rules apply to individuals who dispose of shares at a time when they are temporarily not resident or ordinarily resident in the UK.
UK resident corporate holders of ordinary shares are liable to corporation tax on chargeable gains realized on disposal of their holding of ordinary shares, subject to certain reliefs and exemptions.
General Information 63 Exchange rates As at April 5, 2004, the exchange rate between the pound sterling and Euro as reported by Oanda was 1 Euro 1.5099.
The financial statements in respect of the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 were issued with unqualified audit opinions thereon.
Advisors Auditors Legal Advisors Registered Of ce Deloitte & Touche LLP Hale and Dorr LLP Cambridge Business Park Leda House Alder Castle Cowley Road Station Road 10 Noble Street Cambridge CB4 0WZ Cambridge CB1 2RN London EC2V 7QS Registered in England 3175909 Bankers Investor Relations UBS Warburg Financial Dynamics Ltd. 1 2 Finsbury Avenue Holborn Gate London EC2N 2PP 26 Southampton Buildings London WC2A 1PB 64 General Information Autonomy awarded parliamentary deal Financial Times, 15th December 2003 Autonomy in video deal with AOL Financial Times, 10th December 2003 Autonomy to top estimates Financial Times, 9th October 2003 Aungate: a solution for enterprise compliance... Banking Technology, July August 2003 Virage bought by Autonomy Computing, 17th July 2003 Autonomy pays $24.8m for Virage Financial Times, 11th July 2003 Autonomy leads fight against junk email The Independent, 3rd July 2003 Autonomy taps into compliance market Financial Times, 16th June 2003 Real-time voice recognition apps set to revolutionize the call center Computer Weekly, 27th May 2003 Autonomy allies with Chinese information industry center New Media Age, 17th April 2003 Autonomy wins security deal Computing, 6th March 2003 Autonomy in 4m Euro deal Financial Times, 3rd March 2003 Headquarters: Autonomy Inc. One Market, Spear Street Tower, San Francisco, CA 94105, US Phone: 1 415 243 9955 Fax: 1 415 243 9984 Email: info@us.
com Autonomy Systems Ltd Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Rd, Cambridge CB4 0WZ, UK Tel: 44 0 1223 448 000 Fax: 44 0 1223 448 001 Email: autonomy@autonomy.
com Other Offices: Autonomy has additional offices in Boston, New York and Washington DC, as well as in Amsterdam, Beijing, Brussels, Hamburg, London, Madrid, Milan, Munich, Oslo, Paris, Rome, Singapore, Stockholm, Sydney and Taipei.
com Copyright 2004 Autonomy Corp. All rights reserved.
Other trademarks are registered trademarks and the properties of their respective owners.
