Report of Independent Auditors Independent auditors' report to the members of Autonomy Corporation plc We have audited the group financial statements of Autonomy Corporation plc for the year ended December 31, 2003, which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Operations, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 19.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the Report on Directors' Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
As explained in Note 2, these financial statements have been prepared for the purpose of complying with the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority and in accordance with accounting policies generally accepted in the United States and not for the purposes of section 227 of the Companies Act 1985.
This report is made solely to the company's members as a body.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the Statement of Directors' responsibilities, the Company's Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the information contained in the Report on Directors' Remuneration.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors' Remuneration described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom regulatory requirements and United States auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements are presented fairly, in all material respects and whether the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors' Remuneration described as having been audited have been properly prepared.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors' remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Report of the Directors and the other information contained in the Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2003 as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Report on Directors' Remuneration, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in the United States of America.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors' Remuneration described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors' Remuneration described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors' Remuneration described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group at December 31, 2003 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
D fide ello oiitttte e & & T To ou uc ch he e Chartered Accountants Cambridge, England April 14, 2004 42 Accounts Independent auditors' report to the members of Autonomy Corporation plc We have audited the group's financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2002 which comprise Consolidated Statement of Operations, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 19.
As explained in Note 2, the financial statements have been prepared for the purpose of complying with the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and not for the purposes of section 227 of the Companies Act 1985.
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those matters we are required under the terms of the instructions of the directors to state to them in an auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by United Kingdom law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulatory requirements and for preparing the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the letter from the CEO, the sections entitled 'Lighting the Path Ahead', 'Security', 'Partners and OEMs', 'Return On Investment', 'Technology and Products', 'IDOL', 'The Board', and 'Operating and Financial Review', the 'Directors' Report', 'Corporate Governance Report' and the 'Remuneration Committee Report'.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group as at December 31, 2002 and of the profit of the group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
E Er rn ns stt & & Y Yo ou un ng g L LL LP P Cambridge, England February 17, 2003 Accounts 43 Independent auditors' report to the shareholders of Autonomy Corporation plc: The following report was issued by Arthur Andersen on February 15, 2002 to the Directors and shareholders of Autonomy Corporation plc and included in the Companys Annual Report in respect of the year ended December 31, 2001.
Arthur Andersen ceased trading on August 1, 2002, and hence it is not possible to obtain a resigned opinion.
We have audited the financial statements of Autonomy Corporation plc for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 which comprise the statement of operations, balance sheet, statements of changes in shareholders' equity, statement of cash flows, and the related notes numbered 1 to 17.
We have also examined the amounts disclosed relating to emoluments and share options of the directors which form part of the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 32 and 33.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
As explained in note 2, the financial statements have been prepared for the purpose of complying with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These financial statements have not been prepared for the purposes of section 227 of the Companies Act 1985 and are therefore not the statutory accounts.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements included therein, as described in the Directors' Report.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements present fairly the state of affairs of the group and are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors' report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors' remuneration and transactions with the company is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance report reflects the company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the company's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the letter from the Chief Executive Officer, and the sections entitled The Marketplace and Beyond, The ROI, Technology and Products, Award Winning Technology, The Board Biographies, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Corporate Governance Report, and Remuneration Committee Report.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the company and of the group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements present fairly the state of affairs of the group at December, 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 and of the group's profits and losses for the years then ended and have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
48 Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 The Company Business of the Company The Company develops and markets software products that are used in automating the management, processing and delivery of unstructured information sources across the Internet and the extended enterprise.
Unstructured information is data, such as Web pages, e-mails and word processing documents, that has not been organized and stored in specific forms, such as relational databases.
The Companys proprietary Dynamic Reasoning Engine, or DRE, applies sophisticated algorithms to analyze information, enabling operations to be performed automatically on this information.
This provides a platform for the Companys own products aimed at applications in new media, enterprise and e-commerce markets and increasingly a variety of applications developed by third party OEMs.
The Company is a holding company which principally operates through six trading subsidiaries, Autonomy Systems Limited, Dremedia Limited and SoftSound Limited, based in Cambridge, England, Autonomy Nordic AS, based in Oslo, Norway, Autonomy, Inc. a New Jersey corporation having its offices in San Francisco, California, and Virage, Inc. a Delaware corporation having its offices in San Mateo, California.
The Company has also established a wholly-owned subsidiary, Agentworld Inc. a New Jersey Corporation which to date has not traded.
Autonomy Systems Limited and Autonomy Inc. were established in May 1995 and March 1996 respectively.
The Company acquired 49% of Dremedia Limited in July 2001, and acquired the remaining 51% interest in May 2003 see note 5 - Intangible Assets.
The Company acquired 60% of SoftSound Limited in May 2000 for cash consideration and the remaining 40% interest in September 2003 see note 6 - Goodwill.
The Company acquired 100% of Virage, Inc. in September 2003 see note 9 - Virage Acquisition.
Incorporation and History The Company was incorporated in England and Wales as a public limited company on March 21, 1996.
Technological Changes The market for the Companys products and services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards.
These changes require the Company to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of its products, particularly in response to competition.
There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in responding sufficiently to these developments, or that competitors will not introduce superior or more cost-effective technological improvements.
In addition, new products and enhancements could entail substantial development costs and could contain design flaws or other defects that could require costly modifications or lead to loss of customer confidence.
Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition or operating results.
Dependence on Proprietary Technology The Companys success is heavily dependent upon its proprietary technologies.
The Company depends upon a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, license agreements, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and various security measures to protect its technology rights.
The Company currently has 13 issued patents, and additional patent applications pending.
There can be no assurance that any necessary patents relating to any of the Companys products will be issued.
There can be no assurance that the Company will be able legally to prevent others from copying its technology or producing compatible competing products.
If others were to sell Autonomy-compatible products, the Companys sales and gross margins would be materially adversely affected.
Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Companys protective efforts will prevent others from misappropriating its technology or from independently developing similar or superior technology.
Any infringement of the Companys proprietary technology could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Dependence on Key Individuals The success of the Company depends to a significant extent upon a limited number of key employees including Dr. Michael R. Lynch, the developer of the Companys proprietary Dynamic Reasoning Engine and managing director and chief executive officer, and Richard G. Gaunt, technical director and chief technical officer.
The loss of either Dr. Lynch or Mr. Gaunt or any other executive officer may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results or financial condition of the Company.
Need for New Products Substantially all of the Companys revenue is derived from sales of the current suite of products, which are expected to account for the majority of revenue for the foreseeable future.
As a result of this dependence on a single suite of products, a decline in pricing of, or market acceptance of, the products, due to competition, technological change or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations.
Because the market for information management products is characterized by changing technology and periodic new product introductions, future financial performance will depend in part on the successful development and customer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of the suite of products and other products on a timely basis.
There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be successful in marketing its current suite of products or any other new or enhanced products.
Accounts 49 2 Basis of Financial Statements Basis of Presentation The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP.
Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with US GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Reclassifications Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts reported in the prior years to conform to the current year presentation.
These reclassifications have no impact on net profit or shareholders equity.
Companies Act 1985 These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and do not comprise the statutory accounts of the Company within the meaning of Section 240 of the Companies Act 1985, as amended, of Great Britain the Companies Act.
The Companys statutory accounts are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom UK GAAP, in compliance with the Companies Act and are presented in pounds sterling.
Statutory accounts for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, have been delivered to the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales.
The auditors of those statutory accounts have given unqualified audit opinions thereon which did not contain statements under Section 237 2 or 3 of the Companies Act.
Statutory accounts for the year ended December 31, 2003, have been prepared and the auditors of those statutory accounts have given an unqualified audit opinion thereon which did not contain statements under Section 237 2 or 3 of the Companies Act.
Those accounts will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales following required shareholder approval.
3 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group.
The Companys principal trading subsidiaries, all of which have been consolidated in these financial statements, are Autonomy Systems Limited, Autonomy Inc.
Autonomy Nordic AS, Dremedia Limited, SoftSound Limited and Virage, Inc. All intercompany transactions and balances between the companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
The Company acquired a 49% stake in Dremedia on July 2, 2001, which was accounted for in accordance with the equity method.
As a result of the acquisition of the remaining 51% interest, commencing May 13, 2003, the results of Dremedia have been consolidated as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
As a result of the acquisition of Virage in September 2003, commencing September 2, 2003, the results of Virage have been consolidated as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid instruments with original maturities of less than or equal to three months from the date of purchase.
Intangible Assets Software licenses are capitalized at cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of three years, which is their estimated useful economic life.
The Company follows the provisions of SFAS No.
144, Accounting for the Impairment of Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, also implemented in 2002, for assessing whether an impairment has occurred.
Technology acquired as a result of business combinations is recorded at the valuation determined in accordance with SFAS No.
After initial recognition, purchased technology is accounted for in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
Purchased technology is amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic life.
Goodwill The Company capitalized goodwill, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, on the acquisitions of SoftSound Limited, Autonomy Nordic AS and Virage, Inc. see Note 6.
On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No.
142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
142, goodwill ceased to be amortized as of January 1, 2002, and is tested for impairment annually or whenever indicators of impairment arise using the fair value method.
Prior to the adoption of SFAS No.
142, goodwill arising from these acquisitions was amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic life, which was considered to be three years and ten years respectively.
Plant and Equipment Plant and equipment is stated at historical cost.
The investments in non-publicly traded companies are considered impaired when a review of the investees financial status, operations and other indicators of impairment indicate that the carrying value of the investment is not likely to be recoverable.
Equity Method of Accounting The Company acquired a 49% stake in Dremedia on July 2, 2001, for cash consideration of approximately $450,000, and which has been accounted for in accordance with the equity method.
As a result of the acquisition of the remaining 51% interest in Dremedia, commencing May 13, 2003, the results of Dremedia have been consolidated as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company in accordance with SFAS No.
There is no goodwill arising from the initial investment or subsequent acquisition.
Share-based Compensation The Company has adopted the disclosure provisions of SFAS No.
123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation and SFAS No.
148, Accounting for StockBased  and Disclosure.
As permitted by the provisions of SFAS No.
123, the Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion 25 and related interpretations in accounting for its employee share option plans using the intrinsic value method.
As a result compensation expense related to options granted is measured based on the intrinsic value of the underlying ordinary shares.
See Note 11 for a summary of the pro-forma effects on reported net profit and earnings per share for fiscal periods 2003, 2002 and 2001 based on the fair value of options and shares granted as prescribed by SFAS No.
Income Taxes The Company follows SFAS No.
Under the asset and liability method of SFAS No.
109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.
Deferred tax assets are recognized in full subject to a valuation allowance to reduce the carrying amount of the asset to that which is more likely than not to be realized.
Revenue Recognition The Company generates revenues from licensing the rights to use its software products directly to end-users and indirectly through resellers.
The Company also generates revenues from sales of consulting, customer support and training services performed for customers that license its products.
To date, revenues from consultancy, customer support and training have been less than 10% of total revenues and have not been separately analyzed.
Revenues from software license agreements are recognized where there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement with a customer, delivery of the software has taken place, collectability is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
If an acceptance period is required, revenues are recognized upon the earlier of customer acceptance or the expiration of the acceptance period.
Revenue is recognized on contracts with extended credit terms of up to one year providing the customer passes defined credit worthiness checks.
If significant post-delivery obligations exist or if a sale is subject to customer acceptance, revenues are deferred until no significant obligations remain or acceptance has occurred.
Sales through resellers are recognized only where an end user is identified.
The Company recognizes license revenues on shipment using the residual method of Statement of Position 98-9 as the Company has developed vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for the undelivered elements in its arrangements.
The Companys arrangements typically consist of two elements: license and support and maintenance.
The Company has developed vendor specific objective evidence of fair value with respect to support and maintenance on the basis of transactions where support and maintenance is sold separately.
The Company also enters into reseller arrangements that typically provide for royalties payable to the Company based on agreed rates.
Royalties are generally recognized as reported by the reseller in re-licensing the Companys products to end-users.
In certain circumstances, advance royalties are recognized upon the initial sale if all products subject to sub-licensing are delivered in the current period, no right of return policy exists, collection is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
If these conditions are not met, the Company does not recognize advance royalties until reported by the reseller in re-licensing the Companys products to end-users.
Revenues from customer support services are recognized ratably over the term of the support period.
If customer support services are included free or at a discount in a license agreement, these amounts are allocated out of the license fee at their fair market value based on the value established by independent sale of the customer support services to customers.
Consulting revenues are primarily related to implementation services performed on a time and materials basis under separable service arrangements related to the installation of the Companys software products.
Revenues from consulting and training services are recognized as services are performed.
If a transaction includes both license and service elements, license fee revenue is recognized upon shipment of the software, provided services do not include significant customisation or modification of the base product and the payment terms for licenses are not subject to acceptance criteria.
In cases where license fee payments are contingent upon the acceptance of services, revenues from both the license and the service elements are deferred until the acceptance criteria are met.
Cost of license revenues includes the cost of royalties due on third-party licenses, cost of product media, product duplication and manuals.
Deferred revenues primarily relate to customer support fees, which have been paid by the customers prior to the performance of these services.
Deferred revenue is generally recognized over a period of one to three years.
If the Company cannot objectively determine the fair value of any undelivered element included in bundled software and service arrangements, the Company defers revenue until all elements are delivered and all services have been performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for any remaining undelivered elements.
When the fair value of a delivered element has not been established, the Company uses the residual method to record revenue if the fair value of all undelivered elements is determinable.
Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered elements and, subject to all other criteria being met, is recognized as revenue.
Accounts 51 3 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Major Customers In 2003, 2002 and 2001, no customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenues.
Geographical Analysis of Sales A geographical analysis of sales is set out in note 15.
Research and Development Expenditure on research and development is expensed to operations in the year in which it is incurred.
Advertising Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, advertising expenses were approximately $1,720,000, $3,992,000 and $6,294,000, respectively.
Operating Leases Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
Foreign Currency The functional currency of the Company and its UK subsidiaries is the pound sterling.
The functional currencies of the other subsidiaries are their local currencies.
In accordance with SFAS No.
52 Foreign Currency Translation, transactions in currencies other than the local currency are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency are translated at the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet dates.
On consolidation, in accordance with SFAS No.
52, non-UK subsidiaries assets and liabilities are translated to pounds sterling at the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet dates and the statements of operations and cash flows are translated at the average exchange rates for the relevant periods.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the opening net assets of non-UK subsidiaries, together with the differences arising between the statements of operations translated at the average exchange rates and the rates prevailing at the balance sheet dates for the relevant periods, are recorded in a separate component of shareholders equity.
All other exchange gains and losses are recorded in the statements of operations.
These financial statements are presented in U. S. dollars in accordance with SFAS No.
52, using the principles set out above to translate the pounds sterling consolidated financial statements.
Comprehensive Income The Company accounts for comprehensive income in accordance with SFAS No.
130 Reporting Comprehensive Income which requires companies to report all changes in equity during a period, except those resulting from investment by owners and distribution to owners, in a financial statement for the period in which they are recognized.
The Company has chosen to disclose Comprehensive Income, which encompasses net income and foreign currency translation adjustments, in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity.
Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk, consist primarily of cash investments and trade receivables.
The Company has cash investment policies that limit investments to investment grade securities with credit worthy financial institutions.
Accounts receivable are typically unsecured.
The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers financial positions and maintains provisions for potential bad debt losses.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS 145.
In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No.
145, Rescission of FASB Statements No.
4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No.
13 and Technical Corrections SFAS No.
The principal change under SFAS 145 is that gains or losses arising from the extinguishment of debt, which are classified as extraordinary items by SFAS No.
4 Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt, an Amendment of APB Opinion No.
30 will no longer be classified as such.
The provisions of SFAS 145 are effective for fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002.
The adoption of SFAS 145 during fiscal 2003 did not have any impact on our financial position or results of operations.
In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No.
146 Accounting for Costs Associated with Disposal or Exit Activities SFAS 146.
This statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No.
94-3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity Including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring.
This statement requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred.
Under EITF 94-3, a liability for an exit cost as defined in EITF 94-3 was recognized at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan.
This statement provides that an entitys commitment to a plan, by itself, does not create a present obligation to others that meets the definition of a liability.
Therefore, SFAS 146 eliminates the definition and requirements for recognition of exit costs in EITF 94-3 until a liability has been incurred and establishes that fair value is the objective for initial measurement of the liability.
However, this standard does not apply to costs associated with exit activities involving entities acquired under business combinations or disposal activities covered under SFAS 144.
The application of SFAS 146 did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.
52 Accounts 3 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued SFAS 149.
On April 30, 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No.
149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities SFAS 149.
SFAS 149 amends SFAS 133 for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and for hedging activities.
SFAS 149 also amends certain other existing pronouncements and will require contracts with comparable characteristics to be accounted for similarly.
In particular, SFAS 149 clarifies when a contract with an initial net investment meets the characteristic of a derivative and clarifies when a derivative that contains a financing component will require special reporting in the statement of cash flows.
SFAS 149 is effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003.
The application of SFAS 149 did not have any impact on our financial position or results of operations.
In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No.
150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity SFAS 150.
SFAS 150 establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity.
SFAS 150 requires that an issuer classify any financial instruments that are within the scope of SFAS 150 as a liability or an asset in some circumstances.
SFAS 150 is effective for the Company for financial instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003.
The Company does not currently have any arrangements within the scope of this Standard.
In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No.
45 Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others.
FIN 45 requires additional disclosure for guarantees, including loan guarantees such as standby letters of credit.
It also clarifies that at the time a company issues a guarantee, the company must recognize an initial liability for the fair value, or market value, of the obligations it assumes under the guarantee and must disclose that information in its interim and annual financial statements.
The provisions related to recognizing a liability at inception of the guarantee for the fair value of the guarantors obligations does not apply to product warranties or to guarantees accounted for as derivatives.
The Company adopted FIN 45 effective January 1, 2003, which did not have a material impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations.
The Company has agreed to indemnify its directors and officers for certain activities undertaken in connection with their employment, and from time-to-time has agreed to indemnify its customers against certain intellectual property infringement claims.
To date no costs have been incurred in connection with these indemnification obligations and no related liabilities have been recorded in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2003.
In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No.
46 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities FIN 46.
FIN 46 requires the Company to consolidate variable interest entities for which the Company are deemed to be the primary beneficiary and disclose information about variable interest entities in which the Company may have a significant variable interest.
FIN 46 will become effective during fiscal 2004 and we do not expect the adoption of this Interpretation to have any impact upon our financial position or results of operations.
In November 2002, the EITF reached a final consensus related to Revenue with Multiple Deliverables EITF 00-21.
The consensus requires that revenue recognition with multiple deliverables should be divided into separate units of accounting if a a delivered item has value to the customer on a standalone basis, b there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value of the undelivered item and c if the arrangement includes a general right of return, delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially in the control of the vendor.
Arrangement consideration should be allocated among the separate units of accounting based on their relative fair value and appropriate revenue recognition criteria would be applied to each separate unit of accounting.
The Company has not yet determined what effect, if any, EITF 00-21 would have on revenue and net income determined in accordance with US GAAP.
The EITF agreed the effective date for the consensus will be for all revenue arrangements entered into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003, with early adoption permitted.
The Company continues to evaluate the impact of this EITF on its financial statements.
This EITF will be effective for the Company for revenue arrangements entered into after January 1, 2004.
The amortization of these rights has been classified as an operating expense within the General and Administrative category.
The amortization expense of software technology rights for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 respectively was $482,000, $303,000 and $806,000.
On May 13, 2003, the Company acquired the remaining 51% interest in Dremedia Limited.
The purchased intangible arising has been based on the Companys estimates.
The amortization expense of purchased intangibles for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 respectively was $391,000, $Nil and $Nil.
Goodwill was tested for impairment upon the adoption of SFAS No.
142 and subsequently on an annual basis or whenever indicators of impairment have arisen.
On September 4, 2003, the Company acquired the remaining 40% interest in SoftSound Limited for cash consideration with goodwill arising of $430,000.
On September 2, 2003, the Company acquired 100% of Virage, Inc. for aggregate cash consideration of $26.3 million.
A preliminary valuation has been attributed to the purchased intangible arising in connection with the Virage acquisition.
The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method.
Accordingly, the purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The net goodwill arising was $20.2 million see note 9 - Virage acquisition.
142, goodwill impairment is deemed to exist if the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its esitmated fair value.
The fair values of the reporting units were estimated using a combination of the discounted cashflows and comparable transactions methodologies.
No impairment was charged in 2003, 2002 and 2001.
Due to the adoption of SFAS No.
142 on January 1, 2002, goodwill arising on acquisitions, which was previously being amortized over periods of three and ten years, respectively, has ceased to be amortized.
Had the provisions of SFAS No.
The Company acquired 49% of the ordinary shares of Dremedia Limited on July 2, 2001, for cash consideration of approximately $450,000.
This investment has been accounted for under the equity method until May 13, 2003 when the remaining 51% of the ordinary shares were acquired by the Company and the activities were subsequently consolidated.
During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company acquired a further minority shareholding in one non-publicly traded company for cash consideration of approximately $550,000, accounted for under the purchase method.
During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company acquired minority shareholdings in two non-publicly traded companies for non-cash consideration of approximately $975,000.
The Company acquired a minority shareholding in one non-publicly traded company in November 2001 for a cash consideration of approximately $300,000.
The acquisition enabled the Company to further extend the adoption of its IDOL software as the key infrastructure for the automated management of all forms of unstructured information.
The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and the results of Virage have been consolidated from this date.
The purchase price was determined to be approximately $28.3 million, which included approximately $1.3 million of transaction and direct acquisition cost and approximately $1.0 million comprising the fair value of Virage employee share options converted to Autonomy share options.
The pro forma disclosures required by FASB 141 are as follows: December 31, 2003 Autonomy Virage Adjustmt.
11 Shareholders equity Capital Restructuring On December 18, 2002, the Company received approval for the Company to reduce the share premium account by $51,535,500.
The reserve produced by the reduction of the share premium account is treated as distributable in the books of the Company.
Share Repurchases and Treasury Stock During 2003, the Company purchased for cancellation 12,332,084 shares at an average price of approximately $2.63 per share 1.62 per share, and its Employee Benefit Trust purchased 180,465 shares at an average price of approximately $2.67 per share 1.66 per share to be held within the trust for the meeting of option exercises held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
During 2002, the Company purchased for cancellation 4,980,286 shares at an average price of approximately $2.38 per share 1.52 per share, and its Employee Benefit Trust purchased 697,073 shares at an average price of approximately $1.72 per share 1.10 per share to be held within the trust for the meeting of option exercises held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
In total the Company has purchased for cancellation an aggregate of 17,312,370 shares at an average price of approximately $2.55 per share 1.59 per share, and its Employee Benefit Trust purchased 877,538 shares at an average price of approximately $1.92 per share 1.21 per share.
Currency of Dividends In the event that the Company was to declare a dividend, such dividend will be declared in pounds sterling.
The payment of dividends is restricted to available distributable reserves as defined by the Companies Act 1985.
Share Option Plans The Company has two unapproved option plans to provide employees and executives with the opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company as an incentive to attract and retain the services of employees.
The two plans are the UK Discretionary Option Scheme 1996 the UK Scheme and the 1998 US Share Option Plan the US Plan.
Under the terms of these plans, options are granted with exercise prices not less than the fair market value of the Companys shares, become exercisable as established by the Board of Directors generally ratably over 4 years, and generally expire seven years from the date of grant.
The number of ordinary shares allocated under the UK Scheme may not on any date, when aggregated with the number of ordinary shares already allocated under the UK Scheme, the US Plan or any other share plan of the Company over the previous five years, exceed 10% of the issued and outstanding share capital of the Company on that date.
UK Discretionary Option Scheme 1996 Under the UK Scheme, the Board of Directors may grant to any eligible employee which may include directors options over ordinary shares.
Such options are personal and may not be transferred.
1998 US Share Option Plan The Companys 1998 US Share Option Plan the US Plan was adopted by the Board on June 23, 1998, and a resolution adopting the US Plan was passed by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on July 2, 1998.
Options over a maximum of 18,000,000 ordinary shares of the Company may be allocated under the US Plan.
However, the number of ordinary shares allocated under the US Plan may not on any date, when aggregated with the number of ordinary shares allocated under the US Plan, the UK Scheme or any other share scheme of the Company over the previous five years, exceed 10% of the issued share capital of the Company on that date.
Virage Option Plans In connection with the acquisition of Virage, Inc. the Company assumed obligations outstanding at the date of acquisition under the Virage, Inc. 1997 Stock Option Plan and the Virage, Inc. 2001 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan.
At the effective time of the acquisition these plans were terminated and options to purchase shares under these plans were converted into options to purchase the Companys ordinary shares.
The range of exercise prices for all options outstanding at December 31, 2003 was $0.88 to $70.00, with a weighted average exercise price of $9.79 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.99 years.
The following table summarizes information about options outstanding at December 31, 2003.
These options had an exercise price of 1 3p, became exercisable on July 10, 1998, following the admission of the Companys shares to EASDAQ now Nasdaq Europe, and were exercisable within the period ending on the seventh anniversary following December 3, 1996.
4,114,240, Nil and Nil of these options were exercised during the twelve months ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 respectively.
On October 30, 2003, Mr Gaunt exercised these options prior to lapsing, and immediately following the exercise of these options, Mr. Gaunt sold approximately 1.66 million Autonomy ordinary shares, to cover the tax liabilities associated with the option exercise.
Accounting for Share-Based Compensation As permitted under SFAS No.
123, the Company has elected to follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees APB No.
25 in accounting for share-based awards to employees, for options granted under the Share Option Plans.
The compensation charge arising is calculated by fixed plan accounting.
Accordingly, for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, compensation expense income of $98,000, $Nil, and $ 197,000, respectively, were recognized for options granted under these plans.
Following the Companys admission to EASDAQ later Nasdaq Europe on July 10, 1998 options have been granted with an exercise price equal to current market value at the date of grant.
No compensation expense is recognized with respect to such awards.
Accounts 57 11 Shareholders equity continued Pro-forma information regarding net profit loss and net profit loss per share is required by SFAS No.
123 and has been determined as if the Company had accounted for its employee share options and the options granted by shareholders under the fair value method consistent with the method prescribed by SFAS No.
The fair value of these options was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions for December 31, 2003: risk free interest rate of 2.84% December 31, 2002: 3.89%, and December 31, 2001: 4.54% : dividend yield of 0% December 31, 2002 and 2001: 0% : volatility factor of 81% December 31, 2002, and 2001: 100% : and an expected life of the option of four years.
The following table summarizes information about the weighted average fair value of options granted, calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.
At December 31, 2003, the Company has stock-based compensation plans, which are described more fully in this note.
The Company accounts for those plans under the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No.
25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations.
The following table illustrates the effect on net profits and earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of FASB Statement No.
123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, to stock-based employee compensation.
The increase in group valuation allowance is due to the inclusion of $3,972,000 valuation allowance with respect to Virage and a current year charge made to APIC of $642,000.
Accounts 59 12 Income taxes continued With respect to Autonomy, Inc. and Virage, Inc. as of December 31, 2003, the Company has approximately $81.6 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards, and $370,000 in research and development tax credits available to reduce future federal income taxes.
The net operating loss carry-forwards and tax credits expire at various dates through fiscal year 2023.
The Company also has approximately $67.7 million of state net operating loss carry-forwards, which expire at various dates through fiscal year 2013.
As of December 31, 2003, the Company has approximately $1.1 million operating loss carry-forwards for Autonomy Nordic AS, $1.7 million operating loss carry-forwards for Virage Europe Limited, $1.6 million operating loss carry-forwards for Dremedia Limited and $1.1 million operating loss carry-forwards for SoftSound Limited.
Deferred tax assets of approximately $31 million pertain to certain net operating loss and credit carry-forwards resulting from the exercise of stock options.
When recognized, the tax benefit of these losses will be accounted for as a credit to additional paid-in capital rather than a reduction of the income tax provision.
13 Related Party Transactions During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 the Company incurred expenses of $189,000, $184,000 and $239,008 respectively for software development services from Cambridge Neurodynamics Limited and billed rent charges and recharges of other expenses to Cambridge Neurodynamics Limited of $125,000, $88,000 and $149,000 in the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 respectively.
Cambridge Neurodynamics Limited owed the Company $37,000, $Nil and $Nil at December 2003, 2002 and 2001 respectively.
The Company owed Cambridge Neurodynamics Limited $Nil, $90,000 and $379,000 at December 2003, 2002 and 2001 respectively.
During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 the Company incurred expenses of $176,000, $488,000 and $1,102,000 respectively for software development services from NCorp Limited.
The company billed NCorp Limited $175,000, $266,000 and $160,000 during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, 2001, respectively, primarily for rent charges, office expenses and other expense recharges.
At December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, NCorp Limited owed the Company $52,000, $Nil and $34,000, respectively.
Cambridge Neurodynamics Limited and NCorp Limited are companies controlled by Dr. Lynch.
Management believes that all related party transactions are conducted on a normal commercial basis.
The Company acquired 49% of the ordinary shares of Dremedia Limited on July 2, 2001, and acquired the remaining 51% interest on May 13, 2003.
During the period from January 1, 2003 through May 13, 2003, and the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company made sales to Dremedia of $31,000, $427,000 and $340,000, and the Company made loans to Dremedia of $55,000, $968,000 and $564,000, respectively.
As of acquisition on May 13, 2003, and as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, Dremedia owed the Company $1,722,000, $1,617,000 and $912,000, and the Company owed Dremedia $Nil, $Nil and $436,000, respectively.
On November 21, 2001, the Company loaned 200,000 approximately $356,000 to an executive officer.
The loan is repayable on November 20, 2004, only if the executive receives or is entitled to receive, bonuses, commissions or otherwise above base salary equal to three times the amount due.
The loan bears interest at market rates of Barclays Bank plc Base Rate plus 0.60%, which during 2003 averaged 4.29%.
As of December 31, 2003, 218,800 was outstanding under the loan, which was the highest amount outstanding during 2003.
The Company is providing against the loan over its life of three years.
14 Earnings loss per share SFAS No.
128, Earnings per Share, requires companies to compute net earnings per share under two different methods, basic and diluted, for all periods for which a statement of operations is presented.
Basic earnings or loss per share is computed by dividing the net earnings or loss by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for all periods.
Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if the earnings were divided by the weighted average number of ordinary and ordinary share equivalents outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing the net income by the weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents from outstanding share options unless they would have an anti-dilutive effect.
Ordinary share equivalents are calculated using the treasury stock method and represent incremental shares issuable upon exercise of the Companys outstanding options.
The following table provides a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.
15 Segment information The Company reports segment information in accordance with SFAS No.
131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision makers, or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The Companys chief operating decision-making group is the executive committee, which is comprised of the chief executive officer, the chief operating officer and various senior officers of the Company.
The Company is organized geographically but in the opinion of the directors, there is only one distinct reportable segment.
Geographical operating segments have been aggregated into one reportable segment on the basis that the geographical operations have characteristics so similar that they can be expected to have essentially the same future prospects.
107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments.
The carrying amounts and fair values of the material financial instruments are shown below in thousands : December 31, December 31, December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Fair Fair Fair Carrying value value Carrying value value Carrying value value Cash and cash equivalents................................. $ 102,250 $ 102,250 $ 147,472 $ 147,472 $ 143,604 $ 137,490 Other investments.............................................. $ 2,158 $ 2,158 $ 1,398 $ 1,398 $ 2,312 $ 2,061 The fair values of financial instruments, which principally comprise cash and cash equivalents, are considered to be equivalent to their carrying values.
18 Employee Benefit Plans The Company sponsors a 401 k plan that allows all U. S. employees that have completed 30 days of service to contribute up to 15% of their compensation, limited to $11,000 in 2003.
Employee contributions and earnings thereon vest immediately.
Although the Company may make discretionary matching contributions to the 401 k plan, none have been made to date.
19 Non-monetary transactions The Companys customers include a number of its suppliers and, on occasion, the Company has purchased goods or services for the Companys operations from these vendors at or about the same time the Company has licensed its software to these organizations.
These transactions are separately negotiated, settled in cash, and recorded at terms the Company considers as a normal commercial basis.
During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recognized approximately $240,000 2003 - $Nil of software license revenues from transactions with vendors where the Company purchased goods or services from those vendors at or about the same time as the software license transactions.
The Company has also entered into joint marketing arrangements with some of its OEM partners in order to facilitate promotion of the joint products in the marketplace and enhance ongoing royalty generating capacity.
The Company recorded these transactions by recording revenue and marketing expense based on actual expenditure of its OEM partner.
During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company funded approximately $400,000 2003 - $Nil into joint marketing arrangements with OEM customers.
In 2002 the Company accepted shares in two of its customers in settlement of outstanding debtor obligations in the amount of approximately $975,000 2003 - $Nil, the basis of valuation being the price of the investees current round of equity financing.
The investments are accounted for under the cost method and are included in equity and other investments on the balance sheet.
