PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting convention leases.
The capitalised values of the assets are written off on the The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention straight line basis over the shorter of the period of the lease or and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
the useful life of the asset concerned.
The interest element of the lease payments is allocated so as to produce a constant periodic Basis of consolidation rate of charge.
The accounts include the results of all subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are Investments consolidated for the periods from the effective dates of acquisition Shares in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for impairment.
or to the effective dates of sale.
An associated undertaking associate is an investment in which the Group has substantial long-term minority equity interest and Accounting period in which it participates in commercial and financial policy decisions.
The accounts are for the 368 days ended 3 January 2004.
The The consolidated profit and loss account includes the Groups share comparative gures are for the 245 days ended 31 December 2002. of the results of associates.
Investments in associates, all of which were acquired before 2 May 1998, are incorporated in the consolidated Foreign currencies balance sheet at cost, less goodwill written off, plus the Groups share Trading results denominated in foreign currencies are translated of post-acquisition reserves.
into sterling at the average rates of exchange ruling throughout the Other investments are stated at the lower of cost and net year.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling realisable value.
at the balance sheet date, or at composite rates specified in related forward contracts.
Foreign exchange differences arising on Stock the translation of the opening net assets of foreign subsidiaries, the Stock is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value with due translation of foreign subsidiaries profit and loss accounts from allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items.
Net realisable value average or composite rates to closing rates and from transactions is the estimated selling price less costs to complete and sell.
Work in executed solely for the purpose of hedging foreign currency translation progress, nished goods and goods held for resale include an exposure are taken to reserves.
Other exchange differences are taken appropriate proportion of overhead expense.
to the profit and loss account when they arise.
Long-term contracts are valued at cost plus attributable profit less provisions for foreseeable loss.
If the outcome of a contract can be Derivative financial instruments assessed with reasonable certainty, profit is taken by the percentage Derivative financial instruments are held to reduce exposure to foreign of completion method, otherwise profit is taken at the conclusion exchange risk and interest rate movements.
None are held for of each contract.
Certain commodities used by operating companies are purchased To qualify as a hedge, a financial instrument must be related or sold by way of forward contracts in order to x the purchase to actual foreign currency assets or liabilities or to a probable price of the underlying raw material or product.
It must involve the same currency or similar currencies arrangement exists, commodities are accounted for at the cost xed as the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign currency by the forward contract.
exchange movements on the Groups operations.
Gains and losses arising on these contracts are deferred and recognised in the profit Own shares and loss account, or as adjustments to the carrying amount of xed Own shares deducted in arriving at shareholders funds represent the assets, only when the hedged transaction has itself been reected cost of the Companys ordinary shares acquired by ESOP trusts in in the Groups accounts.
connection with the Groups employee share schemes.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for The accounting policy for own shares held in an ESOP trust has example, because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, been amended to conform with Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract No.
the instrument is marked to market and any resulting profit or loss 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts UITF 38.
See note 23. recognised at that time.
Goodwill Fixed assets Goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and values attributed to the net assets at acquisition, is now capitalised and any provision for impairment.
is being amortised over its useful economic life which is usually expected Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
not to exceed twenty years.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Depreciation of tangible xed assets, other than freehold land and Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or before 2 May 1998 assets under construction, is provided on the straight line basis over was charged directly to reserves.
The profit or loss on disposal or anticipated useful lives: closure of a business includes any attributable goodwill previously charged to reserves.
Freehold buildings and long leasehold land and buildings Ten to fty years Turnover Short leasehold land and buildings Length of lease Turnover comprises sales in the ordinary course of business to external Plant, equipment and vehicles Two to twenty years customers for goods supplied and despatched and services provided, Finance leases exclusive of sales related taxes.
Assets held under leases which confer rights and obligations similar Application Note G to Financial Reporting Standard No.
5 Reporting to those attaching to owned assets are capitalised at fair value as the substance of transactions, FRS 5 which deals with revenue tangible xed assets and the corresponding liability to pay rentals recognition, has been adopted during the year.
The Groups revenue is shown net of interest in the accounts as obligations under finance recognition policy was already compliant with this pronouncement.
TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 45 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Research and development Expenditure on research and development and on patents and trademarks is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on the straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Employee share schemes With the exception of awards made under SAYE option schemes in respect of which no cost is recognised, the cost of awards made under the Groups share based compensation schemes is based on the intrinsic value of the awards and is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period to which the employees performance relates.
Pensions and other post-retirement benets The costs of pension plans and other post-retirement benets are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the costs over the employees working lives with the Group.
As permitted by the transitional arrangements of Financial Reporting Standard No.
17 Retirement benets FRS 17 the Group has elected to defer its implementation.
The disclosures required under the transitional arrangements are set out in note 26.
Government grants Government grants relating to tangible xed assets are treated as deferred income and credited to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the anticipated useful lives of the assets to which the grants relate.
Other grants are credited to the profit and loss account when they are received.
Tax The tax charge is based on the profit for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is provided in full on all liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is regarded that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been discounted.
