INVESTOR INFORMATION Annual General Meeting New York, NY 10286-1258, or by telephoning 1 888 BNY ADRS Shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting to be US callers only or 1 610 382 7836. held at 11.00 am on 21 May 2004.
The venue is The Queen Elizabeth II World Wide Web Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The Companys web site address is shown on the back cover of this The nearest Underground stations are St. Jamess Park and Westminster.
All Tomkins recent press releases are accessible, together Dividends with the latest Annual Report and Accounts, Summary Financial The final dividend of 7.4 pence per ordinary share will be paid on Statement and Interim Report.
In addition, callers may obtain direct 1 June 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business access to the web sites of many Tomkins operating companies.
For holders of American Depositary Receipts ADRs, Share price information the dividend, declared in pence, is converted to US dollars on the UK The price of Tomkins ordinary shares is available on the Investor dividend payment date using the exchange rate prevailing on that day.
Information page of the Companys web site.
The Financial Times Payment of dividend Cityline Service also provides share price information.
This telephone Shareholders who have mandated their dividends to be credited to service is available on 0906 843 4244 and calls within the UK are a nominated bank or building society account should note that charged at 60 pence per minute at all times.
In addition, the share dividends are paid automatically to their account through the Bankers price is listed in most national daily newspapers and on Teletext.
Automated Clearing Services BACS with the associated tax voucher being sent direct to shareholders at their registered address unless Registrar requested otherwise.
If the nominated account is with a bank or Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in Tomkins plc, such building society which is not a member of BACS, both the payment as loss of a share certicate, dividend payment instructions, or a and tax voucher are sent to the account holding branch.
Shareholders change of address, should be notied direct to the registrar, whose who do not currently mandate their dividends and who wish to have address is on the inside back cover of this Annual Report.
Your their dividend paid direct to a bank or building society account should correspondence should refer to Tomkins plc and state the registered complete a dividend mandate instruction form obtainable from Lloyds name and address of the shareholder.
TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, or by Every effort is made to prevent multiple mailing of documents to telephoning 0870 600 3953. shareholders.
If you have received more than one copy of this Annual Report or Summary Financial Statement and would like to amalgamate Dividend Reinvestment Plan your holdings, please complete the Shareholder Register Multiple The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
This allows Accounts form enclosed with this Annual Report and return it to the shareholders to invest their cash dividend in purchasing shares of the registrar at the address on the form.
The Companys Registrar arranges, on behalf of participants, through the agency of a suitably authorised stockbroking Electronic communication business, the purchase of the maximum whole number of ordinary The registrar operates a share register internet enquiry service to shares possible on, or as soon as reasonably practicable after, the provide shareholders with details of their shareholdings.
To register dividend payment date.
Favourable dealing costs have been arranged.
for the service please go to www.
You will need your For further details or an application form please write to Lloyds TSB shareholder reference which can be found on your share certicate Registrars, Share Dividend Team, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex or tax voucher and you will be asked to select your own PIN.
A user ID BN99 6DA, or telephone their Helpline on 0870 241 3018. will then be posted to you.
Once registered, shareholders may elect to receive future shareholder information and Company documents Individual Savings Accounts ISAs electronically, thereby improving speed of communication and A Tomkins ISA enables UK residents to invest in the Company in a tax reducing administrative costs of printing and postage.
You can obtain more information on ISAs from our www.
co. uk will also provide you with more details of the corporate ISA provider, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, service and practical help and information on other share registration West Sussex BN99 6UY, or by telephoning 0870 242 4244. matters.
Further details can be found on the Electronic Share Dealing Communications letter enclosed with this Annual Report.
A telephone and internet dealing service has been arranged through Electronic proxy voting Lloyds TSB Registrars which provides a simple way of selling Tomkins Shareholders may register their voting instructions for the forthcoming ordinary shares.
Commission is 0.5% with a minimum charge of 20 Annual General Meeting via the internet.
If you have registered for the for telephone dealing and 17.50 for internet dealing.
For telephone registrars shareview service described above, you may submit your voting sales call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30 am and 4.30 pm, Monday to instructions by logging on to your shareview portfolio and accessing Friday, and for internet sales log on to www.
the Company Meetings Tomkins site.
If you have not registered with You will need your shareholder reference number shown on your shareview, you may still register your vote electronically by going to share certicate.
A weekly postal dealing service is also available and www.
You will be required to key in the three security a form together with terms and conditions can be obtained by calling numbers printed on your form of proxy to access the voting site.
Commission is 1% with a minimum of 10.
US listing Global BuyDIRECT Tomkins ordinary shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange in A simple dealing service is available, to US residents only, for buying and selling Tomkins ADRs.
Details can be obtained from The Bank the form of ADRs.
Each ADR represents four Tomkins ordinary shares.
of New York, Investor Relations, PO Box 11258, Church Street Station, Tomkins is subject to the regulations of the Securities and Exchange 84 TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 Commission SEC in the USA as they apply to foreign companies and les with the SEC its Annual Report on Form 20-F and other information as required.
ADR holders are not members of the Company but may instruct The Bank of New York at the address on the inside back cover, which administers the Tomkins ADR programme, as to the exercise of voting rights pertaining to the number of ordinary shares represented by their ADRs.
Trading symbols Tomkins London Stock Exchange SEDOL number is 0896265 and its trading symbol is TOMK.
The Companys trading symbol for its American Depositary Receipts is TKS.
Report and Accounts Companies House In accordance with the requirements of the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales the registrar and following the passing of the resolution to be proposed at the 2004 Annual General Meeting to receive these financial statements, a copy of this document omitting photographic representations and with such further modications as may be necessary to comply with such requirements will be lodged with the registrar in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
After being so lodged, further copies of this Annual Report and Accounts or the Summary Financial Statement in the form sent to shareholders will be available from the Company Secretary upon request.
