RECONCILIATION TO ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES GENERALLY ACCEPTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA UNAUDITED The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom UK GAAP which differ in certain respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America US GAAP.
The following is a summary of the material adjustments to profit attributable to shareholders and shareholders equity determined in accordance with UK GAAP, necessary to reconcile to net income and shareholders equity determined in accordance with US GAAP.
Reconciliation from UK GAAP to US GAAP 3 January 31 December 31 December 2004 2002 2002 12 months 12 months 8 months Notes million million million profit attributable to shareholders Net income before preference dividend under UK GAAP 171.8 184.0 117.8 US GAAP adjustments: Goodwill amortisation a 11.9 1.8 6.8 Goodwill impairment a 30.0 30.9 30.9 Reversal of UK provision for impairment a 51.4 Intangibles amortisation b 1.6 0.3 0.1 Valuation of net assets acquired in a business combination c 0.2 Gain loss on disposal of operations d 22.6 1.0 2.5 Pension costs e 3.4 10.4 6.8 Share options f 4.0 2.2 3.7 Capitalised interest g 2.2 3.4 2.2 Deferred income tax h 2.1 3.8 4.5 Derivatives i 29.5 0.8 10.5 Restructuring costs j 13.0 Net income under US GAAP before cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 142 267.9 165.0 109.8 Cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 142 a 32.7 32.7 Net income under US GAAP 267.9 132.3 77.1 $ million $ million $ million Net income under US GAAP expressed in US dollars at an average exchange rate of 1 $1.6306 December 2002 12 months 1 $1.4984 and December 2002 8 months 1 $1.5335 436.8 198.2 118.2 Differences arising from use of average exchange rate versus actual exchange rate 6.0 1.0 0.6 430.8 197.2 118.8 31 December 3 January 2002 2004 restated Notes million million Shareholders equity Shareholders equity under UK GAAP 744.0 1,039.3 US GAAP adjustments: Goodwill net a 728.9 863.5 Intangibles net b 24.5 6.0 Pension liabilities e 127.0 173.9 Share options f 0.7 0.7 Capitalised interest net g 13.5 12.8 Dividends k 57.2 61.9 Deferred income tax h 54.6 69.6 Derivatives i 0.5 5.0 Restructuring costs j 13.0 Redeemable convertible cumulative preference shares l 386.3 Shareholders equity under US GAAP 1,508.9 1,498.6 $ million $ million Shareholders equity under US GAAP expressed in US dollars at a closing exchange rate of 1 $1.7901 December 2002 1 $1.6099 2,701.1 2,412.6 Certain reclassications have been made to the prior period amounts to conform with the current periods presentation.
74 TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 Restatement of shareholders equity for the year ended 31 December 2002 In the year ended 3 January 2004, the Company corrected an error in the previously reported adjustment from UK GAAP to US GAAP in respect of pension obligations.
Accordingly, shareholders equity on a US GAAP basis has been restated as shown below: 31 December 2002 million Shareholders equity in accordance with US GAAP as previously reported 1,514.8 Restatement adjustment 16.2 Shareholders equity in accordance with US GAAP as restated 1,498.6 There was no impact on US GAAP net income as previously reported for any of the periods presented.
DESCRIPTION OF DIFFERENCES FROM ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES GENERALLY ACCEPTED IN THE UNITED KINGDOM a Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions subsequent to 3 May 1998 is capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account over its estimated useful economic life which is estimated not to exceed a maximum of 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or before 2 May 1998 was charged directly to reserves and is recaptured through the profit and loss on disposal.
Under US GAAP, effective 1 May 2002 Tomkins adopted US Statement of Financial Accounting Standards SFAS No.
142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
This statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets and requires that goodwill and some intangibles no longer be amortised on a recurring basis.
Instead, goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life are subject to an initial impairment test and an annual impairment test thereafter.
As of 1 May 2002, Tomkins had goodwill with a net carrying value of approximately 1,200 million that was subject to the transition provision of SFAS No.
Tomkins performed the required impairment tests of goodwill as of 1 May 2002 and determined that a total goodwill impairment of 32.7 million should be recorded.
Additionally, an annual impairment test has also been completed as of 31 December 2002 and 3 January 2004.
These reviews resulted in an additional total goodwill impairment of 30.9 million and 30.0 million respectively.
In the future, the annual impairment test will be performed by the Group as of 31 December.
b Recognition of intangibles arising on a business combination Under UK GAAP, intangible assets, other than goodwill, may only be separately recognised in a business combination if they can be disposed of separately from the business of the entity and their value can be reasonably estimated.
Under US GAAP, intangible assets arising on a business combination should be recognised i if they arise from contractual or other legal rights regardless of whether those rights are transferable or separable from the acquired entity or from other legal rights or obligations or ii they are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or otherwise exchanged.
c Valuation of net assets acquired in a business combination Under US GAAP manufactured stock acquired in business combinations is recorded at estimated selling price less future disposal costs and a reasonable profit allowance whereas it is recognised at replacement cost under UK GAAP.
d Disposal of operations The gain or loss on the disposal of operations is a result of the difference in values between assets and liabilities disposed of under UK GAAP and under US GAAP.
The majority of the difference arises from the differing treatment of goodwill.
e Pension costs In Tomkins consolidated financial statements, pension costs are accounted for in accordance with UK Statement of Standard Accounting Practice No.
24 Accounting for Pension Costs, with costs being charged to income over employees estimated working lives.
Under US GAAP, pension costs are determined in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No.
87 Employers Accounting for Pensions and SFAS No.
88 Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Dened benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benets.
Key differences between the UK and US GAAP gures arise from the requirement to use different methods and assumptions for valuing scheme assets and a different method of amortising surpluses or deficits.
Under UK GAAP, the effect of the variations in cost can be accumulated at successive valuations and amortised on an aggregate basis.
Under US GAAP, the amortisation of the transition asset and the costs of past service benefit improvements are separately tracked: experience gains losses are dealt with on an aggregate basis but amortised only if outside a 10 per cent corridor.
UK GAAP allows measurements of plan assets and liabilities to be based on the result of the latest actuarial valuation, whereas US GAAP requires measurement of plan assets and liabilities to be made at the date of the financial statements or up to three months prior to that date.
US GAAP also requires that a minimum pension liability must be recorded for the amount by which the plan is under funded ignoring projected future salary increases.
A corresponding amount is recorded as an intangible asset, to the extent of unrecognised prior service cost, and the balance is recorded in other comprehensive income, net of tax.
f Share options Under UK GAAP, the difference between the exercise price and the market price of the shares at the grant date is recorded as compensation expense in the income statement.
Under US GAAP, stock based compensation is accounted for in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion APB No.
25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.
25, the Company recognises compensation expense for the difference between the exercise price and market price at the measurement date over the vesting period.
The measurement date is the first date on which the employer knows the number of shares that an employee is entitled to receive and the exercise price is known.
Where the TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 75 RECONCILIATION TO ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES GENERALLY ACCEPTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA UNAUDITED continued measurement date occurs after the grant date, as in the case of performance related options, compensation cost is recorded over the vesting period for the difference between the share price at the balance sheet date and the exercise price and is adjusted in subsequent periods up to the measurement date.
Where the performance condition is such that management cannot make a reasonable estimate because the company cannot control the outcome of the performance conditions, such as the achievement of a target share price, no compensation cost is recognised until the performance condition is satisfied.
Under UK GAAP, the compensation costs relating to share options granted to employees under annual bonus plans that vest in future periods are recognised on the grant date.
Under US GAAP, the compensation cost relating to such grants are recognised over the future vesting period.
g Capitalisation of interest In Tomkins consolidated financial statements, interest expense is not capitalised.
To comply with US GAAP, the estimated amount of interest expense incurred while constructing major projects is included in xed assets and amortised over the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
The amount of interest capitalised is determined by reference to the average interest rate on outstanding borrowings.
h Deferred income tax In Tomkins consolidated financial statements, deferred tax is provided in full on all liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted, and for this purpose Tomkins considers only future periods for which forecasts are prepared.
Under US GAAP, deferred taxes are provided for all temporary differences on a full asset and liability basis.
A valuation allowance is established in respect of those deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not that some portion will not be realised.
The look forward period is not limited to the period for which forecasts are prepared.
i Derivative instruments Tomkins has entered into derivative financial instrument contracts in order to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
Under UK GAAP, where there are derivative instruments that qualify as a hedge, gains and losses are deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account, or as adjustments to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, only when the hedged transaction has itself settled and been reected in the Groups accounts.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, the instrument is marked to market and any resulting profit or loss recognised at that time.
Derivatives entered into to hedge the net investment in overseas entities are recorded directly to shareholders equity.
Under US GAAP, derivative instruments are not regarded as hedges and any unrealised gains or losses arising at the period end are taken to income.
Derivatives entered into to hedge the net investment in overseas entities do not qualify as a hedge under US GAAP and any gains or losses are charged to the income statement.
j Restructuring costs In Tomkins consolidated financial statements, restructuring costs are recognised when there is an unavoidable obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
Under US GAAP, restructuring costs and one time termination benets are recognised as incurred.
k Ordinary dividends In Tomkins consolidated financial statements, ordinary dividends are provided for in the period in respect of which they are proposed on the basis of the recommendation made by the directors.
Under US GAAP, ordinary dividends are not provided for until formally declared.
l Redeemable convertible cumulative preference shares In Tomkins consolidated financial statements, redeemable convertible cumulative preference shares are considered to be part of shareholders equity.
Under US GAAP, redeemable convertible cumulative preference shares are classied outside of shareholders equity and not included in any presentation total of shareholders equity in the balance sheet.
m Earnings per share The earnings per share calculated under UK GAAP does not include the gain arising on the redemption of the redeemable convertible cumulative preference shares.
Under US GAAP, this gain is included in the net earnings available to common shareholders in the calculation of earnings per share.
76 TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 PRESENTATION AND CLASSIFICATION DIFFERENCES In addition to the recognition and measurement differences between UK and US GAAP there are a number of differences in the manner in which amounts are presented and classied in the accounts.
The principal presentation and classication differences are summarised below: 1 Balance sheet and profit and loss account presentation General The format of a balance sheet prepared in accordance with UK GAAP differs in certain respects from US GAAP.
UK GAAP requires assets to be presented in ascending order of liquidity in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, whereas under US GAAP assets are presented in descending order of liquidity.
In addition current assets under UK GAAP include amounts that fall due after more than one year, whereas under US GAAP such assets are classied as non-current assets.
Pensions Under UK GAAP assets and liabilities relating to different plans are not offset in presentation.
Under US GAAP, assets and liabilities of different plans are offset in presentation.
Exceptional items UK GAAP requires profits and losses in relation to the disposal of xed assets to be shown separately on the face of the profit and loss account below operating profit.
In addition, items that result from the ongoing activities of the business but are significant because of their size or nature may be separately highlighted on the face of the profit and loss account.
Under US GAAP, the items described above are included in operating income.
Items that form part of operating activities and are significant in size or nature may be separately highlighted on the face of the profit and loss account or in the accompanying notes.
Discontinued operations Under UK GAAP, discontinued operations are dened as those where the sale or termination is completed either in the period or before the earlier of three months after the year end or the date of approval of the financial statements.
The disposal must have a material effect on the nature of operations resulting from its withdrawal from a particular market or from a material reduction in turnover from continuing markets.
Sales and operating profit are disclosed separately on the face of the profit and loss account.
Assets and liabilities are not separately distinguished.
Under US GAAP, the results of a component of an entity that has been disposed of or is classied as held for sale are separately reported in a single caption.
Furthermore the assets and liabilities of a disposal group classied as held for sale are presented separately in the balance sheet.
2 Consolidated statement of cash ow The consolidated statement of cash ow prepared under UK GAAP presents substantially the same information as that required under US GAAP.
Cash ow under UK GAAP represents increases or decreases in cash, which comprises cash in hand, deposits repayable on demand and bank overdrafts.
Under US GAAP, cash ow represents increases or decreases in Cash and Cash Equivalents, which includes short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than three months, and excludes overdrafts.
Under UK GAAP, cash ows are presented separately for operating activities, returns on investment and servicing of finance, taxation, capital expenditure and financial investment, acquisitions and disposals, equity dividends, management of liquid resources and nancing activities.
Under US GAAP, only three categories of cash ow activity are presented, being cash ows relating to operating activities, investing activities and nancing activities.
Cash ows from taxation and returns on investments and servicing of finance are, with the exception of servicing of shareholder finance, included as operating.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION The following is condensed consolidated financial information presented in accordance with US GAAP, which reects the reconciliation adjustments and the presentation and classication differences discussed above.
This financial information is presented in US dollars using the current rate method.
Accordingly, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at rates of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date.
Revenues and expenses are translated at the exchange rate at the dates on which those elements are recognised or at an appropriately weighted average exchange rate for the period.
Differences arising from the translation are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income.
