TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Notes to the notice of annual general meeting 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any authority under which it is signed or a notorially certified copy of such authority must be deposited at the office of the companys Registrar, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
The appointment of a proxy does not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person, in which case any votes of the proxy will be superceded.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those members entered on the register of members of the company as at 5.00pm on 26 April 2004 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Copies of contracts of service of directors with the company, or with any of its subsidiary companies, and the draft rules of the Share Matching Scheme and of the rules of the Share Option Scheme incorporating the proposed amendments will be available for inspection at the registered office of the company during usual business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded from the date of this Notice to the date of the meeting and at Lords Conference and Banqueting Centre from 11.15am on the day of the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting.
Copies of the draft rules of the Share Matching Scheme and the rules of the Share Option Scheme incorporating amendments will be available for inspection at the offices of New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, 20 Little Britain, London EC1A 7DH for the same period of time.
The register of directors interests kept by the company under section 325 of the companies Act 1985 will be produced at the commencement of the meeting and remain open and accessible during the continuance of the meeting to any person attending the meeting.
