TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the fortieth annual general meeting of Travis Perkins plc will be held at Lords Conference and Banqueting Centre, St. Johns Wood Road, London, NW8 8QN on Wednesday 28 April 2004 at 11.45 a. m. for the following purposes: THE RESOLUTIONS Resolutions 1 to 11 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Resolutions 12 and 13 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive the companys financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2003, together with the directors report, the directors remuneration report, the auditors report on those accounts and on the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
To declare a final dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2003 of 16.8 pence per ordinary share, payable to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23 April 2004.
To re-elect, pursuant to Article 75 of the companys Articles of Association, Paul Hampden Smith who is retiring by rotation.
Biographical details of Paul Hampden Smith appear on page 33.
To re-elect, pursuant to Article 75 of the companys Articles of Association, Frank McKay who is retiring by rotation.
Biographical details of Frank McKay appear on page 33.
To re-elect, pursuant to Article 75 of the companys Articles of Association, Tim Stevenson who is retiring by rotation.
Biographical details of Tim Stevenson appear on page 33.
To elect, pursuant to Article 71 of the companys Articles of Association, Chris Bunker who was appointed a director since the last annual general meeting.
Biographical details of Chris Bunker appear on page 33.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP, Chartered Accountants, as auditors of the company to hold office from the conclusion of the forthcoming annual general meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the company at which accounts are laid and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
That the directors remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 December 2003 set out on pages 39 to 44 be approved.
That: i the amendments to the Travis Perkins 2001 Executive Share Option Scheme the Share Option Scheme, the main features of which are summarised in the Appendix to a letter from the chairman to shareholders dated 17 March 2004, and in the form of the copy of the amended rules which is produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman for the purposes of identification, be approved and the directors be authorised to do all such acts and things as they may consider necessary or expedient to carry the amendments to the Share Option Scheme into effect: and ii the directors be authorised to vote, and be counted in the quorum, on any matter connected with the Share Option Scheme, notwithstanding that they may be interested in the same except that no executive director may be counted in a quorum or vote in respect of his own participation and any prohibition on interested directors voting or counting in a quorum contained in the Articles of Association of the company be disregarded accordingly.
That: i the Travis Perkins Share Matching Scheme the Share Matching Scheme, the main features of which are summarised in the Appendix to a letter from the chairman to shareholders dated 17 March 2004 in the form of the copy of which is produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman for the purpose of identification, be approved and the directors be authorised to do all such acts and things as they may consider necessary or expedient to carry the Share Matching Scheme into effect.
ii the directors be authorised to vote, and be counted in the quorum, on any matter connected with the Share Matching Scheme, notwithstanding that they may be interested in the same except that no executive director may be counted in a quorum or vote in respect of his own participation and any prohibition on interested directors voting or counting in a quorum contained in the Articles of Association of the company be disregarded accordingly.
That the authority conferred on the directors by Article 4 B of the companys Articles of Association be and is hereby renewed for the period expiring fifteen months after the date of the passing of this resolution, or if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting and for that period the section 80 amount is 2,157,802.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 11, the power conferred on the directors by Article 4 C of the companys Articles of Association be and is hereby renewed for the period expiring fifteen months after the date of the passing of this resolution or if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting and for that period the section 89 amount is 567,110.
That the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the company ordinary shares, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 11,342,198 representing 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the company as at 5 March 2004 : b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is its nominal value of 10 pence, exclusive of expenses: c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for each of the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased, exclusive of expenses: d this authority expires at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or the date fifteen months from the date of passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier: and e the company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of such authority, which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the board, Andrew Pike Secretary Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG Registered in England No.
