Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee is charged with responsibility to the Board In the course of 2003, the Committee discussed the following for satisfying itself, on behalf of the Board as a whole, that the matters: financial affairs of the Group are conducted with openness, the effect on retirement benets of the implementation integrity and accountability, and in accordance with such existing of FRS17: statutory and regulatory provisions and codes as are applicable to the Group and to report on these matters to the Board.
auditor independence: Its duties are to: the contingencies contained within the annual report and accounts: consider the appointment, resignation or dismissal of the auditors and the level of audit fee: the Internal Control and Monitoring Programme including the Risk and Control Framework : discuss with the auditors the nature and scope of the audit: the effect on corporate governance of the changes to the review the draft interim and annual financial statements before Combined Code: submission to the Board for approval: the Ernst & Young fees for 2003. discuss any problems and reservations arising from the annual audit and any matters the auditors may wish to raise: In compliance with the Turnbull Report a review of the function of internal auditor is carried out annually.
The current method of discuss with the auditors the Groups system of internal financial peer group review is considered adequate and effective.
controls and any auditors recommendations for improvement: The Committee has introduced a policy on the appointment and consider the findings of internal investigations and role of the auditors.
This includes guidelines on their appointment managements response: which is subject to review at least every five years and on their to oversee the implementation of systems for financial control ongoing work to ensure that the independence of the Groups and risk management: auditors is not threatened, particularly by the provision of non-audit services.
Prior approval of the Audit Committee is to pre-approve non-audit services provided by the auditor: required where the expected cost of non-audit services is in excess to review the internal audit programme: of 75,000. to review treasury policy.
The day-to-day maintenance of the Committees policy is delegated to the Group finance director who in turn monitors the The chairman of the Committee is Prof J P Percy.
The other business units to ensure that all engagements fall within the members of the Committee are C A Clarke and M B Dearden.
During 2003, fees payable to Ernst & Dearden joined the Committee after the annual general meeting Young in respect of taxation advice of 1.2m and audit and in May 2003.
J M Cox served on the Committee until 3 February assurance services of 0.8m were approved by the Committee.
C E Fay and D B Newlands were members of the Committee until their retirement at the annual general meeting in There is a whistle blowing policy in line with the Public Interest 2003.
The secretary to the Committee is A W F Mitchelson.
Disclosure Act 1998 to enable employees, on a condential basis, to raise concerns internally in cases where they believe they have The Board remains satisfied that Prof J P Percy, formerly chairman discovered malpractice or impropriety.
of The Accounts Commission and Audit Scotland and president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and presently Complaints can be made either to line managers or directly to chairman of Companies House, has recent and relevant financial the company secretary who will appoint an investigating officer.
Action will be taken in cases where the complaint is shown to be justied and at all times the complainant is informed of progress The Committee has the ability to call on the Groups staff to assist and outcomes.
In addition, the auditors Ernst & Young can be in their work and also has access to independent advice.
The brought in to review procedures if appropriate.
chairman of the Committee receives additional remuneration for his duties, details of which are set out on page 33.
Prof J P Percy Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee meets each February, March and August and at Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board.
During the March meeting the 16 March 2004 Committee undertakes a full review of the audit and meets the Groups auditors.
There were three meetings in 2003.
28 The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003
