Report of the Bonus and Remuneration Committee Committee membership Executive directors remuneration comprises the following: The chairman of the Bonus and Remuneration Committee is J M a a basic salary, which is set by the Committee for each Cox.
The other members of the Committee are C A Clarke and executive director by reference to individual and company M B Dearden.
Prof J P Percy served on the Committee until performance through a formal appraisal system.
C E Fay and D B Newlands served on the base salaries, the Committees policy is that they should be Committee until their retirement at the annual general meeting in competitive having regard to companies of a similar size and May 2003.
The Committee consists exclusively of non-executive industry practice: directors who are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with b an annual performance-related bonus.
Bonus payments are the exercise of their independent judgement.
No member of the intended to reect the achievement of agreed business Committee has any personal financial interest, other than as a objectives and positive contribution to stretching the shareholder, in the matters decided by the Committee.
The targets used are based primarily on normalised pretax profits and are set at the On 4 February 2003, the Committee appointed New Bridge beginning of the financial year.
The bonus for the Groups Street Consultants LLP NBSC to provide external advice in executives has been structured so that targets reect Group formulating remuneration policy and its implementation.
In 2003, the bonus payable for appointment was renewed in 2004.
NBSC do not undertake any on-target performance is 20% of salary on entry with a other work for the Group other than remuneration work.
For 2004, the maximum potential bonus carrying out its tasks the Committee consults with the Group receivable by the chief executive has been raised from 60% to chairman and the chief executive as appropriate.
85% of salary and for the other executive directors from 60% Committee responsibilities to 75% of salary.
The chief executive, however, will be The responsibilities of the Committee are as follows: required to invest compulsorily 25% of any bonus earned into shares for three years as part of the proposed new Long-Term to determine the policy on the remuneration and performance Incentive Plan L-TIP.
Other executive directors will be of executive directors of the company: required to invest 20% of any bonus earned into shares.
to determine the conditions of employment, including levels of These shares will be subject to forfeiture if the director leaves salary, pension arrangements, bonuses, incentives and share the Group within three years.
The Committee reviews the options of executive directors of the company: bonuses on an annual basis.
The bonuses are non-contractual and non-pensionable.
to determine targets for any performance-related pay schemes: c participation in the executive share option scheme up to its to recommend to the Board the remuneration of the chairman expiry at the annual general meeting in 2004, details of of the Board: which are set out on the following pages: to review succession planning for the Group Operations d participation in the L-TIP subject to its adoption at the Executive Committee.
annual general meeting in 2004, details of which are set out The Committee met five times in 2003.
The Committee on the following pages: is constituted, and operated throughout the year, e participation in the companys pension plan C J Rickard and in accordance with the relevant provision of the Combined M W Selway are not members, details of which are set out Code.
This report complies with the Directors Remuneration below: and Report Regulations 2002. f other benets-in-kind, which are the provision of a car and Executive directors remuneration policy fuel or car allowance, participation in a Group health care The objective of the companys remuneration policy is to attract, scheme, travel allowance, death in service insurance and motivate and retain executive directors with the necessary abilities scholarship awards from The Weir Group Educational Trust.
to manage and develop the Groups activities successfully to the The Committee believes that the level and provision of benefit of shareholders.
benets-in-kind is consistent with that provided by other Accordingly, the Committee sets remuneration packages for the comparable companies.
executive directors to reect both the size and complexity of the Pensions business and individual responsibilities.
It also takes into With the exception of C J Rickard and M W Selway, executive consideration the remuneration practices adopted by other directors are members of the companys 1972 pension and life companies of similar size and international spread of operations.
assurance plan for senior executives in terms of which a member For all senior executives, the Group policy is to provide a subject to Inland Revenue rules can become entitled, after 20 significant part of their total potential reward through years service with the Group, to a maximum pension equal to performance based incentive plans annual bonus and long-term two thirds of final basic salary payable on normal retirement date, incentives as described below.
30 The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 The plan provides life assurance cover of five times pensionable Long-Term Incentive Plan L-TIP salary for death in service.
It also provides for a surviving spouses The Groups existing long-term incentive, the 1994 Executive pension of one half of the members pension and, in certain Scheme Option Scheme expires in May 2004.
To replace the circumstances, for a dependent childs pension until the child Scheme, shareholder approval is being sought at the annual attains the age of 18 years or 25 years if in full time further general meeting for a new plan, the L-TIP.
This plan has been education.
Pensions in payment and deferred pensions increase designed following guidance from NBSC and takes into account by an amount equal to retail price ination up to 5% per annum.
shareholders guidelines on best practice.
It is proposed that two types of awards can be made to senior executives under the L-TIP: The plan is a dened benefit contributory plan with the members contributing 8% of basic salary 6% until April 2003, the balance i Performance Shares it is the Committees intention in 2004 of the funding of the plan being met by the company having to make conditional awards of performance shares worth 70% taken account of the funding recommendations of the plans of salary to the chief executive and 45% of salary to other independent actuary.
Where life assurance benets under the plan executive directors: are restricted in respect of any executive director by reason of the ii Matching Shares as noted above, executive directors will be statutory capping limit of pensionable salary currently 99,000, required to compulsorily invest an element of any bonus the company pays for such additional life cover as is necessary to earned for the 2004 financial year onwards into shares.
They make good the shortfall.
will also be allowed to voluntarily invest the balance of the Share option schemes bonus subject to any cap imposed by the Committee.
The company operates a discretionary executive share option Investment of bonus is entirely voluntary in relation to the scheme the Executive Scheme under which options may be 2003 bonus only.
In return, the executive directors receive a granted to those senior executives of the Group whose skills and conditional award of matching shares worth a maximum of experience the Committee believes to be important to the success 2.5 times the pretax value of the bonus invested.
The Executive Scheme operates worldwide.
The The conditional awards of performance and matching shares are Executive Scheme, which was approved in 1994, expires in May only receivable if a highly demanding performance condition is 2004. achieved.
For awards granted in 2004, the performance condition Under the rules of the Executive Scheme, share options may be will be based on the growth in the companys Total Shareholder granted up to a maximum value of four times a participants Return TSR over a single three-year performance period earnings although most grants are in the range of 50% to 75% relative to the growth in the TSR of a comparator group, to of basic salary.
Options are granted at the mid market price of comprise the following 20 companies: AGA Foodservice Group, a share at the date of grant.
The right to exercise an Executive Bodycote International, Cookson Group, Domnick Hunter Group, Scheme option is subject to performance conditions as Enodis, FKI, Halma, IMI, Kidde, Meggitt, Mitie Group, Morgan determined by the Committee at the date of grant.
Crucible Company, Rolls-Royce, Rotork, Senior, Smiths Group, Spirax-Sarco Engineering, Tomkins, Wood Group and WS Atkins.
The performance criteria applicable in 2003 were for the growth in the companys normalised earnings per share over a three year Only if the companys TSR ranks in the upper quintile of this period, to either exceed by nine per cent the growth in the retail group will the full awards be receivable.
This reduces on a sliding price index of the UK over that three year period, or exceed the scale so that for median performance, 25% of the awards will be weighted average growth during that three year period of the receivable.
For below median performance, none of the awards normalised earnings per share of those companies in the FTSE Allwill be receivable.
TSR has been selected as the performance Share Engineering and Machinery sector.
Under the terms of the criteria by the Committee to clearly align the interests of the Scheme, this is re-tested every year from the third anniversary senior executives with those of shareholders.
The TSR calculation of the grant of the option to the date the option lapses.
The will be performed independently for the Committee.
In addition, performance criteria in 2004 will remain unchanged from 2003 for any of the performance and matching shares to vest, the as the Committee feels the criteria are sufciently stretching and growth in the companys earnings per share over the performance relevant to the companys financial goals at this time.
No options period must be equal to or greater than the growth in the UK were granted under the Executive Scheme in 2003.
Retail Prices Index over the same period.
Full details of the proposed L-TIP are contained in the shareholders circular.
In addition, the company operated a Savings Related Share Option Scheme in the UK, which the executive directors were eligible to participate in on the same terms as all other employees and which was not subject to performance criteria.
The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 31
