Notice of meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the eighteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Queens Hotel, The Promenade, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire GL50 1NN on 20 June 2003 at 12.00 mid-day for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1.
To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and auditors together with the financial statements for the year ended 28 February 2003.
To re-elect G K Maddrell as a director.
To re-elect N T Fee as a director.
To approve the Remuneration Report.
To authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions of which Resolutions 7 and 8 are to be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and Resolution 9 as a Special Resolution: 7.
To reappoint the auditors, Special notice is given in accordance with Sections 379 and 388 3, Companies Act 1985.
THAT  LLP be reappointed auditors of the Company having previously been appointed by the Board to fill the casual vacancy arising by reason of the resignation of , to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
THAT in place of all existing authorities the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,571,423 for a period expiring unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed, but the Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 8 in the notice of the Annual General Meeting and in place of all existing powers the directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Companies Act 1985 for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 8 in the notice of the Annual General Meeting as if section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to the allotment.
This power: a expires at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed, but the Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after expiry of this power and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if this power had not expired: and b shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue in favour of holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be to their existing holdings of ordinary shares, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of a regulatory body or stock exchange: and ii the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 568,929.
By order of the Board C N Chandler Secretary Westbury House, Lansdown Road, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire GL50 2WH 29 April 2003 Notes i A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting the Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and on a poll vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
ii A form of proxy for use in relation to the Meeting is enclosed with this report.
To be effective the form of proxy must be completed in accordance with the instructions set out therein and lodged at the office of the Companys Registrar, Capita IRG Plc, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU at least 48 hours before the Meeting.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
iii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 18 June 2003, or in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, in the Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the relevant time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 6.00pm on 18 June 2003 or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, less than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
iv Brief biographical details of directors standing for re-election at the Meeting are set out on pages 26 and 27. v The following documents will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, during business hours, from the date of this notice until the date of the Meeting Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted and on that date they will be available for inspection at the place of the Meeting from 11.45am until the conclusion of the Meeting: directors service contracts other than contracts expiring or determinable within one year without payment of compensation and a register of directors interests.
