Accounting convention Vehicles are depreciated over 4 to 10 years.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed convention, as modified by the revaluation of property, for impairment if events or changes in circumstances and in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards.
indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment in the value of fixed assets below B.
Basis of consolidation depreciated historical cost is charged to the profit and The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts loss account.
Profits and losses on disposal of fixed assets of the company and all group undertakings, together reflect the difference between net selling price and net with the groups share of the net assets and results of book value at the date of disposal.
These are adjusted, where E. Stocks appropriate, to conform to group accounting policies.
Apart from the acquisition in 2000 1 of Whitbread Group Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable PLC by Whitbread PLC, which was accounted for using value.
The cost of finished goods includes appropriate merger accounting, acquisitions are accounted for under overheads.
Cost is calculated on the basis of first in, first the acquisition method and any goodwill arising is out and net realisable value is the estimated selling price capitalised as an intangible fixed asset.
On disposal less any costs of disposal.
of a business, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated F. Foreign exchange after including any goodwill previously written off direct to reserves in respect of that business.
The results Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies of companies acquired or disposed of are included in are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange the profit and loss account from or up to the date that quoted at the balance sheet date.
Trading results are control passes respectively.
As a consolidated profit translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for and loss account is published, a separate profit and the year.
Day to day transactions are recorded in sterling loss account of the parent company is omitted from at the rates ruling on the date of those transactions.
the group accounts by virtue of the exemption granted Currency gains and losses arising from the retranslation by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. of the opening net assets of overseas operations, less those arising from related currency borrowings to the C. Intangible fixed assets extent that they are matched, are recorded as a Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised.
It is movement on reserves, net of tax.
The differences which amortised, on a straight line basis, over its estimated arise from translating the results of overseas businesses useful economic life up to a maximum of 20 years.
at average rates of exchange, and their assets and Goodwill written off against reserves in previous years liabilities at closing rates, are also dealt with in reserves.
All other currency gains and losses are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
D. Tangible fixed assets G. Financial instruments Prior to the adoption of FRS 15 in the 1999 2000 financial year, properties were regularly revalued on a cyclical Derivative financial instruments are used by the group basis.
Since the adoption of FRS 15, the group policy has for the management of foreign currency and interest been not to revalue its properties.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect transitional provisions of FRS 15 have been applied and, of interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements while previous valuations have been retained, they have are recognised as adjustments to the interest expense not been updated.
Details of the last revaluations are over the period of the contracts.
Gains or losses on given in note 14.
Other fixed assets are stated at cost.
foreign currency forward and option contracts are Gross interest costs incurred on the financing of major recognised in the profit and loss account when the hedged projects are capitalised until the time that they are transaction occurs.
In the balance sheet, payments made available for use.
to secure a hedge are included with the hedged item to which they relate.
Depreciable fixed assets are written off on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Option premiums paid are recognised in the profit and loss account over the life of the contract.
Premiums and Freehold land is not depreciated.
discounts arising on financial liabilities are amortised Freehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated over the remaining life of the instrument concerned.
residual values over periods up to 50 years.
H. Turnover Leasehold properties are depreciated to their estimated Turnover is the value of goods and services sold to third residual values over the shortest of 50 years, their parties as part of the groups trading activities, after estimated useful lives and their remaining lease periods.
deducting discounts and sales-based taxes.
Administration and logistics furniture, fixtures and I.
Research and development equipment are depreciated over 3 to 30 years.
Research and development expenditure is charged Retail furniture, fixtures and equipment are depreciated against operating profit in the year in which it is incurred.
page 42 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 Accounting policies J.
Leases Rental payments in respect of operating leases are charged against operating profit on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease incentives are charged to operating profit on a straight line basis over the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate.
K. Pension funding Pension costs are charged to the profit and loss account in accordance with SSAP 24.
Actuarial surpluses or deficits are amortised over the expected remaining service lives of current employees.
Differences between the amount charged in the profit and loss account and payments made to the schemes are treated as assets or liabilities in the balance sheet.
L. Tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not been reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not recognised when an asset is sold if it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Provisions for deferred tax are not discounted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
M. Comparative amounts Comparative amounts are restated where necessary to conform to current presentation.
