Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of shareholders of William Hill PLC will be held at the New Connaught Rooms, Covent Garden Exhibition Centre, 61-65 Great Queen Street, London WC2B 5DA on Monday 17 May, 2004 at 11.00 am.
Each of the resolutions numbered 1-7 inclusive to be considered at the meeting will be ordinary business and each of the resolutions numbered 8-13 inclusive will be special business: 1.
To receive the directors report and accounts for the fifty-two weeks ended 30 December 2003.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
To declare a final dividend of 9.0p for each ordinary share.
3 To elect the following directors who offer themselves for re-election under the Companys Articles of Association : 4.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors of the Company.
To consider the following as an ordinary resolution: That the rules of the 2004 Senior Management Operating Bonus Scheme, the William Hill Executive Director Incentive Plan, the William Hill Long Term Incentive Plan and the William Hill SAYE Share Option Schemes, the amended draft rules of which are produced to this meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be amended in the manner described on page 14 to enable share options and awards under these arrangements to be satisfied using treasury shares and that the Directors be authorised to take all actions which they consider necessary or expedient in connection with the implementation of the amendments.
To consider the following as an ordinary resolution: a That in place of the authority given by way of the special resolution of the Company dated 28 May 2002, the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to: i allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 14,060,370 for a period expiring unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting at the end of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed: and ii make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: b That, subject to paragraph c, the authority given to the directors pursuant to section 80 by way of the special resolution of the Company passed on 28 May 2002 be revoked by this resolution: and c That paragraph b shall be without prejudice to the continuing authority of the directors to allot relevant securities pursuant to an offer 4 or agreement made by the Company before the expiry of the authority pursuant to which such offer or agreement was made.
To consider the following as a special resolution: THAT the Companys Articles of Association be altered by deleting the existing Article 13 and replacing it with the following new Article 5 13 : 13.
The board is empowered for each prescribed period to allot equity securities for cash pursuant to the authority Section 89 conferred by Article 12 as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that its power shall disapplication be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a pre-emptive issue: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to Article 13 a of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to the section 89 amount.
In this Article and Article 14, a reference to the allotment of equity securities also includes the sale of any relevant shares in the Company if, immediately before the sale, the shares were held by the Company as treasury shares.
Article 13 applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of this paragraph as if in Article 13 the words pursuant to the authority conferred by Article 12 were omitted.
65 Notice of Annual General Meeting 11.
To consider the following as a special resolution: 6 THAT the Companys Articles of Association be altered by deleting the existing Article 58 and replacing it with the following new Article 58 : 58.
Subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts and without prejudice to any relevant special Power to rights attached to any class of shares, the Company may purchase any of its own shares of any class including purchase own without limitation redeemable shares in any way and at any price whether at par or above or below par and may shares hold such shares as treasury shares.
To consider the following as a special resolution: That subject to the passing of resolution numbered 9 in the notice of the meeting and in place of the power given to it pursuant to the special resolution of the Company passed on 28 May 2002 the directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 to section 94 3A of the Act for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by the resolution numbered 9 in the notice of the meeting as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to the allotment.
This power: a expires at the end of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed, but the Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after expiry of this power and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if this power had not expired: and b shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue in favour of holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be to their existing holdings of ordinary shares, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of a regulatory body or stock exchange: and ii the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 5 per cent of the current issued share capital of the Company.
This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of the Act as if in the first paragraph of this resolution the words pursuant to the authority conferred by the resolution numbered 9 in the notice of the meeting 7 were omitted.
To consider the following as a special resolution : That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the Company Ordinary Shares subject to the following conditions: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares authorised to be purchased is 42,811,111, representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital: and b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 10 pence being the nominal value of an Ordinary Share : c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased: d this authority shall expire at the close of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2005: and e a contract to purchase shares under this authority may be made prior to the expiry of this authority, and concluded in whole or in part after the expiry of this authority.
By Order of the Board Nigel Blythe-Tinker Group Company Secretary 7 April 2004 66 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Notes to the Resolutions: 1 In line with best practice in corporate governance, as now reflected in the Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Board has presented its Directors Remuneration Report to shareholders in the annual report and accounts.
The Directors Remuneration Report gives details of the directors remuneration for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2003 and sets out the Groups overall policy on directors remuneration.
As required by the Remuneration Report Regulations, the Companys auditors have audited those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report capable of being audited and their report may be found in the annual report and accounts.
The Board considers that appropriate executive remuneration plays a vital part in helping to achieve the Groups overall objectives and, accordingly, and in compliance with the Remuneration Report Regulations, shareholders will be invited to approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
2 The dividend will be payable to shareholders on the Companys register of members at 6.00 pm on 7 May 2004 for payment on 3 June 2004.
3 The Companys Articles of Association state that one third of the directors should retire at each Annual General Meeting.
Information on the directors, including those offering themselves for re-election, is provided in the section of the annual report and accounts on the Board of Directors.
In addition to the biographical details made available to enable shareholders to make an informed decision on the election and re-election of directors, the Chairman confirms that, following formal performance evaluation, the directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles, including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
Messrs. Allvey and Gibson have extensive general business experience as directors of listed companies which allows them to contribute to the Groups development.
The Board is therefore of the opinion that Messrs. Allvey and Gibson should be re-elected to the Board.
4 Given the proposed amendment to Article 13 see the resolution numbered 10 and note 5 and the proposal to update the authority granted to the directors on 28 May 2002 to issue equity securities of the Company for cash without application of pre-emption rights pursuant to section 89 Companies Act 1985 see the resolution numbered 12 and note 7, it is thought desirable to update the directors authority to allot shares so that it runs for the same period.
This resolution, if passed, will update the authority conferred on the directors at the extraordinary general meeting on 28 May 2002, and will authorise the directors to allot the Companys unissued shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 14,060,370.
This amount represents one-third of the Companys authorised and issued ordinary share capital calculated exclusive of treasury shares as at 7 April 2004.
The Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
If this resolution is passed, this authority will expire at the end of the next annual general meeting of the Company after it is passed.
The directors have no present intention to exercise this authority other than in connection with the Companys share incentive schemes.
5 This resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, will update Article 13.
The amendment takes into account that, since 1 December 2003, listed companies have been able to hold their own shares as treasury shares pursuant to the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003.
6 This resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, will amend Article 58 so as to clarify that any shares that are repurchased may be held as treasury shares.
7 This resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, if passed, will update the authority conferred on the directors at the extraordinary general meeting on 28 May 2002 to issue equity securities of the Company for cash without application of the pre-emption rights pursuant to section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
The update reflects the introduction of treasury shares.
Other than in connection with a rights, scrip dividend, or other similar issue, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal value of 2,109,055 which represents 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 7 April 2004.
In accordance with the guidelines issued by the Pre-Emption Group, the directors confirm their intention that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital will be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis during any rolling three-year period.
8 This resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, gives the Company authority to buy back its own ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 1985.
The authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 42,811,111 representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 7 April 2004.
The maximum price per share for any purchase exclusive of any expenses would not be more than 5% above the average of the middle market values for an ordinary share of the Company derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for each of the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased.
The minimum price exclusive of any expenses would be 10 pence being the nominal value of each ordinary share.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company next year.
The directors decision to exercise this authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares will depend on and take into account a number 67 Notice of Annual General Meeting of factors including the Companys share price and other investment opportunities.
The authority will be exercised only if the directors believe that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
Any purchases of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
Under The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 which came into force on 1 December 2003 companies are allowed to hold shares acquired by way of market purchase as treasury shares, rather than having to cancel them.
Such shares may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy options issued and share awards to employees pursuant to the Companys share based incentive schemes.
The Company may hold up to one-quarter of any shares that it purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution in treasury.
Subsequent transfers of treasury shares to satisfy the requirements of share based incentive schemes will be made within the 10% anti-dilution limit for such share issues.
As at 7 April 2004 there were options over 10,990,467 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which represent 2.6% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority to purchase 10% of the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these options would represent 2.9% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting in 2005.
End Notes a The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those members entered in the register of members of the Company at 11.00 am on 15 May 2004, or if this meeting is adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries in the register of members after 11.00 am on 15 May 2004 or, if this meeting is adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
b A member entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting may appoint a proxy who need not be a member of the Company to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by not later than 11.00 am on 15 May, 2004.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST Sponsored Members, and those CREST Members who have appointed voting service provider s, should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings, please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. c The following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday at the Companys registered office at Greenside House, 50 Station Road, Wood Green, London N22 7TP until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
They will also be available for inspection at the New Connaught Rooms on 17 May 2004 for at least fifteen minutes prior to and until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
i the register of directors interests: ii copies of the service contracts between the Company and the executive directors and the terms of appointment of non executive directors: iii the biographies of directors seeking re-election: iv the Articles of Association: v the 2004 Senior Management Operating Bonus Scheme: vi the William Hill Executive Director Incentive Plan: vii the William Hill Long Term Incentive Plan: and viii the William Hill SAYE Share Option Schemes.
68 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003
