WB RA f ckd 2003 57 IBC 26 2 04 12:20 pm Page 57 Principal accounting policies The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable Joint arrangements Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom.
The more The Group enters into joint arrangements as part of its important Group accounting policies, which have been applied housebuilding and property development operations.
Such consistently, are set out below.
arrangements fall to be classified as joint arrangements not constituting an entity under FRS 9 Associates and Joint Ventures.
Basis of accounting As such, the Group accounts for its share of income, expenditure, The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention.
These amounts are incorporated into the relevant figures within the financial statements.
Basis of consolidation The Directors consider that this departure from the requirement The year ends for all the Companys undertakings are of the Companies Act 1985 to account for investments in 31st December.
All subsidiary undertakings are included in the undertakings which are joint arrangements as either associates Groups consolidated accounts other than as detailed in note 15. or trade investments is necessary for the financial statements to show a true and fair view because joint arrangements are in Goodwill substance an extension of the Groups own business.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful economic life to a maximum of 20 years.
Depreciation Negative goodwill in excess of the fair values of the nonDepreciation is provided on the original cost of assets in equal monetary assets acquired is credited to the profit and loss annual instalments at the following rates: account in the periods expected to benefit.
Freehold buildings 2% Goodwill written off to the profit and loss account under the Plant, equipment and vehicles 10% to 25% Groups policy prior to the implementation of FRS 10 Goodwill Computers, scaffolding and other assets with short economic lives 20% to 50% and Intangible Assets has not been reinstated.
Deferred tax Investments Investments held as fixed or current assets are stated at cost less Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the provision for any impairment.
transaction or events that gave rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have Turnover occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are Turnover comprises amounts receivable for goods and services recognised when it is more likely than not that they will be supplied to customers during the year and the appropriate recovered.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates proportion of sales value of property development contracts.
that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing Intra-Group transactions, value added tax and proceeds from the differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws sales of part exchange houses and undeveloped residential land that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance are excluded from turnover.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Proceeds from the sale of newly constructed residential properties Leases are included in turnover on legal completion.
Turnover arising on The annual rentals of operating leases are charged to trading long-term sale contracts and residential property development profits on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
under partnership agreements is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion reached, commencing on exchange of Financial instruments contract.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and borrowings.
The Groups financial instruments, Stocks and work in progress other than derivatives, comprise cash, borrowings and other Stocks, including land held for development and completed and items arising directly from its trading operations which include part-exchanged houses, and residential work in progress are long and short-term debtors and long and short-term land, trade valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Where the and other creditors.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been Group undertakes housing development within a partnership excluded from the analyses of financial instruments.
The Group agreement, work in progress includes the attributable costs after also enters into derivative transactions in the form of swap deducting amounts taken to cost of sales, less progress payments arrangements to manage the interest rate and currency risks received and receivable.
arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
Gains and losses on swap arrangements are recognised in the Development work in progress is valued at the lower of cost and profit and loss account in the period in which they occur.
The net realisable value less progress payments received and Group does not trade in financial instruments.
Pensions Long-term contracts The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension Profits on long-term contracts are recognised in proportion to the schemes for certain employees.
The Groups contributions to the stage of completion reached when the outcome of the contract can schemes are charged against profits in the year in which the be assessed with reasonable certainty.
Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in debtors and stated at cost plus attributable profit less any foreseeable losses.
Payments received on account of contracts are deducted from amounts recoverable on contracts.
Payments received in excess of amounts recoverable are included in creditors.
57 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Principal accounting policies
