qxp 4 5 04 12:03 PM Page 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MAKING WAVES WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 : 034 NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee was established in 2003 and is chaired by DJ Carey, and its other members are AD Milne and BM Rose.
A majority of the members of the Committee are non-executive directors.
The Committee meets not less than once per year, has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement directors and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee was established in 2001 and is chaired by BM Rose and its other members are DJ Carey, J Germies and RK Graham.
Only non-executive directors serve on the Committee and the members of the Committee are independent of management.
The Committee, which normally meets at least twice a year, has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the policy for remuneration of senior executives, for reviewing the performance of executive directors and senior management and for determining, within agreed terms of reference, specic remuneration packages for each of the executive directors and senior management, including pension rights, any compensation payments and the implementation of executive incentive schemes.
In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, no director may participate in discussions relating to his or her own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 36 to 41.
INTERNAL CONTROL The directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for monitoring their effectiveness.
The purpose of these systems is to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provide reasonable assurance as to the quality of management information and to maintain proper control over income, expenditure, assets and liabilities of the Group.
No system of control can, however, provide absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss.
The Board has established an internal control framework consistent with the guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee.
The key elements of the system of internal controls are as follows: Control environment The Group has operational and financial controls and procedures.
These controls include physical controls, segregation of duties, authorisation controls and reviews by management.
Risk identication The Board has established a process of identifying, evaluating and managing the key commercial, financial and general risks facing the Groups business.
This risk identication and review process has been in place since early 2002.
The Board undertakes a quarterly review to analyse how the key business risks are being managed consistent with the expansion of the business and its risk prole.
Financial reporting A detailed annual plan is collated from submissions by each functional department.
The projections are reviewed by the executive directors and approved by the Board.
The annual plan is rolled forward on a quarterly basis and is used to monitor and control actual performance.
Capital investment Capital expenditure requirements are assessed as part of the annual plan.
Strict authorisation processes are laid down for the making of capital investment commitments against the plan.
Monitoring and corrective action There are procedures in place to monitor the system of internal controls.
These include the recent appointment of a compliance manager who will assist in the development of the Groups internal control systems and in the establishment of an internal audit function.
The Board annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The Group has a Quality Management System QMS, which conforms to BSI ISO 9001: 2000.
This lays out the fundamentals required to control all aspects of product development and delivery in support of the Groups business goals and customer satisfaction.
An integral part of the QMS is the phase review process for delivering and monitoring the introduction of new products.
