qxp 4 5 04 12:03 PM Page 36 MAKING WAVES WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 : 036 Directors Remuneration Report REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is composed entirely of the following non-executive directors: BM Rose, DJ Carey, J Germies, RK Graham and is chaired by BM Rose.
The Committee, which normally meets at least twice a year, has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the policy for remuneration of executive directors and senior executives, for reviewing the performance of executive directors and senior executives and for determining, within agreed terms of reference, specic remuneration packages for each of the executive directors and senior executives, including pension rights, any compensation payments and the implementation of executive incentive schemes.
In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, no director may participate in discussions relating to his or her own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
The Committee also reviews and agrees each year the remuneration policy and approach for all staff.
REMUNERATION POLICY The Groups remuneration policy, for 2004 and subsequent financial years, which is set by the Board and implemented by the Remuneration Committee, is designed to support the recruitment, motivation and retention of quality staff.
In so doing the Committee considers policy in the context of the sector in which the Group operates, of its competitors, and of the excellence the Group strives to achieve.
Remuneration packages are designed to be competitive with performance objectives aligned to the interests of shareholders.
Particularly at a senior level a significant proportion of remuneration is dependent on performance against stretching parameters.
This policy is described in some detail below in relation to the executive directors and senior management of the Group.
Remuneration is designed to reect an individuals responsibilities, experience and contribution to the Group and is based on relevant market comparators.
The Committee has access to independent advice as considered appropriate.
During the year the Committee appointed KPMG LLP to give such advice.
This consisted of a review of the market place and of the incentive plans of other similar technology companies.
From this the Committee concluded that the general structure and level of the Groups executive incentive scheme for 2004 was appropriate and in line with UK best practice.
However the Committee is mindful of the rapid growth of the business and, consistent therewith, will actively review the elements of packages during 2004 particularly with a view to executive retention.
The remuneration package for the executive directors and senior management team consists of a combination of basic salary, benets in kind and performance related incentives comprising a cash bonus and share options.
The cash bonus and share options are both subject to stretching performance requirements.
The salary and benets are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee after a review of the individuals performance and overall performance of the business.
In 2004, there is a non-contractual, and non-pensionable, management incentive scheme for the Groups executive directors and senior management, whereby a bonus pool is created of between 2.5% and 5% of the Groups profits before interest and tax PBIT once a threshold of the PBIT has been achieved.
The pool is shared among the management according to dened parameters, 70% being dependent on the Companys financial performance and 30% on fullling dened personal objectives related to the development of the business.
The overall bonus payment is capped at one times salary.
In addition under the 2004 management incentive scheme, executive directors and senior managers are awarded share options, exercisable in early March 2007.
The proportion exercisable by each person is dependent on the growth rate of the Groups normalised earnings per share EPS over 2003.
100% payout is achieved if the annual compound growth rate of EPS in 2006 equals or exceeds RPI 15 % per annum.
There is a sliding scale for lower performance and no options are exercisable if the EPS growth rate is below RPI 5 % per annum is zero or negative.
The Company has two pension schemes, one being a dened benets scheme and the other being a dened contribution scheme.
The former was closed to all new entrants after 2 July 2002.
All the present executive directors participate in the Companys dened benets scheme providing benets based on final pensionable pay 1 60 th per year of employment.
The current contribution rate is 13.6% of which 6% is contributed by each employee.
SERVICE CONTRACTS The Company entered into service contracts with each of its executive directors, none of which are for a xed term.
Such contracts are terminable by either party giving not less than 12 months notice.
The Company may in its absolute discretion terminate the employment of any of the executive directors at any time by making a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to the directors basic salary over any unexpired period of notice.
