qxp 4 5 04 12:03 PM Page 35 WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 MAKING WAVES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : 035 COMMUNICATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The directors acknowledge the importance of communication with shareholders.
Since listing a regular dialogue has been maintained with major shareholders, analysts and the financial press.
Shareholders who attend the annual general meeting are invited to ask questions and meet with the directors informally after the meeting.
The numbers of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution are announced after the resolution has been voted on by a show of hands.
Investor relations and other information is included on the Companys website and is updated regularly.
COMPLIANCE WITH REVISIONS TO THE COMBINED CODE The revisions to The Combined Code are only effective for companies with reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003 and therefore will apply to the Group for its financial year beginning 1 January 2004.
The directors, however, acknowledge their obligations and intend, as deemed appropriate, to ensure that the provisions of the revised Code are complied with in 2004.
The directors recognise that the Group currently does not comply in all respects with the provisions of the revised Code in particular with respect to: the appointment of a third independent non-executive director, other than the Chairman: certain of the duties and responsibilities of the non-executive directors: and adoption of a policy and procedures for staff to raise any concerns, in confidence, about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters: all of these are being addressed.
CORPORATE SOCIAL, ETHICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to take into account the interests of its employees, customers, suppliers and the local communities and environments in which it operates.
The Group is committed formally to implementing corporate, social, ethical and environmental policies in 2004.
GOING CONCERN The directors have reviewed the latest forecast results and cash ow projections.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis.
