53 Accounting policies Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2003 Basis of accounting Goodwill These consolidated financial statements are prepared under Goodwill arises when the cost of acquiring subsidiary undertakings the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable and businesses exceeds the fair value attributed to the net assets UK accounting standards.
Prior to 1 August 1998, goodwill arising on consolidation and purchased goodwill was written off to reserves.
Following Basis of consolidation publication of FRS 10, a revised policy for accounting for goodwill The Group accounts include the results of the parent Company was adopted with effect from 1 August 1998.
Goodwill arising from and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 July 2003. acquisitions completed on or after that date is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over a period of not more than The trading results of businesses acquired, sold or discontinued 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 August 1998 during the year are included in profit on ordinary activities from the has not been reinstated on the balance sheet.
date of effective acquisition or up to the date of sale or discontinuance, unless provision therefore has been made in earlier years.
The net assets of businesses acquired are incorporated in the consolidated accounts at their fair value to the Group.
Fair value Foreign currencies adjustments principally relate to adjustments necessary to bring The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated the accounting policies of acquired businesses into line with those into sterling using average rates of exchange ruling during the of the Wolseley Group but may also include other adjustments relevant financial period.
necessary to restate assets and liabilities at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
All businesses acquired are consolidated using The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are the acquisition method of accounting.
translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at 31 July.
Exchange differences arising between the translation into sterling Turnover of the net assets of these subsidiary undertakings at rates ruling at Turnover is the amount receivable for the provision of goods and the beginning and end of the year are dealt with through reserves services falling within the Groups ordinary activities, excluding as are exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings raised intra-Group sales, trade discounts, value added tax and similar to finance overseas assets.
Exchange differences on financial instruments entered into for foreign Leased assets currency net assets hedging purposes are dealt with through reserves.
Where fixed assets are financed by leasing agreements which give rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as The cost of the Companys investments in overseas subsidiary if they had been purchased and the capital element of the leasing undertakings is translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the date commitments is included in borrowings.
The rentals payable are of investment.
apportioned between interest, which is charged to the profit and loss account, and capital, which reduces the outstanding obligation.
All other foreign currency assets and liabilities of the Company and The cost of operating leases is charged on a straight line basis over its United Kingdom subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling the period of the lease.
at the rate ruling at 31 July except in those instances where forward cover has been arranged, in which case this forward rate is used.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets except freehold Foreign currency transactions during the year are translated into land mainly on a straight line basis to write off the cost of those assets sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction over their estimated useful lives.
The principal rates of depreciation except when forward exchange contracts are in place, when the are: freehold buildings and long leaseholds, 2-3%: short leaseholds, forward contract rate is used.
Any exchange differences are dealt over the period of the lease: plant and machinery, 10-15%: fixtures with through the profit and loss account.
and fittings, 15%: computers, 20-100% and motor vehicles, 25%.
54 Accounting policies Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Accounting policies continued Year ended 31 July 2003 Real property awaiting disposal Cross currency interest rate swaps currency swaps are used Real property awaiting disposal is transferred to current assets at the to hedge foreign currency assets and borrowings.
The future lower of book written down value and estimated net realisable value.
currency exchange within such contracts is revalued to the rate Depreciation is not applied to real property awaiting disposal, but the of exchange at the balance sheet date and any unrealised gain carrying value is reviewed annually and written down through the profit or loss is matched with that on the underlying asset or liability and loss account to current estimated net realisable value if lower.
The interest coupon on such swaps is accrued in the same way as that on borrowings and deposits.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of Group cost and net realisable Pensions and post retirement benefits value, due allowance being made for obsolete or slow moving The expected costs of providing retirement pensions under defined items.
Raw materials, bought out components and goods benefit plans and other post retirement benefits are charged to the purchased for resale are stated at cost on a first in, first out basis.
profit and loss account over the periods benefiting from the employees services in accordance with the recommendations of independent Taxation qualified actuaries.
Variations from expected cost are normally spread Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or asset over the average remaining service lives of current employees.
has arisen as a result of transactions that had occurred by the balance sheet date and have given rise to an obligation to pay more tax in Contributions to defined contribution pension plans and other the future, or the right to pay less tax in the future.
An asset has not post retirement benefits are charged to the profit and loss account been recognised to the extent that the transfer of economic benefits as incurred.
in the future is uncertain.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised have not been discounted.
Provision is made for UK or foreign taxation arising on the distribution to the UK of retained profits of overseas subsidiary undertakings where dividends have been recognised as receivable.
Derivatives and financial instruments Financial instruments, in particular, interest rate swaps and currency swaps, are used to manage the financial risks arising from the business activities of the Group and the financing of those activities.
There is no trading activity in financial instruments.
A discussion of how the financial risks are managed is included in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 22 to 29.
Financial instruments are accounted for as follows: Interest rate swaps are used to hedge the Groups exposure to movements in interest rates.
The interest payable or receivable on such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value prior to maturity.
