84 Shareholder information Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Shareholder information Shareholder information Shareholders can register on-line to view their Wolseley plc shareholding details using Shareview, a service that has been launched by our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars.
To access the service, you should log on to www.
co. uk and complete the simple on-screen registration process.
You will then need to enter your surname, postcode, e-mail address and shareholder reference number which is detailed on the form of proxy accompanying this report.
co. uk, you will be able to do all of the following at the click of a mouse: check your shareholding in Wolseley plc, 24 hours a day register your e-mail and mailing preference post or electronic for future shareholder mailings gain easy access to a variety of shareholder information including indicative valuations and payment instruction details use the Internet to appoint a proxy for you at general meetings of the shareholders The Company can, at shareholders request, send shareholders an e-mail notification each time a new shareholder report or other shareholder communication is put on the website.
Shareholders will then be able to read and or download the information at their leisure, but will still be able to request paper copies of the documents should they so wish.
Share dealing UK based shareholders are also now offered a simple and convenient telephone and Internet share sale service by our registrars.
Shareview dealing is available, for telephone sales on: 0870 850 0852 between 8:30am and 4:30pm, Monday to Friday, and for Internet sales, log on to www.
Existing and potential UK shareholders may also acquire shares in the Company through UK Individual Savings Accounts, which are managed by ISA managers.
Stock Exchange listings The ordinary shares of 25 pence each of the Company are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Ordinary shares of the Company are also traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depository Shares and held in the form of American Depository Receipts ADRs.
ADR holders receive the annual and interim reports issued to shareholders.
The Company files a form 20-F each year with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Published information Further copies of the annual report and, in due course, the 2003 20-F may be obtained from the Company Secretary at Wolseley plc, Parkview 1220, Arlington Business Park, Theale, Reading RG7 4GA.
Company information may also be viewed on the Companys website at www.
Designed and produced by 35 London.
Main photography: Andy Wilson: board photography: Bill Robinson Printed by Perivan White Dove, Leigh-on-Sea.
The paper used in this document is made from virgin wood fibre from sawmill residues, forest thinnings and sustainable forests in Europe and North and South America.
It contains up to 30% recycled mill broke and is fully biodegradable and recyclable.
The mill where it is produced has both ISO 9002 and ISO 14001 accreditation.
Wolseley plc Parkview 1220 Arlington Business Park Theale Reading RG7 4GA United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 118 929 8700 Fax: 44 0 118 929 8701 Registration No.
