Annual General Meeting To be held at 11.00am on Tuesday 24 June 2003 at The Hilton London Metropole, 225 Edgware Road, London W2 2QL.
Each shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Dividend Payments The proposed final dividend if approved will be paid on 26 June 2003 to shareholders on the register on 4 April 2003.
Payment of Dividends by BACS Many shareholders have already arranged for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to their bank or building society account.
The Company mandates dividends through the BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
The benefit to shareholders of the BACS payment method is that the Registrar posts the tax vouchers directly to them, whilst the dividend is credited on the payment date to the shareholders bank or building society account.
Shareholders who have not yet arranged for their dividends to be paid direct to their bank or building society account and wish to benefit from this service should request the Companys Registrar address below to send them a Dividend Interest mandate form or alternatively complete the mandate form attached to their dividend tax voucher in June.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan The Company provides a Dividend Reinvestment Plan enabling shareholders to apply their cash dividends to purchase additional ordinary shares in the market at competitive dealing rates.
Full details can be obtained from the Registrar.
If you have previously completed a mandate form to join the Plan, you need take no further action.
Shareholder Information on the Internet The Company maintains an investor relations zone on its website www.
com which allows access to share price information, management biographies, copies of company reports and other useful investor information.
In addition, Computershare Investor Services PLC, the Company Registrar, has introduced a facility where shareholders are able to access details of their shareholding in the company over the internet subject to complying with an identity check.
This service can be accessed on their website www.
Woolworths Group plc is registered in England and Wales Number 03855289.
51 Woolworths Group plc Shareholder Information continued Registrar Auditors Computershare  LLP Investor Services PLC 1 Embankment Place Owen House London WC2N 6RH PO BOX 435 8 Bankhead Crossway North Joint Brokers Edinburgh EH11 4BR UBS Warburg Tel: 0870 889 3108 1 Finsbury Avenue www.
com London EC2M 2PP Registered and Head Ofce Cazenove Woolworths House 12 Tokenhouse Yard 242-246 Marylebone Road London EC2R 7AN London NW1 6JL Tel: 020 7262 1222 Joint Financial Advisors fax: 020 7706 5416 UBS Warburg www.
com 1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP A copy of this Annual Report Credit Suisse First Boston is being sent to all shareholders.
One Cabot Square Copies are also available London E14 4QJ from the registered ofce shown above.
Solicitors Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer 64 Fleet Street London EC4Y 1HS 52 Woolworths Group plc This Annual Report is printed Designed and produced on paper made using at least by williams and phoa 50 per cent TCF pulps from sustainable sources.
The paper is bio-degradable, fully recyclable and produced in full accordance with the environmental laws in the country of manufacture.
