American Depositary Receipts ADRs entitlement to offset any part of the UK taxation credit Each ADR represents five ordinary shares.
against any US taxation liability.
The dividend received ADR holders receive the annual and interim without any gross up for withholding tax suffered or reports issued by WPP Group plc.
tax credits will be subject to US taxation.
WPP Group plc is subject to the informational Whether it is beneficial for an individual to elect requirements of the US securities laws applicable to for the old UK:US treaty to apply to 30 April 2004 will foreign companies and les an annual report on Form depend on individual circumstances and therefore share 20-F and other information with the US Securities and owners are advised to consult their professional advisors.
Form 20-F is also available Following the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief from our Investor Relations departments in London Reconciliation Act of 2003, certain dividends subject or New York.
to US taxation may be taxed at a reduced rate of 15% if various conditions are met: share owners are advised ADR dividends to consult their professional advisors accordingly.
ADR holders are eligible for all stock dividends or other entitlements accruing on the underlying WPP Group plc Financial calendar shares and receive all cash dividends in US dollars.
The 2003 final dividend will be paid on 5 July 2004 These are normally paid twice a year.
to share owners on the register at 4 June 2004. Dividend cheques are mailed directly to the ADR Interim statements for the half-year ending 30 June holder on the payment date if ADRs are registered with are issued in August.
Dividends on ADRs that are Quarterly trading announcements are issued in April registered with brokers are sent to the brokers, who and October.
forward them to ADR holders.
WPPs US depositary Interim dividends are paid in November.
is Citibank N. A. address on page 147.
Preliminary announcements of results for the financial Dividends per ADR, including UK tax refunds but year ending 31 December are issued in February.
before US tax credits, in respect of each financial year Annual reports are posted to share owners in May.
Annual General Meetings are held in London in June.
10 Final 2003 proposed 35.98 27.60 22.00 19.30 17.00 Total 52.99 40.60 32.40 28.40 25.10 Within the UK, the latest ordinary share price Notes 1 information is available on Ceefax and Teletext and also These gures have been translated for convenience purposes only, using the profit and loss exchange rate shown on page 115.
This conversion should not be construed as a representation that the pound sterling the Cityline service operated by the Financial Times amounts actually represent, or could be converted into, US dollars at the rates indicated.
telephone 0906 843 4544: calls charged at 60p per minute at all times.
For dividends paid on or after 6 April 1999, and up to 30 April 2003, or where individuals have elected for the Access numbers Ticker symbols old UK:US treaty to apply to 30 April 2004, ADR NASDAQ Reuters Bloomberg holders are no longer able to reclaim any part of the UK Ordinary shares WPP.
L WPP LN American Depositary Shares WPPGY WPPGY.
O WPPGY US tax credit related to dividends.
Under the terms of the US treaty, dividend payments will be reduced by a maximum withholding tax amount of 15% of the total of the dividend and the accompanying tax credit.
The tax credit may not be reclaimed but the excess of the withholding tax 15% of the total dividend and the accompanying tax credit over the tax credit one-ninth of the dividend is not collected and does not reduce the dividend payable.
The aggregate of the dividend and the tax credit will be treated as a dividend for US tax credit purposes.
Any US taxation liability can be reduced by a claim for credit for the UK withholding tax actually suffered.
Dollar amounts paid to ADR holders depend on the sterling dollar exchange rate at the time of payment.
Due to the ratication of the new UK:US treaty, for dividends paid on or after 1 May 2003 no withholding tax will be imposed on dividends paid to ADR holders and there will no longer be any 146 WPP Annual Report 2003
