Future prospects spending amongst the package goods, pharmaceutical, As the world economy, driven by the US and Asia oil and energy, government the government is the largest Pacic, has started to pick up in 2003, your Company advertiser in the UK market and price-value retail performed well.
Whilst like-for-like revenues started to sectors has remained relatively resilient.
These sectors grow again, driven by growth in the US for 17 months represent approximately 27% of the Groups revenue.
since August 2002 and globally in the third and fourth Moreover, more recently, recession-affected sectors like quarters of 2003, like-for-like average headcount has technology, financial services, media and entertainment continued to fall by 4%.
and telecommunications have become more perky.
As usual our budgets for 2004 have been prepared In the long term, however, the outlook appears on a conservative basis, largely excluding new business very favourable.
Overcapacity of production in most particularly in Advertising and Media investment sectors and the shortage of human capital, the management.
They predict improvements in like-for-like developments in new technologies and media, the revenues in comparison to 2003 with balanced growth growth in importance of internal communications, the in the first and second half of the year.
They also continued strength of the US economy and the need to indicate similar growth for both Advertising and inuence distribution, underpin the need for our clients Media investment management revenues and marketing to continue to differentiate their products and services services revenues.
Moreover, the growth of In the first quarter of 2004 reported revenues the BRIC Brazil, Russia, India and China economies, rose by almost 6%.
Constant currency revenues were will add significant opportunities in Asia Pacic, Latin up over 12% and on a like-for-like basis, excluding America, Africa and the Middle East and Central and acquisitions and currency uctuations, were up almost Eastern Europe.
Excluding the acquisition of Cordiant, like-for-like expenditure as a proportion of gross national products revenues were up almost 4%.
should resume its growth and bust through the cyclical Estimated net new business billings of 514 million high established in 2000.
$926 million were won during the first quarter of 2004.
Given these short and long-term trends, your Net debt at 31 March 2004 was 797 million, Company has three strategic priorities.
In the short compared with 1,335 million at 31 March 2003. term, having weathered the recession, to capitalise Average net debt in the first quarter of 2004 was 730 on the 2004 upturn: in the medium term, to continue million compared to 1,106 million in 2003, at 2004 to integrate successfully the mergers with Y&R, exchange rates.
In the 12 months to 31 March 2004, the Tempus, and Cordiant although this task is largely Groups free cash ow was 465 million.
Over the same completed : and nally, in the long term, to continue period, the Groups expenditure on capital, acquisitions, to develop its businesses in the faster-growing share re-purchases and cancellations was 458 million.
geographical areas of Asia Pacic, Latin America, Worldwide economic conditions are set to improve Africa and the Middle East, and Central and Eastern in the quadrennial 2004.
President Bush wants to be Europe and in the faster-growing functional areas of re-elected and will try to continue to stimulate the US marketing services, particularly direct, internet, economy through increased government spending.
This interactive and market research.
will be reinforced by the Athens Olympics, the European Incentive plans for 2004 will again focus more Football Championships in Portugal and heavy political on operating profit growth than historically, in order advertising in the US.
This years prospects, therefore, to stimulate top-line growth, although objectives will look good, with worldwide advertising and marketing continue to include operating margin improvement, services spending set to rise by at least 3-4%.
Even Japan improvement in staff costs to revenue ratios and and Europe are showing some signs of life.
We are qualitative Group objectives, including co-ordination, definitely out of the bath one potential worry being talent management and succession planning.
what a re-elected or newly-elected president might have 2003 was a better year than 2002 though it to do about a scally-driven large government deficit, didnt feel so for much of the time.
a weak US dollar and rising ination after the first For the third consecutive year, our people faced Tuesday after the first Monday in November.
US relentless pressures: economic, political and competitive.
government spending is already rising at levels not Their response was magnicent.
To have delivered seen since the Vietnam war in 1967.
We would not results that, even including all exceptional items, want to take a shower in 2005. have out-performed most of their competition and In the short term, therefore, growth in advertising strengthened market share is an achievement that merits and marketing services expenditure may remain in the the highest praise and the most public recognition.
low single-digit territory, particularly given procurement We thank them all.
pressures and the dampening effect of the increasing WPPs ability to achieve its strategic objectives proportion of fee remuneration on the impact of cyclical depends wholly on our ability to attract, develop and upturns and downturns.
However, there are now deploy the most talented people in our eld.
Our significant opportunities in the area of outsourcing peoples performance over this deeply demanding and clients marketing activities, consolidating client budgets protracted period of time stands as the ultimate evidence and capitalising on competitive weaknesses.
In addition, of their quality and commitment.
108 WPP Annual Report 2003 Operating & financial review Review of operations If 2003 showed some improvement, 2004 should be even better: despite the challenges we face, WPPs nineteenth year should be a good one.
Given heavy US government deficit spending and its potential impact on the dollar and ination, 2005 remains difficult to predict.
However, the underlying strategic case with our clients for our industry and our Company is becoming stronger and stronger.
Paul Richardson Group finance director In connection with the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 the Reform Act, the Company may include forward-looking statements as dened in the Reform Act in oral or written public statements issued by or on behalf of the Company.
These forward-looking statements may include, among other things, plans, objectives, projections, anticipated future economic performance as assumptions and the like that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
As such, actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Important factors which may cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: the unanticipated loss of a material client or key personnel, delays or reductions in client advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates of compensation, government compliance costs or litigation, unanticipated natural disasters, the Companys exposure to changes in the values of other major currencies because a substantial portion of its revenues are derived and costs incurred outside of the UK and the overall level of economic activity in the Companys major markets which varies depending on, among other things, regional, national and international political and economic conditions and government regulations in the worlds advertising markets.
In light of these and other uncertainties, the forward-looking statements included in this document should not be regarded as a representation by the Company that the Companys plans and objectives will be achieved.
WPP Annual Report 2003 109 Our 2003 financial statements 110 WPP Annual Report 2003 Our 2003 financial statements WPP Annual Report 2003 111
