How we behave Directors report in political security: health and safety matters: the company.
The Groups budget is reviewed by the Board possibility of loss of major business for example, before being adopted formally.
Operating company through the acquisition of a major client by a client results are reported monthly and are reviewed locally, of a competitive agency: a change of senior management regionally and globally by the business groups and of a major client: the introduction of legislation in an by Group management on a consolidated basis and important market which could prejudicially affect a ultimately by the Board.
The results are compared to material part of the Groups activity: change of a key budget and the previous year, with full-year forecasts executive in the Group.
The Group chief executive, in prepared and updated quarterly throughout the year.
addition to receiving frequent written and verbal reports The Company reports to share owners four times a year.
from operations throughout the Group, divides his time Each year-end, all operating companies supply between Europe and the US as well as making regular additional detail with their full-year financial results.
visits to Asia and Latin America.
This information is consolidated to allow the Group Each operating group undertakes monthly and to present the necessary disclosures for UK and quarterly procedures and day-to-day management US GAAP reporting.
activities to review their operations and business risks.
A Disclosure committee gives further assurance These are formally communicated to the Group chief that publicly-released information, including this Annual executive and other executive directors in quarterly Report, is free from material omission or misstatement.
review meetings and, in turn, to the Board.
The committee comprises representatives from Group For the year under review, the Board considers reporting, legal, internal audit and investor relations that the monitoring of risk was and continues to be departments.
rmly embedded in the operation of the Company, and of the operating companies, in a manner which Sarbanes-Oxley S404 the Board considers goes far beyond the Turnbull Effective for the 2005 year-end, the Group and its recommendations and the requirements of Rules 13a-14 auditors will be required to report separately to the and 15 of the Securities Exchange Act 1934. share owners on the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, in accordance with Control activities and monitoring section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Policies and procedures for all operating companies The Group has planned its response to the are set out and communicated in the WPP Policy Book, necessary testing procedures and is committed to internal control bulletins and accounting guidelines.
achieving compliance given the rigour of the controls, The application of these policies and procedures is processes and documentation described above.
monitored within the businesses and by the Companys director of internal audit and the Group general counsel.
Going concern During 2003, all operating companies were required UK company law requires the directors to consider to document their internal controls and processes in a whether it is appropriate to adopt the financial detailed Group standard questionnaire.
This documentation statements on the basis that the Company and the incorporates the control environment, an analysis of Group are going concerns.
As part of its normal business risks thus continuing the benets of the regional business practice the Group prepares annual and longerand selected operating company workshops conducted term plans and in reviewing this information and in in the previous year detailed control activities and particular the 2004 three-year plan and budget the monitoring, together with controls over security of data directors believe that the Company and the Group have and the provision of timely and reliable information to adequate resources for the foreseeable future.
It also includes all elements of the annual the Company and the Group continue to adopt the going self-certication questionnaire used in previous years.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The internal audit department veried a majority of the documentation during 2003, the results of which Responsibilities in respect of the preparation were reported to the Audit committee, and continues of financial statements this process into 2004.
UK company law also requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a Financial reporting true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company Each operating company updates a three-year strategic and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of plan annually which incorporates financial objectives.
the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing These are reviewed by the Groups management and are those financial statements, the directors are required to: agreed with the chief executive of the relevant operating select suitable accounting policies and then apply them company.
consistently: The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable development of operating company budgets which build and prudent: and up the Groups budget.
During the final quarter of each state whether applicable accounting standards have financial year, operating companies prepare detailed been followed, subject to any material departures budgets for the following year for review by the parent disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
