Goodwill impairment is assessed by comparing the carrying value of goodwill to the net present value Accounting policies of future cashows derived from the underlying assets using a projection period of up to five years for each The financial statements have been prepared in income generating unit.
After the projection period, accordance with applicable accounting standards in the growth rates of nominal GDP are generally assumed UK UK GAAP.
A summary of the Groups principal for each income generating unit.
In certain instances, accounting policies, which have been applied projection periods of up to 10 years may be used if consistently throughout the year and the preceding management believes the longer period is more year is set out below.
appropriate to assess the carrying value of goodwill A reconciliation to non-GAAP measures of and reect the economic cycles that occur within the performance is set out in note 28 to the financial global markets in which the Group operates.
The financial statements depart from the specic requirement of companies legislation to amortise Basis of accounting and presentation goodwill over a nite period in order to give a true of financial statements and fair view.
The directors consider this to be necessary The financial statements are prepared under for the reasons given above.
Because of the indefinite the historical cost convention.
life of these intangible assets, it is not possible to quantify its impact.
However, for illustrative purposes Basis of consolidation only, if the Group were to change its accounting policy The consolidated financial statements include the and regard all intangible assets as having a limited results of the Company and all its subsidiary useful economic life, and the useful economic life it undertakings made up to the same accounting date.
chose was 20 years, then the resulting impact on the The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or profit and loss account in 2003 would have been a disposed of during the year are included or excluded charge of 250.0 million 2002: 231.0 million, from the profit and loss account from the effective date 2001: 182.0 million.
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of earnouts are based on the directors best estimates of Goodwill and intangible xed assets future obligations, which are dependent on the future Intangible xed assets comprise goodwill and certain performance of the interests acquired and assume the acquired separable corporate brand names.
operating companies improve profits in line with Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value directors estimates.
When earnouts are to be settled by attributed to investments in businesses or subsidiary cash consideration, the fair value of the consideration is undertakings over the fair value of the underlying net obtained by discounting to present value the amounts assets at the date of their acquisition.
In accordance expected to be payable in the future.
The resulting with FRS 10, for acquisitions made on or after interest charge is included within net interest payable 1 January 1998, goodwill has been capitalised as an and similar charges.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to that date was written off to reserves in accordance Tangible xed assets with the accounting standard then in force.
On disposal Tangible xed assets are shown at cost less accumulated or closure of a business, the attributable amount of depreciation and any provision for impairment with the goodwill previously written off to reserves is included exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write Corporate brand names acquired as part of off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset acquisitions of business are capitalised separately from on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, goodwill as intangible xed assets if their value can be as follows: measured reliably on initial recognition.
Freehold buildings 2% per annum For certain acquisitions, where the directors Leasehold land and buildings over the term of the consider it appropriate, goodwill is amortised over its lease or life of the asset, if shorter useful life up to a 20-year period, from the date of Fixtures, ttings and equipment 10-33% per annum acquisition.
The remaining goodwill and intangible Computer equipment 33% per annum assets of the Group are considered to have an indefinite economic life because of the institutional nature of the Investments corporate brand names, their proven ability to maintain Except as stated below, xed asset investments are market leadership and profitable operations over long shown at cost less impairment.
periods of time and WPPs commitment to develop Impairment of goodwill on associate and enhance their value.
The carrying value of these undertakings, included within xed asset investments, intangible assets will continue to be reviewed annually represents a permanent diminution of the carrying value for impairment and adjusted to the recoverable amount of that goodwill.
WPP considers the market value of if required.
listed investments and other business and economic 112 WPP Annual Report 2003 Our 2003 financial statements Accounting policies factors in determining whether a permanent diminution Turnover, cost of sales and revenue recognition of value has occurred.
Turnover comprises the gross amounts billed to clients The Groups share of the profits less losses of in respect of commission-based income together with the associate undertakings is included in the consolidated total of other fees earned.
Cost of sales comprises media profit and loss account and the Groups share of net payments and production costs.
Revenue comprises assets is shown within xed asset investments in the commission and fees earned in respect of turnover.
The Groups share of the Direct costs include fees paid to external suppliers profits less losses and net assets is based on current where they are retained to perform part or all of a information produced by the undertakings, adjusted to specic project for a client and the resulting expenditure conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
is directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Turnover Current asset investments are stated at the lower and revenue are stated exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and of cost and net realisable value.
Stocks and work in progress Advertising and Media investment management Work in progress is valued at cost or on a percentage Revenue is typically derived from commissions on media of completion basis.
Cost includes outlays incurred on placements and fees for advertising services.
Traditionally, behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion of direct the Groups advertising clients were charged a standard costs and overheads on incomplete assignments.
commission on their total media and production Provision is made for irrecoverable costs where expenditure.
In recent years, however, this has tended appropriate.
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost to become a matter of individual negotiation.
Revenue and net realisable value.
may therefore consist of various arrangements involving commissions, fees, incentive-based revenue or a Debtors combination of the three, as agreed upon with each client.
Debtors are stated net of provisions for bad and Revenue is recognised when the service is doubtful debts.
performed, in accordance with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Incentive-based revenue Derivative financial instruments typically comprises both quantitative and qualitative The Group uses derivative financial instruments to elements: on the element related to quantitative targets, reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest revenue is recognised when the quantitative targets have rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue been achieved: on the element related to qualitative derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
targets, revenue is recognised when the incentive is For a forward foreign exchange contract to be received receivable.
treated as a hedge the instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets or liabilities or to a Information, insight & consultancy probable commitment.
It must involve the same currency Revenue is recognised on each market research contract or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also in proportion to the level of service performed.
Costs, reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements including an appropriate proportion of overheads on the Groups operations.
Gains and losses arising on relating to contracts in progress at the balance sheet these contracts are deferred and recognised in the profit date, are carried forward in work in progress.
Losses and loss account or as adjustments to the carrying are recognised as soon as they are foreseen.
amount of xed assets, only when the hedged transaction has itself been reected in the Groups Public relations & public affairs and Branding & financial statements.
identity, Healthcare and Specialist communications For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and the instrument must be related to actual assets or services to be performed subject to specic agreement.
liabilities or a probable commitment and must change Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, the nature of the interest rate by converting a xed rate in accordance with the terms of the contractual to a variable rate or vice versa.
Revenue is recognised on long-term under these swaps are recognised by adjusting net contracts, if the final outcome can be assessed with interest payable over the periods of the contracts.
reasonable certainty, by including in the profit and loss account revenue and related costs as contract Debt activity progresses.
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs.
The carrying amount is Current taxation increased by the finance cost in respect of the accounting Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits period and reduced by payments made in the period.
Convertible debt is reported as a liability unless conversion actually occurs.
No gain or loss is recognised Deferred taxation on conversion.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the WPP Annual Report 2003 113 balance sheet date where transactions or events that projected unit method and discounted at a rate result in an obligation to pay more taxation in the equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality future or a right to pay less taxation in the future have corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the occurred at the balance sheet date.
The actuarial valuations are obtained are differences between the Groups taxable profits and at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet its results as stated in the financial statements that arise date.
The resulting dened benefit asset or liability, net from the inclusion of gains and losses in taxation of the related deferred taxation, is presented separately assessments in periods different from those in which after other net assets on the face of the balance sheet.
they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred taxation asset is regarded as recoverable and Finance leases therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all Where assets are nanced by leasing agreements that available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than give rights approximating to ownership finance leases not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the assets are treated as if they have been purchased the future reversal of the underlying timing differences outright and the corresponding liability to the leasing can be deducted.
company is included as an obligation under finance Deferred taxation is measured at the average leases.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in profit and loss account on the same basis as owned which the timing differences are expected to reverse, assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or capital and interest elements and the interest is charged substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred to the profit and loss account as it is incurred.
taxation is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Operating leases Incentive plans Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss The Groups share based incentive plans are accounted account on a systematic basis.
Any premium or discount for in accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force UITF on the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life of the Abstract 17 Employee Share Schemes.
The cost of lease or until the date of the first rent review.
shares acquired by the Groups ESOP trusts or the fair market value of the shares at the date of the grant, less Translation of foreign currencies any consideration to be received from the employee, is Foreign currency transactions arising from normal charged to the Groups profit and loss account over the trading activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the period to which the employees performance relates.
Monetary assets and liabilities Where awards are contingent upon future events other denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are than continued employment an assessment of the translated at the year-end exchange rate.
Foreign likelihood of these conditions being achieved is made currency gains and losses are credited or charged to at the end of each reporting period and an appropriate the profit and loss account as they arise.
The profit and provision made.
loss accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into pounds sterling at average exchange Pension costs rates and the year-end net assets of these companies The Group accounts for pension schemes in accordance are translated at year-end exchange rates.
Exchange with FRS 17 Retirement Benets.
differences arising from retranslation of the opening For dened contribution schemes, contributions net assets, and on foreign currency borrowings to the are charged to the profit and loss account as payable in extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such respect of the accounting period.
operations, and results for the year are reported in the For dened benefit schemes the amounts charged Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses.
to operating profit are the current service costs and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part of staff costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account if the benets have vested.
If the benets have not vested immediately, the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The interest cost and the expected return on assets are shown as a net amount of other finance costs or credits adjacent to interest.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Where dened benefit schemes are funded, the assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the 114 WPP Annual Report 2003
