98 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 Shareholders dialogue The BAE Systems Annual Report 2002 contained a questionnaire designed to enable you, our shareholders, to tell us what you did or did not like about the report.
What we asked you We asked how much time you spent reading our annual report, and whether it improved your understanding of BAE Systems activities and performance.
It was also important to us to receive your views on whether the report answered your questions and what additional information you would like to have.
To provide an ongoing measurement criteria, we wanted to know how you rated our annual report, especially in comparison to other annual reports you may have read, and what improvements you would like to see us make.
Finally, we asked whether you had, or intended to get, access to the internet and if you had visited the BAE Systems website www.
com, and, if so, if it helped you to understand the activities of the company.
What you told us We had a good response to the questionnaire and have been able to incorporate a number of your suggestions into the BAE Systems Annual Report 2003.
Here is a summary of the responses you, our shareholders, gave us: over 95% spent longer than 5 minutes reading the report: over 95% said it improved understanding of BAE Systems and of our performance: 75% stated that the report answered questions they might have had: over 95% said it rated comparable, better or much better compared to other annual reports: 47% have access to the internet: 27% have visited www.
com: and 60% of visitors found the BAE Systems internet site useful.
What additional information do you want: Here are the main points you raised, with our responses to them: More information on performance Performance of the business has been explained in an expanded operating and financial review OFR.
More information on political and charitable donations BAE Systems does not make any donations to political parties.
BAE Systems has an ongoing charitable programme which is outlined in the corporate social responsibility CSR report on pages 25 to 27.
A more detailed CSR report will be published and will be available on the website from May 2004.
Greater clarity on dividend policy and payment dates A statement of the generic BAE Systems dividend policy is included on page 21, and the relevant dividend payment dates are shown on page 95. Review of share price performance over the year The recently updated investor relations website http: ir.
com has a full charting facility which enables a review of the BAE Systems share price performance over the last 12 years as well as enabling comparison with peer companies and indices.
We hope that you feel that we have succeeded in responding positively to your feedback in the design and content of the 2003 annual report.
2003 questionnaire 1 How long did you spend reading this report?
o Less than 5 mins o 5 - 10 mins o 10 - 30 mins o 30 mins 2 Has reading the report improved your understanding of BAE Systems activities and its performance in 2003?
o Not at all o A little o Adequately o A lot 3 Has reading the report answered questions you had about BAE Systems?
o Yes o No 4 If no, what additional information would you like to have?
5 How would you rate this annual report compared to others that you have read?
o Much worse o Worse o About the same o Better o Much better 6 What improvements would you like to see made to the report?
Internet 7 Do you have access to the internet?
o Yes o No o No, but intend to have within 1 year 8 If you have access to the internet, have you ever visited the BAE Systems website www.
o Yes o No o Not applicable 9 If you have visited the BAE Systems website, did you find it helped your understanding of the activities of the company?
o Yes o No o Not applicable 10 Please indicate in what capacity you have read the report o Private o Institutional o Academic o Customer shareholder investor researcher o Supplier o Employee o Other Thank you for taking the time to complete this questionnaire.
Please tear here second fold BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence no.
SCO 7188 2 2 Pillans & Waddies Ltd 162 Leith Walk Edinburgh EH6 0BR Third fold and tuck in flap opposite First fold Registered Office 6 Carlton Gardens London SW1Y 5AD United Kingdom Telephone: 44 0 1252 373232 Registered in England & Wales No.
1470151 Website details Company website: www.
com Investor relations website: http: ir.
