96 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 Glossary A400M BROACH DLO An Airbus military transport aircraft A multi-warhead system designed to attack Defence Logistics Organisation, part of the programme.
a range of buried high-value targets.
Al Yamamah C3I DoD The UKs largest export defence Command, Control, Communications and US Department of Defense.
programme: a total solutions package for Intelligence.
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
BAE Systems F-35 is the prime contractor.
C4ISR Also known as the Joint Strike Fighter Command, Control, Communication and JSF.
BAE Systems is part of the Archerfish Computing C4, Intelligence, Surveillance Lockheed Martin led consortium An expendable, single shot naval mine and Reconnaissance ISR.
Systems that developing three variants for the US disposal munition.
provide a precise picture of the battlefield Airforce, Navy and Marine Corps and the in real-time, optimising the information Royal Air Force and Royal Navy.
C4ISR Aster PAAMS systems sense the environment, process A multi-layer ground and naval air defence Future Combat System data and combine it with existing missile being developed by MBDA.
The cornerstone of the US Armys knowledge, for optimised mission plans.
It will develop network centric concepts for a Astute C-17 multi-mission combat system through the The UKs newest class of nuclear powered United States military transport aircraft.
use of a combination of manned and attack submarine.
BAE Systems is the premier avionics unmanned ground and air platforms.
Auxiliary Oiler Future Carrier Royal Fleet Auxiliary supply ships to Captor The Royal Navys next generation provide replenishment for ships at sea.
Radar system for the Typhoon combat aircraft carrier.
aircraft: Captor detects, identifies, BMEC prioritises and engages targets beyond the ESOP Battlespace Management Evaluation effective range of enemy weapons, while Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Simulates and evaluates complex remaining resistant to electronic jamming.
systems within operational scenarios early in a programme life-cycle.
DASS Defensive Aids Sub-Systems - an electronic protection system.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 97 BAE Systems microprocessor guides Rover landings on Mars BAE Systems built the radiation hardened RAD6000 computers that are guiding the Spirit and Opportunity Rovers that have successfully landed on Mars to study minerals in rocks.
These computers also processed key navigational data during each spacecrafts six month journey.
Picture credits: NASA JPL Cornell GR9 MoD Type 45 A major capability upgrade for the Harrier, UK Ministry of Defence.
Next generation Anti Air Warfare Destroyer enhancing propulsion and aircraft systems for the Royal Navy.
and providing a smart weapon capability.
Typhoon HALO Collaborative combat aircraft programme Passive acoustic artillery location system: involving the UK, Germany, Italy and Spain.
Operational Framework monitors artillery activities across a wide It will be the cornerstone of the Royal Air Sets out mandatory operational and area of the battlefield.
financial controls, approved by the Executive Committee, to be followed in Harrier conducting the groups business.
It also Tornado V STOL Vertical Short Take-Off and sets out the management ethos of the The Royal Air Forces front line combat Landing combat aircraft.
aircraft, also in service with the Royal Saudi Air Force, and in Germany and Italy.
Hawk Performance Centred Leadership PCL Advanced jet training and light combat PCL is a leadership development USAF aircraft.
programme which drives business success United States Air Force.
by linking individual goals with the wider goals of the organisation.
HIDAS VC10 Helicopter Integrated Defensive Aids Royal Air Force aerial refuelling Sub-System.
Siren DLH Radar decoy systems for warships.
ISO 14001 The standard for environmental Spearfish management published by the International Advanced heavyweight torpedo in service Standards Organisation.
Landing Platform Dock Sting Ray A Royal Navy assault ship capable of Advanced lightweight torpedo in service controlling a complete force of amphibious with the Royal Navy, Royal Air Force and in ships and supporting the deployment of other countries.
