50 Notes to Group financial statements 31 DECEMBER 2003 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES A summary of the more important accounting policies, which have been reviewed by the Board of Directors in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18, Accounting Policies, and have been consistently applied, is set out below.
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The preparation of the financial statements requires Acambis to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of net assets at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and United Kingdom generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Group financial statements include and consolidate the financial statements of Acambis plc and each of its subsidiary undertakings.
Acquisitions made by the Group are accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting and the Group financial statements include the results of such subsidiaries from the relevant date of acquisition.
Intra-group transactions and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation.
The profit for the financial year, dealt with in the financial statements of the Company, was 2.7m 2002 loss of 1.6m.
Under the provisions of Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no profit and loss account is presented for the Company.
TURNOVER Group turnover comprises the value of sales from products and income excluding VAT and taxes, trade discounts and intra-group transactions derived from contract research fees and development milestone payments receivable from third parties in the normal course of business.
The Group has adopted the provisions of FRS5 Application Note G Revenue Recognition which has had no impact on the amounts recognised in the current or prior years.
Revenue from product sales is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
The Group applies the criteria set out in FRS5 Application Note G in determining whether revenue may be recognised on bill and hold transactions entered into by the Group.
Where the Group is required to undertake research and development R&D activities and the fee is creditable against services provided by the Group, that revenue is deferred and recognised over the period over which the services are performed.
Contract research fees are recognised in the accounting period in which the related work is carried out.
Milestones receivable are recognised when they fall contractually due.
Profit is recognised on long-term contracts when the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty by including turnover and related costs within the profit and loss account as contract activity progresses.
Turnover is recognised according to the extent of performance under the contract.
In determining the degree of contractual performance, reference is made to the costs incurred in relation to total estimated expected costs.
The smallpox vaccine contract with the CDC awarded in November 2001 is a fixed fee arrangement requiring the delivery of products as well as a concurrent R&D programme.
This arrangement has been treated as a single long-term contract, whose elements have not been accounted for separately as the Group does not consider that the criteria for unbundling of contracts set out in FRS5 Application Note G have been met.
Turnover and profits are recognised according to the extent of performance under the contract, as described above.
Manufacturing costs are deemed to be incurred when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred, as described above: R&D costs are recognised as incurred.
COST OF SALES The Group has classified manufacturing costs and costs that are directly attributable to funded research and vaccine manufacture programmes as cost of sales.
51 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT R&D costs are written off in the period in which they are incurred.
GOVERNMENT GRANTS Grants, which are non-refundable, are intended to contribute towards specific costs and are recognised in line with the proportion of those costs incurred and are netted off against R&D costs.
PENSION COSTS All schemes are defined contribution schemes and pension contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in the year to which they relate.
Any difference between amounts charged to the profit and loss account and contributions paid are shown in the balance sheet under prepayments or creditors falling due within one year.
TAXATION Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Provision is made for all deferred tax assets and liabilities in accordance with FRS19, Deferred tax using full provision accounting, when an event has taken place by the balance sheet date which gives rise to an increased or reduced tax liability in the future.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS GOODWILL Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, representing the excess of fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identified assets and liabilities acquired, is capitalised and written off on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life.
The fair value of the consideration is determined by applying appropriate discounts to contingent and deferred consideration.
Where the consideration for the acquisition of a business includes non-interest bearing cash payments due after more than one year, the liability is recorded at its present value, after applying a discount rate that approximates to that which a lender would typically require for a similar transaction.
The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are subject to review and any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets are stated at original historical cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, or the period of the lease if shorter, to its residual value based on prices prevailing at the date of acquisition, as follows: Freehold land and buildings 39 years Leasehold land and buildings 15 years or term of lease if shorter Laboratory and manufacturing equipment 4 to 7 years Office equipment 3 to 5 years Impairment reviews are carried out on the occurence of a trigger event and any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account.
No impairment charges were recorded following impairment reviews in the year.
The Group does not capitalise interest charges on loans to fund the purchase of tangible fixed assets.
INVESTMENTS Shares in the Company purchased for employee share options are held under trust and are included as a fixed asset investment until the interest in the shares is unconditionally transferred to the employees.
Provision is made for any permanent impairment in the value of the shares held by the trust.
The Groups other fixed asset investments are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
JOINT VENTURE UNDERTAKINGS Joint ventures are dealt with under the gross equity method.
The Groups share of revenues and operating losses for the joint venture is included in the Group profit and loss account and the Groups share of gross assets and liabilities is included in the Group balance sheet.
