18 Operating and financial review How we manage our business: finance and risk We have put in place robust systems to manage our financial practices and areas that put Acambis business at risk.
Over the last few years, we have particularly focused on improving our handling of risks by embedding a risk management framework into our operations.
Financial systems The following section sets out some of exchange rate exposures, given our smallpox vaccine contract.
Owing to the main financial parameters through reporting currency is sterling.
the timing of certain costs under that which we manage our business.
We manage our cash in money market contract, some funds have been received funds with the aid of professional money in advance of costs having been incurred CAPITAL STRUCTURE market managers.
The Board regularly and, as a result, this will give rise to a At the end of 2003, Acambis had reviews the performance of those funds large negative cash movement in 2004. approximately 125m invested in cash to ensure they achieve competitive rates and short-term investments.
Our treasury policy ensures CURRENT LIQUIDITY that through the course of 2004 this that our capital is not at risk.
During As referred to within Capital structure, will reduce to nearer 100m as a large 2003, we hedged certain foreign we currently have a lease-financing working capital movement unwinds.
exchange exposures but did not have facility in relation to the reactivation Given our healthy cash balance we have any instruments outstanding at the of our manufacturing facility.
At the not had to increase our debt profile end of the year.
We manage this area end of 2003, $22.5m c. 12.6m of in the last couple of years.
on an ongoing basis to ensure that, a potential $40m had been drawn At 31 December 2003, we had $29.5m where possible, potential areas of risk down from the facility.
We do not 16.5m of US dollar-denominated debt are appropriately mitigated.
currently envisage utilising the on our balance sheet, comprising Of the $29.5m 16.5m US dollarundrawn amount.
a lease-financing facility for the denominated debt as referred to within reactivation of our manufacturing Capital Structure, the interest rate INTERNAL SOURCES OF LIQUIDITY plant and an overdraft facility for the payable on the $22.5m finance lease is The Group has a number of interARILVAX programme.
Under the fixed at 6.25% per annum for the life company agreements between its current terms of these arrangements, of the lease: and the $7m ARILVAX companies that have historically both these debts will be repaid within overdraft facility is charged at 0.35% been put in place to secure the the next three years.
per annum above the bank base rate long-term funding requirements We believe that our cash will be for US dollars.
of each of those companies.
sufficient for the operational needs of our business for the medium-term.
CASH FLOWS GOING CONCERN STATEMENT During 2003, the net cash and liquid The Directors have a reasonable TREASURY POLICY resources inflow for the Group was expectation that the Company and The Group holds its cash in a mix of 113.4m, with 119.1m derived from the Group have adequate resources sterling, US dollars and euros.
Cash is operating activities and a net cash and to continue their operations for the invested in this range of currencies such liquid resources outflow of 5.7m from foreseeable future.
As a result, the that working capital requirements for investment and financing activities.
Directors have adopted the going the components of the Group can be By the end of 2003, we had received concern basis in preparing the met.
Where appropriate, it is our policy the vast majority of cash due from our financial statements.
to invest surplus funds in sterling, largest customer, the US Centers for which currently attracts a higher Disease Control and Prevention CDC, interest rate and mitigates certain in respect of our $428m c. 240m 19 Risk management Over the last few years we have As our business has matured over Section 404 Attestation Management given priority to embedding a risk the last few years from a loss-making Assessment of Internal Control, with management framework into the R&D organisation to a fully integrated Auditor Attestation of the Sarbanes operations of our business.
All profitable biotechnology company, Oxley Act of 2002 in the US.
managers are encouraged proactively this has brought with it new risks for We do not currently have a formal to manage risk within their own the business to manage.
The structure internal audit function.
However, the area and to identify potential areas of we have developed to manage risk Audit Committee regularly reviews exposure.
The Executive Directors are is both robust and flexible, enabling this requirement and will do so again responsible for reporting to the Board us to add in new components as our during 2004. via the Audit Committee on our risk business changes.
We also engage a number of external management programme.
Early in 2004, we assigned a parties to ensure we are covering all We are conscious that managing dedicated resource to assess and test risk areas, from consultants to auditors, risk is an ongoing process and we our internal controls to ensure we from legal advisers to insurers.
continue to build on it each year.
comply as a foreign registrant with This is a summary of some of the main risks to which Acambis is currently exposed: having only one main revenue stream, which is generated by sales of our investigational smallpox vaccine to governments: the lack of a substantial recurring revenue stream: the ever-increasing requirements of the regulatory process in respect of our seven products in clinical development: and potential failure of a product in clinical development.
WE VIEW THE RISKS TO ACAMBIS IN THE FOLLOWING WAY: Involving external parties in the Risks common to all businesses process brings impartiality and e. g. GOVERNMENT LEGISLATION objectivity to the process, thereby ultimately serving to manage the business better for all stakeholders.
Risks common to biotech businesses We provide further information e. g. PRODUCT FAILURE on this risk management process, general risks to which all businesses are exposed and a summary of some Risks common to of the more specific risks to which vaccine companies Acambis is exposed on pages 28 to 33. e. g. REGULATORY ISSUES Risks specific to Acambis e. g. LOSS OF CERTAIN EMPLOYEES 20 Operating and financial review How we manage our business: CSR We recognise that there is an increasing interest in the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR activities of companies such as Acambis.
During the last year, we have been analysing the diverse information requirements of our various stakeholders in order to identify what they most want to know about how we run our business.
From this analysis, we have identified five key areas: employees, health and safety, environmental impact, community involvement and issues specific to our industry.
We are undertaking an audit of our activities which, in addition to these key areas, is looking at relationships with customers and suppliers.
We plan to publish the information we compile on these activities on our website www.
Here, we are publishing an overview of our activities in these key areas.
DEVELOPING VACCINES TO SAVE LIVES The most important aspect of Acambis contribution to society is the work we do day in, day out: developing new vaccines against infectious diseases.
The disease areas we are targeting affect the lives of tens of millions of people every year.
For instance, there are an estimated 50 million cases of dengue infection every year, of which 500,000 develop into the more severe dengue haemorrhagic fever, which has an average 20% fatality rate.
There is no licensed vaccine against dengue.
Our investigational vaccine is undergoing clinical testing.
Even in the case of our smallpox vaccine, where the virus is no longer WORLDWIDE DISTRIBUTION OF DENGUE SOURCE: CDC circulating, we are playing an important part in worldwide preparations to defend AREAS INFESTED WITH DENGUE-TRANSMITTING MOSQUITO against a potentially catastrophic AREAS WITH DENGUE-TRANSMITTING MOSQUITO AND DENGUE EPIDEMIC ACTIVITY bioterrorist event.
21 OUR EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT INDUSTRY ISSUES Much of our value and potential for The biotechnology industry is generally In our industry, there are a number success sits with our employees and recognised as having a relatively low of ethical issues that a company such the intellectual capital they represent impact on the environment in terms of as Acambis needs to address.
through their experience and expertise.
emissions and use of materials.
A waste The most high profile of these is We believe in rewarding them production survey conducted at one of the use of animals to test products appropriately for the contribution they our sites a few years ago confirmed this before they advance to clinical trials make to our success, both through their view.
We are continuing to assess our in humans.
This type of testing is remuneration and through an annual activities in this area and to identify required by law in our home territories bonus scheme that is linked to personal and act upon ways to reduce what of the UK and the US and is undertaken and company performance.
within a very strict and well regulated We aim to involve our employees framework.
We apply rigorous standards closely in the Groups progress through COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT to any such work, including oversight share ownership.
All employees are Our community activities focus on two by internal and external ethical review awarded share options when they join key areas: supporting employees efforts committees and enforcement of the Acambis and at other times during their to raise funds for charity: and involvement three Rs concept refine, reduce, employment, and they are also given with organisations or events related replace.
We have always sought to the opportunity to participate in share to promotion of  conduct such work in countries such as save schemes.
the UK and the US where the highest Our decision in January 2004 to We match the amount of money raised ethical standards are applied.
close the UK research operations by an employee or group of employees A major question facing vaccine following a portfolio and operational for their chosen charity.
In 2003, we developers and drug manufacturers review was a difficult one to take, introduced a Payroll Giving Scheme in the today is how to make the products particularly in making 40 employees UK to enable employees to donate to the available to the areas of the world redundant.
The decision was driven charities of their choice through payroll, where they are most needed, even by specific operational business needs.
which has tax benefits for charities.
if those people are unable to afford We aimed to be as fair as possible with Occasionally, we make donations to to buy the product themselves.
the employees affected and ran a full charities that support the communities We want to ensure our vaccines are 30-day consultation to ensure their in which we operate.
Charitable made as widely available as possible.
views were represented in the process.
To achieve this, we aim to work with We have hosted a number of site supranational organisations such as HEALTH AND SAFETY visits by university students wanting the World Health Organization WHO We have an excellent safety record to discover more about biotechnology and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and, to date, have never been required and learn from Acambis experiences.
both of which facilitate the process to report an accident to the Health For the last two years, we have also of making vaccines available in and Safety Executive in the UK or sponsored the Biobusiness: an insight endemic regions.
the Operational Health and Safety into bioscience event organised by the Administration in the US.
As many Careers Research Advisory Council.
of our employees regularly work in a laboratory or manufacturing setting, we aim to ensure that effective health and safety management is an integral part of our business activities.
OUR EMPLOYEES 2003 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT MANUFACTURING ADMINISTRATION SALES AND MARKETING EMPLOYEE NUMBERS AT YEAR ENDINGS 2001-2003 MARKETED 2001 2002 2003 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350
