The number of outstanding ordinary shares of 10p each at that date was 105,904,871.
On 23 February 2004, Acambis announced a change in the ratio of its ADR, which has had the effect of bringing the price of its ADR more in line with the price of peer group companies.
Since listing on NASDAQ in February 2001, Acambis ADR price has risen from approximately $18 to around $60.
To ensure continued accessibility for both institutional and private investors in the US, Acambis took the decision to change the ADR ratio from one ADR for 10 ordinary shares to one ADR for two ordinary shares.
All ADR holders on the register as at 20 February 2004 were issued on 23 February 2004 with four additional ADRs for each one held.
The high and low data for ADRs shown in the table above reflect the current ratio.
COMPARATIVE DIVIDEND INFORMATION Acambis has never paid any cash dividends on its shares and does not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at 10.00 a. m. on 12 May 2004 at the offices of Weil, Gotshal & Manges, One South Place, London EC2M 2WG.
The Notice of the AGM accompanies this Annual Report.
In addition to the reappointment of  LLP as auditors authority in respect of special business is being sought: to give the Company the authority to purchase up to 10% of its own issued ordinary shares at a price of not less than 10p per share and not more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys shares as shown in the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five dealing days before the purchase is made.
This authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys next AGM or 15 months from the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier: and to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights in respect of the allotment of new shares pursuant to rights issues or otherwise for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 528,189, being 5% of the currently issues ordinary shares of the Company in accordance with the current guidelines of the Investment Committee of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
This authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys next AGM or 15 months from the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION A copy of both the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company has been filed with the Registrar of Companies.
The Memorandum contains the fundamental provisions of the Companys constitution.
The Articles contain the rules for the internal management and control of the Company.
DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY Certain documents referred to in this Annual Report are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company.
