Statement of accounting policies Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and, except as explained below under Properties and Government grants, the Companies Act 1985 and under historical cost accounting rules as modied by the revaluation of investment properties and operating assets.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the groups financial statements.
Basis of consolidation and presentation of financial information The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and all its subsidiary undertakings, which have all been prepared to 31 December 2003.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
As permitted by s230 Companies Act 1985, a separate profit and loss account is not presented for Chelseld plc.
The group does not directly own the share capital of ICT Centre Holding BV ICT but has a put and call option from a third party to acquire the entire share capital.
Consequently, ICT does not full the denition of a subsidiary undertaking but is directly controlled by the group and gives rise to benets for the group that are, in substance, no different from those that would arise were the entity a subsidiary undertaking.
During the year, ICT made a loss after tax of 6,290,000 2002 24,434,000 after exceptional property write downs of 1,925,000 2002 19,326,000.
At 31 December 2003, the book value of its investment property was 31,093,000 2002 29,744,000 and it had a deficit of shareholdersfunds of 24,681,000 2002 21,368,000.
Goodwill and negative goodwill Purchased goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions before 1 January 1998, when FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets was adopted, was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent disposal occurs, any related goodwill previously written off to reserves is written back through the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Purchased goodwill, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given and associated costs over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired, arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 1 January 1998 is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful life.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business acquired since 1 January 1998, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging the unamortised amount of any related goodwill.
Negative goodwill, where the fair value of the net assets is greater than the purchase price of the subsidiary undertaking at the date of acquisition, is included in xed assets and credited to the profit and loss account in the periods in which the fair values of the non-monetary assets purchased on the same acquisition are recovered, whether through depreciation, write-down or sale.
Joint ventures A joint venture is an undertaking in which the group has a long-term interest and over which it exercises joint control.
In accordance with FRS9, joint ventures are included under the gross equity method.
As a result, the groups share of the profits less losses of joint ventures is included in the consolidated profit and loss account and its interest in their net assets is included as investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
34 Subsidiary undertakings The companys investments in its subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost or, where the directors consider an impairment in value has taken place, at that lower valuation.
Other xed asset investments Other xed asset investments include shares in the company acquired by the Chelseld Employee benefit Trust in respect of awards made under the LTIP, with the likely cost of the awards being amortised over the measurement period of the awards.
The remaining other xed asset investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Properties Properties held as investments are shown as xed assets and are stated at cost in the year of acquisition and at valuation on the basis of open market value in subsequent years.
If, in the opinion of the directors, a property has been subject to a material change in value as a result of a change in circumstances in the year of acquisition, it is stated at valuation on the basis of open market value.
Properties held for development are shown as xed assets and are stated at the lower of cost and recoverable amount until such time as development risks are considered to have been substantially covered.
This would typically require planning consent to be in place, pre-letting agreements to be signed and construction risk to be substantially overcome.
Where this is the case, properties held for development are shown as xed assets and are stated at open market value.
Interest costs on borrowings which relate to significant development expenditure are capitalised as part of the cost of the development properties where a valuation of the property in its existing state supports the capitalisation of such interest.
To this extent interest is treated in a similar fashion to all other development costs.
In accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice No.
19: i investment properties are revalued annually at open market value.
All surpluses and deficits arising on valuation are taken directly to the revaluation reserve, except that any impairment in the value of an investment property is taken to the profit and loss account for the year: and ii no depreciation or amortisation is provided in respect of freehold investment properties and leasehold investment properties with over 20 years to run.
This treatment may be a departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 concerning depreciation of xed assets.
However, these properties are not held for consumption but for investment and the directors consider that systematic annual depreciation would be inappropriate.
The accounting policy adopted is therefore necessary for the accounts to give a true and fair view.
Depreciation or amortisation is only one of the many factors reected in the property valuations and the amount which might otherwise have been shown cannot be separately identied or quantied.
profit on the disposal of investment properties is recognised in the profit and loss account on completion of the sale and by reference to carrying value.
Properties held as stock are stated in the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Operating assets Operating assets, which comprise the freehold land and buildings owned by Wentworth Club, are stated at valuation.
Depreciation is provided on the buildings to write off the cost or valuation, less any residual value, by equal instalments over a 50 year period.
Depreciation is not provided on the freehold land as the directors are of the opinion that the high standards maintained for the land ensure that there is no diminution in value.
35 Statement of accounting policies continued Government grants Capital contributions towards property development costs are deducted from the cost of those assets.
This is not in accordance with Schedule 4 to the Companies Act 1985 under which the property under development should be stated at cost and the capital contribution treated as deferred income and released to the profit and loss account over the useful life of the property.
However, the directors are of the opinion that the property has no nite economic life and the capital contribution would remain in the balance sheet in perpetuity.
It is therefore considered that the treatment required by the Companies Act 1985 would not present a true and fair view of the groups investment properties.
This has no impact on the net assets of the group and the calculation of the surplus arising on the revaluation of investment properties would be the same under both methods.
Depreciation on other tangible xed assets Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of other xed tangible assets, less any residual values, by equal instalments over their estimated economic lives as follows: Furniture, xtures and equipment 3 to 15 years Motor vehicles 4 years Plant and machinery 15 years Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where an event has occurred that results in an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future, except that: provision is not made in respect of property revaluation surpluses unless an unconditional sales agreement has been signed and rollover relief is not available to cover any gain arising.
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the relevant timing differences can be deducted.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures as it is not expected that any tax will be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured on a non discounted basis at the tax rates which apply at the balance sheet date.
Pension costs The group makes payments to pension schemes on behalf of all eligible employees on a xed contribution basis.
Foreign exchange Monetary assets and liabilities denominated or recorded in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Trading results of subsidiary and joint ventures are translated at the closing rate for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets of overseas subsidiary and joint ventures at the commencement of the year, together with the exchange movements on matching foreign currency loans, are taken to reserves.
Other exchange differences arising in the ordinary course of trading are included in the results for the year.
Financial instruments The group uses interest rate swaps for hedging purposes to reduce its sensitivity to interest rate uctuations arising from oating rate debt.
Amounts payable and receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to the interest expense over the period of the contracts.
