"Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the forty fifth annual general meeting of Barratt Developments PLC the ""Company"" will be held at the B a r b e rS u rgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, Wo od Street, London, EC2Y 5BL on 13th November 2003 at 2.30pm for the following p u r p o s e s : 1."
To receive and adopt the re p o rts of the auditors and directors and the accounts for the year ended 30th June 2003.
Mr S J Boyes who re t i res by ro t a t i o n. 4.
Mr P R Gieron who re t i res by ro t a t i o n. 5.
Mr G K Hester who re t i res by ro t a t i o n. 6.
Mr C Fenton who re t i res at the first annual general meeting following his appointment by the Board.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company having previously been appointed by the Board to fill the casual vacancy arising, by reason of the resignation of , to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the directors to fix their re m u n e r a t i o n. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of which resolutions 8, 9 and 10 will be proposed as ord i n a ry re s o l u t i o n s and resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed as special re s o l u t i o n s. 8.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for year ended 30th June 2003 be and is hereby appro v e d. 9.
T h a t : a The Barratt Developments Long-Te rm Perf o rmance Plan the Plan, a summary of which is set out in the Appendix to the letter f rom the Chairman of the Company to shareholders dated 15th October 2003, be and is hereby approved and that the dire c t o r s be and they are hereby authorised to do all acts and things necessary to establish and carry it into effect: and b the directors be and they are hereby authorised to vote and be counted in the quorum on any matter connected with the Plan except that no director may vote or be counted in the quorum in respect of his own participation and any prohibition on voting contained in the articles of association of the Company be and is hereby relaxed accord i n g l y.
That the Board be and it is generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,136,425 being 25.7% of the nominal value of the existing issued share capital as at 24th September 2003 provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the next annual general meeting after the passing of this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make an off e r or agreement which would or might re q u i re relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot re l e v a n t securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expire d. 1 1.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 10 above, the Board be and it is hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 10 above as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: 2 1 a in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them provided that the directors may make such arrangements in respect of overseas holders of shares and in respect of fractional entitlements as they consider necessary or convenient: and b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,193,179 being 5% of the nominal value of the existing issued share capital as at 24th September 2003 and shall expire on the date of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would, or might, re q u i re equity securities to be allotted after such e x p i ry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not e x p i re d. 1 2.
"That the Company be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within t h e meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of its ord i n a ry shares of 10p each ""Ord i n a ry Shares"" pro v i d e da l w a y s t h a t : a this authority is limited to a maximum aggregate number of 23,863,575 Ord i n a ry Share s : b the maximum price which may be paid for an Ord i n a ry Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the closing middle market quotation for an Ord i n a ry Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ord i n a ry Share is contracted to be purchased exclusive of expenses : a n d c the minimum price which may be paid for an Ord i n a ry Share is 10p exclusive of expenses."
The authority hereby conferred shall, unless renewed prior to such time, expire on the earlier of the date falling eighteen months after the passing of this resolution and the conclusion of the Companys next annual general meeting, save that the Company may before such expiry enter into a new contract under which a purchase of Ord i n a ry Shares may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry and the Company may purchase Ord i n a ry Shares in pursuance of such contract as if the authority conferred hereby had not expire d. R e g i s t e red Off i c e By order of the Board Wi n g rove House L Dent Ponteland RoadS e c re t a ry Newcastle upon Tyne NE5 3DP 9th October 2003 N o t e s : i Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of the m e m b e r. A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
i i Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those shareholders re g i s t e red at 2.30pm on 11th November 2003 will be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the numbers of shares re g i s t e red in their names at that time.
Subsequent changes to the register will be disre g a rded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the m e e t i n g. i i i Copies of contracts of service of the directors with the Company and the register of the directors interests will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 2.15 pm until the conclusion of the meeting.
i v Copies of the full text of the proposed Barratt Developments Long-Te rm Perf o rmance Plan may be inspected at the re g i s t e red off i c e of the Company and at the offices of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY at any time during normal business hours on weekdays Saturdays and public holidays excepted up to and including the day of the annual general meeting, and at the place of the meeting from 2.15 pm until the conclusion of the meeting.
