Glossary of terms Property Assured periodic tenancy APT Market rented tenancy arising from succession from regulated.
Tenant has security of tenure.
Assured shorthold tenancy AST Market rented tenancy where landlord may obtain possession if appropriate notice served.
Assured tenancy AT Market rented tenancy where tenant has right to renew.
Investment value IV Open market value of a property subject to relevant tenancies in place.
Life tenancy Rent free tenancy where tenant has right of occupation until possession is forfeited usually on death.
If tenant retains an equity interest in the property this is a partial life tenancy.
Regulated tenancy Tenancy regulated under 1977 Rent Act, rent usually sub market set by rent officer and tenant has security of tenure.
Tenanted Residential TR Activity covering the acquisition, renting out and subsequent sale usually on vacancy of residential units subject to a tenancy agreement.
Vacant possession value VP Open market value of a property free from any tenancies.
Financial Cap Financial instrument which, in return for a fee, guarantees an upper limit for the interest rate on a loan.
Contingent tax The amount of tax that would be payable should assets be sold at the market value shown in the accounts.
Dividend cover Earnings per share divided by dividends per share.
Earnings per share EPS Profit attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue in the year.
FRS13 Accounting standard requiring the disclosure of the market value of long-term debt and financial instruments.
FRS19 Accounting standard prohibiting the provision of deferred tax on stock revaluation surpluses when companies are acquired.
Gearing The ratio of borrowings net of cash to net asset value.
Hedging The use of financial instruments to protect against interest rate movements.
Interest cover Profit on ordinary activities before interest and tax divided by net interest payable.
Negative goodwill On acquisition of a company, the surplus of the value of the statutory net assets acquired over the purchase price paid.
Net asset value NAV Shareholders funds adjusted for the market value of property assets held as stock.
Net net asset value triple net or NNNAV NAV adjusted for contingent tax liabilities which would accrue if assets sold at market value and for the market value of long-term debt and derivatives.
Swap Financial instrument to protect against interest rate movements.
Total Shareholder Return TSR Return attributable to shareholders on basis of share price growth with dividends reinvested.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC The weighted average cost of funding the groups activities through a combination of shareholders funds and debt.
Corporate BPT plc Formerly Bradford Property Trust plc.
Major residential investor acquired by Bromley in May 2001.
Bromley Joint Venture Bromley JV The Joint Venture between Grainger and Deutsche Bank which acquired BPT plc.
Bromley Property Holdings Limited Bromley Holding company of the vehicle used to acquire BPT plc.
Deutsche Bank DB Joint venture partners in acquisition of BPT plc.
64 Grainger Trust plc Glossary of terms Corporate addresses Newcastle office Harborne office Epsom office Citygate The Circle Kings Lodge St James Boulevard Harborne 28 Church Street Newcastle upon Tyne Birmingham Epsom NE1 4JE B17 9DY Surrey KT17 4QB London office Martlesham office 203 Brompton Road 42a Barrach Square Altrincham office London Martlesham Heath St Johns House SW3 1LA Ipswich Barrington Road Suffolk Altrincham IP5 3RF Cheshire WA14 1TJ Printed on Zanders Mega Matt a paper that is manufactured using 50% recycled fide-inked fibre and 50% TCF totally chlorine free pulp, and is sourced from sustainable forests.
The paper is also biodegradable and harmless to the environment.
Designed & produced by Carnegie Orr T 44 0 20 7610 6140 www.
com Grainger Trust plc Newcastle office: Citygate St James Boulevard Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 4JE Website Email www.
co. uk @ London office: Company Registration No.
