Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Shareholder Information Details of the Bellway p. l. c. 2004 Performance Share Plan the Plan 1.
General The Plan will be operated in conjunction with the Bellway p. l. c. Employee Share Trust 1992 the Trust, a trust that was established by the Company in 1992 to make awards under The Bellway Deferred Bonus Plan.
The current trustee of the Trust is Capita IRG Trustees Limited.
Under the Plan, the Company or the trustee of the Trust will, having regard to recommendations made by the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration the Committee, conditionally allocate to participants a certain number of ordinary shares in the Company Awards.
Awards will subject to the limits set out below be satisfied either by the issue of new ordinary shares or the transfer of existing ordinary shares.
It is intended that Awards will initially be satisfied by existing ordinary shares.
Making of Awards Awards will be made to employees and executive directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Employees and directors who are less than six months from retirement will not be eligible for Awards.
Awards will initially be made within the period of 42 days following approval of the Plan by shareholders.
Thereafter, Awards will only be made in the 42-day period commencing on the following: the announcement of the Companys annual or half-yearly results: or the date an employee first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, or in any other period of 42 days, as determined in its absolute discretion by the Committee.
Awards may not be made more than 10 years after approval of the Plan by shareholders in general meeting.
Performance Targets Awards will vest only if performance targets, determined at the time the Awards are made, are achieved over a stated time period the performance period.
The performance targets applying to the initial grant of Awards will be based on a comparison, over a three-year period, of the total shareholder return of the Company with the return of the following UK housebuilding companies: Barratt Developments PLC, The Berkeley Group plc, Bovis Homes Group PLC, Countryside Properties PLC, Crest Nicholson PLC, McCarthy & Stone plc, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc, Taylor Woodrow plc, Westbury plc, Wilson Bowden plc and George Wimpey Plc.
If the total shareholder return achieved by the Company is sufficient to place it in the upper quartile, Awards will vest in full.
If it is sufficient to place the Company in the top half, the proportion of Awards that will vest will increase on a straight line basis by reference to total shareholder return, from one-third of Awards where the Company has a median ranking, to full vesting where its ranking would place it in the upper quartile.
There will be no provision for the retesting of performance targets if, for example, full vesting has not been achieved.
There is an overriding condition that Awards will only vest if the Committee confirms that it is satisfied that the total shareholder return achieved by the Company is a genuine reflection of the Companys underlying financial performance over the performance period.
Prior shareholder approval will be required if it is proposed that materially different performance targets will apply to the making of future Awards.
Vesting of Awards Participating employees will, following the end of the relevant performance period, be notified as to the extent to which performance targets have been achieved and their Awards have vested.
They will then have up to six months following the third anniversary of the date the Awards were made in which to secure the release of the ordinary shares by giving notice to the trustee of the Trust.
Awards will not be transferable and ordinary shares can be released only by the persons to whom the Awards were made or, in certain circumstances, their personal representatives.
If participating employees cease to be employed by the Company or any subsidiary company before their Awards have vested, then their Awards will lapse.
However, if they cease to be employed before the third anniversary of the date of grant of their Awards by reason of injury or disability, pregnancy, redundancy or retirement or because their employing company ceases to be a subsidiary of the Company, or their employment is transferred, along with the business in which they are employed, to a third party, the Committee shall determine the extent to which participants Awards vest.
In doing this, the Committee will have regard to the extent to which performance targets have been achieved, and the period for which the Awards have been held, at that time.
If participating employees cease to be employed after the end of the third anniversary of the date of grant of their Awards for any of those reasons, participating employees will continue to be able to secure the release of the ordinary shares during the remainder of the six-month period, but only if their Awards have vested.
71 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Shareholder Information continued 4.
Vesting of awards continued In the event of a takeover of the Company before the end of a performance period, the Committee will determine the extent to which participants Awards vest, having regard to the extent to which the performance targets have been achieved at that time.
Similar provisions apply in the case of a scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation affecting the Company.
Awards lapse if participating employees are made bankrupt.
Variation of Share Capital In the event of a variation in the share capital of the Company by reason of, for example, a rights issue or share consolidation, the number of ordinary shares comprised within Awards may be adjusted.
Amendments The rules of the Plan may be amended by the Committee.
If the amendment is to the material disadvantage of any participant, that participants consent will be required.
If the amendment is to the advantage of participants generally and, in particular, with regard to the rules relating to the eligibility of participants under the Plan limitations on the number of ordinary shares over which Awards may be made under, or to any participant under, the Plan, or adjustments in the event of a variation in the share capital of the Company, shareholder consent will be required unless the amendment is minor, benefits the administration of the Plan or takes account of changing legislation, or the amendment is being made to obtain or maintain a favourable tax or regulatory treatment.
Plan Limits Awards, where it is intended that they will be satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares, cannot be made under the Plan if this would cause the total number of ordinary shares which can be issued by the Company to satisfy those Awards to exceed 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company on that date.
This limit takes account of ordinary shares issued pursuant to rights granted within the previous 10 years under any discretionary employee share scheme established by the Company, and is increased to 10% to take account of ordinary shares issued pursuant to rights granted within the previous 10 years under all employee share schemes established by the Company.
There are no limits on the making of Awards which will be satisfied by the transfer of existing ordinary shares, save that, at any time, the Trust cannot acquire further shares if it would otherwise hold more than 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company.
A participating employee will not be entitled to an Award if, when the Award is made, the Market Value of ordinary shares comprised within Awards made to him or her in the same financial period of the Company determined as at the date the Awards are made would exceed his or her annual basic salary.
In exceptional circumstances for example, to facilitate the recruitment of a senior executive, this limit can be doubled.
For these purposes, the Market Value of ordinary shares will be ascertained by reference to the closing mid-price for the ordinary shares, as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, for the dealing day preceding the date of the making of the Award.
General Benefits under the Plan are not pensionable.
Participating employees will have no rights over, or interests in, the ordinary shares which are the subject of their Awards in particular, participating employees will have no entitlement to dividends or voting rights until the Awards have vested, and they have secured the release of the ordinary shares.
Financial Calendar Announcement of results and ordinary dividends - Half year April - Full year October Ordinary share dividend payments - Interim July - Final January Preference share dividend payments at the rate of 9.5% per annum paid half yearly April and October Annual report posted to shareholders November Final dividend ex-dividend date 10 December 2003 Final dividend record date 12 December 2003 Annual General Meeting 16 January 2004 Final dividend payment date 19 January 2004 72 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Shareholder Information continued Shareholders by Size of Holding at 31 July 2003 Holdings Shares Number % Holding % 0 - 2,000 1,372 57.6 1,103,227 1.0 2,001 10,000 606 25.5 2,734,749 2.4 10,001 - 50,000 218 9.2 5,186,674 4.7 50,001 and over 184 7.7 102,383,487 91.9 Total 2,380 100.0 111,408,137 100.0 Discount to shareholders The following discount arrangement is currently available to shareholders.
Should you intend to purchase a new Bellway home, you will be entitled to a discount of 625 per 25,000, or pro rata on part thereof, of the purchase price provided that: a you have been the registered holder of at least 2,000 ordinary shares for a minimum period of 12 months prior to the reservation of your new home.
b you inform our sales representative on site when reserving your property that you are claiming shareholder discount.
The above discount arrangement is only available to shareholders on the Company's Register: employees of investing companies or members of investing institutions would not therefore be eligible.
For further details please contact the Company Secretary, Bellway p. l. c. Seaton Burn House, Dudley Lane, Seaton Burn, Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 6BE, telephone 0191 217 0717 or email kevin.
