Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of TBI plc will be held at noon on Friday 1 August 2003 at the Hilton Cardiff Hotel for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and the audited financial statements of the Company and of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2003 together with the Auditors Report on those statements and on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2003.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2003.
To re-elect as a director Keith Brooks who retires by rotation and, being eligible, submits himself for re-election.
To re-elect as a director Caroline Price who retires by rotation and, being eligible, submits herself for re-election.
To elect as a director Larry Gouldthorpe who was appointed during the year and submits himself for election.
To consider and if thought fit pass the following as a Special Resolution: That  LLP, having been appointed by the directors to fill the casual vacancy following the resignation of , be appointed to hold office as auditors until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and that the directors be authorised to agree the auditors remuneration.
To consider and if thought fit pass the following as a Special Resolution: That the authority and power conferred on the directors by Article 4 B of the Companys Articles of Association be and are hereby renewed for the period commencing on the passing of this Resolution and ending on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or 1 August 2004 whichever is the earlier.
To consider and if thought fit pass the following as a Special Resolution: For the purposes of any allotments made pursuant to Resolution 8 above and during the period commencing on the passing of Resolution 8 and ending on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or 1 August 2004 whichever is the earlier that: a. the Section 80 Amount shall be 18,110,507 b. the Section 89 Amount shall be 2,794,474 being equivalent to 5% of the issued ordinary capital of the Company.
By order of the board R C Clifton Secretary 10 June 2003 Notes 1A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting hereby convened is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote on the members behalf.
A proxy need not also be a member.
2To be valid, forms of proxy for use at the meeting must be completed and returned to the Companys registrars, Computershare Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH so as to arrive no later than noon on 30 July 2003.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
3A copy of all the directors service contracts will be available for inspection at the meeting and at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting.
4 The register of directors interests in shares of the Company will be available for inspection at the meeting.
5 Pursuant to regulation 41 1 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 the Company has specified that only those members entered in the register of members of the Company at noon on 30 July 2003 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the Register after close of business on 30 July 2003 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Meeting.
67 TBI Annual report and accounts 2003 Notice of Annual General Meeting
