Glossary and Denitions Glossary and Denitions Terms used US equivalent or brief description of meaning Accounts Financial statements Allotted Issued Articles of Association Bylaws Attributable profit Net income Balance sheet Statement of financial position Bills Notes Called up share capital Ordinary shares and preferred stock, issued and fully paid Capital allowances Tax depreciation allowances Combined Code UK-derived principles of good corporate governance and code of best practice Creditors Payables Current account Checking account DealingTrading Debtors Receivables Deferred tax Deferred income tax Depreciation Write-down of tangible xed assets over their estimated useful lives Fees and commissions payable Fees and commissions expense Fees and commissions receivable Fees and commissions income Finance lease Capital lease Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Interest payable Interest expense Interest receivable Interest income Loans and advances Lendings Loan capital Long-term debt Long term assurance fund Long term insurance fund Members Shareholders Net asset value Book value Nominal value Par value One-off Non-recurring Ordinary shares Common stock Overdraft A line of credit established through a customers current account and contractually repayable on demand Preference shares Preferred stock Premises Real estate profit Income profit and loss account Income statement profit and loss account reserves Retained earnings Provisions Allowances Share capital Ordinary shares, or common stock, and preferred stock Shareholders funds Stockholders equity Share premium account Additional paid-in capital Shares in issue Shares outstanding Tangible xed assets Property, plant and equipment Undistributable reserves Restricted surplus Write-offs Charge-offs Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 199 Cross-reference to form 20-F Cross-reference to Form 20-F Part I 10 Additional Information 1 Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers Share Capital Memorandum and Articles of Association 2 Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable Material Contracts 53 Exchange Controls 195 3 Key Information Taxation 197 Selected Financial Data 192 Dividends and Paying Agents Capitalisation and Indebtedness Statements by Experts Reasons for the Offer and use of Proceeds Documents on Display 198 Exchange Rates 193 Subsidiary Information Not applicable Risk Factors 196 11 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 77 4 Information on the Company History and Development of the Company 8 12 Description of Securities Other Than Equity Securities Business Overview 8 Debt Securities Supervision and Regulation 106 Warrants and Rights Organisational Structure 8 Other Securities Property, Plant and Equipment 65 American Depositary Shares 5 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects Part II Operating Results 12 13 Defaults, Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies Not applicable Liquidity and Capital Resources 66 14 Material Modications to the Rights Not applicable Research and Development, Patents and Licenses, etc Not applicable of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds Trend Information 8 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 68 15 Controls and Procedures Contractual Obligations 70 Disclosure Controls and Procedures 98 Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 98 6 Directors, Senior Management and Employees Directors and Senior Management 87 16 Internal Control over Financial Reporting Compensation 99 Audit Committee Financial Expert 96 Board Practices 96 Code of Ethics 91 Employees 91 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 124 Share Ownership 102 Exemptions from the Listing Standards for Audit Committees 7 Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions Part III Major Shareholders 195 17 Financial Statements Not applicable Related Party Transactions 102 and 159 Interests of Experts and Counsel 18 Financial Statements 111 8 Financial Information 19 Exhibits Filed with the SEC Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information 111 Not required for an Annual Report.
significant Changes 12 9 The Offer and Listing Offer Listing and Details Plan of Distribution Selling shareholders Share Price History 195 Trading Markets 194 Dilution Expenses of the Issue 200 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Shareholder Review03 Abbey Annual Review Abbey National plc 2 Strategic Statement Welcome to Abbey The business has coped well with the sheer level of change, delivered record new mortgage lending, improved the quality of risk related to our lending and delivered a respectable trading profit in the PFS business of over 1 billion.
We are realistic and know there is still a lot to do, but we are all working hard to rebuild Abbey into a thriving company.
We are determined to deliver better results in 2004 for both our shareholders and our customers.
Lord Burns, Chairman Luqman Arnold, Chief Executive Overview of 2003 At the start of the year, we set out our plan for the future to focus solely on We have achieved a lot PFS in the UK, and sell or wind down businesses outside this area.
in the first year but there is The immediate priority for 2003 was to improve risk management and still much to do and many Abbeys exposure to risk.
We also wanted to put in place a strategy for future challenges to come.
In the past year, weve reduced risk and restructured the company, and 2003 has been a tough year for Abbey, in September we relaunched as Abbey, one which reects the enormous an organisation centred around the amount of effort and investment needed customer.
We want to turn banking on to put the business back on track.
its head and give our customers truly distinctive service.
Were clear about what we want to achieve, With a new executive team and and that weve got the right strategy to a new Customer Board in place, we have maximise value for our shareholders.
Were begun a full review of all our accounts one year into our three-year journey, and and services, the skills of our people, and were pleased with the enormous progress our branch and cash machine network.
We are on the right Weve started a new programme of track and have met the priorities we set training for our customer-facing teams, out 12 months ago.
weve upgraded the branch computer The main reason for the overall loss system and have recruited an additional before tax of 686 million that we are 550 staff in branches and telephone Our aims reporting is that weve done so well with centres.
Weve also introduced new our strategy for the Portfolio Business advertising, and will talk more about to continually improve the way Unit PBU the faster we sell these this and other activities in the business people relate to their money.
assets and remove them from the review section starting on p4.
to do whats right for our business, the sooner the losses on the We have also made some tough customers in the right way.
sales show up in our results.
Weve also decisions along the way, which included to turn banking on its head.
had some one-off charges in our Personal closing six operational sites and Financial Services PFS business.
announcing the transfer of 500 roles www.
com Abbey Annual Review 2003 Strategic Statement 3 we are changing to India.
We are convinced that these 2003 and the early stage we are at with changes are necessary to provide the change programme.
Financial highlights improved service for our customers, as well as to reduce costs.
Looking ahead profit loss before tax The progress to date has been good m Personal Financial Services PFS business and by the end of 2004 the risks in the PFS trading 1,021 The PFS business delivered a creditable business will have been largely removed.
Non-trading charges 786 trading profit before tax of 1,021 million, We have achieved a lot in the first year 235 with record levels of mortgage new but there is still much to do and many PBU 921 business as well as growth in unsecured challenges to come.
Loss on ordinary loans and overdrafts.
In September, Our people are key to our success activities 686 we committed to simplifying our range and we would like to thank them for of accounts and removing the jargon all their efforts and the way they have from our literature.
We have replaced responded to the change.
Dividends six bank accounts with just one, and our The priorities of the next 12 months pence mortgages and savings are now each will centre around the customer, as we Interim 8.33 grouped under three clear headings to work hard to make Abbey stand out from Final proposed 16.67 help customers choose the right account the other banks and be truly different.
We are rewriting all our customer In 2004 we expect to deliver growth and shareholder letters in clear, plain in the second half of the year for our English.
We aim to improve peoples shareholders and a better service for relationship with their money, and our customers.
easy-to-understand accounts and Business highlights services are part of this goal.
Strong net mortgage lending Portfolio Business Unit PBU 9.4 billion up 40% Weve made excellent progress in tackling risk in the PBU business.
The Lord Burns Luqman Arnold PBU assets reduced 80% to speed with which we reduced the assets Chairman Chief Executive 12.3 billion has meant that more of the losses have been brought forward to 2003.
The total assets in this business have been reduced to 12.3 billion which is 80% lower than at the start of the year.
The pace of the reduction programme is remarkable, particularly as we are aware of the need to obtain maximum value for the assets we are selling.
The sales have given us confidence that we can achieve a fair price from the sale of the rest of the businesses in the PBU.
Dividend The Board is proposing a final dividend of 16.67 pence, giving a full year dividend Visit www.
This payment of 25 pence communications online reects the pressure on the business in Abbey Annual Review 2003 www.
com 4 Business Review the 1,000 day journey begins Timeline We have made great progress in our first year of change.
Here are some of the things we have achieved.
February 2003 New strategy and company structure announced.
June 2003 Launch of new Customer Board to help us understand our customers better.
September 2003 Weve got over Company relaunched as Abbey, 2,500 cash and announcement of our aim machines across to turn banking on its head.
the UK to give you easy access to your money.
October 2003 New way of handling customer complaints is introduced.
2004 One company, Branch signage is updated and internal refurbishment will begin.
one purpose In February 2003, we announced our We want to succeed by being different We organised the rest of the new strategy and set out on a journey to stand out from our competitors.
company into a much flatter, one to become the largest company To do that, we set out four priorities: company structure.
This covers focusing only on personal financial our customers earning their our central office divisions, like services PFS in the UK.
Instead of commitment to us and creating finance, secretariat and legal, risk acting as a diverse group of businesses, more value for you, our shareholders.
and compliance, IT and human we began to be one company with one our structure at and functional, resources, and our customer key focus: our customers.
organised single-mindedly around divisions, which focus on: the customer.
generating more dialogue and efficiency we are radically forging stronger relationships streamlining our business to make with our customers, and creating A great customer our accounts and services better, more demand for our services.
experience depends simpler and cheaper.
using the knowledge we get from capital management were putting customers and market intelligence on the whole company in place rigorous disciplines on the to create accounts and services working together.
Not way we use our capital.
only must accounts and This all means big changes to the giving high-quality service business.
The parts of the company every time we deal with services be competitive which didnt support the new strategy a customer, using the most and easy to understand, were put in a Portfolio Business Unit cost-effective methods.
were also focusing more on PBU and weve been managing them This new strategy will transform the out of the company.
In fact, were ahead company completely and make it our customers to give them of schedule on the activities within the stronger.
Its a journey that will take what they want and need.
PBU, and expect to have almost nished three years, but were determined, Luqman Arnold, Chief Executive this process by the end of 2004, making and weve got the team in place for us more nancially secure.
com Abbey Annual Review 2003 Business Review the 1,000 day journey continues 5 Becoming Abbey Changing the way you think about banking Just seven months after we announced Turning banking on its head our new strategy, we were ready to Luqman Arnold relaunch the company.
On 24 September, and Angus Porter we became Abbey, and announced our at the business intention to turn banking on its head.
Other banks talk about customer focus, but were truly determined to do things differently and better.
We want to improve the way people relate to their money.
Most people nd sorting out their nances bafing, scary or boring or all three.
Customers tend to stay with banks because they cant customersget the most out of their money.
The launch of the new look is another be bothered to leave or because their And were changing the way we speak part of our relaunch.
The look of the old accounts and services are so complicated to our customers, so that were not hiding diversied group of recent years just no one knows how to get the best deal.
Our aim doesnt reect the Abbey we want to be.
We want to change that, so that we is to be clear, open and honest, speaking Showing were completely different from attract new customers because they like in a language everyone understands.
other banks is not just about changing what were offering, and because existing All the time well stay close to our what we do and how we are.
Its also customers recommend us.
We believe customers, treating them as individuals about how we present ourselves not that with our new approach, customers and thinking about what they really need.
looking like an old institution but much will want to stick with us and buy more We also need to be fresh and change with more like a modern, customer-focused from us.
Thats how well make good the times, making sure were in touch with business, reecting the purpose of the profits for the long term.
Doing all these things company now.
Its just one sign that the Were also changing from the inside means well be able to create even better business is changing, but it doesnt mean out were training our people to help accounts and services in the future.
Posters from our latest advertising Abbeys new look campaigns help familiarise our latest campaigns customers with our relaunch.
As weve said, our new logo, with its four vibrant colours, is just one visible sign that were changing.
So is the work were doing to all our branches were putting up new signage on the outside and are about to start a programme of refurbishment on the inside.
We know a lot of our branches need improving, but this work will be done in a carefully planned, cost-effective way.
The changes are not just about new carpets or signs, theyre about raising service levels and improving the quality of our people and their attitude.
We know our customers deserve high standards in all these areas.
To get customers familiar with what the relaunch means, as well as our new look, weve been running new advertising campaigns.
The campaign is ongoing and involves a sequence of ads which tell the whole story about our easy-tounderstand accounts and services.
The first campaign idea was to grab peoples attention and create an expectation of whats to follow.
So that people can see examples of how were turning banking on its head, well be featuring more of our new accounts and services in our 2004 advertising campaigns.
com 6 Business Review the 1,000 day journey continues Simplifying accounts Looking ahead Were only a third of the way through our three-year journey and services to transform Abbey, and theres Weve made some changes to our accounts and services to help make banking still a lot more to do.
clear, simple and easy to understand.
Were doing up all our branches Weve reduced the number of accounts we offer and made them simpler.
Weve gone and giving them our new look.
Well from six bank accounts to just one The Account.
continue to simplify our accounts Our mortgages have been put into three straightforward groups, which are Sure, and services to make them less Freedom and Easy Start.
complicated and easier to Savings now fall into three basic understand.
Well be recruiting new Weve simplied categories, which are Easy Reach, for people who show a positive attitude our products and well give everyone the training people who want to get at their money and services they need.
Well be improving our any time: Put Aside, which will help to make things technology so everyones got the people to save regularly and leave their easier for our customers.
tools they need to do their job and money to grow, and Lock Away, for improve customer service, and were people who want to put their money changing the way we handle away for a longer time.
These were complaints so that we have consistent all featured in our Winter Warmer policies and procedures, and learn catalogue a new initiative for us.
from the valuable information we Were listening to our customers, and collect from our customers.
learning as we go, and will continue to take on board our customers feedback.
Reaching out to our customers With customers at the centre of everything we do, weve been doing all we can to co-ordinate our efforts, tailor our offers and improve our service in the future.
In August, we launched Customer Outreach pro-actively contacting our customers to understand what they need and offer them relevant services and accounts.
Were strengthening relationships and seeing if we can do more for them so theyre more satisfied and more likely to stay with us.
Weve brought in a new customer relationship management system, One on One, which gives all our branch and telephone centre employees a complete history of the customers dealings with us.
This is so we can suggest accounts and services that might interest them another tool to improve customer service and increase sales.
In June, we formed the Customer Board to help us understand customers better and design better accounts and services for them.
Weve also started a pilot which should help us to give more customers high quality support and service, with the option of advice to help them choose the right products, if they need it.
Were putting our customers at the centre of everything we do.
com Abbey Annual Review 2003 Our Community 7 Being a good Our involvement corporate citizen To demonstrate our commitment to good corporate citizenship, we with the community published our third Corporate Social Responsibility CSR report in 2003.
The In 2003, Abbey Community made a total contribution to local report provides in-depth information communities valued at 2.17 million and 1,857 donations were on our values, ethical responsibilities, made to charities across the UK.
Since it was set up in 1990, Abbey environmental plans and performance, Community has made a total contribution valued at 15 million and our CSR activity in the workplace, to the local communities.
Matched donations worth 583,868 A number of our initiatives, particularly were made by Abbey Community in the workplace, received recognition.
in 2003, adding to funds raised by We were: employees.
71 people used matched included in the Dow Jones time and a total of 625 hours of Sustainability Indices: paid work time was given to included in the second support volunteering.
FTSE4Good series of benchmark Here are a couple of examples and tradable indices: of the charities we have worked with awarded the Silver Standard in the in 2003: Opportunity Now benchmarking index on gender equality: th placed 11 in the Race for Opportunity benchmarking index carried out by Business in the Community: and placed in the top ten of the Global Inclusion Disability benchmark carried out by the Employers Forum on Disability.
Abbeys 14,400 donation to Canine If you would like more detail on our Partners helped train puppies to support CSR activity, or would like a copy of people with disabilities.
the 2002 CSR report, please either visit our website: www.
com click on A 14,400 donation from Abbey Abbey Corporate, then Corporate Social Community enabled national Responsibility Report, or e-mail us at charity Canine Partners to buy community@abbey.
com 32 puppies for the class of The Unwanted Christmas Gift Appeal 2003 2004.
The 32 puppies will raised 22,000 for Help the Aged.
be trained over an 18-month period so that they can help transform Thanks to a partnership between the lives of people with disabilities Abbey and Help the Aged, hundreds as they learn to respond to over of unwanted presents have been 100 wide-ranging commands.
Donations made during put to good use.
The Unwanted When the puppies are fully trained, 2003 include: Christmas Gift Appeal ran for four they will be placed with a partner weeks from 29 December 2003, Camden Community Action with disabilities and will be able to with 120 participating Abbey received 20,000 to fund carry out tasks such as switching branches.
Launched by Customer two childrens sports projects.
on lights, opening and unloading Sales Director, Mark Pain, the Rainbow Family Trust in a washing machine, and using campaign was given a boost by Manchester received 5,000 cash machines.
a 10,000 donation from Abbey to buy special educational Community.
All the donated gifts were equipment for terminally ill kids.
More information about delivered to Help the Aged shops, Marchant Holliday School in Abbeys community involvement Somerset received 7,500 to buy where they were valued and then can be found at www.
com and install a disabled lift in the resold.
This will raise an estimated click on Abbey Corporate, then schools new building.
com 8 Summary Remuneration Report Summary remuneration report This report explains to shareholders The Personnel and Remuneration Committee thinks shares to the directors until the end of three Abbeys policy on our executive directors pay that its right for a large part of the directors rewards years.
The proportion of shares we give them and benets.
It also covers the fees paid to to depend on performance.
Over half the expected at the end of three years will depend on how our Chairman and non-executive directors.
value of their pay excluding pensions comes from well the company does during these three Our Personnel and Remuneration bonus and long-term incentive schemes in which years.
Well measure this in two ways: Committee develops this policy and the the size of the payment depends on performance.
Half the award will depend on the real Basic salary growth in the earnings per share of the The Personnel and Remuneration Committee The Personnel and Remuneration Committee personal financial services business.
If the This Committee makes certain that we reviews basic salaries every year.
They look at growth in the earnings per share on average give our people the rewards they deserve.
the pay of other people in similar jobs in the each year is 3% more than the increase In particular it makes the decisions on groups just described.
The main reference in the retail price index, then 25% of the executive directors pay, pension rights and point is the salaries at the median of this shares will be released.
If the growth in the compensation payments.
group but sometimes we are prepared to earnings per share on average each year is The members of the Committee are pay more to get and keep the right people 8% more than the increase in the retail price independent non-executive directors.
Lord to deliver what the business needs.
index, then all of the shares will be released Shuttleworth chairs the Committee and the Annual bonus and in proportion between those two other members in 2003 were Peter Ogden At the moment we think its right to put the points.
Growth in the earnings per share and Leon Allen.
Peter Ogden retired from the emphasis on delivering the annual business of the personal financial services business Board at the end of the year.
So, for 2004, the maximum payment has been chosen as a test of our ability to is Abbeys Chairman, Luqman Arnold, the under the annual bonus scheme will be 120% transform and grow our continuing business.
Chief Executive, and Priscilla Vacassin, the of basic salary for the Chief Executive and 100% Executive Director Human Resources, are for the other executive directors.
We may Half the award will be based on the growth regularly invited to the meetings but they consider making payments above these limits in total shareholder returns over the threeare not members of the Committee.
One third of any year period, compared with a group of 16 The Personnel and Remuneration bonus paid will be used to purchase shares other UK financial services companies.
If the Committee appointed Towers Perrin as their advisors after an appropriate review.
Towers which we wont release to the director until total shareholder returns are at the median of Perrin also give us general advice on rewarding the end of three years.
We wont be running this group, 25% of the shares will be released: our employees.
In the first half of the year the Share Matching Scheme any longer.
We if the companys performance is in the top the Committee were advised by New Bridge dont have any intention at present to increase quarter of the group all the shares will be Street consultants who also advise Abbey on these levels, but we will do so if it becomes released, and in proportion between these general employee share schemes.
They were necessary because the market changes.
Relative total shareholder return also appointed by the Committee.
The Personnel and Remuneration has been chosen because it reects Committee will still set the measures we use in shareholders interests.
The comparator Executive directors reward policy the bonus scheme at the beginning of the year.
companies are Alliance and Leicester plc, In last years remuneration report we said They will base the bonuses on a combination Barclays PLC, Bradford & Bingley plc, Egg plc, that we would be reviewing the policy on of the performance of the personal financial HBOS plc, HSBC Holdings plc, Lloyds TSB executive directors rewards to make sure that services business, the Portfolio Business Unit Group plc, Northern Rock plc, Royal Bank of it was right for Abbeys new strategy.
Weve and each directors specic objectives.
Scotland Group plc, Standard Chartered plc, now nished this review.
As part of this we Jardine Lloyd Thompson plc, Royal and Sun talked to several of our major shareholders Long-term incentives Alliance Insurance Group, Aviva plc, Friends so that we could understand their views.
For 2003, executive directors were granted Provident plc, Legal & General Group plc As a result of this review, the Personnel and options under an Executive Share Option and Prudential plc.
Remuneration Committee has decided to Scheme which shareholders approved make some changes to the way we reward in 2001.
We have decided to replace the Because of the changes in Abbeys business, our directors.
This report describes the new Executive Share Option Scheme with a new we will review what performance tests are policy that will apply from 2004 onwards.
It scheme which is simpler and gives a better appropriate for the awards in 2005 and then gives details of what the directors have link with shareholders interests.
received in 2003 and any entitlements they will be asked to approve the new scheme at The expected value of this scheme has have from awards made in previous years.
the Annual General Meeting and full details been set at a level so that, when it is added about it are given in the separate circular to The aim of the policy to the value of the annual bonus, it means shareholders.
Brief details are given below.
The overall aim of the policy is to reward our that the total incentive payments are around If it is approved the new scheme will operate people in a way thats right for our market the middle of the group of companies that from 2004 onwards.
Under the new plan well and in line with our performance in delivering we compare ourselves with.
The size of the give executive directors a conditional award of value to our shareholders.
When deciding awards may be varied in future years to keep shares each year.
The Chief Executives award pay levels, the Personnel and Remuneration the overall value of the incentives at this level.
in 2004 will give him the opportunity to earn Committee looks mainly at the companies shares worth up to 175% of his salary and the Performance graph that make up the FTSE 50.
It also looks at other executive directors awards will give The graph on p9 shows a comparison a smaller group of companies selected from them the opportunity to earn shares worth up between Abbeys total shareholder return the FTSE 50 but restricted to UK customer service, retail and financial businesses.
We wont release any of the performance compared with the companies 123 4 5 6 78 Summary Remuneration Report 9 in the FTSE 100 index.
The graph looks at the contracts that entitle them initially to was in 2002.
value by the end of 2003, of 100 invested 24 months notice of termination of their An extra fee of 10,000 is paid for service on in Abbey shares on the 31 December 1998, employment.
The notice required reduces the Audit and Risk Committee and 7,500 for compared with the value of 100 invested in by one month for each month of service to the Personnel and Remuneration Committee.
The FTSE 100 index has 12 months notice after 12 months service.
There is an extra fee of 2,500 a year for been chosen to give a comparison with the The Personnel and Remuneration Committee chairing the Personnel and Remuneration average return that shareholders could have decided that it was appropriate to offer this Committee.
An extra fee of 5,000 is paid received by investing in a range of other extra notice period, on a short-term basis, for service on the Customer Board.
At the end of Shuttleworth receives an extra fee of 10,000 2003, Priscilla Vacassin was entitled to 17 as a director of Abbey National Group Pension 140 FTSE 100 months notice, Angus Porter to 18 months Fund Trustees Limited and the National and Abbey National plc notice and Tony Wyatt to 20 months notice.
Provincial Building Society Pension Fund 120 All of the other directors have a contractual Trustees Limited.
Keith Woodleys fee includes notice period of 12 months.
All of the notice payments for services as Deputy Chairman of 100 periods will have reduced to 12 months by the Abbey National plc and Chairman of the Audit 80 end of August 2004.
The company may pay and Risk Committee.
Richard Hayden receives an executive director instead of allowing them an extra fee of 30,000 for service on the 60 to work their notice period.
The directors have Policyholder Review Committee.
to give the company six months notice of From July 2002, the non-executive 40 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 termination of their employment.
directors decided that a minimum of 10,000 Year ending dates Mark Pain and Yasmin Jetha have contracts each year from their fees should be used to that entitle them to receive an additional buy Abbey shares.
The directors have said Pensions payment if they are made redundant.
The that they wont sell these shares while they Executive directors are eligible to join one payment is 3.25 weeks pay for each year of are still directors of Abbey.
The maximum payment is two years Taxable benets for non-executive Yasmin Jetha are members of the Abbey salary.
If they are over 50 years old when they directors include travel and other expenses National Amalgamated Pension Scheme are made redundant they may also be entitled for attending Board meetings.
Non-executive on the same basis as other employees with to an addition to their pension.
These enhanced directors do not have contracts with Abbey and a similar length of service.
This is a dened redundancy terms are a long standing term are not entitled to any termination payments.
benefit scheme providing a pension of 1 50th of the contracts and are the same as offered of final salary for each year of pensionable 2003 bonus to most other employees in the company.
The other executive directors get For 2003, the Board decided to make are not offered to new directors.
None of the an allowance of 35% of salary to make their exceptional bonus awards to a number of other directors are entitled to any additional own pension arrangements.
As part of directors to recognise their contribution to payments on redundancy over and above their those arrangements they can join the reducing the high risk prole of the company normal entitlement of notice.
Abbey National Staff Stakeholder Pension as well as putting in place the foundation for its The Chairmans contract is renewable Scheme if they want to.
These awards were made every year at the first Board meeting following in shares that we wont release to the directors each Annual General Meeting.
Other benets until the end of three years.
Some of the executive directors are eligible Non-executive directors fees for a company subsidy on their membership The Board decides the pay arrangements The information on pp8-9 summary of Abbey Private Medical Insurance Scheme for the Chairman based on recommendations remuneration report and the information under and a concessionary mortgage rate on the from the Personnel and Remuneration Aggregate directors emoluments on p10 was same basis as other employees with the Committee.
approved by the Board on 25 February 2004 same starting date.
New directors do not The Chairman receives fees, benets and signed on its behalf by: get these benets.
He cant take part The executive directors can take part in any bonus or profit-sharing arrangements in the companys Sharesave Scheme and or the Executive Share Matching or Executive the Partnership Share Scheme on the same Share Options Schemes.
The Chairmans terms as other employees.
Service contracts Fees are paid to non-executive directors.
Karen M Fortunato When they were appointed, Priscilla Vacassin, The basic fee for non-executive directors is Company Secretary Angus Porter and Tony Wyatt were granted reviewed every two years and the last review Our directors Executive directors Non-executive directors 1 Luqman Arnold 5 Angus Porter 8Lord Burns 13 Keith Woodley Chief Executive Executive Director, Customer Propositions Chairman 14 Vittorio Radice 2Stephen Hester 6 Priscilla Vacassin 9Peter Ogden 15 Gerry Murphy Chief Operating officer Executive Director, Human Resources 10 Leon Allen 16 Geoffrey Cooper 3Mark Pain 7Tony Wyatt 11 Richard Hayden Executive Director, Customer Sales Executive Director, Customer Operations 12 Lord Shuttleworth 4Yasmin Jetha Executive Director, Information Technology 910 11 12 13 14 15 16 Value 10 Summary Financial Statement Summary directors report Summary consolidated profit and loss account The following is the summary financial statement for the year ended 31 December 2003 Total Total for Abbey National plc and its subsidiaries for the 2003 2002 year ended 31 December 2003.
The information restated provided is only a summary of that contained in m m the 2003 Annual Report and Accounts.
Net interest income 2,148 2,689 Results and dividends The loss on ordinary activities before tax for the Fees, commissions and other income 284 811 year ended 31 December 2003 was 686 million 2002: 947 million.
An interim net dividend Total operating income 2,432 3,500 of 8.33 pence per ordinary share was paid on Operating expenses excluding impairment of goodwill 6October 2003 2002: 17.65 pence per ordinary share.
The directors propose a final dividend and operating lease assets depreciation and impairment 2,179 2,019 for the year of 16.67 pence per ordinary share 2002: 7.35 pence per ordinary share to be paid Impairment of goodwill 18 1,138 on 4 May 2004.
Depreciation and impairment on operating lease assets 251 280 Business review and future activities The 2003 business review and prospects for Provisions and amounts written off xed asset investments 771 1,075 2004 are set out in the Strategic Statement on Operating loss 787 1,012 pp2-3 of this document.
Income from associated undertakings 12 17 Directors All of the directors shown on pp8-9 have served profit on disposal of Group undertakings 89 48 on the Board for the whole of the period 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2003, with the exception Loss on ordinary activities before tax 686 947 of Priscilla Vacassin, Angus Porter and Tony Wyatt, Tax on loss on ordinary activities 42 152 who were appointed to the Board on 1 June 2003, 1 July 2003 and 1 September 2003 respectively.
Loss on ordinary activities after tax 644 1,099 Having been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, Priscilla Vacassin, Angus Minority interests non-equity 55 62 Porter, Tony Wyatt, and Gerry Murphy and Geoffrey Cooper, who were appointed on 1 January 2004, Loss for the financial year attributable to the will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves shareholders of Abbey National plc 699 1,161 for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Leon Allen, Yasmin Jetha and Mark Pain Transfer to from non-distributable reserve 200 263 will retire by rotation at the Annual General Dividends including amounts attributable to non-equity interests 424 424 Meeting and, all being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Malcolm Millington retired as Retained loss for the year 1,323 1,322 an executive director on 8 September 2003.
Peter Ogden retired as a non-executive director Loss on ordinary activities before tax includes on 31 December 2003. for acquired operations 4 Audited annual financial statements Loss per ordinary share basic 52.4 p 84.8 p The auditors report in the financial statements of the company for the year ended 31 December Loss per ordinary share diluted 52.4 p 84.3 p 2003 was unqualied and did not contain a statement under either Section 237 2 or 237 3 The 2002 comparative balance has been restated to reect the reversal of impairments of Abbey of the Companies Act 1985. shares held within ESOP Trusts following the adoption of UITF 38.
Aggregate directors emoluments The total emoluments for the directors, excluding pensions, for the year ended 31 December 2003 Ordinary shareholder analysis were 6,682,898 2002: 2,821,357.
No gains were made during the year by directors and as at 31 December 2003 Ordinary shares of 10p former directors on the exercise of share options Size of shareholding Shareholders Shares 2002: 718,664.
Important note This summary financial statement does not contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Group.
For further information, the Annual Report and Accounts, which includes the full annual financial statements, should be consulted.
The Annual Report and Accounts is available on the internet at www.
com or a free copy of the Annual Report and Accounts is available on request from Shareholder Services by calling the shareholder enquiries number on the back of this Annual Review.
If, in addition, you would like to receive the Annual Report and Accounts of Abbey National plc in future years, please write to Shareholder Services giving your full name, address and your shareholder account number which can be obtained from your dividend tax voucher.
com Abbey Annual Review 2003 Summary Financial Statement 11 Independent auditors statement to the Summary consolidated balance sheet members of Abbey National plc as at 31 December 2003 2003 2002 We have examined the summary financial statement restated which comprises the summary directors report, m m summary consolidated profit and loss account, summary consolidated balance sheet and summary Assets remuneration report.
Cash, treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,070 1,879 This report is made solely to the companys Loans and advances to banks 7,155 6,601 members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been Loans and advances to customers not subject to securitisation 84,488 81,427 undertaken so that we might state to the companys Loans and advances to customers subject to securitisation 23,833 24,156 members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Less: Non-recourse finance 14,482 15,160 purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we Loans and advances to customers 93,839 90,423 do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys Net investment in finance leases 2,573 3,447 members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the opinions we Securities and investments 31,961 60,7 70 have formed.
Long term assurance business 2,272 2,316 Respective responsibilities of directors Intangible xed assets 341 376 and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Tangible xed assets excluding operating lease assets 268 371 Annual Review in accordance with applicable Operating lease assets 2,529 2,573 United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Other assets 5,431 7,027 summary financial statement with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors Assets of long term assurance funds 28,336 29,411 remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Total assets 176,775 205,194 Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made Liabilities thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review as described in Deposits by banks 22,125 24,174 the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Customer accounts 74,401 76,766 mis-statements or material inconsistencies with Debt securities in issue 24,834 48,079 the summary financial statement.
Other liabilities 14,857 13,255 Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Subordinated liabilities including convertible debt 6,337 6,532 bulletin 1999 6 the auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Liabilities of long term assurance funds 28,336 29,411 United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
170,890 198,217 Opinion Minority interests non-equity 554 627 In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, the Non-equity shareholders funds 632 748 directors report and the directors remuneration Equity shareholders funds 4,699 5,602 report of Abbey National plc for the year ended 31 December 2003 and complies with the applicable Total liabilities 176,775 205,194 requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
Memorandum items Contingent liabilities 2,307 2,059 Commitments 28,667 23,879 Deloitte & Touche LLP The 2002 comparative balances have been restated to reect the reversal of impairments of Abbey Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors shares held in ESOP Trusts together with their reclassication from other assets to shareholders equity on the adoption of UITF 38 and the adoption of value date accounting for purchases and resale London, 25 February 2004 agreements with non-standard settlement.
An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have occurred to the financial statement since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the The summary financial statement set out on pp10-11 was approved by the Board on 25 February 2004 preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and signed on its behalf by: Lord Burns Luqman Arnold Stephen Hester Chairman Chief Executive Chief Operating officer Abbey Annual Review 2003 www.
com 12 News Talking your language We want to help everyone get on top of their money and to do this weve started to change the way we talk to all our customers and our shareholders.
Account information If youre an Abbey customer, you may have seen our new Advertising Shareholders leaets in branches.
Weve used our advertising to let people We appreciate how important it is They talk about the know that were different from other banks.
that anything we send to our 1.8 million way weve simplied The first ad campaign ran across posters, shareholders is easy to understand.
our accounts and services and are TV, radio, press, online and in branches As a shareholder you receive several straightforward guides to help customers and overall the results are encouraging.
communications from Abbey every year.
Weve choose whats right for them.
Weve also People are starting to see us as a bank started to rewrite these to make sure they are changed the way we write our letters, that is here for our customers and that we as straightforward as possible.
Weve made and feedback from our customers has want to help improve peoples relationship good progress but with over 700 different been positive.
forms and letters it will take a little while.
To help improve our customers as they can see the customers entire relationship with their money, investment portfolio in a single view.
we have introduced some new It will manage all our customers and innovative services.
financial affairs, no matter how complex, in one place.
This will make selling Abbey Bright Future Gifts investments easier, saving Abbey Bright Future Gifts are part of intermediaries time and money.
our strategy to create accounts and Multi Manager services that people want and need.
Weve also introduced Multi Manager, They allow people to personalise giving money as a present.
Customers decide a service which gives people access how much money they want to give to to a range of top-class specialist someone, and we do all the packaging fund managers normally only available for them.
It will also allow us to build at private banks.
We are opening up relationships with people, as we can this service by offering it through our offer advice about the best way of branches, over the phone and through depositing the money.
The funds are managed by people outside Abbey, but they Wrap Abbey Bright Future Gifts are are acting to mandates we set to make Wrap, available via Abbey for part of our aim to provide customers with what they really want.
Intermediaries, makes things easier sure the best interests of our customers for both customers and their advisors always come first.
For more information log on to: www.
com Get your communications online.
Its cost-effective for Abbey, convenient for you Shareholder enquiries: 0870 532 9430 and its better for the environment.
Sign up now: Shareholder Services, Abbey National plc, Carbrook House, www.
com 5 Carbrook Hall Road, Shefeld S9 2EG Abbey National plc Registered Ofce: Abbey National House, 2 Triton Square, Regents Place, London NW1 3AN.
To help us improve our services, we may record or monitor all telephone calls.
ABBEY NATIONAL PLC, WHICH IS AUTHORISED AND REGULATED BY THE FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY, ONLY ADVISES ON ITS OWN LIFE ASSURANCE, PENSION AND COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME PRODUCTS.
Abbey is a registered trademark of Abbey National plc.
Shares are risk investments: share prices and dividends can fall as well as rise and you may not receive back the full amount you invested.
Printed on Revive Silk made from 75% fide-inked post consumer waste.
This material conforms to the most stringent environmental requirements and is manufactured in the UK.
Published by BLACK SUN plc Loyalty Publishers, 44 0 207 736 0011.
