Audited Financial Statements Financial Statements Accounting Policies Basis of presentation Impairment of xed assets and goodwill The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance Tangible xed assets, other than investment properties, and goodwill with the special provisions of Part VII Schedule 9 of the Companies are subject to review for impairment in accordance with FRS 11 Act 1985 applicable to banking companies and banking groups.
Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill.
The carrying values of tangible xed assets and goodwill are written down by the amount Accounting convention of any impairment, and the loss is recognised in the profit and Loss Abbey prepares its financial statements under the historical Account in the period in which this occurs.
Should an event reverse cost convention, modied by the revaluation of certain assets and the effects of a previous impairment, the carrying value of the tangible liabilities.
They are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting xed assets and goodwill may be written up to a value no higher than standards of the Accounting Standards Board and pronouncements the original depreciated or amortised cost which would have been of its Urgent Issues Task Force and with the Statements of recognised had the original impairment not occurred.
Recommended Accounting Practice issued by the British Bankers Association, the Irish Bankers Federation and the Finance and Leasing Depreciation Association.
Accounting policies are reviewed regularly to ensure Tangible xed assets excluding operating lease assets and investment they are the most appropriate to the circumstances of Abbey for the properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their purposes of giving a true and fair view.
estimated useful lives, as follows: Consistent with other banking groups, in preparing consolidated financial statements, the Long-Term Assurance business is valued using Freehold buildings: 100 years the embedded value method, with adjustments made for the impact of Long and short leasehold premises: Over the remainder of the lease, investment variances to Long-Term Assumptions.
Disclosures consistent with a maximum of 100 years.
with the guidance provided by the Association of British Insurers in Acquisition premiums are depreciated December 2001 is provided in either the Financial Statements or the over the period to the next rent review.
Operating and Financial Review, wherever practical.
Freehold land: Not depreciated Ofce xtures, equipment and furniture: 5 to 8 years Basis of consolidation Computer equipment: 3 to 5 years The Group Financial Statements incorporate the Financial Statements of the company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
The accounting For a description of depreciation on operating lease assets, see reference date of the company and its subsidiary undertakings Assets leased to customers below.
is 31 December, with the exception of those leasing, investment, insurance and funding companies, which, because of commercial Interest receivable and payable considerations, have various accounting reference dates.
The financial Interest receivable and payable is recognised in the profit and statements of these subsidiaries have been consolidated on the basis Loss Account as it accrues.
Interest is suspended where due but not of interim Financial Statements for the period to 31 December 2003. received on loans and advances in arrears where recovery is doubtful.
The assets and liabilities of the Long-Term Assurance funds The amounts suspended are excluded from interest receivable on are presented separately from those of other businesses in order loans and advances until recovered.
to reect the different nature of the shareholders interests therein.
Fees, commissions and dividends receivable Interest in subsidiary undertakings and associated Fees and commissions receivable in respect of services provided undertakings are taken to the profit and Loss Account when the related services The companys interests in subsidiary undertakings and associated are performed.
Where fees, commissions and dividends are in the undertakings are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment.
nature of interest, these are taken to the profit and Loss Account on The Groups interests in associated undertakings are stated at Abbeys a systematic basis over the expected life of the transaction to which share of the book value of the net assets of the associated undertakings.
they relate, and are included under the heading Interest receivable.
Income on investments in equity shares and other similar interests Goodwill is recognised as and when dividends are declared, and included Goodwill arising on consolidation as a result of the acquisitions of within dividend income.
Fees received on loans with high subsidiary undertakings and the purchase of businesses after 1 January loan-to-value ratios are accounted for as described under the 1998 is capitalised under the heading Intangible xed assets and heading Deferred income.
amortised on a straight-line basis over its expected useful economic life.
The useful economic life is calculated using a valuation model which determines the period of time over which returns are expected to exceed the cost of capital, subject to a maximum period of 20 years.
Goodwill arising on consolidation as a result of the acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings, and the purchase of businesses prior to 1 January 1998, has previously been written off directly to reserves.
On disposal of subsidiary undertakings and businesses, such goodwill is charged to the profit and Loss Account balanced by an equal credit to reserves.
Where such goodwill in continuing businesses has suffered an impairment, a similar charge to the profit and Loss Account and credit to reserves is made.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 115 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued Lending-related fees and commissions payable Provisions for bad and doubtful debts and discounts A specic provision is established for all impaired loans where it is Under certain schemes, payments and discounts may be made likely that some of the capital will not be repaid or, where the loan is to customers as incentives to take out loans.
It is usually a condition secured, recovered through enforcement of security.
No provision is of such schemes that incentive payments are recoverable by way of made where the security is in excess of the secured advance.
Default early redemption penalty charges in the event of redemption within is taken to be likely after a specified period of repayment default.
a specified period, the penalty period, and it is Abbeys policy and Loans that are part of a homogeneous pool of similar loans are normal practice to make such charges.
Such incentive payments placed on default status based on the number of months in arrears, are charged to the profit and Loss Account over the penalty period which is determined through historical experience.
Loans that are where their cost is recoverable from the net interest income earned not part of a homogeneous pool of similar loans are analysed based from the related loans over the penalty period.
If the loan is on the number of months in arrears on a case by case basis and are redeemed within the penalty period the incentive payments are placed on default status when the probability of default is likely.
offset against the penalty charge.
When the related loan is redeemed, Generally, the length of time before a loan is placed on default sold or becomes impaired any amounts previously unamortised status after a repayment default depends on the nature of the are charged to the profit and Loss Account.
The profit and Loss collateral that secures the advance.
On advances secured by Account charge for such amounts is included under the heading residential property, the default period is three months.
secured by commercial property, the default period is five months, Commissions payable to introducers in respect of obtaining based on historical experience with business customers.
For advances certain lending business, where this is the primary form of distribution, secured by consumer goods such as cars or computers, the default are charged to the profit and Loss Account over the anticipated life of period is less than three months, the exact period being dependent the loans.
The profit and Loss Account charge for such commissions on the particular type of loan in this category.
is included under the heading Fees and commissions payable.
On unsecured advances, such as personal term loans, the default period is often less than three months.
Exceptions to the general Dealing profits rule exist with respect to revolving facilities, such as bank overdrafts, Dealing profits include movements in prices on a mark-to-market which are placed on default upon a breach of the contractual terms basis, including accrued interest, on trading derivatives.
Dealing governing the applicable account, and on credit card accounts where profits also include movements in prices, on a mark-to-market basis the default period is three months.
excluding accrued interest, on trading security positions, trading Wholesale lending and investment securities are placed on treasury and other bills and related funding.
default status immediately upon default on a payment due date or following any event specified in the loan documentation as a default Deferred income event.
Securities are also placed on default status if the counterparty The arrangement of certain United kingdom loans and advances goes into voluntary or forced administration or liquidation or makes secured on residential properties with high loan-to-value ratios may an announcement that it would not meet its commitments on the next result in a fee being charged.
In Abbeys accounts, such fees are deferred and are included in Once a loan is considered impaired, an assessment of the the balance sheet under the heading Accruals and deferred income.
likelihood of collecting the principal is made.
This assessment includes, The deferred income balance is taken to the profit and Loss Account where appropriate, the use of statistical techniques developed based over the average anticipated life of the loan and is included under on previous experience and on management judgment of economic the heading Other operating income.
These techniques estimate the propensity of loans to result in losses net of any recovery where applicable.
Pensions A general provision is made against loans and advances to cover Where pensions are provided by means of a funded dened benets bad and doubtful debts which have not been separately identied, scheme, annual contributions are based on actuarial advice.
The but which are known from experience to be present in portfolios of loans expected cost of providing pensions is recognised on a systematic and advances.
The general provision is determined using management basis over the expected average remaining service lives of members judgment given past loss experience, lending quality and economic of the scheme.
conditions, and is supplemented by statistical based calculations.
The specic and general provisions are deducted from loans and For dened contribution schemes the amount charged to the advances.
Provisions made during the year, less amounts released and profit and Loss Account in respect of pensions costs and other post recoveries of amounts written off in previous years, are charged to the retirement benets is the contributions payable in the year.
Differences profit and Loss Account.
Write offs are determined on a case by case between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually basis for different products and portfolios, at times ranging typically paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments on the balance sheet.
116 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Audited Financial Statements Audited Financial Statements Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued Securities are recognised as assets or, in the case of short positions, Share-based payments liabilities, at the date at which the commitment to purchase or sell is The costs of share-based instruments are accounted for on a fair value considered to be binding.
basis, computed by reference to the grant date: such costs are Securities sold subject to sale and repurchase agreements expensed over the performance period to which the award relates.
The are retained on the balance sheet where the risks and rewards of amount charged to the profit and Loss Account is credited to reserves.
ownership of the securities remain with Abbey.
Similarly, securities Prior to 2002, the costs of equity-based instruments issued to purchased subject to purchase and resale agreements are treated employees under compensation schemes were generally accounted as collateralised lending transactions where Abbey does not acquire for under the intrinsic value method but this was changed to a fair the risks and rewards of ownership.
value basis after a review of then recent accounting pronouncements.
In accordance with UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts, shares Repurchase and resale agreements purchased through Employee Share Option Trusts ESOPs are held at Securities sold subject to sale and repurchase agreement cost and treated as Treasury Shares and are taken as a deduction from repurchase agreement are retained on the balance sheet where Shareholders Equity.
Previously these were held within other assets at substantially all of the risk and rewards of ownership remain within the lower of cost less provision for impairments with any impairments Abbey.
Similarly, securities purchased subject to a purchase and resale being taken to the profit and Loss Account.
The 2002 profit and Loss agreement resale agreement are treated as collateralised lending Account and balance sheet for 2002 and 2001 have been restated transactions where Abbey does not acquire substantially all of the accordingly as well as the reversal of a 37m impairment charge taken risks and rewards of ownership.
in 2002 against the value of shares held within Employee Share Repurchase and resale agreements are included within Loans Option Trusts.
and advances to banks, Loans and advances to customers, Deposit by banks and Customer accounts.
The difference between sale and Foreign currency translation repurchase and purchase and resale prices for such transactions Income and expenses arising in foreign currencies are translated is charged to the profit and Loss Account over the life of the relevant into sterling at the average rates of exchange over the accounting transaction and reported within Interest receivable and Interest period unless they are hedged, in which case the relevant hedge payable.
Repurchase and resale agreements transacted on standard rate is applied.
Dividends are translated at the rate prevailing on settlement terms are recognised on the balance sheet on a trade the date the dividend is receivable.
Monetary assets and liabilities date basis while all non-standard settlement terms agreements are denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at recognised on a value date basis.
the rates of exchange current at the balance sheet date.
In Abbeys Outright sale and purchase of securities combined with the Financial Statements, exchange differences on the translation of the total return swaps which remove the risk inherent in those securities opening net assets of foreign undertakings to the closing rate of are accounted for as effectively repurchase and resale agreements.
exchange are taken to reserves, as are those differences resulting During the year, Abbey has adopted a value date accounting from the restatement of the profits and losses of foreign undertakings treatment for repurchase and resale agreements which fall outside from average to closing rates.
Exchange differences arising on the the standard terms of settlement.
It is considered that the new policy translation of foreign currency borrowings used to hedge investments is more appropriate for balance sheet presentation as it better reects in overseas undertakings are taken directly to reserves and offset the economic risks and rewards of these instruments.
A change to against the corresponding exchange differences arising on the value date policy has no impact on the consolidated profit and Loss translation of the investments.
Other translation differences are dealt Account of Abbey.
with through the profit and Loss Account.
For the current year, the change in accounting policy has resulted in a decrease of 1,786 million to loans and advances to customers, Securities a decrease of 1,366 million to loans and advances to banks, a Debt securities, equity shares and other similar interests securities decrease of 3,512 million to other liabilities, a decrease of 1,352 held for investment purposes are stated at cost, adjusted for any million to other assets, a decrease of 852 million to deposits by amortisation of premium or discount on an appropriate basis over banks and a decrease of 500 million to customer accounts.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Due to the change in accounting policy, the prior year In accordance with industry practice, securities which are not comparatives were restated to show a reduction of 485 million on held for the purpose of investment and the associated funding of loans and advances to customers and other liabilities.
these assets are stated at market value and profits and losses arising from this revaluation are taken directly to the profit and Loss Account.
The net return on these assets, excluding interest, appears in Dealing profits in the profit and Loss Account.
This net return comprises the revaluation profit and loss referred to above, plus profits and losses on disposal of these assets.
The difference between the cost and market value of securities not held for investment is not disclosed as its determination is not practicable.
Securities market values are primarily derived using publicly quoted prices, direct broker quotes or recognised market models.
Where such prices are unavailable, market values for those securities have been derived using in-house pricing models.
Where securities are transferred between portfolios held for investment purposes and portfolios held for other purposes, the securities are transferred at market value.
Gains and losses on these transfers are taken directly to the profit and Loss Account, and are included within Other operating income.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 117 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued Customer accounts deposits Derivatives Contracts involving the receipt of cash on which customers receive Transactions are undertaken in derivative financial instruments, an index-linked return are accounted for in substance as equity derivatives, which include interest rate swaps, cross currency and index-linked deposits.
The current market value of the contract is foreign exchange swaps, futures, equity and credit derivatives, options reported within Customer accounts.
and similar instruments for both trading and non-trading purposes.
Equity index-linked deposits are managed within the equity Derivatives classied as trading are held for market-making derivatives trading book as an integral part of the equity derivatives or portfolio management purposes within Abbeys trading books.
Equity index-linked deposits are remeasured at fair value Trading book activity is the buying and selling of financial instruments at each reporting date with changes in fair values recognised in the in order to take advantage of short-term changes in market prices consolidated profit and Loss Account.
The equity index-linked or for market-making purposes in order to facilitate customer deposits contain embedded derivatives.
Trading derivatives are carried at fair value in the in combination with the principal cash deposit element, are designed balance sheet within other assets and other liabilities.
Valuation to replicate the investment performance prole tailored to the return adjustments to cover credit and market liquidity risks and future agreed in the contracts with customers.
Such embedded derivatives administration costs are made.
Positive and negative market values of are not separated from the host instrument and are not separately trading derivatives are offset where the contracts have been entered accounted for as a derivative instrument, as the entire contract into under master netting agreements or other arrangements that embodies both the embedded derivative instrument and the host represent a legally enforceable right of set off which will survive the instrument and is remeasured at fair value at each reporting date.
Gains and losses are taken directly to the profit and Loss Account and reported within dealing profits.
Stock borrowing and lending agreements Derivatives classied as non-trading are those entered into for Obligations taken on pursuant to entering into such agreements the purpose of matching or eliminating risk from potential movements are reported as commitments.
Income earned and expense paid in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices inherent on stock borrowing and lending agreements is reported as fees and in Abbeys non-trading assets, liabilities and positions.
Non-trading commissions receivable and fees and commissions payable, except derivatives are accounted for in a manner consistent with the assets, when in the nature of interest, in which case they are reported as liabilities, or positions being hedged.
Income and expense on noninterest receivable and interest payable.
trading derivatives are recognised as they accrue over the life of the instruments as an adjustment to interest receivable or interest Deferred taxation payable.
Credit derivatives, designated as non-trading and through Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences that have not which credit risk is taken on, are reported as guarantees which best reversed before the balance sheet date at the rate of tax expected to reect the economic substance of those transactions.
apply when those timing differences will reverse.
Deferred tax assets Where a non-trading derivative no longer represents a hedge are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
because either the underlying non-trading asset, liability or position has been derecognised, or transferred into a trading portfolio, or Subordinated liabilities including convertible debt the effectiveness of the hedge has been undermined, it is restated and debt securities in issue at fair value and any change in value is taken directly to the profit and Bonds and notes issued are stated at net issue proceeds adjusted Loss Account and reported within other operating income.
Premiums, discounts and expenses relating to the derivative is classied as trading or redesignated as a hedge of bonds and notes issued are amortised over the life of the underlying another non-trading item and accounted for accordingly.
Where premiums, discounts and expenses are matched circumstances where non-trading derivatives are reclassied as by swap fees, the respective balances have been netted.
trading or where non-trading derivatives are terminated, any resulting gains and losses are amortised over the remaining life of the hedged asset, liability or position.
Unamortised gains and losses are reported within prepayments and accrued income and accruals and deferred income on the balance sheet.
Derivatives hedging anticipatory transactions are accounted for on a basis consistent with the relevant type of transaction.
Where anticipatory transactions do not actually occur, related derivatives are restated at fair value and changes in value are taken directly to the profit and Loss Account and reported within other operating income.
Where retained, such derivatives are reclassied as trading or redesignated as a hedge of a non-trading item and accounted for accordingly.
118 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Audited Financial Statements Audited Financial Statements Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued Assets leased to customers Long-term assurance business Assets leased to customers under agreements which transfer The value of the long-term assurance business represents the value substantially all the risks and rewards associated with ownership, of the shareholders interest in the long-term assurance funds, which other than legal title, are classied as finance leases.
All other assets consists of the present value of the surplus expected to emerge in the leased to customers are classied as operating lease assets.
future from business currently in force, together with Abbeys interest The net investment in finance leases represents total minimum in the surplus retained within the long-term assurance funds.
lease payments less gross earnings allocated to future periods.
In determining this value, assumptions relating to investment Income from finance leases is credited to the profit and Loss Account returns, future mortality, persistency and levels of expenses are based using the actuarial after-tax method to give a constant periodic rate on experience of the business concerned.
The surplus expected to of return on the net cash investment.
emerge in the future is discounted at a risk-adjusted discount rate Operating lease assets are reported at cost less depreciation.
They after provision has been made for taxation.
are shown as a separate class of tangible xed asset because they are For 2003, a change has been made to the method for setting held for a different purpose to tangible xed assets used in administrative the assumptions used in determining the value of future profits from functions.
In the profit and Loss Account, income in respect of operating a passive basis, whereby assumptions are based on managements lease assets is reported within other operating income, and depreciation assessment of long-term investment trends and intentions for asset on operating lease assets is reported within depreciation and mix, to an active basis, whereby assumptions are based on actual amortisation.
Provision is made for any impairment in value, any period-end market conditions and asset mix.
The effects of this such amount being included in depreciation and amortisation.
change on the current year have been included in embedded value Abbey selects the most appropriate method for recognition rebasing and other adjustments.
No adjustment has been made to of income and depreciation according to the nature of the operating prior year comparatives.
This is determined by various factors including the length of To demonstrate the impact of the actual investment return the lease in proportion to the total economic life of the asset, any compared to the expected return over a year, an adjustment is terms providing protection against early cancellation, and the amount made shown as embedded value charges and rebasing on long-term of income retained in the lease to cover future uncertainties in respect assurance business, in the profit and Loss Account to identify of the realisation of residual values.
For a large proportion of Abbeys separately the value generated from the normal operations of the operating leases, the most appropriate method of accounting for business, from that relating to market conditions.
With the exception income and depreciation is the actuarial after-tax method.
Other of products with material explicit investment guarantees, assumptions operating leases are accounted for on a straight-line basis.
as to future investment returns rather than forward market rates are used to assess the future value of both assets and liabilities, in Leases all cases projecting from the current market values.
Where material Assets held under finance leases and other similar contracts, investment guarantees are given, the market forward rate is used to which confer rights and obligations similar to those attached to assess the value of the liability.
owned assets, are capitalised as tangible xed assets and are Changes in the value, which is determined on a post-tax basis, are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful lives.
included in the profit and Loss Account grossed up at the effective rate The capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded as of tax.
The post-tax increase in the value is treated as non-distributable liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the profit and until it emerges as part of the surplus arising during the year.
Loss Account over the period of the leases to produce a constant The values of the assets and liabilities of the long-term assurance rate of charge on the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
funds are based on the amounts included in the financial statements Hire purchase transactions are dealt with similarly except that assets of the Life Assurance companies.
The values are determined in are depreciated over their useful lives.
accordance with the terms of the Companies Act 1985 Insurance Companies Accounts Regulations 1993, adjusted for the purposes of Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis inclusion in Abbey Financial Statements in order to be consistent with over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a Abbeys accounting policies and presentation, where a separate asset basis.
Benets received and receivable as an incentive to sign an is established to account for the value of long-term assurance business.
operating lease are similarly spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where the period to the review date on which the Reserve capital instruments rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate is Reserve capital instruments, included within other long-term capital shorter than the full lease term, in which case the shorter period is instruments, are unsecured securities, subordinated to the claims used.
Property rentals under operating leases are generally subject of unsubordinated and subordinated creditors.
Reserve capital to annual escalation clauses or regular rent reviews: increased costs instruments are treated as subordinated liabilities.
Interest payable are charged from the increase date.
on the reserve capital instruments is included within interest payable.
Securitisations Certain Group undertakings have issued debt securities, or have entered into funding arrangements with lenders, in order to renance existing assets or to finance the purchase of certain portfolios of loan and investment assets.
These obligations are secured on the assets of the undertakings through non-recourse finance arrangements.
Where the conditions for linked presentation, as stipulated in FRS 5, are met, the proceeds of the note issues, to the extent that there is no recourse to Abbey, are presented as non-recourse finance in Abbeys balance sheet and shown deducted from the securitised assets, which are presented as Loans and advances to customers subject to securitisation in Abbeys balance sheet.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 119
