SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER REGISTER ENQUIRIES All administrative enquiries relating to Shareholders such as queries concerning holdings, dividend payments, notication of change of address, loss of certicate or to be placed on a mailing list should be addressed to the Companys registrars: Shareholder Services Department, Capita Registrars Limited, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Hudderseld HD8 0LA.
com PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS The best way to ensure that dividends are received as quickly as possible is to instruct the Companys registrars, whose address is given above, to pay them directly into a bank account: tax vouchers are then mailed to Shareholders separately.
This method also avoids the risk of dividend cheques being delayed or lost in the post.
The Company also operates a Dividend Re-investment Plan to allow Shareholders to use their cash dividends to buy shares easily and at a low cost via the Companys registrars from whom the necessary forms are available.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION The prices of the Ordinary Shares are quoted daily in the Financial Times, The Herald, The Telegraph and The Scotsman.
The price, together with the Net Asset Values and other financial data, can be found on the TrustNet website at www.
Other websites containing useful information on the Company are www.
Company performance and other relevant information is available on the Aberforth Partners website at www.
co. uk and are updated monthly.
HOW TO INVEST The Companys Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
They can be bought or sold by placing an order with a stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser to do so, or through most banks.
The Companys Managers, Aberforth Partners, do not offer any packaged products such as ISAs, PEPs, Savings Schemes or Pension Plans.
SEDOL Bloomberg Reuters Security Codes Ordinary Shares of 1p 0-006-655 ASL LN ASL.
L AITC The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Trust Companies which produces a detailed Monthly Information Service on the majority of investment trusts.
This can be obtained by contacting The Association of Investment Trust Companies, Durrant House, 813 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY Website: www.
42 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL CALENDAR Results For the half year to 30 June announced July For the full year to 31 December announced January Ordinary Share Dividends Interim Ex-dividend July August Payable September Final Ex-dividend January February Payable March Interim Report Published July Annual Report and Accounts Published January Annual General Meeting February Publication of Net Asset Values Weekly via Aberforth Partners website Monthly as weekly and also via AITC Website Content Update Weekly Monthly GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS Discount is the amount by which the stockmarket price per Ordinary Share is lower than the Fully Diluted Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the Fully Diluted Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
Expense Ratio is the total annual operating costs net of any tax relief, excluding interest costs, divided by the average Shareholders funds calculated per AITC guidelines.
Market Capitalisation of a Company is calculated by multiplying the stockmarket price per Ordinary Share by the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Net Asset Value, also described as Shareholders funds, is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose include borrowings as well as current liabilities.
The Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share is calculated by dividing this amount by the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Fully Diluted Net Asset Value, is calculated on the same basis as the Net Asset Value, but the total number of Warrants in issue are deemed to be exercised at 100p each.
This results in Shareholders Funds being increased by 1 multiplied by the number of Warrants in issue and the number of Ordinary Shares in issue being increased by the number of Warrants in issue.
Premium is the amount by which the stockmarket price per Ordinary Share exceeds the Fully Diluted Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
The premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the Fully Diluted Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
43 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Fourteenth Annual General Meeting of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc will be held at 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh on 25 February 2004 at 18:15 for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS To consider and, if thought t, pass the following Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
That the Report and Accounts for the year to 31 December 2003 be adopted.
That the payment of the final dividend of 6.6p per Ordinary Share be approved.
That Mr W Y Hughes be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr H N Buchan be elected as a Director.
That Mr M L A Chiappelli be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr J E G Cran be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr D R Shaw be re-elected as a Director.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2003 be approved.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as Auditors and that the Directors be authorised to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS To consider and, if thought t, pass the following Special Resolution: 10.
That pursuant to and in accordance with its Articles of Association, the Company be and it is hereby authorised in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company on the date on which this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 1p being the nominal value of a Share: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be 5% above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 31 July 2005 or, if earlier, at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
By Order of the Board Aberforth Partners, Secretaries 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS 21 January 2004 The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 5 March 2004 to Shareholders on the Register at 6 February 2004.
 and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
Such a proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy for use by Shareholders is enclosed.
Completion of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a Shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
