BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Principal accounting policies BASIS OF PREPARATION AND ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Depreciation The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with generally Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other tangible fixed assets, except accepted accounting principles requires management to make exploration and production assets, are depreciated on a straight-line judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of basis at rates sufficient to write off the historical cost of individual assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date assets over their estimated useful economic lives.
The depreciation of the Financial Statements and the reported revenues during the periods for the principal categories of assets are as follows: reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years These accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards using historical cost principles.
Mains and services up to 60 years Plant and machinery 5 to 25 years The accounting policies, where applicable, are materially in Meters up to 20 years accordance with a Statement of Recommended Practice SORP issued by the Oil Industry Accounting Committee entitled Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 10 years Accounting for Oil and Gas Exploration, Development, Production and Decommissioning Activities, other than the two areas shown Exploration and production assets are depreciated from the in the section on exploration expenditure see opposite.
commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the unit of production method based on the proved developed reserves BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION of those fields, except that a basis of total proved reserves is used for The accounts comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the acquired interests and for facilities.
Changes in these estimates are Company and its subsidiary undertakings and incorporate the results dealt with prospectively.
of its share of joint ventures and associated undertakings.
Asset lives are kept under review and complete asset life reviews The results of undertakings acquired or disposed of are consolidated are conducted periodically.
from or to the date when control passes to or from the Company.
Most of BG Groups exploration and production activity is conducted IMPAIRMENT OF FIXED ASSETS through joint arrangements.
BG Group accounts for its own share Any impairment of fixed assets is calculated as the difference of the assets, liabilities and cash flows associated with these between the carrying values of income generating units including joint arrangements.
associated goodwill and the estimated value in use at the date the impairment loss is recognised.
Value in use represents the GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS net present value of expected future cash flows discounted on On the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, joint venture or a pre-tax basis.
associated undertaking, fair values are attributed to the net assets Impairment of fixed assets is recognised in the profit and loss acquired.
Goodwill, which represents the difference between the 70 account within operating costs.
purchase consideration and the fair value of the net assets acquired, is capitalised.
STOCKS Goodwill eliminated against Group reserves prior to the Stocks, including stocks of gas and oil, are stated at weighted implementation of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 10, Goodwill average historical cost less provision for deterioration and and Intangible Assets, has not been reinstated, but will be charged obsolescence or, if lower, net realisable value.
to the profit and loss account on any subsequent disposal of the net assets to which it is related.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue recognition associated with exploration and production When goodwill is denominated in a foreign currency, it is translated sales natural gas, crude oil, petroleum and chemical products into Sterling in line with the Groups accounting policy on foreign is recorded when title passes to the customer.
Sales of liquefied natural gas LNG and associated products are Amortisation recognised when the LNG passes the delivery point at the loading Goodwill which has a limited useful economic life is amortised over port or the tailgate of the regasification terminal.
LNG shipping an appropriate period on a straight-line basis not exceeding 20 years.
revenue is recognised over the period of the relevant contract.
Intangible assets in respect of contractual rights are amortised over Revenue from transportation and distribution activities is recognised the term of the related contracts.
in the same period in which the related volumes are delivered to the customer.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS EXCLUDING DECOMMISSIONING ASSETS All tangible fixed assets are carried at depreciated historical cost.
Power generation revenues are recognised on the availability status of the power station to produce at a given point in time.
The costs Additions represent extensions to, or significant increases in, of actual production are also passed through and recognised in the capacity of tangible fixed assets.
revenue whenever power is generated.
Contributions received towards the cost of tangible fixed assets All other revenue is recognised when title passes to the customer.
including government grants are included in creditors as deferred income and credited to the profit and loss account over the life of the assets.
Interest charges on borrowings used to finance major capital projects are capitalised.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The SORP see basis of preparation and accounting principles, Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group are interest opposite requires depreciation of licence acquisition costs on a rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, forward rate agreements, straight-line basis.
It also permits capitalisation of all costs incurred interest rate swaptions, tax equalisation swaps and forward as intangible fixed assets.
BG Group accounts for exploration exchange contracts.
expenditure under the successful efforts method which differs from A derivative financial instrument is considered to be used for the SORP as described below.
hedging purposes when it alters the risk profile of an existing Exploration expenditure, including licence acquisition costs, is underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk capitalised as an intangible fixed asset when incurred and certain management policies.
Derivatives used for hedging are accounted expenditure, such as geological and geophysical exploration costs, for on an accruals basis.
During the year there were no interest rate is expensed.
A review of each licence or field is carried out, at least or exchange rate derivatives used for trading purposes.
annually, to ascertain whether proved reserves have been discovered.
Termination payments made or received in respect of derivatives When proved reserves are determined, the relevant expenditure, are spread over the shorter of the life of the original instrument or including licence acquisition costs, is transferred to tangible fixed the life of the underlying exposure in cases where the underlying assets and depreciated on a unit of production basis.
Expenditure exposure continues to exist.
Where the underlying exposure ceases deemed to be unsuccessful is written off to the profit and loss to exist, any termination payments are taken to the profit and account.
BG Group considers this application of the successful efforts method Interest differentials on derivative instruments are recognised to be appropriate as it provides comparability with the Groups peer by adjusting the net interest charge.
Premiums or discounts on group and because it treats licence acquisition costs in a manner derivative instruments are amortised over the shorter of the life which is consistent with the treatment of other exploration assets of the instrument or the underlying exposure.
Currency swap agreements and forward exchange contracts are DECOMMISSIONING COSTS retranslated at the rates ruling in the agreements and contracts.
Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost of Resulting gains or losses are offset against foreign exchange gains decommissioning at the end of the producing lives of fields.
When or losses on the related borrowings or, where the instrument is used this provision gives access to future economic benefits, an asset is to hedge a committed future transaction, are deferred until the recognised and then subsequently depreciated in line with the life transaction occurs.
of the underlying producing field, otherwise the costs are charged to the profit and loss account.
The unwinding of the discount on the COMMODITY INSTRUMENTS provision is included in the profit and loss account as a financial item The Group uses various commodity based derivative instruments 71 and is included within the net interest charge.
to manage some of the risks arising from fluctuations in commodity prices.
Such contracts include physicaland cash-settled forwards, FOREIGN CURRENCIES futures, swaps and options.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Under specified conditions, certain gains and losses attributable to translated into Sterling at closing rates of exchange or, where they cash-settled derivative contracts designated as hedging particular are hedged using cross-currency swaps, at the swap rate.
Trading gas price exposures are deferred and recognised in the profit and results of overseas subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and loss account when the underlying hedged transaction crystallises.
associated undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates All other gains and losses relating to cash-settled commodity of exchange or, where hedged, at the contract rate of exchange.
derivatives are taken to the profit and loss account on the maturity Differences resulting from the retranslation of the opening net or termination of the instrument.
assets and the results for the year are taken to reserves.
Upstream gas trading contracts and related derivative instruments Exchange differences on monetary assets and liabilities are taken that are settled by the physical purchase and re-sale of third-party gas to the profit and loss account, except that exchange differences on are presented on a net basis within E&Ps costs.
As these activities are foreign currency net borrowings used to finance foreign currency net incidental and different in nature to E&Ps ordinary activities, this investments are taken to reserves.
All other exchange movements treatment is in conformity with the Companies Act 1985. are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
PENSIONS DEFERRED TAX The cost of providing retirement pensions and related benefits is Provision is made in full, on an undiscounted basis, for the deferred charged to the profit and loss account over the periods benefiting tax arising on the difference between the accounting treatment and from the employees services.
The regular pension cost, variations tax treatment for depreciation in respect of accelerated capital from the regular pension cost and interest are all charged within allowances and other timing differences.
Deferred tax assets are employee costs.
The difference between the charge or credit to the recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
profit and loss account and the contributions paid to the pension Provision for deferred petroleum revenue tax is shown net of schemes in which the Group participates is shown as an increase allowable corporation tax relief reflected in the deferred corporation or decrease in the provision.
Deferred tax on this provision has been tax balance and is made in respect of applicable fields based on accounted for in full.
The transitional disclosure requirements of current forecasts.
FRS 17, Retirement benefits, are included within the pensions note note 27, page 103.
LEASES Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE account as incurred.
All research and development and advertising expenditure is written off as incurred.
