BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Additional shareholder information CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPANY This Report and Accounts includes forward-looking information The Company is a public limited company incorporated in England within the meaning of Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, and Wales on 30 December 1998 under the Companies Act 1985. as amended, and Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of It is of infinite duration.
Certain statements included in this Annual Report The UK gas industry was nationalised in 1948 and the British Gas and Accounts, including without limitation, those concerning Corporation was established in 1973.
In April 1986, British Gas was a strategies, outlook and growth opportunities, b positioning to incorporated as a public limited company and in December 1986 the deliver future plans and to realise potential for growth, c delivery UK Government sold substantially all its shareholdings in British Gas of the performance required to meet the 2006 targets, to the public.
d expectations regarding gas and oil prices, e development of new markets, f the development and commencement of commercial With effect from 17 February 1997, Centrica plc demerged from operations of new projects, g liquidity and capital resources, BG plc.
Following the Centrica demerger, BG plc retained the gas h gas demand growth, i plans for capital and investment transportation and storage businesses, the majority of the expenditure, j the economic outlook for the gas and oil industries, exploration and production business, the international downstream k regulation, l qualitative and quantitative disclosures about business, the research and technology business and the property market risk and m statements preceded by expected, scheduled, division of British Gas plc.
In connection with the Centrica demerger, targeted, planned, proposed, intended or similar statements, British Gas plcs gas sales, services and retail businesses, together contain certain forward-looking statements concerning the Groups with the gas production business of the North and South operations, economic performance and financial condition.
Although Morecambe gas fields and its direct interest in Accord Energy the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such Limited, were transferred to Centrica plc.
forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can be With effect from 1 May 1999, BG plc combined its exploration given that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
and production and international downstream businesses which Accordingly, results could differ materially from those set out in the principally engaged in gas and oil exploration and production forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, and the integrated development and supply of gas markets.
a changes in economic, market and competitive conditions, including gas and oil prices, b success in implementing business With effect from 13 December 1999, the Group was restructured and operating initiatives, c changes in the regulatory environment so that the Company, a newly incorporated company, became the and other government actions, including UK and international new parent company of the Group.
The Company held the Transco corporation tax rates, d a major recession or significant upheaval business in a separate sub-group, including BG Transco plc now called in the major markets in which the Group operates, e the failure Transco plc, ring-fenced for regulatory purposes, from the sub-group to ensure the safe operation of the Groups assets worldwide, containing the other Group businesses.
The restructuring was f implementation risk, being the challenges associated with accompanied by a refinancing under which BG Transco Holdings plc 130 delivering capital intensive projects on time and on budget, now called Transco Holdings plc issued around 1.5bn of bonds which including the need to retain and motivate staff, g commodity risk, were transferred together with new shares in the Company to being the risk of a significant fluctuation in gas and or oil prices shareholders in exchange for their existing shares in BG plc now from those assumed, h fluctuations in exchange rates, in particular called Transco plc.
The UK Secretary of State for Trade and Industry the US$ UK exchange rate being significantly different from that held a special rights redeemable preference share in the Company.
assumed, i risks encountered in the gas and oil exploration and On 16 October 2000, the Companys shareholders approved the production sector in general and j business risk management.
demerger of certain businesses principally Transco to Lattice, effective on 23 October 2000.
This demerger created a new listed THIS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS INCORPORATES THE US FORM 20-F company, Lattice Group plc which has since merged with National BG Group plc is the legal and commercial name of the SEC registrant.
Grid plc to become National Grid Transco plc.
The principal business BG Group plc is a public limited company listed on the London and demerged to Lattice Group was Transco, which owns, operates New York Stock Exchanges and registered in England.
This is the and develops the substantial majority of the gas transportation report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003.
It system and all the LNG storage facilities in Great Britain.
Following complies with UK regulations and incorporates the annual report demerger, the Company continued to hold BG Energy Holdings on Form 20-F except for the US Report of Independent Accountants comprising the business involved in the development, management which is included in our Form 20-F filing with the US Securities and and supply of existing and newly emerging gas markets around Exchange Commission to meet US regulations.
An Annual Review the world.
The special rights redeemable preference share in the including the Summary Financial Statement for the year ended Company held by the UK Secretary of State for Trade and Industry 31 December 2003 has been issued to all shareholders who have was redeemed.
not elected to receive this report and accounts.
On 28 November 2001, BG Groups Storage segment was sold to Dynegy Inc. of the USA for a consideration of 421m.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE The Company is the ultimate parent of the Group.
The following is a list of the Companys principal subsidiary undertakings: Group Country of holding as at 31 December 2003 incorporation Activity % a BG Energy Holdings Limited England Group holding company 100.0 BG International Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 BG International CNS Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 BG International NSW Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 BG Karachaganak Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 British Gas Tunisia Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 British Gas Trinidad and Tobago Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 BG Gas Marketing Limited England LNG marketing 100.0 British Gas Thailand Pte Limited Singapore Exploration and production 100.0 BG North Sea Holdings Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 BG Egypt S. A. Cayman Islands Exploration and production 100.0 BG Exploration and Production India Limited Cayman Islands Exploration and production 100.0 BG LNG Services, LLC USA LNG shipping and marketing 100.0 Premier Power Limited Northern Ireland Power generation 100.0 b Companhia fide Gas fide So Paulo S. A. Brazil Gas distribution 72.9 c MetroGAS S. A. Argentina Gas distribution 45.1 Gujarat Gas Company Limited India Gas distribution 65.1 Shares are held by the Company where marked with an asterisk: others are held by subsidiary undertakings.
a There is no difference between the Group holding of ordinary shares and the Groups share of net assets attributable to equity shareholders.
b BG Group holds its interest in Companhia fide Gas fide So Paulo S. A. Comgas indirectly through its wholly-owned subsidiary British Gas So Paulo Investments B. V. which holds a 95.8% interest in Integral Investments B. V. which, in turn, holds ordinary shares in Comgas.
c Although BG Group only has a 45.1% holding in MetroGAS S. A. MetroGAS, it has a controlling interest through a 54.7% holding in Gas Argentino S. A. which has a 70% interest in MetroGAS, together with a 6.8% holding in MetroGAS via wholly-owned subsidiary undertakings.
LISTING AND PRICE HISTORY The principal trading market for the Companys ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange.
American Depositary Shares ADSs, each 131 representing five ordinary shares and evidenced by ADRs, have been issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank as depository and are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The table below sets out, for the periods indicated, the reported high and low quoted prices for the Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange and the high and low quoted prices for the shares in the form of ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange.
Past performance of the Companys ordinary shares cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Additional shareholder information continued MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 2.
Directors interests The Companys authorised share capital consists of ordinary shares Unless otherwise provided in the Articles, a Director cannot cast with a nominal value of 10p each.
So far as the Company is aware, a vote on any contract, arrangement or any other kind of proposal no person is the beneficial owner of 5% of the Companys ordinary in which he knows he has a material interest.
For this purpose, shares, nor is the Company directly or indirectly owned by another interests of a person who is connected with a Director under Section corporation or by a foreign government.
346 of the Companies Act 1985 are added to the interests of the Director himself.
Interests purely as a result of an interest in the As at 4 March 2004, 6 448 489 ADSs equivalent to 32 242 445 Companys shares, debentures or other securities are disregarded.
ordinary shares or approximately 0.91% of the total outstanding In relation to an alternate Director, an interest of his appointor shall ordinary shares were outstanding and held of record by 242 be treated as an interest of the alternate Director, in addition to any registered holders in the United States.
The Company is aware that interest which the alternate Director has in his own right.
A Director many ADSs are held of record by brokers and other nominees and may not be included in the quorum of a meeting in relation to any accordingly the above numbers are not necessarily representative resolution on which he is not allowed to vote.
of the actual number of persons who are beneficial holders of ADSs or the number of ADSs beneficially held by such persons.
Borrowing powers As at 4 March 2004, there were about 987 000 holders of record of So far as the relevant English law allows, the Directors can exercise BG Group plc ordinary shares.
Of these holders, around 2 500 had all the powers of the Company to a borrow money, b issue registered addresses in the United States and held a total of some debentures and other securities, and c give any form of guarantee 1 140 478 BG Group plc ordinary shares, approximately 0.03% of the and security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or total outstanding ordinary shares.
In addition, certain accounts of of any third party.
record with registered addresses other than in the United States The Directors must limit the Borrowings as defined in the Articles hold BG Group plc ordinary shares, in whole or in part, beneficially of the Company and exercise all voting and other rights or powers for United States persons.
of control exercisable by the Company in relation to its subsidiary As far as is known to the Company, it is not directly or indirectly undertakings, so as to ensure that the total amount of all owned or controlled by another company or by any government or Borrowings by the Group as defined in the Articles outstanding any other natural or legal person, and there are no arrangements at any time will not exceed twice the Adjusted Total Capital and known to the Company, the operation of which may result in a Reserves as defined in the Articles at such time.
This limit may change of control.
be exceeded if the Companys consent has been given in advance by an ordinary resolution passed at a general meeting.
MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Company is incorporated in England and Wales under Company Shareholder meetings Number 3690065.
There are two types of meetings of shareholders, AGMs and 132 Extraordinary General Meetings EGMs.
The Company must hold The Memorandum of the Company provides that the Company has an AGM in each calendar year, not more than 15 months from the general commercial objects including to act as a holding company previous AGM.
The Directors will decide when and where to hold or an investment holding company and to carry on the business of the AGM.
Any other general meeting is known as an EGM.
transporting, manufacturing, processing, storing and dealing in different forms of energy including natural gases, petroleum The Directors can decide to call an EGM at any time.
an EGM must be called by the Directors promptly in response to a requisition by shareholders under the relevant English law.
When an The Articles of Association Articles of the Company and applicable EGM is called, the Directors must decide when and where to hold it.
English law contain, among others, provisions to the following effect: At least 21 clear days notice in writing or, where the relevant legislation permits, by electronic mail must be given for every AGM and for any Directors other meeting where it is proposed to pass a special resolution or to 1.
General pass some other resolution of which special notice under the Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, Companies Act 1985 has been given to the Company.
For every other there must be at least four Directors.
A Director need not be a general meeting, at least 14 clear days notice in writing or, where the shareholder, but a Director who is not a shareholder can still attend relevant legislation permits, by electronic mail must be given.
and speak at shareholders meetings.
There must be a quorum present at every general meeting.
Unless At each Annual General Meeting AGM, any Director who was elected provided otherwise in the Articles, a quorum is two people who are or last re-elected a Director at or before the AGM held in the third entitled to vote.
calendar year before the current year shall automatically retire from office.
A retiring Director is eligible for re-election by the shareholders.
A resolution that is put to the vote at a general meeting will be decided by a show of hands, unless a poll is demanded when, or No maximum age limit for Directors applies.
before, the result of the show of hands is declared by the Chairman.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Transfer of shares Any person who acquires shares in relation to which a default has Unless otherwise provided in the Articles or the terms of issue of occurred Default Shares is subject to the same restrictions unless: any shares, any shareholder may transfer any or all of his shares.
the transfer was an approved transfer pursuant to a takeover or However, the Directors can refuse to register a transfer a in one which, to the Directors satisfaction, is a bona fide sale to a certificated form, if such shares are not fully paid up or the evidence person unconnected with the shareholder: or of entitlement to such shares is missing, b if it is in respect of more than one class of share, c if it is in favour of more than four persons the transfer was by a shareholder who was not himself in jointly, or d if it is not properly stamped where required.
However, if default in supplying the information required by the notice and any of those shares have been admitted to the Official List of the a the transfer is of only part of his holding and b the transfer London Stock Exchange, the Directors cannot refuse to register a is accompanied by a certificate in a form satisfactory to the transfer if this would stop dealings in the shares from taking place Directors stating that after due and careful enquiries the on an open and proper basis.
shareholder is satisfied that none of the shares included in the transfer are Default Shares.
If the Directors decide not to register a transfer, they must notify the person to whom the shares were to be transferred within two months.
Where the Default Shares represent 0.25% or more of the existing shares of a class, the Directors can, in their absolute discretion, by The Directors can decide to suspend the registration of transfers by notice to the shareholder direct that a any dividend or other money closing the Register, but the Register cannot be closed for more than which would otherwise be payable on the Default Shares shall be 30 days per year.
In the case of shares in uncertificated form, the retained by the Company without any liability to pay interest when Register must not be closed without the consent of the Operator of a that dividend or money is finally paid to the shareholder and or b relevant system currently CRESTCO Limited, the operator of a the shareholder will not be allowed to choose to receive shares in relevant system under the UK CREST Regulations.
place of dividends and or c no transfer of any of the shares held by the shareholder will be registered unless one of the provisos Share capital specified above is satisfied.
The Companys authorised share capital is 500 000 001, consisting of 5 000 000 010 ordinary shares of 10p each.
Variation of rights If the Companys share capital is split into different classes of shares, Shareholders rights subject to the relevant English law and unless the Articles or rights 1.
Voting rights attaching to any class of shares provide otherwise, the special rights When a shareholder is entitled to attend a general meeting and vote, which are attached to any of these classes can be varied or abrogated he has only one vote on a show of hands.
A proxy cannot vote on a as provided by those rights or approved by an extraordinary show of hands.
Where there is a poll, subject to any special rights or resolution passed at a separate meeting of that class.
Alternatively, restrictions attaching to any class of shares, a shareholder who is the holders of at least three-quarters of the existing shares of the 133 entitled to be present and to vote has one vote for every share which class by nominal value can give their consent in writing.
To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice of Alteration of share capital the meeting can give a time by which people must be entered on the The shareholders can by ordinary resolutions a increase the Register which must not be more than 48 hours before the meeting.
Companys authorised share capital, b consolidate, or consolidate Unless provided otherwise in the Articles, the only people who can and then divide, all or any of the Companys share capital into shares attend or vote at general meetings are shareholders who have paid of a larger nominal amount than the existing shares, c cancel any the Company all calls, and all other sums, relating to the shares shares which have not been taken, or agreed to be taken, by any which are due at the time of the meeting.
person at the date of the resolution, and reduce the amount of the Companys share capital by the amount of the cancelled shares, and 2.
Restrictions on shareholders rights d subject to the relevant English law divide some or all of the If a shareholder has been properly served with a notice under Section Companys shares into shares which are of a smaller nominal 212 of the Companies Act 1985 requiring information about interests amount than is fixed in the Memorandum.
in shares, and has failed to supply such information within 14 days of The shareholders can, subject to the relevant English law, pass a the notice, then subject to the Articles and unless the Directors special resolution to a reduce the Companys authorised share otherwise decide the shareholder is not for so long as the default capital in any way or b reduce any capital redemption reserve, continues entitled to attend or vote at a shareholders meeting or to share premium account or other undistributable reserve in any way.
exercise any other right in relation to a meeting as holder of any shares held by the shareholder in default.
The Company can, subject to the relevant English law, buy back, or agree to buy back in the future, any shares of any class.
However, if the Company has existing shares which are admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange and which are convertible into equity shares, then the Company can only buy back equity shares of that class if either the terms of issue of the convertible shares permit the Company to buy back equity shares or the buy back or agreement to buy back has been approved by an extraordinary resolution passed by such holders.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Additional shareholder information continued Dividends TAXATION The shareholders can declare final or interim dividends by ordinary The taxation discussion set out below is intended only as a summary resolution.
No dividend can exceed the amount recommended by of the principal US federal and UK tax consequences to US holders the Directors.
No interim dividend shall be paid on shares which as described below of ADSs and does not purport to be a complete carry deferred or non-preferred rights if, at the time of payment, analysis or listing of all potential tax consequences of owning ADSs.
any preferential dividend is in arrears.
Unless the rights attaching A US holder is a beneficial owner of ADSs that holds the ADSs as to shares or the terms of any shares provide otherwise, dividends capital assets and is one of the following: a an individual citizen or are paid based on the amounts which have been paid up on the resident of the United States, b a corporation or certain other shares in the relevant period.
entities treated as corporations for US federal income tax purposes organised under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, The Directors can recommend the shareholders to pass an ordinary c an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax resolution to direct all or part of a dividend to be paid by distributing regardless of its source, or d a trust if a court within the United specific assets.
The Directors must give effect to such a resolution.
States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration If a dividend has not been claimed for one year, the Directors may of the trust and one or more US persons have the authority to invest the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit of the control all substantial decisions of the trust.
Investors are advised to Company until the dividend is claimed.
Any dividend which has not consult their tax advisers with respect to the tax consequences of been claimed for 12 years may be forfeited and belong to the their holdings and sales, including the consequences under Company if the Directors so decide.
applicable US state and local law.
The statements of US and UK tax laws set out below, except as otherwise stated, are based on the Winding up laws in force as of the date of this Annual Report and Accounts and If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the authority are subject to any changes occurring after that date in US or UK law.
of an extraordinary resolution and any other sanction required by The discussion is also based on the US-UK Income Tax Convention relevant law, divide among the shareholders all or part of the assets that entered into force on 25 April 1980, as amended by Protocols of the Company or transfer any part of the assets to trustees on trust the 1980 Convention and the US-UK Income Tax Convention that for the benefit of the shareholders.
No past or present shareholder entered into force on 31 March 2003, as amended by a Protocol the can be compelled to accept any shares or other property under the New Convention, as both the 1980 Convention and the New Articles which carries a liability.
Convention may be applicable to US holders depending on individual circumstances as described below.
Rights of foreign shareholders There are no limitations imposed by the relevant English law or US holders should be aware that the New Convention generally the Articles on the rights to own securities, including the rights of will have effect in respect of dividends paid on or after 1 May 2003. non-resident or foreign shareholders to hold or exercise voting rights However, a US holder entitled to benefits under the 1980 Convention 134 on the securities.
may elect to have the provisions of the 1980 Convention continue for an additional 12 months if the election to apply the 1980 Convention Notification of interest in shares would result in greater benefits to the holder.
If a US holder were Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985 requires any shareholder, to make an effective election, the discussion below with respect to subject to exceptions, who acquires an interest of 3% or more or, in dividend payments made pursuant to the 1980 Convention would the case of certain interests, 10% or more in the shares to notify the continue to apply to any dividends paid by the Company prior to Company of his interest within two business days following the day 1 May 2004.
The discussion below notes the instances in which on which the obligation to notify arises.
After the 3% or 10%, as the the relevant provisions of the New Convention would produce a case may be, level is exceeded, similar notification must be made in materially different result for a US holder.
respect of the whole percentage figure increases or decreases.
US holders should note that certain articles in the New Convention limit or restrict the ability of a US holder to claim benefits under the MATERIAL CONTRACTS New Convention and that similar provisions were not contained No contract other than those entered into in the ordinary course of in the 1980 Convention.
US holders should consult their own tax business has been entered into in the two years preceding the date advisors concerning the applicability of each convention.
of this document by the Company or its subsidiary undertakings and is, or may be, material to the Company or the Group or has been This discussion does not address all aspects of US federal income entered into by the Company or its subsidiary undertakings and taxation that may apply to holders subject to special tax rules, contains obligations or entitlements which are, or may be, material including US expatriates, insurance companies, tax-exempt to the Group.
organisations, financial institutions, securities broker-dealers, persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, investors that own EXCHANGE CONTROLS directly, indirectly or by attribution 10% or more of the outstanding There are currently no UK exchange control laws, decrees or share capital or voting stock of the Company, persons holding regulations that restrict or would affect the transfer of capital or their ADSs as part of a straddle, hedging transaction or conversion payments of dividends, interest or other payments to US citizens transaction, persons who acquired their ADSs pursuant to the or residents who are holders of the Companys securities except exercise of options or similar derivative securities or otherwise as as otherwise set out under Taxation below.
compensation, or persons whose functional currency is not the US$, among others.
Those holders may be subject to US federal income tax consequences different from those set forth below.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 For the purposes of the conventions between the US and UK for Dividends paid will be treated as passive income or, in the case the avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on dividend of certain US holders, financial services income, for purposes of income and capital gains and estate and gift taxes and for the computing allowable foreign tax credits for US federal income tax purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, as purposes.
Under the 1980 Convention, a US holder that is eligible for discussed below, a US holder of ADSs will be treated as the beneficial benefits with respect to income derived in connection with the ADSs owner of the underlying ordinary shares represented thereby.
each such holder referred to as an eligible US holder and that claims the benefits of the 1980 Convention with respect to a Taxation of dividends dividend from the Company will be entitled to a foreign tax credit UK taxation of dividends for the UK tax notionally withheld with respect to such dividend.
Under current UK tax legislation, no UK tax will be withheld If an eligible US holder is so entitled, the foreign tax credit would be from dividend payments made by the Company.
equal to one-ninth of any dividend received and would give rise to additional dividend income in the same amount.
Each eligible US Under the 1980 Convention, subject to certain exceptions, a US holder that relies on the 1980 Convention to claim a foreign tax holder of ADSs who is a resident of the US and is not a resident credit under these circumstances must file IRS Form 8833 Treatyof the UK for the purposes of the 1980 Convention is generally Based Return Position Disclosure disclosing this reliance with its US entitled to receive, in addition to any dividend that the Company federal income tax return for the year in which the foreign tax credit pays, a payment from the UK Inland Revenue in respect of such is claimed.
In order to obtain this benefit in a particular year, a US dividend equal to the tax credit to which an individual resident holder generally must elect to claim the credit with respect to all in the UK for UK tax purposes would have been entitled had that foreign taxes paid or treated as paid in that year.
US holders that individual received the dividend which is currently equal to onedo not elect to claim a credit with respect to any foreign taxes paid ninth of the dividend received reduced by a UK withholding tax in a given taxable year may instead claim a deduction for foreign equal to an amount not exceeding 15% of the sum of the dividend taxes paid.
A deduction does not reduce US federal income tax on a paid and the UK tax credit payment.
At current rates, the dollar for dollar basis like a tax credit.
The deduction, however, is not withholding tax entirely eliminates the tax credit payment but no subject to the limitations described above.
US holders are advised withholding in excess of the tax credit payment will be imposed that under the New Convention there will be no notional UK upon the US holder.
Thus, for example, a US holder that receives a withholding tax applied to a dividend payment and it therefore 100 dividend will also be treated as receiving from the UK Inland will not be possible to claim a foreign tax credit in respect of any Revenue a tax credit payment of 11.11 one-ninth of the dividend dividend payment made by the Company on or after 1 May 2003 received but the entire 11.11 payment will be eliminated by UK or 1 May 2004 in the case of a US holder who effectively elects to withholding tax, resulting in a net receipt of 100. extend the applicability of the 1980 Convention as described above.
Under the New Convention, there is no right to receive, in addition to The rules governing the foreign tax credit are complex.
Each US any dividend that the Company pays, a payment from the UK Inland holder is urged to consult its own tax advisor concerning whether 135 Revenue in respect of such dividend or any UK tax credit that may be the holder is eligible for benefits under the 1980 Convention and the associated with such dividend.
New Convention, whether, and to what extent, a foreign tax credit will be available with respect to dividends received from the US federal income taxation of dividends Company, and whether it may be advisable in light of the holders The gross amount of dividends including any additional dividend particular circumstances to elect to have the provisions of the 1980 income arising from a foreign tax credit claim as described below Convention continue to apply until 1 May 2004. paid to a US holder of ADSs will be taxable as ordinary income to the extent paid out of the current or accumulated earnings and profits Recent US tax law changes applicable to individuals of the Company as determined for US federal income tax purposes Under 2003 US tax legislation, some US holders including but are not eligible for the dividends received deduction allowed to individuals are eligible for reduced rates of US federal income tax corporations.
The amount to be included in gross income will be the currently a maximum of 15% in respect of qualified dividend US$ value of the payment at the time the distribution is received income received in taxable years beginning after 31 December 2002 by the ADS Depository.
Distributions by the Company in excess of and beginning before 1 January 2009.
For this purpose, qualified current and accumulated earnings and profits will be treated first as dividend income generally includes dividends paid by non-US a tax-free return of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in corporations if, among other things, certain minimum holding the ADSs, thus reducing the holders adjusted tax basis in such ADSs periods are met and either i the shares or ADSs with respect to and, thereafter, as a capital gain.
For foreign tax credit limitation which the dividend has been paid are readily tradable on an purposes, dividends paid by the Company will be income from established securities market in the US, or ii the non-US corporation sources outside the United States.
Pounds Sterling received by a US is eligible for the benefits of a comprehensive US income tax treaty holder of ADSs will have a tax basis equal to the value at the time such as the New Convention which provides for the exchange of of the distribution.
Any gain or loss realised on a subsequent sale or information.
We currently believe that dividends paid with respect other disposition of the pounds Sterling will be US source ordinary to our shares and ADSs will constitute qualified dividend income for income or loss.
US federal income tax purposes.
Some of the eligibility requirements for non-US corporations are not entirely clear, however, and further guidance from the Internal Revenue Service is anticipated.
In addition, the Internal Revenue Service is expected to issue certification procedures for 2004 whereby a non-US corporation will have to certify as to the eligibility of its dividends for the reduced US federal income tax rates.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Additional shareholder information continued TAXATION OF CAPITAL GAINS INHERITANCE TAX A holder of ADSs will be liable for UK tax on capital gains accruing ADSs held by an individual, who is domiciled in the US for the on a disposal of ADSs only if such holder is resident or ordinarily purposes of the Convention between the US and the UK for the resident for tax purposes in the UK or if such holder carries on a avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on estates and trade in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent gifts the Estate Tax Convention and is not for the purposes of the establishment and the ADSs are used, held or acquired for the Estate Tax Convention a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK purposes of the trade of the branch, agency or permanent inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a transfer of the ADSs establishment.
Special rules can also impose UK capital gains tax on during the individuals lifetime unless the ADSs form part of the disposals by individuals who recommence UK residence after a business property of a permanent establishment situated in the period of non-residence.
US citizens or corporations who are so liable UK or pertain to a fixed base in the UK used for the performance of for UK tax may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain independent personal services.
In the exceptional case where ADSs on the disposal of ADSs.
However, such persons generally will be are subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or entitled to a tax credit against their US federal tax liability for the estate tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally provides for the tax amount of the UK tax paid in respect of such gain subject to paid in the UK to be credited against tax payable in the US or for applicable credit limitations.
the tax paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK based on priority rules set forth in the Estate Tax Convention.
For US federal income tax purposes, a US holder generally will recognise a capital gain or loss on the sale or other disposition of STAMP DUTY AND STAMP DUTY RESERVE TAX ADSs held as capital assets, in an amount equal to the difference No UK stamp duty will be payable on the acquisition or transfer of between the US$ value of the amount realised on the disposition ADSs if there is no instrument of transfer.
If there is an instrument and the US holders adjusted tax basis, determined in US$, in the of transfer then provided that the instrument of transfer is not ADSs.
Such gain or loss generally will be treated as US source gain or executed in the UK and remains at all times outside the UK loss, and will be treated as a long-term capital gain or loss if the US subsequently then in practice no UK stamp duty will be payable.
holders holding period in the ADSs exceeds one year at the time of Neither will an agreement to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs disposition.
In the case of a US holder who is an individual, capital give rise to a liability to stamp duty reserve tax.
An agreement to gains, if any, generally will be subject to US federal income tax at purchase ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs, will normally give preferential rates if specified minimum holding periods are met.
rise to a charge to UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax at the The deductibility of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
Stamp duty reserve tax is the liability of the purchaser and the stamp duty is normally also paid by the purchaser.
US INFORMATION REPORTING AND BACKUP WITHHOLDING Where such ordinary shares are later transferred to the depositorys A US holder who holds ADSs may in certain circumstances be nominee, further stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax will normally subject to information reporting to the IRS and possible US backup be payable at the rate of 1.5% of the price payable for the ordinary withholding at a current rate of 28% with respect to dividends on 136 shares so acquired.
ADSs and proceeds from the sale or other disposition of ADSs unless such holder furnishes a correct taxpayer identification number or A transfer of ordinary shares by an instrument of transfer to the certificate of foreign status and makes any other required relative ADS holder without transfer of beneficial ownership will in certification, or is otherwise exempt.
US persons who are required principle give rise to UK stamp duty at the rate of 5 per transfer.
to establish their exempt status generally must provide IRS Form Transfers that are not sales will generally be exempt from the 5 W-9 Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification.
stamp duty charge if made under the CREST system for paperless Non-US holders generally will not be subject to US information share transfers.
However, such holders may be required to provide certification of non-US status in connection DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY with payments received in the US or through certain US-related All reports and other information that BG Group files with the SEC financial intermediaries.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
may be inspected at their public reference facilities at Room 1200, Amounts withheld as backup withholding may be credited against a 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549, USA.
These reports holders US federal income tax liability.
A holder may obtain a refund may also be accessed via the SECs website at www.
gov of any excess amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund with the IRS and furnishing any required information.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 ACCOUNTANTS FEES AND SERVICES AUDIT COMMITTEE PRE-APPROVAL POLICY AND PROCEDURES  LLP has served as BG Groups independent The Audit Committee has adopted a policy regarding pre-approval public accountants for each of the financial years in the three year of permissible non-audit services provided by our independent period ended 31 December 2003, for which audited financial auditors.
The Audit Committee will agree a framework of activities, statements appear in this Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The auditors which are described with sufficient specificity to enable the are elected at the AGM.
Committee to ensure that the proposed service will not compromise the independence of the external auditor.
For each service, the The following table presents the aggregate fees for professional Committee will agree, in advance, a budget for each calendar year.
services and other services rendered by  LLP The Audit Committee is deemed to have given pre-approval in to BG Group in 2003 and 2002. respect of individual assignments where the fees fall within the 2003 2002 agreed framework and agreed budget for that service.
Pre-approval m m of assignments which are either outside the agreed framework, or a Audit Fees 1.7 1.4 are within the agreed framework but not within the agreed budget b Audit-related Fees 0.1 0.2 is delegated to the Audit Committee Chairman or, in his absence, c Tax Fees 0.4 0.7 any other member of the Committee.
The Audit Committee will be d presented at each quarterly meeting with a list of all the non-audit All Other Fees 0.2 4.0 services provided by the auditors, the specific nature of the work and Total 2.4 6.3 the fees involved, for their review.
a Audit Fees consist of fees billed for the annual audit services engagement and other audit services, which are those services that only the external auditor During 2003, 100% of Audit-related Fees, 100% of Tax Fees and 100% reasonably can provide, and include the Group audit: statutory audits: comfort of All Other Fees provided to BG Group by  letters and consents: attest services: and assistance with and review of documents LLP were approved by the Audit Committee pursuant to the fide filed with the SEC.
minimis exception to the pre-approval requirement provided by b Audit-related Fees consist of fees billed for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of the Companys paragraph c 7 i C of Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X.
Financial Statements or that are traditionally performed by the external auditor, and include consultations concerning financial accounting and reporting standards: internal control reviews of new systems, programmes and projects: review of security controls and operational effectiveness of systems: review of plans and controls for shared service centres: due diligence related to acquisitions: accounting assistance and audits in connection with proposed or completed acquisitions: and employee benefit plan audits.
c Tax Fees include fees billed for tax compliance services, including the preparation of original and amended tax returns and claims for refund: tax consultations, such as assistance and representation in connection with tax audits and appeals, tax advice related to mergers and acquisitions, transfer pricing, and requests for rulings or technical advice from taxing authorities: tax planning services: and 137 expatriate tax planning and services.
d All Other Fees include fees billed for training: forensic accounting: data security reviews: treasury control reviews and process improvement and advice: and environmental, sustainability and corporate social responsibility advisory services.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Cross-reference to Form 20-F Item Page Item Page Item Page 1 Identity of Directors, Senior 6 Directors, Senior Management 11 Quantitative and Qualitative Management and Advisers and Employees Disclosures about Market Risk Not applicable Governance Operating and Financial Review Audit Committee Report 31-32 Treasury Policy 46-47 2 Offer Statistics and Expected Board of Directors 50-51 Commodity Risk 47 Timetable Group Executive Committee 52-53 Principal accounting policies Not applicable Directors report Financial Instruments 71 Directors and Officers 57 Notes to the accounts 3 Key Information Employees 57 Note 20 Five year financial summary Remuneration Report 59-68 Financial Instruments 97-98 unaudited 123-126 Notes to the accounts Five year financial summary Note 5 Directors and 12 Description of Securities Other continuing operations only Employees 84-87 than Equity Securities unaudited 127-128 Not applicable Risk Factors 33-35 7 Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions 13 Defaults, Dividend Arrearages 4 Information on the Company Shareholder Information and Delinquencies Inside front cover Analyses of Registered Holdings None Shareholder Information as at 31 December 2003 129 Headquarters and Additional shareholder information 14 Material Modification to the Registered Office Address 129 Major Shareholders 132 Rights of Security Holders and Agent for Service of Process Directors report Use of Proceeds in the USA 129 Substantial Shareholders 57 None Additional shareholder information Operating and Financial Review Certain Forward-looking Related Party Transactions 49 15 Controls and Procedures Statements 130 Notes to the accounts Governance This Report and Accounts Note 26 Related Statement on Disclosure Incorporates US Form 20-F 130 Party Transactions 103 Controls and Procedures 32 History and Development of the Company 130 8 Financial Information 16A Audit committee financial expert Organisational Structure 131 Independent auditors report to the Governance Operating and Financial Review members of BG Group plc 69 Audit Committee Report 31-32 138 Capital Investment 42-43 Principal accounting policies 70-71 16B Code of Ethics Business Review 10-21 Financial Statements 72-78 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Notes to the accounts 79-116 Communication 24-25 Environment 26-27 Operating and Financial Review 16C Principal Accountant Fees Supplementary information Litigation 47 and Services gas and oil unaudited 117-121 Dividend 45 Additional shareholder information Historical Production unaudited 122 Post Balance Sheet Events 45 Accountants Fees and Services 137 Notes to the accounts Five year financial summary Audit Committee Pre-approval Note 2 Segmental Analysis 79-82 unaudited Policy and Procedures 137 Note 12 Tangible Fixed Assets 91 Annual Dividends 126 16D Exemption from the Listing Standards for Audit Committees 5 Operating and Financial Review 9 The Offer and Listing Not applicable and Prospects Additional shareholder information Operating and Financial Review 38-49 Listing and Price History 131 17 Financial Statements Business Review Not applicable Targets 12 10 Additional Information Notes to the accounts Notes to the accounts 18 Financial Statements Notes 17 Borrowings to 20 Note 30 Principal Subsidiary US Report of Independent Financial Instruments 94-98 Undertakings, Joint Ventures Accountants see item 18 of Note 25 Commitments and Associated Undertakings 115-116 the Companys Form 20-F and Contingencies 101-102 Additional shareholder information filing with the Securities and Memorandum and Articles Exchange Commission of Association 132-134 Principal Accounting Policies 70-71 Material Contracts 134 Financial Statements 72-78 Exchange Controls 134 Notes to the accounts 79-116 Taxation 134-136 Documents on Display 136 19 Exhibits Organisational Structure 131
