Total Group revenues increased by make it easy for customers to buy from 2.4% in 2003.
This includes 70m us by being simple and straightforward of credit card income in 2003 2002: to deal with: both our sales and service 102m.
There were no significant are enhanced by being friendly and property rationalisations in 2003 approachable: and we retain customers, 2002: 5m.
and sell more to them, by recognising customer relationships, that is by offering Achieved 2003 cost target.
our existing customers preferential terms on additional products they purchase We achieved the 50m of core from us.
The growth we have achieved in operating cost savings targeted 2003 in Retail Banking reects the value in 2003.
At the end of 2003 we we offer to customers and create for are positioned to achieve the shareholders through this approach.
100m reduction in the Groups core operating costs compared Retail banking in the UK is changing to 2000, based on 2000 business fast, driven by far-reaching changes volumes and prices, which will be in consumer behaviour.
Consumers are reected in the Groups 2004 results.
becoming ever more aware of the value of the products available in the market, Achieved tier 1 capital ratio target.
and business models which rely on 396 468 525 customer inertia to charge high prices During 2003 we bought back 24.6m are becoming increasingly out-dated.
shares at a cost of 215m, reducing There are also rapid changes in the way our tier 1 capital ratio to 7.4%, within that consumers buy and transact their our 7.0% 7.5% target range.
Our own evidence is showing that our branch The maintenance of our high quality transactions are starting to reduce, whilst credit standards remains a key strategic for the UK as a whole, the number of goal.
As in 2002 our asset quality people using the internet to carry out remains strong.
their financial transactions has more than doubled in the past two years.
The C1 C2 customer group, our target During 2004 our primary target will '01 '02 '03 customer, has above average internet continue to be to achieve double digit usage.
In the next two years we believe percentage growth in earnings per share.
Profit Before Tax m customers will become even more This target is supported by goals relating confident in using technology to process to revenue growth, costs and the their financial transactions, following the management of our capital.
These national introduction of chip and pin targets are set out in detail on page 13. technology for plastic cards.
In the future, we believe that We have developed a business model implementing our strategy and for our Retail Banking business which business model, which are covered recognises these far-reaching changes.
in more detail below, will enable the We refer to this model as being a direct Group to continue to grow its franchise in its chosen markets, supported by bank with a high street presence.
Our 16.7 19.5 22.1 an efficient operating infrastructure.
products and marketing activities are akin to those offered by a pure direct Our Business Model bank.
We have a skilled management Over the past few years we have and workforce in this respect, and a high constructed, rened and implemented proportion of our sales and customer a robust strategy to grow our Retail transactions are already made through Banking business, and in 2003 we the direct channels of internet, ATM and announced a new focused strategy telephone, particularly by interactive for our Wholesale Banking business.
This approach is leading to a reduction in the marginal cost of For Retail Banking, our entire business acquiring new customers.
Unlike solely is focused on delivering to customers direct providers, however, we also offer '01 '02 '03 our four brand values: we attract new customers face-to-face access through customers through products emphasising our compact branch network for more Post Tax Return on Capital % the better value we offer them: we complex sales and transactions, and as Annual Report & Accounts 2003 5 Group Chief Executives Review continued a source of confidence for customers increased to 1.84m accounts at the end customers in the future.
This process is so that they can talk face-to-face should of 2003. ongoing and we expect, subject to the they need to.
We have a network of 300 necessary approvals, to conclude an branches, which we believe covers the We believe our Core 4 products offer agreement in the first half of 2004.
This whole of the UK effectively.
This is is likely to involve the sale of our existing supported by the 1,900 best buy business, and the continuation of an Our business model will increasingly mentions they received in national Alliance & Leicester branded service.
allow us to provide customers with good, newspapers during 2003, more than consistent customer service at a low unit any of our competitors.
By reinvesting some of that cost Our business policies are, we believe, saving to ensure our products continue Our relationships with our key well-aligned with our regulators agenda.
to offer good value to our customers, we partners, MBNA for credit cards, We are a responsible lender, ensuring as have a business model for growing future Legal & General for life assurance and best we are able that customers are not revenues in a cost-effective way.
long term investments, and Zurich for borrowing more than they can afford household insurance, continue to work to repay now or in the future, should In our Wholesale Banking business, we effectively.
We have recorded strong interest rates rise, as expected.
As part are making good progress implementing growth in sales of credit cards, general of our standard mortgage application the strategy we announced in July 2003. insurance and life assurance products.
process, we ask all customers to provide This strategy focuses on products and evidence of their income, as well as markets where we have a core Wholesale Banking Performance limiting lending to a maximum of 95% competency and critical mass, building Our Wholesale Banking operations have of the value of the property.
Our lending on the success achieved within Retail performed well during the year with application processes make extensive Banking from increased focus, and pre-tax profit in Commercial Banking up use of credit bureau data to assess simplication of operating processes.
15% to 80m 2002: 70m, and pre-tax the customer and check their current The four core business lines are cash, profit in Treasury up 22% to 47m commitments, as well as using data commercial lending, business banking 2002: 39m.
available from their existing relationships and treasury.
Commercial Banking saw strong growth Retail Banking Performance in cash sales to financial institutions, with These procedures, together with new Retail Banking pre-tax profit increased volumes more than doubling to 43bn in system developments implemented by 9m to 441m 2002: 432m, 2003 2002: 20bn.
We opened 11,000 during the second half of 2003, leave with revenues growing by 5.5% on new business banking accounts in 2003. us well positioned to comply with the a like for like basis excluding credit The majority of these customers have a Financial Services Authoritys FSA card income and any distortion from turnover of less than 1m.
During 2004 Regulating mortgage sales: conduct the rationalisation of properties.
Cost we will be broadening our business of business rules which takes effect growth was controlled at 2.6%, and banking proposition to appeal to at the end of October 2004. asset quality remains very strong.
Our policies and operations are driven Retail Banking resources are focused Our commercial loan book grew to by our brand values.
These include on mortgages, personal loans, current 4.1bn at the end of 2003 2002: being both simple and straightforward accounts and savings.
We refer to these 3.4bn and, as we announced in July and friendly and approachable for four products as the Core 4.
Each of 2003, we have focused our small ticket customers to deal with, which aligns our Core 4 products performed well leasing activities on the commercial us with our regulator, in particular in during 2003.
We achieved record gross vehicle, bus and coach, public sector and the light of its objective to improve the mortgage lending of 8.1bn, up 27%, wholesale finance primarily large scale clarity of financial information and its a 15% increase in net mortgage lending eet finance sectors.
As a consequence, understanding by customers.
During to 2.0bn, and record gross unsecured from July 2003 we ceased to write new 2004 we will be implementing additional personal loan sales of 1.9bn, up 36%.
business in the equipment finance, plant initiatives to assist in the financial This lending has been achieved without and machinery, car contract hire, eet education of customers.
any reduction in our credit standards.
management and other general business Lending in both our mortgage and small ticket leasing sectors.
Since July Our preparations for reporting personal loan operations in January 2003, 80m of the 500m balances our 2005 results under International 2004 was higher than in January 2003. in these sectors have run off, leaving Accounting Standards IAS are making 420m at the end of 2003 to run off good progress, and we await publication Our personal account deposit balances over the next four years.
of a final IAS 39 Financial Instruments: grew by over 1.3bn, with balances Recognition and Measurement by the at the end of 2003 reaching 18.9bn.
As part of our Wholesale Banking International Accounting Standards 183,000 new current accounts were strategy, in July 2003 we announced that Board.
We are also making good opened, in line with the number opened we were seeking an alliance to provide progress in ensuring we meet all the in 2002.
The current account base has a merchant acquisition service for our necessary criteria to maximise the 6 Alliance & Leicester potential benets for our shareholders continue to recognise our customer from the implementation of the Basel 2 relationships by offering customers capital accord, from which we expect to preferential terms on additional products be a major beneciary.
Our Staff We believe our direct bank with a I would like to thank our staff for their high street presence business model contribution to our success in 2003. represents the future for banking in Throughout the Group we have been the UK.
By delivering this model, and strengthening our management teams maintaining our responsible approach by developing existing managers as well to lending, we believe that Alliance & as recruiting new managers from outside Leicester will continue to deliver real the organisation.
Over the past few years value for our customers and shareholders we have signicantly improved the in the future.
Alliance & Leicester has quality of our management, enabling never been clearer on what it is doing, us to compete successfully in the on what it has to achieve, and on competitive UK banking market.
2003 we achieved Group-wide Investors In People accreditation, recognising the Richard Pym, Group Chief Executive quality of our training and development.
This set of results reects the work of the excellent teams of people we have working across the whole Group, each committed to achieving our business goals, and sharing a clear vision of where Alliance & Leicester is heading.
As a British bank focused on serving British customers, we believe our customers prefer to have their telephone calls answered in the British Isles.
Our staff provide good, friendly service to our customers and we will not put this, nor our customer relationships, at risk by outsourcing our core contact centres outside the British Isles.
The funding of pension schemes is a key issue for all employers and staff in the UK.
During 2003 we agreed to increase the Groups funding of our dened benets pension scheme and dened contribution pension schemes.
In 2003 the Group also made a one-off contribution of 100m to the dened benefits pension scheme.
This contribution was above that required by the schemes actuaries, and demonstrates the commitment of the Group to our pension schemes.
The Future 2003 has seen continued growth in our Retail Banking franchise, and in our chosen Wholesale Banking markets.
We will continue to develop our direct distribution channels to give our customers great value products, supported by straightforward, friendly and approachable service, and we will Annual Report & Accounts 2003 7
