Statement of Corporate Governance continued The Chairman is invited to attend the Remuneration and Group Committee Members Attendance at Board and Board Committee Audit & Risk Committees and has attended all the Remuneration Meetings During the Year Ended 31 December 2003 Committees and the Group Audit & Risk Committee meetings that Group Audit approve the interim and annual accounts as a non-voting attendee.
Group Board Remuneration Nomination & Risk Total number of Meetings held in 2003 11 10 6 4 The Group Chief Executive is invited to attend the Remuneration and the Nomination Committees and has attended 7 Remuneration Mr J R Windeler, Chairman 11 10 6 Committees and 3 Nomination Committees as a non-voting attendee.
Mr R A Pym, Group Chief Executive 11 Neither the Chairman or the Group Chief Executive are in attendance Mr M P S Barton, Deputy Chairman at the Remuneration Committee when it is considering their and Senior Independent respective remuneration.
Non-Executive Director 11 10 6 4 Mr M J Allen, Non-Executive Director 8 7 3 Mr R L Banks, Executive Director 11 Mr D J Bennett, Executive Director 11 The Hon D Brougham, Non-Executive Director 11 10 4 Miss F A Cairncross, Non-Executive Director 11 10 6 # # Mr R M McTighe, Non-Executive Director 10 0 0 2 Mr C S Rhodes, Executive Director 11 Mr P J Stone, Non-Executive Director from 1 October 2003 3 0 # # Mr E J Watts, Non-Executive Director 11 1 1 4 Mr J R Windeler resigned from the Remuneration Committee after its meeting in September 2003.
Mr M J Allens inability to attend a number of Board and Committee meetings was by reason of ill-health.
# Mr R M McTighe and Mr E J Watts became members of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 30 October 2003.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities UK company law requires the directors to prepare financial accounts The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial affairs of the Company and Group as at the end of the financial year position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have those financial accounts, the directors are required to: general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently: fraud and other irregularities.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare financial accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume the Group will continue to be in business.
