savings products alliance trust savings limited ATS Our savings products comprise the Select Pension, PEP, charges also reflect ATS bargaining power, with around ISA and Investment Plans and the CAT ISA.
All these 850m of investors assets being administered, and the products are provided and administered by ATS using our economies of scale available, particularly through the use of own staff and systems.
For example, for purchases of Alliance Trust stock the dealing charge is only 1, Each product has different tax rules and advantages.
The regardless of the amount invested, plus the unavoidable Investment Plan is unrestricted in size but has no tax 0.5% stamp duty reserve tax.
The PEP and ISA are both tax-free but subscriptions of up to 7,000 per year can only be made stakeholder and CAT standards to the ISA.
The Pension attracts tax relief on contributions CAT Charges, Access and Terms standard products and there is no additional tax on income received in the require, amongst other matters, charges to amount to no Plan.
However it has limits on contributions, and pension more than 1% per annum including government stamp duty benefits cannot normally be taken before age 50. and all other costs.
The Select products do not qualify for ATS also accepts transfers of PEPs, ISAs, pensions and CAT standards because the charges are transaction rather share portfolios.
than percentage based, even though in many instances they will not exceed 1%.
For example ATS makes a 1 the select philosophy charge on a 50 investment in the Alliance Trust and The Select products are designed with four key principles charges the same amount on an investment of 5,000.
The in mind:- former would not comply with the 1% CAT standard limit, the latter would.
Customers are stockholders: All ATS customers are Stakeholder pensions comply with similar criteria to the stockholders in The Alliance Trust PLC and or The Second CAT standards, but otherwise follow the same tax rules as Alliance Trust PLC.
Each customer thereby has a direct other money purchase pensions.
We decided not to interest in the success of the organisation as a whole.
The develop a stakeholder pension because the impact of minimum investment in the Trusts in each product is 50. annual changes over the long-term is significant, and, for a Flexibility: The products are designed for long-term pension investor, the expenses of the Select Pension may investors, but recognise that there will be times when be considerably below the 1% level, depending on the financial plans have to be changed.
To achieve flexibility, investors investment and activity.
subscriptions can be started and stopped without penalty, purchases made or deferred and investments sold, when select pension required.
Our self-invested personal pension SIPP is our fastest Self-select: Our products are designed for investors who growing product, reflecting the wish of many individuals for wish to manage their own portfolios as well as those who a pension which is designed to be capable of travelling with wish to delegate some or all of their investment them throughout life, with sufficient investment flexibility management through use of managed funds.
Investors can and choice for a complete portfolio to be built around choose on a self-select basis to invest in UK listed securities, pension planning with one pension provider.
A pension is including investment trusts, equities, corporate bonds, gilts now a true cradle-to-retirement savings product available to and bond funds.
Cash can be held within a deposit account.
children and non-earners, as well as those who have earned income.
The core investment of the Alliance Trusts No annual or ad valorem charges: Our charges are levied is the first building block in a pension for a child, but the on a transaction basis according to the work involved.
There flexibility of the Select Pension means that, as time passes are no annual or ad valorem fees.
In particular, this means and pension assets grow, investments can be changed that large investors do not subsidise small ones, inactive without moving providers and without having a number of investors do not subsidise active ones and long-term small, separate and potentially uneconomic pension plans.
investors do not subsidise short-term ones.
The low 46 select PEP select investment plan Transferring PEPs to ATS is now even more attractive for Our Select Investment Plan is a general purpose, flexible, many individuals.
Since the PEP rules were changed in savings vehicle for your core investment and for your 2001, the whole of a PEP can be invested in the Alliance investment portfolio.
It is popular with those investing for Trusts.
For those who wish to manage a spread of themselves, their children and their grandchildren, and investments, the investment choice given by our Select many trusts also use the Plan to hold their investment PEP allows consolidation of PEPs held elsewhere, thereby portfolios.
Subscriptions are often made by regular direct enabling rationalisation and potentially more economical debits to reduce investment timing risk and to benefit from management.
Unlike many other providers, ATS has no PEP pound cost averaging.
transfer-in charge dealing charges after transfer still apply.
investor seminars select and CAT ISAs Alliance Trust Savings Limited hosts seminars for private The same features of the Select PEP are available in the investors which are held at various locations throughout the Select ISA which, as well as accepting transfers, is available UK.
We extend an invitation to all stockholders who would for subscriptions up to the annual 7,000 limit.
Stocks and like to come along to learn more about the Alliance Trusts shares and cash components are available on a maxi or mini and our savings products.
Those attending can meet basis with the cash component also available on a TESSAinformally with directors and management.
Tax-free interest is payable in the cash Seminar dates and locations are published on our website component and the full Select choice of securities is www.
com available in the stocks and shares component.
As with the If you would like to attend free of charge any of these PEP, there is no transfer-in charge.
seminars, please telephone us on 01382 306006 or e-mail For investors seeking a simple core investment in the us at contact@alliancetrusts.
com Alliance Trust only, the CAT ISA is available with a 0.75% annual charge.
forthcoming investor seminars date 2003 time where Wednesday 25 June 2pm DH Lawrence Pavilion, University Park, Nottingham NG7 2RD Tuesday 23 September 2pm Somerley, Ringwood, Hampshire BH24 3PL Wednesday 24 September 10.15am Somerley, Ringwood, Hampshire BH24 3PL The savings products information on these pages has been issued by Alliance Trust Savings Limited ATS.
ATS is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Products are provided on a direct offer transaction basis and marketed only in the United Kingdom to UK investors.
Most charges are transaction based and may be high or low depending on how you manage the investments in your plan.
The value of investments and any income from them may go down as well as up and you may not get back the amount you put in.
Past performance is no guide to future returns.
Taxation levels, bases and reliefs are subject to change and may depend on individual circumstances.
Alliance Trust Savings Limited, PO Box 164, Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee DD1 9YP Tel: 01382 201900 Web: www.
com For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone calls may be recorded.
47 Cover photograph: a view of the City of Dundee from the southern banks of the River Tay Printed by Pillans and Wilson, Edinburgh 71848
