dividend reinvestment capital gains tax Dividends may be reinvested in further stock units through For capital gains tax purposes, the market value of each the Select Investment Plan.
For information please contact 25p unit of the Companys ordinary stock at 31 March 1982 ATS on 01382 306006. was 2.85.
There have been no stock splits or other corporate events affecting the calculation of the increase in income tax on dividends value of the Companys stock since that date.
Dividends paid by the Company carry a tax credit at 10% of No capital gains tax liability arises in respect of a disposal of the gross dividend being the net dividend plus the 10% the Companys stock while held within a PEP, ISA or tax credit.
Where the stock is held in a PEP or ISA, tax credits on annual general meeting dividends paid before 6 April 2004 may be reclaimed by the PEP or ISA manager.
The 115th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 11.30am on Friday 25 April 2003 at the Scottish Individual UK taxpayers who are not liable to higher rate School of Contemporary Dance, Dundee College, Old tax and who hold their stock outside a PEP or ISA incur Glamis Road, Dundee.
The meeting will take place in the no further income tax liability.
award winning building The Space which is the home of Higher rate UK taxpayers, who hold their stock outside the Dance School.
The Notice of Meeting is sent seperately a PEP or ISA, are subject to income tax at 32.5% of the to all stockholders.
gross dividend, but are able to set the tax credit off against part of this liability.
Where stock is held in a Pension Plan, dividends are investor seminars credited net.
The tax credit may not be reclaimed but Details of the investor seminars held by ATS appear on no further tax is payable on the dividend.
page 47. tax vouchers Whether your dividends are paid directly to you, or to your bank or building society, or to ATS for reinvestment through the Alliance Investment Plan, the tax voucher which you need for your tax records will be sent to your registered address.
ATS will automatically supply you with a consolidated income tax voucher for income received on all securities held in the Select Investment Plan, shortly after the end of each tax year.
If your dividends are received by another nominee, such as your stockbrokers nominee, you must contact that person for the tax voucher.
