International Financial Reporting Standards 750 million Eurobond under the US$1.5 billion Euro Medium The Council of the European Union announced in June 2002 Term Note program and issuance of our inaugural US$850 million that listed companies would adopt International Financial Global Bond with a ten-year maturity.
Reporting Standards IFRS, formerly known as International In February 2003, a US$2 billion commercial paper program was Accounting Standards, from 1 January 2005.
The adoption established and issuance from this program commenced during of IFRS will be first reflected in the Groups financial statements June 2003.
This provides additional diversification of our short for the half year ending 31 December 2005 and the year ending term funding programs and enhances flexibility.
Dividends The transition to IFRS could have a material impact on the An interim dividend of 7.0 US cents per fully paid ordinary share Groups financial position and reported results, however it is not was paid in December 2002 and a final dividend of 7.5 US cents possible to quantify the impact at this time.
The Company has per fully paid ordinary share was paid in July 2003, bringing the established a project team to manage the convergence to IFRS.
declared total for the year to 14.5 US cents.
This compares to total Capital management dividends declared in the corresponding period of 13.0 US cents Moodys Investor Services upgraded our long-term credit rating per share.
The BHP Billiton Limited dividends were fully franked to A2 from A3 and our short-term rating to P-1 from P-2 during for Australian taxation purposes.
This was as a result of the Dividends for the BHP Billiton Group are determined and declared successful combination of the Groups operations following the in US dollars.
However, BHP Billiton Limited dividends are mainly merger, the benefits of our substantially diversified portfolio and paid in Australian dollars and BHP Billiton Plc dividends are our focus on maintaining disciplined financial policies.
mainly paid in pounds sterling to shareholders on the UK section The Groups stronger credit profile enabled further diversification of the register and South African rand to shareholders on the of funding sources, resulting in the issuance of our inaugural South African section of the register.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Preparation of the Financial Statements The following statement, which should be read in conjunction state whether applicable accounting standards have been with the statement of auditors responsibilities included in the followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and report of the auditors set out on the following page, is made with explained in the financial statements: and a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in relation to the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the BHP Billiton financial statements.
Group will continue in business for the foreseeable future.
The Directors are required by the United Kingdom Companies Act The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year that records which disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of BHP Billiton Plc the financial position of BHP Billiton Plc, and which enable the and the BHP Billiton Group at the end of the period and of the Directors to ensure that the financial statements comply with the profit and loss for the period.
They have general responsibility for taking In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the required to: assets of the BHP Billiton Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 71
