financial statements accounting policies Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in 1 basis of accounting the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the The financial statements which follow on pages 32 to 42 amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any have been prepared under the historical cost convention, excess in the value of the shares received over the amount modified to include the revaluation of fixed assets.
They of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
also assume the going concern basis of accounting and that Foreign income is converted at the rate of exchange the Company will continue to have approval as an applicable on the appropriate date.
They have been drawn up in accordance with applicable accounting standards and with the 4 expenses and interest Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies.
Expenses and interest are accounted for on an accruals basis using the exchange rate applicable on payment where The consolidated statement of total return and balance appropriate.
Expenses are charged through the revenue sheet include the financial statements of the Company and account except where they directly relate to the acquisition its subsidiary companies as at 31 January 2003, made up to or disposal of an investment, in which case they are added the same date.
The Company and its subsidiaries comprise to the cost of the investment or deducted from the the Alliance Trust Group.
proceeds as the case may be.
2 valuation of fixed assets 5 taxation Listed investments are valued at market prices or middle Provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing market prices as appropriate.
Unlisted investments and differences except as otherwise stated by FRS 19. mineral rights are valued by the Board on the basis of Deferred tax is calculated at the average rate of tax market prices, latest dealings, stockbrokers valuations, expected to apply.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not petroleum consultants valuations and accounting information discounted to reflect the time value of money.
Foreign assets and liabilities are valued using the middle rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Office premises are shown at the valuation as at 31 January 6 reserves 2001 carried out by chartered surveyors on a current open Gains and losses on the realisation of investments and market value basis.
No depreciation has been charged on foreign currency are accounted for in the realised capital this asset as, in the opinion of the Board, any provision for reserve.
Increases and decreases in the valuation of depreciation would be immaterial in relation to the revenue investments held at the year end are accounted for in the for the year and the assets of the Company.
3 income 7 pension costs Income from quoted equity shares is brought into account The pension scheme is a defined benefit scheme and is on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is open to all qualifying employees who have completed 6 quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is months service.
Contributions are charged against revenue.
They are calculated by reference to actuarial valuations Other income includes any taxes deducted at source.
Fixed carried out for the trustees at intervals of not more than returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are three years.
They represent a proper charge to cover the recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect accruing liabilities on a continuing basis.
the effective yield on the investment.
