Report of the Directors continued Going Concern address given on page 44.
First NZ Capital Securities have been appointed as the Companys corporate broker The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts in New Zealand with effect from 19 December 2003. as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities ISAs PEPs which are readily realisable and, accordingly, it has The Company has conducted its affairs, and will continue to adequate financial resources to continue in operational conduct its affairs, in such a way as to comply with the existence for the foreseeable future.
Individual Savings Account and Personal Equity Plan Regulations.
Registered Auditors  LLP have indicated their Donations willingness to continue in office.
Accordingly, a resolution During the financial year the Company contributed to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to 5,000 to charities 2002: 6,000.
No political the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
By order of the Board Payment of Suppliers It is the Companys continuing payment policy for the financial year to 31 October 2004 to obtain the best Nicole Monir ACIS terms for all business.
In general, the Company agrees For and on behalf of with its suppliers the terms on which business will take Henderson Secretarial Services Limited place and it is our policy to abide by these terms.
There Secretary were no trade creditors at 31 October 2003.
6 January 2004 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts prepare the accounts on the going concern basis for each financial year which give a true and fair view of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and will continue in business.
of the revenue of the Group for that period.
In preparing The directors are responsible for ensuring that proper those accounts, the directors are required to: accounting records are kept which disclose with select suitable accounting policies and then apply reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of them consistently: the Company and of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the and prudent: assets of the Company and of the Group and hence for state whether applicable accounting standards have taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection been followed, subject to any material departures of fraud and other irregularities.
disclosed and explained in the accounts: and 21
