British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and Fourteenth Annual General Meeting of British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. will be held at Grocers Hall, Princes Street, London EC2R 8AD at 12 noon on Monday 15 December 2003 for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2003 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
To approve the final dividend of 1.15 pence per Ordinary Share.
To elect Mr Peter Allen, a Director retiring by rotation under the Articles of Association.
To elect Mrs Rosamund Blomfeld-Smith, a Director retiring by rotation under the Articles of Association.
To elect Mr Strone Macpherson, a Director retiring by rotation under the Articles of Association.
To re-elect Mr John Walton, a Director retiring by rotation under the Articles of Association.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditors.
To authorise the Directors to fix the Auditors remuneration.
To receive the Directors Remuneration Report.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: 10.
THAT, with effect from the year commencing 1 October 2003, the maximum aggregate annual fees payable to the Directors be increased to 150,000 per annum, pursuant to Article 75 of the Companys Articles of Association.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as Special Resolutions: 11.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised and empowered pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 of the Act and empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act for cash provided that this authority and power shall expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 31 January 2005 and shall be limited to: i the allotment of any such securities having an aggregate nominal value not exceeding 800,400 5 per cent of the equity share capital in issue on 17 November 2003 : and ii the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less than net asset value per share on the day preceding allotment or, if earlier, the agreement to allot, 52 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 except that such authority and power shall enable the Company to make offers or agreements which would or might require any such securities to be allotted after the expiry of such period and the Directors may allot any such securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
THAT the Company be and is hereby authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the said Act of the Ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company the Shares provided that: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 23,996,005. ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 0.10: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be 5 per cent above the average of the mid market values of the Shares on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the 5 business days before the purchase is made: and iv unless reviewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 31 January 2005 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By Order of the Board For and on behalf of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretary One Bow Churchyard Cheapside London EC4M 9HH 18 November 2003 Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use in connection with the business set out above.
This form of proxy should be completed and sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power of attorney, to reach the Registrars at the address printed on the form of proxy not later than 12 noon on 13 December 2003.
The register of Directors interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours Saturdays excepted from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at Grocers Hall for fifteen minutes prior to and during the Meeting.
There are no service contracts between any of the Directors and the Company.
53 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Company Information Directors Corporate Broker Iain Robertson CBE Chairman Dresdner Kleinwort Wassertstein Peter Allen 20 Fenchurch Street Rosamund Blomfield-Smith London EC3P 3DB Sir David Kinloch Bt Strone Macpherson Secretary John Walton Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Registered Office Auditors One Bow Churchyard Ernst & Young LLP Cheapside 1 More London Place London EC4M 9HH London SE1 2AF Investment Manager Bankers and Custodian Asset Value Investors Limited JP Morgan Chase Bank Bennet House 125 London Wall 54 St Jamess Street London EC2Y 5AJ London SW1A 1JT For further information Solicitors contact Customer Services Registrars and Transfer Office Herbert Smith on 0500 00 00 40 Lloyds TSB Registrars Limited Exchange Square until 31 December 2003 Finance House Primrose Street and from 1 January 2004 Orchard Brae London EC2A 2HS on 0870 600 9966 Edinburgh EH3 5DE Registrars Shareholder Helpline Tel.
