66 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 Explanation of Resolutions Resolution 1 The directors must present to shareholders the Report of the Directors and the financial statements for the company for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Resolution 2 A final dividend of 8.15p per share is proposed and, if approved, will be paid on 11 May 2004 to shareholders on the register on 19 March 2004.
Resolutions 3 a b c d At each annual general meeting one third of the directors or, if their number is not a multiple of three, then the number nearest to but not less than one third, are required to retire from ofce.
Directors due to retire by rotation are those who have been longest in ofce since they were last elected and so that as between persons who were last elected on the same day those due to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
N N Broadhurst, M W G Collins and J J Corr retire by rotation and are offering themselves for re-election.
Mr B Cottingham, non-executive Chairman, attained the age of 70 years on 5 October 2003 and will have served as a director for nine years on 11 May 2004.
The companys Articles of Association exclude Section 293 of the Companies Act 1985 requiring a director to vacate his ofce at the age of 70 and, having satisfied the test of independence on his appointment as Chairman in 1999, the requirement of the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance paragraph A.
7.2 requiring a non-executive director, who has served for more than nine years, to be subject to annual re-election, does not apply to Mr Cottingham.
Notwithstanding this, Mr Cottingham and the Board have concluded that it would be good Corporate Governance practice for the Chairman to retire and offer himself for re-election at the annual general meeting.
The Board has no hesitation in recommending to shareholders the re-election of Mr Cottingham as a director as they greatly value his wide business experience and his continuing contribution to the leadership and effectiveness of the Board.
Resolution 4 The auditors of the company must be re-appointed at each meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 4 proposes the re-appointment of  LLP.
The resolution also gives the directors authority to agree the remuneration to be paid to the auditors.
Resolution 5 Under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the directors of the company are obliged to present to shareholders a report on directors remuneration for the financial year ending 31 December 2003.
The remuneration report is set out in pages 25 to 33 of this document.
Resolution 6 This resolution grants the directors authority to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,932,386 1 being 33 3% of the companys issued share capital at 11 March 2004.
It is not the directors current intention to allot relevant securities pursuant to this resolution.
This authority replaces the existing authority to allot relevant securities but does not affect the ability to allot shares under the companys employee share schemes.
This authority will lapse on the earlier of the date falling five years from the passing of this resolution and the date of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2009.
Resolution 7 This is a special resolution whereby the directors seek power to allot shares for cash otherwise than in accordance with the pre-emption rights set out in section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 in connection with a rights issue or otherwise up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,639,857, being 5% of the companys issued share capital as at 11 March 2004.
