Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 67 Shareholder Information Final Dividend Payment Details A list of the key dates leading to the payment of this dividend is set out below: Shares quoted ex-dividend 17 March 2004 Record date 19 March 2004 Last date for receipt of Dividend Reinvestment Plan Mandates to be included for the final dividend 19 April 2004 Payment of final dividend 8.15p net 11 May 2004 Dividend Reinvestment Plan The Dividend Reinvestment Plan the plan allows shareholders to reinvest their cash dividend in shares bought on the London Stock Exchange through a specially arranged sharedealing service.
The plan is run and administered by our Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC.
For legal reasons, the plan is available only to shareholders resident in the UK excluding the Channel Islands, be they individuals or corporate shareholders.
If you have not previously completed a mandate and require details of the plan you should contact the Registrars whose address and telephone number is set out below.
New mandates must be received by close of business on 19 April 2004 to be included in the plan for the final dividend.
If you choose to join the plan your cash dividend will be used to buy Cattles plc ordinary shares.
You will be charged a dealing commission of 0.5% of the value of shares purchased.
You will be required to pay stamp duty reserve tax at the prevailing rate currently 0.5%.
Dividend Mandate Using the BACS system, shareholders may choose to have dividends paid electronically into their bank or building society.
This process ensures that the amount of the dividend is passed directly into their account, as cleared funds, on the date the payment is due.
Conrmation of these details will be contained in a dividend tax voucher which is posted to shareholders registered addresses at the time of payment.
This voucher should be kept for future reference.
Shareholders Services and Helpline Shareholders who change address, want to have their dividends paid direct into their bank account, have a query on their shares, or who otherwise require information about their holding should contact the Customer Information Unit at Computershare Investor Services PLC, Registrars, on the shareholder information telephone line: 0870 702 0003.
Alternatively, they should write to the Registrars at PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7MH, indicating that they are a Cattles plc shareholder.
Computershare Investor Services PLC have introduced a facility whereby shareholders in Cattles plc are able to access their shareholdings over the internet subject to passing an identity check.
You can access this service on their website at: www.
