Glossary of Terms AITC Performance Attribution Analysis The Association of Investment Trust Companies.
A performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its Benchmark benchmark.
This is broken down to show the effect of The FTSE All-Share Index.
stock selection, gearing, expenses and the share issues made during the year.
In a falling market, the gearing Gearing effect will have a negative contribution to performance, The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings whereas in a rising market it will have a positive ie bank loans and debentures the Company has used to contribution.
This figure indicates the extra amount by which shareholders funds would move if the Companys Premium Discount investments were to rise or fall.
The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is either higher premium or lower There are several methods of calculating gearing and the discount than the NAV per share, expressed as a following has been selected: percentage of the NAV.
Listed investments in the UK and Europe divided by Total Expense Ratio Equity Shareholders Funds.
This is the total expenses incurred by the Company, including those charged to capital, expressed as a Investment Trusts Investment trusts are public limited companies, quoted on percentage of the average shareholders funds over the year.
We have shown separately the percentage of the London Stock Exchange, which provide shareholders with a professionally managed portfolio of investments.
management other expenses and the performance fee when applicable.
Investment trusts are exempt from tax on the capital gains arising on their investments.
Income, net of expenses and Total Returns tax, is substantially distributed to shareholders.
This is the return on the share price or net asset value Net Asset Value NAV Per Ordinary Share taking into account both the rise and fall of share prices and the dividends paid to shareholders.
Any dividends received The value of the Companys assets, ie, investments and cash held, less any liabilities ie bank loans and by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional shares for share price total return or the debentures for which the Company is responsible, divided by the number of shares in issue.
The aggregate NAV is Trusts assets for net asset value total return.
This is the same calculation shown as the value of 1,000 with net also referred to as shareholders funds on the Balance Sheet.
The NAV is published daily.
income reinvested displayed on page 4.
Website NAV per Ordinary Share with debt at market value Further information on the Company can be found on This is where the NAV is calculated by attributing market www.
com also called fair values to the preference preferred ordinary stocks and the debenture stocks rather than their par or book values.
The market values of these, and in particular the debentures, are higher than the par values due to the high coupon or interest rates they pay relative to the current low interest rates in the market.
Using a higher value for these liabilities reduces the NAV per share.
