Directors and Other Information Directors Registered Auditor Simon fide Zoete Chairman Ernst & Young LLP Mark Nicholls Rolls House Angus Russell 7 Rolls Buildings Sir Keith Stuart Fetter Lane Helen Weir London EC4A 1NH Investment Manager Stockbrokers Henderson Global Investors Limited, UBS Investment Bank an Company, authorised and 1 Finsbury Avenue regulated by the Financial Services Authority London EC2M 2PP Portfolio Manager: Job Curtis Solicitors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer Secretary 65 Fleet Street Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, London EC4Y 1HS represented by Krista Burwood, FCIS New Zealand Registrar Registered Office Computershare Investor Services Limited 4 Broadgate PO Box 92119 London EC2M 2DA Auckland 1020 Telephone 020 7818 1818 New Zealand Facsimile 020 7818 1819 Telephone New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 Registered Number New Zealand Stockbrokers Registered as an investment company in ABN AMRO Craigs England and Wales No.
34871 Farming House 102-104 Spring Street Registrar PO Box 13155 Computershare Investor Services PLC Tauranga, New Zealand Owen House 8 Bankhead Crossway North Edinburgh EH11 4BR Telephone 0870 702 0010 A MEMBER OF THE ASSOCIATION OF INVESTMENT TRUST COMPANIES 40 The City of London Alliance Trust Pension Saving on a regular basis can build up a substantial pool of assets to fund a retirement pension.
City of London has created a pension plan in conjunction with Alliance Trust Savings which offers a simple, low cost approach to pension savings.
The plan offers: The opportunity to invest in a combination of the City of London and Alliance trusts, combining the investment expertise for which these two investment trusts are well known.
Investment of up to 3,600 per tax year, with regular savings from only 50 per month.
The tax advantages which only a pension plan can provide.
An investment of 3,600 requires you to contribute only 2,808 net with basic rate tax reclaimed on your behalf by our administrator.
For a higher rate tax payer, higher rate relief can be reclaimed bringing the net cost of a 3,600 investment down to 2,160.
Low charges, with no annual plan charges and a charging structure over the life of the product which can compare favourably with the stakeholder limit of 1%.
A transparent structure, with the value of your pension investment available on any working day.
Flexibility in choosing your pension provider when you retire and wish to take an income from your pension plan.
The option to invest on behalf of a non working partner, children, grandchildren etc.
Further Information Information on the City of London Alliance Trust Pension can be found at www.
com Alternatively, please contact our Investor Services team at Henderson Global Investors on 0800 832 832.
We may record telephone conversations for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
Important information Please remember that the value of an investment and the income from it may fall as well as rise as a result of market and currency fluctuations and you may not get back, in the form of pension benefits, the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend on individual circumstances.
The references in this document to the City of London Alliance Trust Pension Plan have been approved for the purposes of section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, by Alliance Trust Savings Limited ATS, PO Box 164, Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee, DD1 9YP.
ATS is the provider, trustee and administrator of the Alliance Trusts Pension Plan, through which the City of London Alliance Trust Pension is made available.
This pension plan is provided on a direct offer basis and no advice is given by ATS.
CITY OF LONDON shares are available through the following products: The City of London Alliance Trust Pension see inside back cover.
Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan Regular savings from 50 per month quarter, or lump sum investments from 500 and additional top-up from 100 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account All paperwork and documentation is simplified and reduced to a minimum Half yearly valuations with consolidated tax certificate and complimentary newsletters Henderson ISA Tax free income and tax free growth Regular savings from 100 per month or lump sum investments from 2,000 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account Half yearly valuations, reports and complimentary newsletters Both Mini and Maxi ISAs available for investment by lump sum or regular savings Henderson Transfer PEP Although you cannot subscribe new funds to any PEP, it is possible to transfer existing PEP funds in cash from other managers into the Henderson Transfer PEP.
This offers you the opportunity to invest PEP funds in The City of London Investment Trust plc.
Further Information Please consult our website www.
com or write to Henderson Global Investors, FREEPOST, Newbury RG14 2ZZ.
Alternatively, please contact your professional adviser for further information or call our Investor Services Department on freephone 0800 832 832 quoting the reference REPORT.
Please call 44 20 7818 1818 if you are telephoning from abroad.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
Please remember that the value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of market and currency fluctuations and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon individual circumstances.
Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc and Henderson Administration Limited all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, provide investment products and services.
Henderson Global Investors is the appointed Investment Manager for The City of London Investment Trust plc HGI9224 2003 Printed by Perivan, London
