Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 111th Annual General as a Special Resolution: Meeting of The City of London Investment Trust plc 8 THAT in substitution for all existing authorities and the Company will be held at 4 Broadgate, London subject to the passing of resolution 7 the directors EC2M 2DA, on Friday, 17 October 2003 at 3.00 pm for be empowered pursuant to section 95 of the the transaction of the following: Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of Ordinary Business the Act for cash pursuant to the authority 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the conferred by resolution 7 as if section 89 1 of the Audited Accounts for the year ended 30 June Act did not apply to the allotment.
This power: 2003. a expires at the end of the next annual general 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for meeting of the Company in 2004, but the the year ended 30 June 2003.
Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be 3 To re-elect Simon fide Zoete as a Director of the allotted after expiry of this power and the directors Company.
may allot equity securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement: and 4 To elect Angus Russell as a Director of the Company.
b shall be limited to allotments of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount equal 5 To re-appoint the Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP.
of the issued 6 To authorise the Directors to determine the ordinary share capital at the date of this report.
as a Special Resolution: Special Business 9 THAT the Company be and is hereby authorised in To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act resolutions: 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of ordinary as an Ordinary Resolution: shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company 7 THAT in substitution for all existing authorities the Ordinary Shares, provided that: directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 80 of the i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities Companys issued ordinary share capital at the date within the meaning of section 80 up to an of the Annual General Meeting not to exceed aggregate nominal amount of 2,622,672 being 31,451,082 ordinary shares, the equivalent of 5 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital at 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital at the date of this report for a period expiring unless the date of this notice : previously renewed, varied or revoked by the ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Company in general meeting at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company in Ordinary Share is 25p, being the nominal value per ordinary share: 2004, but that the Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the board may allot relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement.
36 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes iii the maximum price which may be paid for an 1 Any member of the Company entitled to attend and vote Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies of the average of the middle market quotations for to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
A an Ordinary Share taken from the London Stock proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days immediately preceding the day on which the 2 Pursuant to section 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Ordinary Share is purchased or such other amount Regulations 2001, only those shareholders registered in as may be specified by the UK Listing Authority the register of members of the Company at 3.00 pm on from time to time: 15 October 2003 shall be entitled to attend and or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes the conclusion of the annual general meeting of to entries on the relevant register of securities after the Company in 2004: and 3.00 pm on 15 October 2003 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or v the Company may make a contract to purchase vote at the meeting.
Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which 3 A form of proxy is enclosed and to be valid must be completed and deposited at the office of the Registrar to will or may be executed wholly or partly after the the Company not less than 48 hours before the time expiration of such authority and may make a appointed for holding the meeting.
The return of the form purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such of proxy duly completed will not preclude a shareholder contract.
from attending and voting in person at the meeting.
By order of the board 4 This notice is sent for information only to holders of the K M Burwood FCIS second preference and debenture stocks who are not For and on behalf of entitled to attend or vote at the meeting.
Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Secretary 2 September 2003 5 The register of directors interests, kept by the Company in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, will be CHRISTOPHER ST available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
EARL ST Registered Office: FINSBURY SQ SUN ST 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA.
4 LIVERPOOL ST STATION ELDON ST LIVERPOOL ST FINSBURY CIRCUS LONDON WALL Henderson Global Investors, 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA 37 APPOLD ST BLOMFIELD ST FINSBURY SQ FINSBURY PAVEMENT MOORGATE WILSON ST FINSBURY AVE
