Index Item Page Item Page A H Accounting policies 77 Health see Safety, health and the environment 25 Acquisitions 113 American Depositary Shares ADSs 124 I Annual General Meeting 59 Information technology 28 Auditorsremuneration 83 Intangible fixed assets 96 Auditorsreport 71 Interest 84 Audit committee 54 Internal controls 56 B J Balance sheets 73, 76 Joint ventures and associates 99 Board committees 54 L Board of directors 8 Leases 97, 102 Borrowings facilities 47, 104 Legal proceedings 49, 111 C Liquid resources 74 Capital expenditure 33 M Cash flow statement 74 Minority interests 72 Cautionary statement 1 Movement in shareholders funds 75 Chairmans statement 4 Charitable donations 58 N Chief executives review 6 Notes to the financial statements 79 Commitments 49, 110 O Contact information 128 Operating review 31 Contingent liabilities 49, 111 Operating review Process Gas Solutions 33 Corporate governance 53 Operating review Industrial and Special Products 36 Creditors 102 Operating review BOC Edwards 37 Critical accounting policies 50 Operating review Afrox hospitals 38 Cross reference to Form 20-F 130 Operating review Gist 38 D P Debtors 101 Pensions and retirement benefits 89 Depreciation 97 Profit and loss account 72 Directorsinterests 65 Provisions for liabilities and charges 108  see Remuneration 87 Directorsreport 2 R  statement 70 Ratios 46 Directorsservice contracts 63 Registered office outside back cover Disposals 113 Registrars 128 Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP 128 Related party transactions 116 Dividends 95 Remuneration 87 Donations see Charitable donations 58 Research and development 28 Reserves 109 E Risk 29 Earnings per share 95 Employees 23, 87 S Employment policies and principles 23 Safety, health and the environment 25 Environment see Safety, health and the environment 25 Segmental information 79 Exceptional items 31, 46, 83 Share option and incentive schemes 88 Exchange rates 52 Share price 124 Executive management board 10 Shareholder analysis 125 Shareholder information 124 F Statement of total recognised gains and losses 75 Fair value of acquisitions 113 Stocks 100 Financial calendar 128 Substantial shareholdings 125 Financial highlights 2 Supplier payment policy 52 Financial instruments 104 Financial review 46 T Five year record 12 Tangible fixed assets 97 Taxation 84 G Total shareholder return 61, 63 Glossary of terms 131 Going concern 52 U Goodwill 96 US GAAP information and reconciliations 116 Group profile 14 US investor information 126 Group undertakings 122 W Website 128 132 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Report of the directors Financial statements Shareholder information 02 Financial highlights 70 Responsibility of the directors 124 Dividends 04 Chairmans statement 71 Report by the independent 124 Nature of trading market 06 Chief executives review auditors 125 Analysis of shareholdings 08 Board of directors 72 Group profit and loss account 126 Taxation 10 Executive management board 73 Group balance sheet 128 Financial calendar 12 Group five year record 74 Group cash flow statement 128 Key contacts information 14 Group profile 75 Total recognised gains 130 Cross reference to 23 Employees and losses Form 20-F 25 Safety, health and the 75 Movement in 131 Glossary of terms environment shareholders funds 132 Index 28 Research, development 76 Balance sheet of and information technology The BOC Group plc 29 Risk factors 77 Accounting policies 31 Operating review 79 Notes to the financial 46 Financial review statements 53 Corporate governance 122 Group undertakings 60 Report on remuneration The BOC Group plc 2003.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London using RingMaster.
The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2003 The BOC Group plc Registered office: Chertsey Road, Windlesham, Surrey GU20 6HJ, England Tel: 01276 477222 Fax: 01276 471333 English Register No.
com Report and accounts 2003 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2003 The BOC Group plc Registered office: Annual review and summary financial statements 2003 Chertsey Road, Windlesham, Surrey GU20 6HJ, England Tel: 01276 477222 Fax: 01276 471333 English Register No.
com our year Highlights of the year Contents Successful acquisition and integration of 02 Financial highlights industrial gases businesses in Poland and 03 2003 results Canada strengthens position in key countries.
04 Chairmans statement Dividend reinvestment plan ShareGift 06 Chief executives review Major integrated industrial gases supply position A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP, through which Ordinary Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of 08 Our business shareholders may invest the whole of their cash dividends in which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider established on the US Gulf coast following additional shares in the company, is available.
Ordinary donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered 10 - our customers contract award from Celanese.
shareholders on the register at the record date may participate charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
13 - our opportunities in the plan provided their application forms are received by A ShareGift donation form can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Entry into water services market in the US 16 - our insights the DRIP notice date shown in the financial calendar on the Registrars whose details appear on the previous page.
Copies of the explanatory brochure and information about ShareGift is available at www.
org through the purchase of Environmental 18 - our innovations application form are available from Lloyds TSB Registrars or by writing to: Management Corporation.
19 - our culture whose details appear on the previous page.
ShareGift 20 - our responsibilities The Orr Mackintosh Foundation OSK is combined with part of Air Liquide Payment of dividends 22 Operating review 46 Grosvenor Street Ordinary shareholders and loan stock holders may arrange to Japan to form Japan Air Gases.
London W1K 3HN, England 26 Board of directors have their dividends or interest paid directly into a bank or Telephone: 020 7337 0501 building society account through the Bankers Automated Gist wins major logistics contracts awarded 28 Executive management board Clearing System BACS.
Mandate forms are available from Unsolicited mail by Carlsberg-Tetley, New Look and a number 30 Summary financial statements Lloyds TSB Registrars whose details appear on the previous The company is obliged by law to make its share register of Geest companies.
page or alternatively you can set up a new, or change an 31 Report of the directors publicly available and as a consequence some shareholders existing, dividend mandate via the Lloyds TSB Registrars 32 Independent auditors statement may receive unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the amount shareview website at www.
co. uk Tax vouchers BOC Edwards establishes strong position as of unsolicited mail you receive, contact: 33 Directors remuneration relating to any dividend or interest payments made via supplier for the new generation of 300mm BACS will be mailed directly to the registered address of The Mailing Preference Service 35 Group profit and loss account semiconductor fabs.
the share or loan stock holder.
20771 36 Group balance sheet London W1E OZT, England Share dealing services Telephone: 020 7291 3310 or register on-line at 37 Group cash flow statement For Internet and telephone share dealing services contact Lloyds www.
uk 37 Reconciliation of net cash flow TSB Registrars by either logging on to www.
co. uk dealing The Mailing Preference Service is an independent organisation to movement in net debt or by calling 0870 850 0852 between 8.30 am and 4.30 pm on any which offers a free service to the public.
Registering with them business day excluding bank holidays.
38 Notes to the financial statements will stop most unsolicited consumer advertising material.
Details of a postal share dealing service can be obtained from: 40 Shareholder information Special needs Cazenove & Co. Ltd If you would like to receive this report in an appropriate 20 Moorgate, alternative format, such as large print, Braille, or audio cassette, London EC2R 6DA, England please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3958 or for Telephone: 020 7155 5155 shareholders with hearing difficulties on Teltex 0870 600 3950.
American Depositary Shares Annual General Meeting 2004 The BOC Group plc American Depositary Shares ADS are The Annual General Meeting will be held on 23 January 2004 listed on the New York Stock Exchange and trade under the at the Institution of Electrical Engineers Lecture Theatre, symbol BOX.
One ADS represents two The BOC Group plc Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL, England commencing Ordinary shares.
JPMorgan Chase Bank is the depositary and at 11.00 am.
their address for enquiries is: JPMorgan Chase Bank JPMorgan Service Center PO Box 43013 Providence, RI 02940-3013, USA Telephone: 1 781 575 4328 Website: www.
com shareholder A dividend reinvestment plan is available through JPMorgan Chase Bank as depositary for holders of ADSs.
All enquiries regarding this plan should be addressed to: Global Invest Direct JPMorgan Chase Bank PO Box 43013 Providence, RI 02940-3013, USA Telephone, toll free: JPMorgan Service Center on 1 800 749 1687 or 1 800 428 4237 The BOC Group plc 2003 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London Principal photography by George Brooks Printed by CTD Capita BOC is organised by lines of business.
Process Gas Solutions engineers answers to the process needs of our largest customers.
Industrial and Special Products supplies services and gas in smaller quantities to a host of industries.
BOC Edwards serves the semiconductor industry and sells vacuum products to a range of other markets.
BOC also has two specialist businesses: Afrox hospitals is southern Africas largest private health care supplier and Gist is a logistics business.
01 01 The BOC Group plc The BOC Group plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 Financial highlights 2003 2002 2001 Turnover subsidiary companies 3,718.3m 3,657.7m 3,772.9m Turnover including share of joint ventures and associates 4,323.2m 4,017.9m 4,159.2m Operating profit 438.6m 425.6m 422.3m Adjusted operating profit 505.6m 500.1m 530.6m Profit before tax 351.9m 335.3m 362.2m Adjusted profit before tax 418.9m 430.0m 466.9m Earnings per share 44.5p 41.4p 46.0p Adjusted earnings per share 52.9p 55.9p 57.5p Dividends per share 39.0p 38.0p 37.0p Return on capital employed 10.8% 10.5% 10.3% Adjusted return on capital employed 12.5% 12.3% 12.9% Figures shown as adjusted exclude exceptional items.
Other figures shown are prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP and include all exceptional items.
Adjusted figures are presented to provide a more meaningful indication of underlying business performance and trends.
These are the primary performance figures used by Group management.
In accordance with recent guidance and regulations issued by UK and US regulatory bodies, where adjusted or non-GAAP figures are shown, the comparable GAAP figures are also shown.
02 02 The BOC Group plc The BOC Group plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 2003 results Analysis by business Turnover including share of joint ventures and associates million % 1 5 1.
Gist 29.2 6 Corporate 14.9 3 2 Total 505.6 100 Analysis by region Turnover including share of joint ventures and associates million % 1 1.
Asia Pacific 184.5 36 2 Total 505.6 100 4 3 03 03 The BOC Group plc The BOC Group plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 Chairmans statement Our strategy is to deliver superior returns Last year I stated your boards commitment to a strategy Dividends of delivering superior returns for shareholders based on In 2003 BOC paid a first interim dividend of 15.5p per sustained growth in earnings and improvements in capital share in February and a second interim dividend of 23.5p per efficiency.
This requires increasing the scale and scope of BOC share in August.
The total of 39p was an increase of 2.6 per while continuously improving the efficiency and productivity cent on the year before.
This year, in line with its established of capital and other resources.
policy, the board again proposes a first interim dividend for 2004 of 15.5p.
Any increase will be reflected in the second Consistent strategy interim dividend announced with our half year results.
Your company reviews and tests its strategy thoroughly each year.
The requirements and expectations of shareholders Corporate governance are compared with objective analysis of what the business can Your company has been at the forefront when it comes and should deliver.
This combination of top-down expectations to implementing best practice in corporate governance and with bottom-up capabilities gives a rigorous framework for financial matters.
Its implementation last year of the new debate.
When Tony Isaac and his management team have accounting standard FRS19, and the full implementation of completed their work, the board reviews and tests it in detail.
FRS17 well in advance of this being required, is an indication Last year I described the forward programme for BOCs of an open and transparent culture.
This year in the UK we management and staff as ambitious and the board is pleased had the recommendations from the Higgs and Smith reviews with the progress being made.
that were subsequently incorporated in a modified form Within the corporate strategy each line of business and into a new Combined Code.
BOC contributed fully to the the specialist businesses have their own strategies.
The clarity consultation phase of the Higgs review and I believe the end of direction this gives is of great assistance to your board in result strengthens corporate governance in an effective way.
overseeing proposed acquisitions, strategic moves and the Your company is substantially complying with the revised general progress of efficiency initiatives.
Combined Code this year, ahead of it being required.
Last year I included two graphs looking at BOCs financial performance over the two-year period since the bid lapsed.
Corporate social responsibility The same graphs are reproduced here, updated with this years BOC consistently takes an ethical view of its responsibilities data.
The first shows total shareholder returns relative to all in pursuing profitable business.
Leadership comes from FTSE100 companies to 30 September this year.
The second Tony Isaac and the senior management team.
BOC is also a compares BOCs performance with its main global gases very practical organisation, preferring to implement, test and competitors.
They again show your companys strong refine what it does before making claims in the wider world.
performance compared with other UK companies and the This year BOC developed and launched its Code of Conduct.
competitive challenge presented by its global peers.
There were many existing policies, but the Code of Conduct process brought these into one programme together with new and amended policies.
The code energised the whole of the company during its development and roll out.
04 04 The BOC Group plc The BOC Group plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 Total shareholder return Total shareholder return since 1 October 2000 October 2000 October 2003 BOC relative to FTSE100 compared with major gases companies relative to respective local indices Percentage Percentage 60 80 70 40 60 20 50 0 40 30 -20 BOC 20 BOC relative to FTSE100 -40 FTSE100 10 Other gases companies 0 Oct-00 Oct-01 Oct-02 Oct-03 It is more important to be socially responsible than to Thank you seek out awards for social responsibility.
It happens that others The board would like to thank all BOCs people have given recognition to BOCs achievements in this area.
around the world for their efforts in what have been testing For instance, in the UK last year BOCs environmental economic conditions.
We would also like to thank all BOCs performance was ranked by Business in the Environment in customers, with whom we seek a mutually prosperous future.
the top 25 per cent of FTSE companies participating in its By recruiting, training and retaining the best employees we will survey: the investment community voting in Investor Relations continue to deliver high standards of service to our customers.
magazine ranked BOC in the top five of FTSE100 companies This is the basis of BOCs strength and will be the means by for the best practice of corporate responsibility: and Gist, which we will deliver the returns expected by you, our our logistics business, won the Motor Transport magazines shareholders.
I thank you for your continued support.
In South Africa, Afroxs community involvement programme is used by the United Nations as a global case study of how an employee-driven, sustainable social development programme should work.
Board of directors This year I was delighted to welcome John Bevan and Rob Margetts Chairman Andrew Bonfield to your board.
John is chief executive of Process Gas Solutions and, being an Australian, adds yet another nationality to what is an already very diverse board.
Andrew brings his financial experience and knowledge of international business to our discussions.
I would also like to congratulate two of my board colleagues who have been honoured this year: Sir Christopher ODonnell received his knighthood in the Queens birthday honours list while Dr Raj Rajagopal was awarded the Sir Eric Mensforth International Manufacturing Gold Medal by the Institution of Electrical Engineers and subsequently was elected a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
During the year Gran Lundberg and Dick Grant stepped down from the board.
We wish them both well for the future.
Gran was replaced by Sir Christopher as senior independent director and by Julie Baddeley as chairman of the remuneration committee.
05 05 The BOC Group plc The BOC Group plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 BOC performed well in 2003, although many of the worlds leading industrial countries remained in the economic doldrums.
The semiconductor industry, the key to BOC Edwards profitability, showed only limited signs of recovery following a prolonged downturn.
Financial overview In managing our business we use financial results excluding exceptional items, referred to as adjusted, and at constant currencies as the best way to report results and to reflect the nature of our business.
Exceptional items are exactly that, one-off events that would distort the figures if not reported separately, while constant currencies show best how we are doing in our local markets.
The products and services we sell and their associated costs are largely contained in the 50 or so countries where we operate: we export relatively little.
Currencies have an effect when we translate our turnover and profit into pounds sterling.
We could have a bumper year, improving our business and market position around the world, yet we could report reduced turnover and profit if the pound was strong.
Conversely, a weak pound could at face value disguise poor performance.
On this basis, we increased turnover this year by nine per cent, the result of actions over recent years to grow Chief executives review in existing markets and enter new ones.
Adjusted operating profit rose by one per cent.
This improved performance was not reflected in adjusted profit before tax, which declined by four per cent because of a lower net pension credit largely resulting from lower equity valuations.
Comments below on Concentrating on business performance are also given on this basis.
Since announcing our preliminary results on 13 November safety, performance 2003 The BOC Group Cash Balance Retirement Plan in the US has reached agreement in principle to settle an action against it for US$69 million.
This was shown as a contingent and profitable growth liability in the preliminary results when we stated that the potential liability could reach US$116 million.
The award will be paid out of the assets of the Plan but under UK accounting principles the payment has been recognised as a charge in the profit and loss account.
Our statutory results include exceptional items and comparisons with the previous year reflect changes in the relative value of currencies.
On this basis, we increased turnover by eight per cent and operating profit by three per cent.
Profit before tax increased by five per cent.
Operating cash flow was eight per cent lower than last year.
There were a number of reasons for this: BOC Edwards contributed less cash: currency changes had a negative impact: and, having merged our gases business in Japan with part of Air Liquide Japan, BOC no longer consolidates the cash flow from the combined operation, receiving a dividend instead.
We also resumed contributions to the UK pensions scheme.
This year We entered the year having just merged our plant building business with Linde Engineering in the US to form Linde BOC Process Plants LLC.
This combination guarantees us access to world-class technology and it is working well, delivering the capability and the cost savings we had predicted.
We were also at various stages of finalising four more strategic ventures.
Three were acquisitions: Praxairs Polish industrial gases business, Air Products Canadian packaged gas business and Environmental Management Corporation, a privately held US water services company.
The fourth was the merger I referred to above, the combination of our OSK business in Japan with part of Air Liquide Japan to create Japan Air Gases.
The Polish and Canadian acquisitions are in important markets for us and they strengthen our positions there.
In both cases they give us better national coverage and add to the range of products and services we can offer our customers.
Environmental Management Corporation manages water and wastewater treatment facilities for industrial and municipal customers around the US: BOC has a strong industrial customer base and it is a natural extension to manage the water cycle for such customers.
The emphasis now, as it is with 06 06 The BOC Group plc The BOC Group plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 all our recent acquisitions, is to achieve the growth and profit Afrox hospitals and Gist delivered particularly good results.
forecasts that were the reasons for making the acquisitions in Afrox hospitals grew turnover by 16 per cent and adjusted the first place.
All three are well on the way to doing that.
operating profit by 31 per cent.
Gist delivered increases of The reasons for forming Japan Air Gases were different.
ten per cent and 13 per cent respectively.
African Oxygen Japanese growth has been disappointingly low in recent Limited, the majority shareholder in Afrox Healthcare Limited, years and the combined business promised to be more announced in July 2003 that it was conducting a strategic efficient with a lower cost base.
Cost savings at the rate of review of the hospitals business.
On 17 November it Japanese Yen 5 billion a year are confidently predicted by announced that, subject to conditions, it had agreed to sell its the end of next year and a revitalised business is showing entire holding in Afrox Healthcare Limited to a consortium of signs of growth.
In recent years we have reviewed all our investments, Each year I make the point that while financial performance seeking to add to our capability where we could grow is important, it is not our only measure of success.
I make no profitably and finding other solutions for assets that either apologies for stating that safety remains our highest priority.
fit less well strategically or have not delivered the returns No manager can be content if anyone is hurt in the process of we expect.
doing business, but I also believe that safe operations reduce business risk and contribute eventually to improved profits.
Our businesses are performing well We are concentrating on changing the behaviour of everyone Our three lines of business Process Gas Solutions, in BOC to make sure that safety really does come first.
Industrial and Special Products and BOC Edwards produce This year we developed our Code of Conduct, based on 85 per cent of BOCs turnover and 88 per cent of its adjusted important social, environmental and good governance business operating profit.
The rest comes from our two specialist principles.
People throughout BOC helped prepare it and we businesses, Afrox hospitals and Gist.
The line of business are in the process of communicating it to everyone in BOC.
structure remains unique in the industrial gases industry and is It states clearly what we expect to ensure we meet our legal a major competitive advantage for us.
We continue to work and ethical obligations: to make sure we always do the right hard at delivering exemplary customer service and this has thing.
You will find a copy on our website, www.
enabled us to grow our top line sales, to obtain order renewals I think you will agree it is something we can be proud of and and to gain acceptance for price increases.
I can assure you we are implementing it in an effective and Process Gas Solutions PGS serves our larger customers.
Many of them operate on a global scale and we invest I thank all the employees of BOC for their efforts this wherever they require industrial gases.
PGS did well last year, year.
I thank our customers for doing business with us and growing turnover by eight per cent and adjusted operating our suppliers for their contribution.
I thank you, our profit by three per cent.
Most of the growth came from shareholders, for your support through difficult economic acquisitions and new liquefied gases business.
We will continue to strive to deliver attractive the year ended we announced further investments in China returns on your investment.
Industrial and Special Products, centred on our cylinder business, increased its turnover by nine per cent, but good profit performance in most countries was undermined by a weak result in the US, leading to a decline in adjusted operating profit of three per cent.
BOC Edwards has performed well considering the Tony Isaac Chief executive prolonged downturn of the semiconductor industry.
It has paid close attention to its cost base, matching it closely to demand.
Turnover was 684.1 million with adjusted operating profit 18.5 million.
07 07 The BOC Group plc The BOC Group plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 We are in business to serve our customers.
we try very hard to meet their expectations.
the products and services they want and by opportunities as they appear.
We know just the industrial gases business and this gives us We value new ways of looking at problems Innovation drives much that we do.
Although over a hundred years we are never satisfied value the strengths that our people bring daily as we can be in what we do.
Customers rely much more widely through the communities our living.
opportunits 08 08 The BOC Group plc The BOC Group plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 They expect exemplary service and We continue to grow by delivering making the most of new business about everything there is to know about insights that benefit all our stakeholders.
and finding ways to do things better.
we are a business that has been around for with the status quo.
Our culture is to to the workplace and to strive to be as good on us, and our responsibilities stretch and economies where we earn 09 09 The BOC Group plc The BOC Group plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 A super cool relationship Medical science relies on magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, and Oxford Magnet Technology OMT supplies one third of the worlds superconducting magnets that are at the heart of MRI scanners.
David Hawksworth, managing director of OMT, explains the role of BOC: We have been customers of BOC for over 20 years.
We use liquid helium to cool our magnets down to minus 269C.
At this temperature they become superconducting and able to generate the scanning images.
Helium looks like it will become scarcer over the next few years and we wanted to make sure we had a secure and affordable supply to support our growth.
A key element was to ensure that more of the gas we used in the process was captured and recycled.
BOCs solution included not only designing and installing the equipment but also providing site personnel to manage the facility.
I think it is a relationship where we both benefit.
BOC has a long-term contract with us and we have security of supply and much improved efficiency.
We have grown our business over the years and BOCs relationship has grown with us.
our customers Customers have a choice and we want to make sure they choose us.
We also know that our products and services are essential for many businesses.
We must perform to enable our customers to work.
Sometimes it is a matter of doing the basics well.
Other times its using our knowledge to come up with the ideal solution.
10 10 The BOC Group plc The BOC Group plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 Serving customers in a big country We try and make industrial gases as close to our customers as possible.
It makes economic sense and is more efficient.
But what if your customer is at least two hours flying time away and the only way to get the product to where it is needed is to drive there and back every week?
Well that is what we have to do to serve the growing liquefied natural gas LNG export industry in Australia.
Each weekend a triple road train, a unique feature of Australian road transport able to carry large loads over long distances, travels the 2,800 kilometre round-trip from our plant in Perth to our customers at Karratha on the northern coast of Western Australia.
Large quantities of nitrogen needed in Darwin for another LNG project were shipped by road tanker from our plants in Townsville, Whyalla and Perth.
This time the round-trip from Perth to the customer stretches to some 8,000 kilometres.
And on a regular basis contractors working on the pipeline connecting the gas fields in the Timor Sea to Darwin ship our nitrogen a further 500 kilometres to the offshore production platform.
Industrial gases are involved in the production of virtually everything we buy and use.
Sometimes customers for our gases are just round the corner, sometimes, as in Australia, they are half a continent away.
Whatever the challenge, we do our best to meet it.
Main image: Getting to where the Australian LNG export industry needs us.
Below right: Medical support for the Royal Flying Doctor Service.
11 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 A long hot summer To meet the record summer demand, Carlsberg-Tetleys canning and In Britain, along with most of Europe, 2003 was one of the hottest bottling plants worked at full capacity and Gist responded to the summers for decades and for Carlsberg-Tetley, one of Britains increased volume.
It collected and delivered increased imports of beer biggest brewers, summer heat means bigger sales.
On a typical arriving from Denmark and even helped move empty cans and bottles summer weekend beer sales in Britain can reach some 50 million to the filling sites.
Businesses want flexibility and the ability to meet pints.
This year those figures soared, with Carlsberg-Tetley seeing rapid changes in demand.
As Colin Povey, its on-trade business for the Carlsberg brand increase 40 per cent chief executive of Carlsberg-Tetley in the UK, says:Weve worked and its off-trade business increase 46 per cent.
with Gist for seven years.
They understand our needs and adapt to Gist, BOCs specialist logistics business, used to be responsible meet our changing demands.
We look forward to continuing our only for storing the beer at the national distribution centre in partnership with Gist.
Northampton, where it arrives from the breweries in Northampton and Leeds.
Earlier this year Gist expanded its contract to move the bottles, kegs and cans from Northampton out to Carlsberg-Tetleys local depots from where the beer is delivered to pubs.
our customers continued Main image: Carlsberg-Tetley.
Right: New Look one of Gists new contracts.
12 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 The BOC Gh2ost, powered by a hydrogen fuel cell, made an attempt on the world fuel efficiency record.
Putting some gas in the tank The fuel in your car today has most likely been environmentally improved by the use of hydrogen.
It helps remove sulphur and convert heavy crude oils into lighter products.
Looking forward 20 years it may be hydrogen itself powering your car.
When produced from renewable energy sources, such as wind or solar power, it is the true eco-fuel.
If 20 years seems a long time, specialist applications for hydrogen power are much closer.
In a fuel cell hydrogen combines with oxygen from the air to produce electricity.
As long as you supply hydrogen to the fuel cell it will produce electricity and the only residue is good old H O, 2 or water.
Because fuel cells are far more efficient than even the best internal combustion engines they offer major environmental benefits, benefits we will need if we are to achieve significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
BOC is working with BP to supply hydrogen to two trial fleets of fuel cell buses in London, England and Perth, Australia.
Through its share in Chrysalix, a venture capital company, it invests in early stage hydrogen technology companies and it has an investment in QuestAir, a Canadian company that makes specialist hydrogen equipment.
Add to that a wide range of internal and collaborative product development projects and BOC is well placed to participate in the forecast hydrogen economy of the future.
our opportunities Gases are, literally, all around us.
Oxygen supports life while nitrogen, the largest component of air, is for all intents and purposes inert.
Gases can become liquid if they are cold enough and even a solid in the case of carbon dioxide.
For over a hundred years BOC has exploited the properties of gas to make its living and the opportunities for applying gases are nowhere near exhausted.
13 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Moving electricity more efficiently our opportunities continued The temperature of liquid nitrogen is minus 196C.
To most people that is unbelievably cold, but physicists working on more efficient ways to move electricity describe it as a high temperature.
Cool certain materials and they conduct electricity more efficiently.
When they get very cold their resistance will suddenly drop to zero and they will conduct electricity without losing energy as heat.
Unfortunately this phenomenon, known as superconductivity, occurs at very low temperatures and for a long time only liquid helium, which is close to absolute zero at minus 269C, was cold enough.
More recently, materials have been discovered that superconduct at higher temperatures.
Now liquid nitrogen can be used.
This is more cost effective, and a new wave of superconducting applications has become possible.
BOC is working in the US with SuperPower Inc. and Sumitomo Electric Industries on a project in Albany, New York.
There are obvious environmental benefits if electricity transmission losses can be reduced and, in a year when countries on both sides of the Atlantic suffered severe blackouts, the economic advantages from more efficient electricity distribution systems are clear.
14 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Main image:The Hubble space telescope.
Left: Applying technology from Eco-Snow Systems.
Below:The semiconductor industry is the customer for supercritical carbon dioxide.
Supercritical solutions Carbon dioxide, or CO, is probably best known for putting the 2 fizz in fizzy drinks and for freezing food.
BOC does not make carbon dioxide, rather it captures it as a by-product from the industrial processes of others and puts it to productive use.
In the hands of BOC Edwards it may become an important component in the manufacture of semiconductors.
CO has an 2 ability unique among gases.
Under high pressure it acts like a gas but behaves like a liquid it becomes supercritical with a high density and low viscosity.
In this state it can penetrate and clean the microscopic features of integrated circuits.
Because it is neither flammable nor hazardous it has great advantages over traditional solvent-based technologies.
It is also economical and can be disposed of easily.
Process Gas Solutions sells most of BOCs carbon dioxide and it too is beginning to exploit the cleaning properties of CO. 2 This year it bought the operating and intellectual property assets of Eco-Snow Systems, which is the technology that helped clean and polish the mirrors of the Hubble space telescope.
In these applications the CO is fired as snow at very high velocity.
2 It does its cleaning job and then evaporates away into the atmosphere.
15 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Managing the supply chain Like helium, liquefied petroleum gas LPG also comes from beneath Only some of the gases sold by BOC come from separating air the earth.
LPG is traded internationally and the price of the raw into its constituent parts.
Helium may be the second lightest of all material, which is tied closely to that of crude oil, fluctuates widely the gases, but on our planet economic quantities are only found driven by supply and demand.
The challenge for us is to adapt to under the earth.
It is brought to the surface from natural gas wells these price fluctuations, particularly in BOCs largest LPG markets in where it is extracted and refined.
But only some natural gas deposits South Africa, Australia and Thailand.
Being able to respond quickly to are sufficiently rich in helium to make this worthwhile.
Sales of such changes in price directly affects the profitability of the business helium grow steadily while new sources of supply become available and by sharing skills and understanding across the world we have only occasionally.
been able to maintain a growing and profitable LPG business.
We have access to, and sell, more helium than anyone else.
Even so we have to work hard to keep supply ahead of demand.
That is why we enter into long-term contracts with key supplying countries.
This year we have renewed our agreement to take all Polands exportable helium and signed up for a new source in Qatar that will be available later this decade.
Right: Afrox Handigas, South Africa.
our insights Successful businesses know their own industry inside out and understand exactly what their customers need.
It is this combination of knowledge that is important.
If you are not very good at what you do you will lose out to your competitors.
You will also never make money delivering what customers dont want.
We look hard for profitable new opportunities.
We search for ways to take our expert knowledge and apply it to give us a competitive edge.
An insight is rarely a blinding flash of light: more often it is a matter of doing what customers want better than anyone else.
16 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 BOC has specialist filling Taking the answer around the world and storage facilities for It is hard to imagine a world without refrigeration or air conditioning.
Everyday life depends on refrigerants.
The modern market for refrigerants has many characteristics well suited to BOC.
Twenty years ago the number of products available was small, their environmental impact was not good, and BOC had little involvement in the market.
Today the range is much larger but the emphasis remains on safe handling and minimising losses.
Refrigerants need to be handled responsibly and here our experience is second to none so much so that we have taken the lead in developing formal training courses for refrigeration engineers.
BOC does not make refrigerants.
Our expertise lies in buying products effectively from manufacturers, moving them in bulk safely around the world, and then transferring them into smaller vessels before selling them on, typically to smaller wholesalers.
In 2000 we sold refrigerants in only three countries: today it is 17.
Filling techniques pioneered recently at our plant at Immingham in the UK have been transferred successfully to Malaysia, Hong Kong and the Philippines: another example of our best operating practice where we solve a problem once and then implement the solution many times.
17 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 What a good idea Good people with good ideas make good business.
What makes the business even better is using good ideas as widely as possible, as quickly as possible.
This is where BOCs lines of business give us our competitive advantage, deploying best practice globally in the shortest time making innovations work.
Two events held on either side of the Atlantic celebrated the ingenuity of BOCs employees in Europe and north America.
In New Jersey 18 project teams received awards for ideas that promise or have already delivered significant benefits for BOC.
The next day, 13 European teams gathered at Hampton Court Palace in the UK for the presentation of their awards.
You would expect scientists and engineers to be well represented, but today the search for new and better ways of doing things involves everyone in BOC.
So awards also went to marketing people, to those involved with day to day operations in our plants and offices, to supply managers, to safety representatives, to customer service staff and to sales people.
Ideas included safer ways of transporting cylinders and of gathering our safety data from around the world, advances in branding and product launches, improved processes for the semiconductor industry, and new ways to cut steel using lasers and to make the administration of medical oxygen easier.
Above:The LASOX process uses a laser and oxygen to cut metal.
our innovations Each year teams of innovators from throughout BOC develop fresh ideas, new solutions and better ways of doing things.
And each year BOC recognises many of them through local innovation awards.
Not everyone winning an award sees him or herself as an innovator, many are just tackling the regular problems presented by a complex business but succeeding in exceptionally creative ways.
18 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Far right: Building a team in Poland.
Right: People make the difference in China.
Below right: A successful acquisition in Canada.
our culture BOC is growing both organically and by acquisition.
Growth produces change and BOC handles change well, an important skill when integrating new acquisitions quickly and effectively.
There have been many acquisitions in recent years and many lessons learnt and subsequently applied.
This year BOC acquired Air Products packaged gas business in Canada and Praxairs Polish gases business.
It immediately set about integrating them with BOCs existing business.
In China, on the other hand, we are growing a successful business with talented local managers.
Growing in Poland Winning with people BOC entered the Polish market in 1993 when the state-run industrial Good people make a difference.
Finding good people and making gases business was privatised.
In January 2003 BOC completed the them better makes an even bigger difference.
BOC works in some acquisition of Praxair Polska and two businesses that had been of the most competitive job markets of the world and does a good competitors found themselves on the same side.
On the same side, job of recruiting, training and retaining some of the best people in maybe, but not yet part of the same family.
The challenge in a fast growing market such as China Some of the areas to address became clear during the is even greater.
Others were identified quickly when the new We knew early on that parachuting in teams of western technical members of BOCs Polish team undertook the same Voice of BOC experts was not the way to win business in China in the long term.
survey that the existing workforce had completed a few months Talented local managers would be the key.
Differences in the results were then discussed in groups drawn qualified technical people but the demand for them has risen as from all employees.
Half a dozen main themes emerged.
High on the list were Over the years we have run MBA-type training courses for concerns about job security and how fair the selection process would our Chinese managers.
We have funded PhD courses in the UK for be for jobs in the new organisation.
A message from everyone was exceptional chemical engineers graduating from Chinese universities.
that uncertainty was the worst thing.
Now, as our business expands, we have a concentrated development BOC gave an early commitment that the best person would programme recruiting and developing our management team for be selected for each job, however long they had been with either the future and identifying those with leadership potential.
It is the company, and that the process would be fair and open.
way we will keep our leading position in the worlds fastest Less than a year has passed and the signs are promising.
The difficult decisions that come with bringing two businesses together have been made, explained and mostly implemented.
The new BOC Polish business is well established and concentrating on serving its customers.
19 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Main image and right: Corporate responsibility in action in South Africa.
South Africa South Africa has a unique history.
Corporate social responsibility in a South African setting means more than it does for business elsewhere in the world, and far greater prominence is given to community involvement.
Back in 1995 Afrox started its community involvement process CIP, partly in response to the governments call for business to participate in a national reconstruction and development programme and partly because it seemed the right way to do business at the time.
The CIP involves employees from Afrox and Afrox hospitals in the communities where they live and work.
They adopt and support homes and organisations for underprivileged children.
The businesses provide money but the greatest contribution comes from the employees themselves, who give freely of their time.
The United Nations has featured Afroxs CIP as an excellent example of an employee-driven sustainable social development programme.
As the UN document says:The programme is popular within schools, communities and the business sector, and amongst Afrox staff as well.
Eighty per cent of Afroxs units participate in the programme and in 2002 alone 113 projects received funding 125 projects representing 8,000 children in 2003.
This is a remarkable achievement given that participation is voluntary and all contact with the adopted home takes place after hours, i. e. in the employees spare time.
our responsibilities Companies have wider responsibilities than just delivering profits to shareholders.
There is more scrutiny today than ever before, not just of what a company does but how it does it.
Details of BOCs corporate responsibility programmes are on our website, www.
com 20 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Left:The Code of Main image: Practical Conduct involves help from the BOC everyone in the Group.
Foundation to manage dirty water from dairy farms.
Doing the right thing The BOC Foundation for the Environment Early in 2002 a working group drawn from all parts of BOC started The BOC Foundation was established in 1990 and, with its partners, work on the Groups Code of Conduct.
We already had a variety has funded nearly 120 environmental projects since then to the tune of policies and standards, but the task was to produce a common of more than 12 million.
The environment is a big subject and the set that every employee should follow, wherever BOC does business.
Foundation concentrates its funds on projects that improve air and The code, published this summer, is based on important social, water quality.
Air is important to BOC as it is the source of important environmental and good governance principles.
We are training all gases, such as oxygen, nitrogen and argon, and water is both an 45,000 BOC employees on what the code means for them and we essential part of many of our production processes and a growing have translated it into many of the languages used in the countries market for us.
The Foundation wants to make a practical contribution.
Because we involved people from throughout BOC in It encourages those with good scientific ideas who need financial developing the code we identified early any issues and worries.
help to turn academic or early results into workable environmental If employees have concerns, they are encouraged to raise them with solutions.
It expects the projects it supports to make a measurable their supervisors.
We have a strict non-retaliation policy, protecting difference within a few years and to benefit the community as a any employee who raises issues in good faith, and this is supported whole, not just the recipient of the grant.
The Foundation has worked by a free confidential helpline run by an independent company.
in partnership with government departments, local authorities, Doing the right thing is important in BOC.
The code has been environmental charities and commercial organisations.
developed in line with BOCs guiding principles of accountability, collaboration, transparency and stretch, ACTS.
Our employees now know exactly what is expected of them and what BOC stands for high legal and ethical standards in business.
21 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Operating review Below:The south Pacific operations centre in Sydney.
Below right: BOCs successful joint venture with YPC in Nanjing.
Main image:A new hydrogen and carbon monoxide plant on line at Map Ta Phut, Thailand.
2003 Change on Change on 1 Process Gas Solutions million previous year previous year Turnover 1,242.7 4% 8% Operating profit 177.1 10% 15% 2 Adjusted operating profit 184.0 1% 3% 1.
Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items.
As well as reporting results on a statutory basis, we investing heavily in recruiting and developing local management believe that shareholders will be assisted in understanding talent and giving them the opportunity for international the performance relative to previous periods by presenting development through postings to BOC businesses around the the results in an alternative manner.
the impact of currency movements from year to year and In Thailand we commissioned a hydrogen and carbon eliminates the impact of exceptional or non-recurring items.
monoxide, or HyCO, plant at Map Ta Phut and are building a Where the latter adjustment is made, results are referred to new 300 tonnes-a-day carbon dioxide plant to meet increased as adjusted.
Taiwan, Korea and Malaysia all saw Turnover and operating profit details for each line of good growth as did India, where the economy improved and business and specialist business on each basis will be found we achieved sales success in the merchant market and brought near the start of each section.
The discussion of business on stream a new 225 tonnes-a-day plant to supply Tata Steel.
performance that follows is based on figures adjusted for The difficulties experienced by industry in the UK have exceptional items and constant currency.
been well documented, yet despite seeing some customer closures and the transfer of other businesses overseas, we still Process Gas Solutions increased both turnover and adjusted operating profit in the Process Gas Solutions raised turnover by eight per cent UK.
The full-year effect of investments made last year helped, this year and adjusted operating profit by three per cent.
while detailed attention to cost and high levels of customer Because we serve many of the worlds largest industrial service were equally important.
Ireland, by comparison, saw companies we anticipate and respond to the main themes of declines in turnover and adjusted operating profit for the first the global economy.
Traditional industries continue to move time in many years as growth reined back, particularly in the from the industrialised West to growing economies in the East electronics sector.
As Poland prepares for EU membership and we are able to welcome them, having established a leading next year, the acquisition of Praxair Polska gave us for the position in Asia many years ago.
Companies seeking innovative first time a source of carbon dioxide in the country and a supply solutions to their industrial gases needs find our complementary fit with our existing business.
Our specialist engineering creativity and access to world-class technology engineering business Cryostar had strong demand for its deliver the best answers.
Linked to everything is the continuing turbines and compressors, particularly from China and for drive to do things more efficiently and at lower cost.
ships being built to carry liquefied natural gas.
The greatest opportunities are to be found in Asia and The messages from the US economy remained mixed the headquarters of Process Gas Solutions moved to Singapore throughout the year, although both turnover and adjusted to be close to where much of the business is being done.
Volumes from existing customers While Asia as a whole promises growth, China offers some of remained flat and a number of companies, notably in the steel the greatest opportunities.
Our joint venture in Nanjing with industry, sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
In contrast, YPC, a subsidiary of Sinopec, Chinas leading petrochemical new business wins for liquefied gases were at a record high and company, continues to perform well and we added extra we won a significant contract from Celanese for their Clear capacity for liquid production onto the existing plant.
The steel Lake plant in Texas.
We are supplying Clear Lake with carbon industry is also showing strong underlying growth, as in other monoxide and steam as well as feeding hydrogen into the parts of Asia.
To meet our growth targets in China we are important chemical complex on the Gulf coast.
22 22 The BOC Gr The BOC Group plc oup plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 Right: Delivering across New Zealand.
Far right: Manufacturing the AfroxPac 35, an emergency breathing unit for the mining industry.
Above: Products for the Main image: Japan Air Australian wine industry Gases, BOCs joint at Chateau Yaldara.
Above right and far right: Right: Helping South Medical gases meeting Africas car industry the needs of patients in to grow.
2003 Change on Change on 1 Industrial and Special Products million previous year previous year Turnover 1,751.2 9% 9% Operating profit 238.2 4% 3% 2 Adjusted operating profit 242.7 2% 3% 1.
Our premier beverage service for carbon dioxide In Europe, all countries increased turnover and overall continues to develop, with deliveries to the worlds leading adjusted operating profit was up.
The continuing decline of carbonated drinks suppliers analysed and certified to their the UK manufacturing sector was more than offset by the exacting specifications.
Increasingly our The steel industry in both Australia and New Zealand business is about more than just delivering cylinders of gas to continued to perform well despite the strength of the Australian customers and collecting them when they are empty.
Hospitals, dollar that affected all exporters, especially mineral producers.
for instance, value our ability to replenish their gas supplies at Oxygen and nitrogen demand increased at BHPs plant at Port night without disrupting their busy routine and our willingness Kembla as pulverised coal replaced coke as the primary fuel.
to manage all aspects of their medical gases if that is what they Many of BOCs major plants around the world are now want.
BOC Sureflow, which sells mainly to pubs and clubs, controlled remotely from centralised operations centres and was founded on its service promise and continues to win new this year control of all our production plants in New Zealand business as a result.
Our national network and technical was transferred to the Australian centre based near Sydney.
expertise in special gases delivered strong growth in South Africa saw strong growth in the first six months refrigerants and helium.
Refrigerants benefited from a major slow in the second half as a strengthening rand hindered distribution contract signed last year and helium from a longexports from major gas-using industries, such as mineral term supply contract signed this year.
Irelands economy slowed after many years of high growth while in Poland the major impact came from the acquisition Industrial and Special Products and successful integration of Praxair Polska.
Industrial and Special Products ISP produced good South Africa had a very good year with significantly growth in turnover and adjusted operating profit from most of increased turnover and adjusted operating profit, although its key markets.
The US was the exception, as slower growth the economic conditions that boosted exports and industrial combined with residual issues from installing a new computer production in the first six months were less favourable later in system to have an adverse impact on adjusted operating profit.
Manufacturing, and in particular the motor industry, Overall, ISPs turnover was up by nine per cent and adjusted is of increasing importance alongside the traditional markets in operating profit down by three per cent.
ISPs four business sectors established last year industrial, The increased strength of the Australian dollar and medical, hospitality and special gases set the global strategies.
continuing drought produced slower growth this year in These strategies are then implemented through , but both turnover and adjusted operating profit based business units.
While some markets retain strong local increased, as they did in New Zealand.
The distances covered characteristics, all benefit from increased global leadership and to serve customers in Australia can be vast and much effort common best operating practice programmes to grow the has gone into developing a fairer and more transparent pricing business and to improve service, safety and operational and structure to reflect the costs involved.
Elgas, our liquefied commercial efficiency.
petroleum gas business in Australia, performed very well, BOC acquired Praxair Polska in January 2003 and the largely through its improved ability to respond to rapid packaged gas business of Air Products in Canada in April 2003, changes in raw material cost, such as those this year linked strengthening ISPs position in these two important markets.
23 23 The BOC Gr The BOC Group plc oup plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 Operating review continued Right:A new range of pumps.
Far right:A turbomolecular pump from BOC Edwards successfully integrated acquisition in Japan.
Main image: Producing NF Left: Sophisticated 3 for the semiconductor packaging machines for industry.
Right: Efficient vacuum pump manufacturing in the Czech Republic.
2003 Change on Change on 1 BOC Edwards million previous year previous year Turnover 684.1 1% 4% Operating profit 7.9 Note 3a Note 3b 2 Adjusted operating profit 18.5 29% 26% 1.
Loss of 1.4 million in previous year.
Loss of 2.2 million in previous year.
Manufacturing continues to move to Asia from higher-cost Where new fabs were built, BOC Edwards improved its regions and our industrial volumes in south-east Asia have position.
It is present in all the latest generation 300mm fabs in benefited accordingly.
Our investments in special products have the US and Europe, a better position than it had when the generated good growth, notably in refrigerants where we earlier generation 200mm fabs were first being introduced.
opened new facilities in Hong Kong, Malaysia and the In Asia strong demand came from manufacturers of flat panel Philippines.
We have successfully integrated NIOI, a company displays, especially in Taiwan and Korea.
We won orders for we acquired last year, into our business in Malaysia and BOC gas supply to three out of the four fabs built in China last year, management is now fully in place in Unique, the Thai ammonia which complements our already strong position in vacuum and and liquefied petroleum gas business also purchased in 2002. exhaust management elsewhere in Asia.
In north America, Canada grew both turnover and The broadening of BOC Edwards range of products and adjusted operating profit.
Some of this came from the first full services continues.
In the silicon and compound semiconductor year of the special gases business we acquired in April 2002, market our Zenith combined pump and exhaust treatment but more significant was the contribution from Air Products products are proving very successful with device and packaged gas business acquired in 2003.
In the US gas revenues equipment manufacturers.
We won contracts in Europe and increased but adjusted operating profit was down significantly.
Asia to manage rather than just supply a range of gases, Partly this reflected the sluggish economy but it was also due chemicals and other material required by semiconductor to costs associated with the extended introduction of a major manufacturers.
We improved our position in vacuum computer system.
Good progress was made in south America, lithography and can now offer a full service for cleaning wafers notably in Venezuela, despite difficult economic conditions, using supercritical carbon dioxide.
We increased production and Chile.
We also entered the liquefied petroleum gas of nitrogen trifluoride, NF, at our plant in South Africa and 3 market in Colombia when we acquired a local distributor.
placed fluorine generators on trial to enable customers to evaluate the technology.
The turbomolecular pump business BOC Edwards we bought from Seiko Instruments is now fully integrated into BOC Edwards experienced a second year during which its BOC Edwards and is operating profitably.
most important market, the semiconductor industry, has been The scientific market for vacuum pumps continued in a downturn.
Turnover increased by four per cent and to grow while other industrial markets were less buoyant.
adjusted operating profit declined by 26 per cent.
Increased In response we cut costs and rationalised production.
demand for devices saw existing semiconductor fabs operating We are increasingly making pumps for the general vacuum at higher utilisation levels later in the year.
Electronic gases market in the Czech Republic, taking advantage of lower and our Kachina parts cleaning business, which are involved in manufacturing costs.
the production processes at these fabs, saw some volume BOC Edwards pharmaceutical packaging business started increases although pressure on prices remained strong.
the year more slowly as a number of projects were delayed.
New investment by the semiconductor industry was aimed Demand for its complex loading systems and freeze dryers at expanding or upgrading existing fabs rather than building improved later in the year and the underlying trend is positive.
new ones, so orders for vacuum equipment and chemical management systems remained at a low level.
24 24 The BOC Gr The BOC Group plc oup plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 Main image: Flexible operations for Carlsberg-Tetley.
Right: Providing e-fulfilment warehousing operations for on-line home delivery business.
Above: Managing a complex supply chain for New Look.
Main image: Roseacres, a new hospital for the East Rand in South Africa.
Right: Radiology is one of the high value services provided by Afrox hospitals.
2003 Change on Change on 2003 Change on Change on 1 1 Afrox hospitals million previous year previous year Gist million previous year previous year Turnover 353.4 36% 16% Turnover 291.8 10% 10% Operating profit 46.1 55% 31% Operating profit 29.2 15% 13% 2 2 Adjusted operating profit 46.1 55% 31% Adjusted operating profit 29.2 15% 13% 1.
Afrox hospitals Gist Both turnover and adjusted operating profit rose Gist improved both turnover, up ten per cent, and significantly as Afrox hospitals continued to prosper in adjusted operating profit, up 13 per cent.
The increase in a market showing little underlying growth.
It made some small adjusted operating profit was not only as a result of higher acquisitions and built a new 140-bed clinic on the East Rand, turnover but also because of a gain of some 4.1 million but this compares with over 1,000 acute beds added through arising principally from the termination of operations for the acquisition in the previous year.
Progress came mainly from Marks & Spencer General Merchandise business.
providing higher value services to patients.
Gist has the skills and knowledge to meet the needs of An increasing percentage of revenue came from a new modern retailers.
As supply chains become more complex risk-sharing fee structure introduced this year.
Up until now we and consumers require increasing levels of service and have been paid for services used by patients: there was a tariff availability, products on sale in the high street are brought for every bed day, for each minute in the operating theatre from wherever the best value can be obtained.
There was therefore no incentive to This year Gist won new contracts from, among others, limit the length of stay or to control input costs.
Under the New Look, a fashion chain, and Carlsberg-Tetley, one of the new tariff structure the cost for an agreed medical intervention UKs largest brewers.
Gists flexibility and ability to manage is fixed, so there is one cost for an operation such as a hip supply chains of varying complexity are at the heart of these replacement, whether there are complications or not.
New Look brings its products to the UK from over a third of our tariffs are on this risk-sharing basis and we around 20 countries.
Gist manages the whole process through expect that figure to rise to two-thirds or more.
a network of partners, solving any problems of quality long The direct medicines dispensing business was restructured before the goods arrive in the high street.
At Carlsberg-Tetley, during the year to adapt to changed medical insurance and Gist had to meet the demands of one of Britains hottest, and reimbursement procedures.
Beer sales hit exceptional peaks and Gist Afrox hospitals is also exploring opportunities to extend its showed the flexibility and dedication needed to meet demands.
operating and management processes to other markets.
In a This was the first full year when Gist handled all of Marks joint bid with Care UK it was chosen by the UK national health & Spencers chilled and ambient foods.
Based on a relationship service as preferred bidder for three day treatment centres in that stretches over 30 years, Gist is M&Ss largest supply chain England.
It will be paid a management fee for its services.
provider, although this year it stopped handling any of the On 17 November 2003 African Oxygen Limited retailers general merchandise business in the UK.
It provides announced that, subject to conditions, it had agreed to sell its similar services for Budgens, the UK convenience store group, entire holding in Afrox Healthcare Limited to a consortium of managing all its warehouse and distribution operations, and Black Economic Empowerment investors.
e-fulfilment for Ocado, the on-line grocery shopping company.
25 25 The BOC Gr The BOC Group plc oup plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 Board of directors 01 02 03 Rob Margetts CBE 01 57, chairman.
He is chairman of Legal & General Group plc, a non-executive director of Anglo American plc, chairman of the Natural Environment Research Council and a governor of Imperial College, London.
Previously he was with ICI PLC for 31 years, becoming a main board director in 1992 and vice chairman in 1998.
He is a fellow of both the Royal Academy of Engineering and the Institution 04 05 06 of Chemical Engineers.
Julie Baddeley 04 Tony Isaac 02 52, non-executive director.
She was an executive director Appointed an executive director in October 1994 and became of Woolwich plc until October 2000, responsible for chief executive in May 2000.
He was previously finance e-commerce, information technology and human resources, director of Arjo Wiggins Appleton plc, which he joined shortly and was previously head of change management for Maritime before the fide-merger from BAT Industries p. l. c. in 1990.
She is a non-executive director of the Prior to that he had been finance director of GEC Plessey Yorkshire Building Society, the Government Pensions Group, Telecommunications Ltd since its formation in 1988. and chairman of three venture capital trusts.
She is also an He is a non-executive director of International Power plc Associate Fellow of Templeton College, Oxford and a and Schlumberger Ltd. Companion of the Institute of Management.
She has an MA honours degree in zoology from Oxford University.
John Bevan 05 Appointed in November 2001.
She is the managing partner 46, chief executive, Process Gas Solutions.
of FRA Holdings LLC, a private investment firm, and was Appointed an executive director in December 2002. previously the managing director of Yahoo!
Europe, a director He joined BOC in 1978 as a graduate in the Australian of BBC Worldwide and held senior executive positions at gases business and has held various positions in general BMG Entertainment.
She is a non-executive director of Intelsat management in Australia, Korea, Thailand and the UK and Corporation, Bankinter SA and the World Wildlife Fund UK was formerly chief executive Asia, based in Singapore.
He has and is also a member of the US Council on Foreign Relations a degree in commerce marketing from the University of and the World Economic Forum.
She has a BA in political New South Wales.
science from Stanford University and an MBA from the Harvard Business School.
He is senior vice-president and chief financial officer of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
He qualified as a chartered accountant in South Africa, working for Price Waterhouse, before joining SmithKline Beecham in 1990 and rising to become chief financial officer in 1999.
He joined BG Group plc in 2001 as executive director finance before assuming his current role at Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in September 2002.
26 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 07 08 09 Ren Mdori 07 46, group finance director.
Appointed an executive director in July 2000.
He joined BOC in 1987 and has held several finance appointments in the Group.
He was appointed finance director of BOCs gases business in the Americas in 1997.
Before joining BOC, he worked for Accenture and Schlumberger Ltd.
He is a finance 10 11 12 graduate of the Universit fide Paris-Dauphine and has a doctorate degree in economics.
He is a non-executive director Sir Christopher ODonnell 10 of Scottish & Southern Energy plc.
He is chief executive of Smith & Roberto G Mendoza 08 Nephew plc.
Previously he held senior positions with Davy 58, non-executive director.
Ashmore, Vickers Limited and C R Bard Inc.
He has an Appointed in October 2002.
He is a founding partner of honours degree in mechanical engineering from Imperial Integrated Finance Ltd, the non-executive chairman of Egg Plc, College, London and an MBA from the London Business and a board member of Prudential Plc, Reuters Plc and Vitro School.
He is a chartered engineer and a member of the S. A.
He joined J. P. Morgan in 1967 and served as vice chairman Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
He was a managing director of Goldman Sachs & Co from 2000 until he resigned to coDr Raj Rajagopal 11 found Integrated Finance Ltd in 2001.
He was born in Cuba, 50, chief executive, BOC Edwards.
obtained a BA in history from Yale and an MBA with high Appointed an executive director in July 2000.
He joined BOC distinction from the Harvard Business School.
in 1981 and has held several positions in BOC Edwards.
He was appointed managing director, Edwards Vacuum Matthew Miau 09 Products in 1993 and managing director, vacuum technology 57, non-executive director.
He was appointed a non-executive director Appointed in January 2002.
He is chairman of MiTAC-Synnex of FSI International Inc in January 2001.
He has a PhD in Group, one of Taiwans leading high-tech industrial groups.
mechanical engineering from the University of Manchester.
He is also a Convenor of Civil Advisory Committee of He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineers as well as National Information and Communications Initiatives NICI the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Mechanical Engineers and a member of the Board of Supervisors of the Industrial and the Chartered Institute of Management.
Dr Rajagopal was Technology Research Institute ITRI and the Board of awarded the Sir Eric Mensforth International Manufacturing Directors of the Institute for Information Industry III, Taiwan.
He obtained a BS in electronic engineering and computer science from U. C. Berkeley, an MBA degree from Santa Clara John Walsh 12 University and holds an honorary doctorate degree from the 48, chief executive, Industrial and Special Products.
National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan.
Appointed an executive director in July 2001.
He was previously president, Process Gas Solutions, north America.
He joined BOC in 1986 as vice president, special gases and has held various senior management positions in the Group, including president, BOC Process Plants.
He has a BA in economics and an MBA, both from Harvard Business School.
Board committees Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Pensions committee Executive management board Investment committee 27 27 The BOC Gr The BOC Group plc oup plc Ann Annual review 2003 ual review 2003 Executive management board 04 05 06 Peter Dew 04 43, group director, information management since February 1998.
Appointed to the executive management board in October 1999.
He has held information technology roles in the Groups businesses in South Africa, the UK and most recently as information management director for the Groups businesses in Asia Pacific.
01 02 03 Tony Isaac 05 John Bevan 01 61, chief executive since May 2000.
46, chief executive, Process Gas Solutions since January 2003.
Appointed to the executive management board in July 1996.
Appointed to the executive management board in June 2000.
See page 26 for biographical details.
Rob Lourey 06 Nick Deeming 02 46, group human resources director since June 2000.
49, group legal director and company secretary Appointed to the executive management board in June 2000. since May 2001.
He joined BOC in Australia in 1996 and most recently was Appointed to the executive management board in May 2001. human resources director for Asia Pacific.
He has a bachelor He has over 16 years in-house counsel experience, including of business degree in personnel management.
Schlumberger, SEMA and Axa PPP Healthcare, specialising in corporate and commercial law.
He has a degree in law from Guildhall University, an MBA from Cranfield University and qualified as a solicitor in 1980.
Stephen Dempsey 03 52, group director, corporate relations since February 1999.
He joined BOC in 1990 as director of marketing services for the UK gases business and has held various communications roles in the Group.
He has an MA in geography from Oxford University and an MBA from Cranfield University.
28 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 10 11 Greg Sedgwick 10 42, group director, business development since June 2000.
He also has responsibility for Afrox Healthcare Ltd.
He joined BOC in 1984 and has held a variety of senior management roles in the south Pacific region, most recently managing director, Industrial and Special Products.
He was previously market sector director, minerals and a director of BOC India.
He has a degree in marketing and a masters degree in business planning from the University of New South Wales.
John Walsh 11 48, chief executive, Industrial and Special Products 07 08 09 since June 2001.
Kent Masters 07 See page 27 for biographical details.
42, president, Process Gas Solutions, north America since July 2001.
Appointed to the executive management board in December 2002.
He joined BOC in 1985 and has held positions of increasing responsibility in engineering, marketing and general management, most recently, president, BOC Process Plants.
He holds an engineering degree from Georgia Institute of Technology and an MBA from New York University.
Ren Mdori 08 46, group finance director since June 2000.
See page 27 for biographical details.
Dr Raj Rajagopal 09 50, chief executive, BOC Edwards since June 1998.
29 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Summary financial statements The following pages contain summary financial statements for the year.
All of the information has been extracted from the full report and accounts.
These summary financial statements by denition do not present the detail that is included in the full report and accounts and which would permit a comprehensive analysis of the Groups performance.
Registered shareholders can obtain a copy of the full report and accounts free of charge or choose to receive it in future years by writing to Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address on page 40.
Contents 31 Report of the directors 32 Independent auditors statement 33 Directors remuneration 35 Group profit and loss account 36 Group balance sheet 37 Group cash ow statement 37 Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt 38 Notes to the financial statements 40 Shareholder information 30 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Report of the directors The summary financial statements comprise the profit and Supplier payment policy loss account, balance sheet, cash ow statement and notes The Group applies a policy of agreeing and clearly to the financial statements.
Together they show the financial communicating the terms of payment as part of the performance of the Group in 2003 and trends over a commercial arrangements negotiated with suppliers and three-year period.
A report on directors remuneration is then paying according to those terms.
In addition, the also included.
UK-based businesses have committed to the Better Payment Practice Code.
Business review A review of the Groups business activities and their Corporate donations performance can be found on pages 22 to 25.
See also The BOC Group and its businesses made donations of note 6 on post balance sheet events.
The report of the 1.12 million, of which 476,000 went to UK-registered directors deals with other issues that the board and charities.
A further 180,000 was used to support projects management regard as important to the conduct of the identied by The BOC Foundation for the Environment.
As in previous years, no political donations were made in the European Union.
Employment policies BOCs employment policies are designed to underpin the Dividends Groups operating requirements and growth strategies.
Where Two dividends were paid in 2003.
A first interim dividend of practicable, policies are adapted to meet local requirements.
15.5p per share was paid in February and a second interim dividend of 23.5p per share was paid in August.
A first interim Communication and involvement BOC places a high dividend of 15.5p per share has been declared for payment on priority on communicating with its people and has invested in 2 February 2004 and participation in the dividend reinvestment web-based communications technology to convey consistent plan will be available to shareholders whose applications have and coherent messages to employees around the world.
been received by Lloyds TSB Registrars by 12 January 2004.
Resourcing, training and development Programmes are designed to ensure that the Group has a pool of well-qualied, Corporate governance gifted individuals able to meet both its day-to-day operational The BOC Group is committed to business integrity, high ethical needs and its plans for the future.
values and professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, the board supports the highest Reward and recognition Reward and recognition programmes standards in corporate governance.
are designed to endorse outstanding individual and team The board has applied the principles contained in Section 1 performance.
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance appended Retirement benefit plans BOC fully supports its peoples to the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and has complied efforts to provide for their retirement and provides a range of throughout the year, with the exception that Dick Grant, a opportunities for them to participate in programmes tailored director who resigned with effect from 31 December 2002, to suit local conditions.
had a service contract that could be terminated by the company on two years notice.
Employee share schemes Employees are encouraged to share Although the new Combined Code is only effective for the financial benets of the Groups success through a number reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003, of option and incentive schemes.
BOC has already made changes to its corporate governance Diversity BOC values the diversity of its workforce and is procedures such that at this time the company is signicantly committed to maintaining a workplace free from discrimination advanced towards compliance with the new code.
for reasons of race, creed, culture, nationality, gender, sexual Risk management and internal control The board of directors orientation or marital status.
has overall responsibility for the Groups system of risk management and internal controls.
Safety and environment The BOC risk management programme assists The Group continues to place the highest priority on issues management throughout the Group to identify, assess and of safety.
The nature of our business activities means that mitigate business risk.
Since its introduction in 2001, over our employees encounter many hazards in the workplace.
170 risk workshops and reviews have been conducted across These include ammable and toxic gases and operations that the Group.
The output from each assessment is a list of often involve high pressures and extreme temperatures.
prioritised risks with associated action plans to manage them.
Common to all our businesses is the movement of products A report to the board is made twice a year of the key risks and the various hazards associated with driving, distribution and facing the Group and actions to manage these key risks.
significant efforts are made to improve The directors have delegated to executive management safety performance.
This year safety statistics incorporated the establishment and implementation of a system of internal recent mergers, acquisitions and all joint ventures for the controls.
The internal control system is monitored and first time.
supported by an internal audit function that operates on a BOC has a comprehensive environmental programme global basis and reports its results to management and the and conducts an annual survey to highlight any potential audit committee of the board.
The system is rigorous and environmental impacts from our sites.
It is believed that designed to ensure that directors maintain full and effective the Group is in substantial compliance with all material control over all significant strategic, financial, organisational environmental laws and regulations.
BOC also contributes and compliance issues.
technology and processes to meet the environmental needs Having reviewed its effectiveness, the directors are not of customers.
aware of any significant weakness or deficiency in the Groups system of internal controls.
31 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Report of the directors continued The board and committees A complete list of the companys remuneration, benets and terms of employment of each directors, with their biographies, photographs, and board executive director.
The committee comprises only independent committee memberships can be found on pages 26 and 27. non-executive directors and is chaired by Julie Baddeley.
A summary and explanation of their remuneration is given on Pensions committee The pensions committee meets twice pages 33 and 34. a year and oversees the review of governance and control procedures applying to all employee retirement benefit plans Board committees and reviews and makes recommendations on the investment Audit committee The audit committee meets four times a policies and strategies applied to the Groups retirement year.
Time is set aside at two of these meetings for the benefit plans.
The committee comprises two independent noncommittee to meet with the internal and external auditors executive directors, the chairman, chief executive and Group without executive management present.
The committee is chaired by Julie Baddeley.
reviews the effectiveness of internal controls, matters raised by the internal and external auditors in their regular reports to Executive management board The executive management the committee and the quarterly financial statements prior to board meets regularly having primary authority for the their release.
The committee reviews the programme and day-to-day management of the Groups operations and policy effectiveness of risk management within the Group as well as implementation pursuant to the Groups strategy agreed by the ensuring that an appropriate relationship between BOC and board.
The committee comprises the chief executive, the other the external auditors is maintained.
The committee comprises executive directors and certain senior managers and is chaired only independent non-executive directors and is chaired by by Tony Isaac.
Further details are given on pages 28 and 29.
Investment committee The investment committee meets Nomination committee The nomination committee meets regularly and reviews and approves Group commitments up to periodically as required, and in the year ended 30 September certain levels set by the board.
The committee comprises the 2003 met six times.
The committee primarily monitors the chief executive, the other executive directors and certain composition and balance of the board and its committees and senior managers and is chaired by Tony Isaac.
identies and recommends to the board the appointment of new directors.
All independent non-executive directors, the Auditors chairman and the chief executive serve as members of this The auditors report on the full financial statements was committee.
The committee is chaired by Rob Margetts.
unqualied and did not contain any statement concerning Whilst the chairman of the board chairs this committee he accounting records or failure to obtain necessary information is not permitted to chair meetings when the appointment or explanations.
of his successor is being reviewed.
By order of the board Remuneration committee The remuneration committee meets Nick Deeming Secretary six times a year.
The committee recommends to the board the 21 November 2003 policy on executive directors remuneration and the specic Independent auditors statement To the members of The BOC Group plc We have examined the summary financial statement of Basis of opinion The BOC Group plc and the amounts disclosed relating to We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, directors remuneration in the directors remuneration statement.
The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors United Kingdom.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual review and summary financial statements in accordance with applicable Opinion law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent consistency of the summary financial statement within the annual with the annual financial statements, the directors report and review and summary financial statements with the annual the directors remuneration report of The BOC Group plc for financial statements, the directors report and the directors the year ended 30 September 2003 and complies with the remuneration report and its compliance with the relevant applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the annual review and  LLP summary financial statements and consider the implications for Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements London or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
21 November 2003 This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared Notes: for and only for the companys members as a body in a.
The maintenance and integrity of the companys website is the accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
any other person to whom this statement is shown or into b.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in our prior consent in writing.
32 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Directors remuneration The report below is only a summary of the directors Remuneration policy remuneration report as permitted by the Directors BOC's remuneration policy for executive directors and other Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The full report setting executive management is designed to attract and retain executives out the composition of the remuneration committee, the of the highest calibre so that the Group is managed successfully to remuneration policy, together with full details of the directors the benefit of its stakeholders.
In setting remuneration levels the emoluments, pensions, share options and shareholdings, is remuneration committee takes into account the remuneration contained within the report and accounts 2003 on pages 60 practices found in other UK-listed companies of similar size, to 69.
Copies of the full directors remuneration report can internationality and complexity and seeks to benchmark executive be obtained, free of charge, from BOC or may be viewed remuneration at about the median level for this group.
on, or downloaded from, BOCs website, www.
com During 2002 the remuneration committee reviewed the executive remuneration packages and decided that a The remuneration committee realignment was necessary to support the companys business The remuneration committee comprises, with the exception strategy to improve both earnings growth and capital efficiency of the Group chairman, Rob Margetts, all the independent and to ensure that the packages were market competitive.
non-executive directors namely Julie Baddeley chairman, To this end, a proposal to adopt new long-term incentive Fabiola Arredondo, Andrew Boneld appointed July 2003, arrangements was put to shareholders and approved at the Roberto Mendoza appointed October 2002, Matthew Miau 2003 Annual General Meeting.
These arrangements comprise and Sir Christopher O'Donnell.
Gran Lundberg had been the a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and an Executive Share chairman of the remuneration committee until his retirement Option Scheme.
They are intended to encourage innovation on 4 March 2003.
Whilst neither the Group chairman nor the and value-added growth and strengthen the link between chief executive are members of the remuneration committee short-term performance and sustainable improvement in they both attend the meetings by invitation but are not present shareholder value over the longer term.
It is the view of when their personal remuneration is discussed and reviewed.
the remuneration committee that performance-related The human resources director acts as secretary to the remuneration should form a substantial element of total committee and provides it with information and data from remuneration.
As such, these arrangements together with national and international surveys.
In addition, during the year the variable compensation plan, which is a performance the remuneration committee appointed Towers Perrin to related cash plan, form the variable elements of executive review the remuneration arrangements for senior executives.
It is expected that the achievement of on target No other services are provided by this adviser.
performance of these variable elements will amount to about The remuneration committee sets the overall remuneration 60 per cent of total executive remuneration.
policy of the Group and makes recommendations to the No changes to the framework of executive remuneration board on the framework of executive remuneration.
It meets are proposed for 2004.
The remuneration committee will, six times a year.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually however, review the policy on a regular basis and make any to ensure that they conform with best practice.
Specically, the amendments it deems appropriate to ensure that it meets the remuneration committee determines, on behalf of the board, objectives of recruiting, retaining and motivating high performing the detailed terms of service of the executive directors and individuals and ensuring that the Group is market competitive.
other members of the executive management team including Percentage basic salary, performance related bonus arrangements, 120 benets in kind, long-term incentives and pension benets.
100 The remuneration committee also reviews the remuneration 80 of the chairman, following a recommendation from the chief 60 executive and the senior independent director.
The board as a whole determines the non-executive directors fees.
40 20 Non-executive directors 0 Non-executive directors are generally appointed for an initial -20 period to the next Annual General Meeting and subject to Oct-98 Oct-99 Oct-00 Oct-01 Oct-02 Oct-03 reappointment at the meeting, for a further three year term.
Subsequent reappointment is with the agreement of the board BOC FTSE100 and approval of shareholders.
The fees are set at a level which The graph above has been included to meet the requirement will attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations to make a significant contribution to the Groups affairs.
It shows BOCs total shareholder return TSR The responsibilities of, and the time commitment expected performance, assuming dividends are reinvested, compared from, non-executive directors have increased in recent times with all FTSE100 companies.
This has been chosen because and fees paid to non-executives are increasing to reect this.
it provides a basis for comparison against companies in a As a result, from 1 January 2004 the non-executive directors relevant, broad based equity index of which BOC is a fees will increase from 37,000 to 40,000 per annum, constituent member.
The remuneration committee decided 10,000 of which, less tax, will be invested in BOC shares.
that other comparator groups were more appropriate as The fees for chairing a committee will increase from 8,000 to performance measurement for the LTIP.
A graph showing 10,000 per annum, 5,000 of which, less tax, will be invested BOCs TSR performance compared with the six major gases in BOC shares.
The fee for the chairman, Rob Margetts, is set companies relative to respective local indices, which is one at 225,000. of the comparator groups chosen for the LTIP, is shown in The non-executive directors do not have contracts of service the chairmans statement on page 5. nor do they participate in the Groups variable compensation arrangements, its long-term incentive arrangements or its pension Long-term incentive arrangements The performance measures arrangements, nor do they receive any benets in kind.
for the LTIP are based one third on earnings per share EPS before exceptional items, one third on return on capital employed ROCE before exceptional items and one third on the companys TSR performance relative to 31 industrial and 33 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Directors remuneration continued manufacturing companies and a global industrial gases group of The performance measure for the Executive Share Option six leading companies as follows: Scheme 2003 is assessed on the growth in basic EPS before UK group exceptional items as reported in the annual report and accounts.
The remuneration committee considers these Aggregate Industries Hanson Rolls-Royce performance measures to be important drivers of sustainable AMEC IMI Scottish & Southern improvement in shareholder value that focus executives Anglo American ICI Energy attention and effort on profitable growth and capital efficiency AWG International Power Scottish Power in both the short and long term.
BAE Systems Invensys Severn Trent BG Group Johnson Matthey Shell Transport Service contracts BHP Billiton Kelda Group & Trading The companys policy is for all executive directors to have BP National Grid Smiths Group contracts of employment that terminate on the attainment of BPB Transco Tomkins retirement age.
In order to mitigate its liability on early Centrica Pilkington United Utilities termination, the companys policy is that it should be able to Corus Group Rio Tinto terminate such contracts on no more than 12 months notice, FKI RMC Group and that payments on termination are restricted to the value of When determining BOCs performance relative to the global salary, car benefit and bonus entitlement calculated on the gases group, the TSR for BOC and the comparator companies basis of the average of actual payments over the preceding two will be amended amended TSR so that it reects the excess years for the unexpired portion of the notice period.
or shortfall in returns relative to the local stock market index where each company has its primary listing.
The nationality and Shareholding guidelines the local stock market index that will be used to calculate the The remuneration committee encourages executive amended TSR for each company is shown in parentheses.
management to grow a personal shareholding in the business over time.
It is anticipated that each executive would build Global gases group towards a shareholding of one times salary.
The remuneration Airgas US S&P 500 Index committee believes that the vehicle of the long-term incentive Air Liquide France CAC 40 Index arrangements will facilitate the building of such a shareholding Air Products & Chemicals US S&P 500 Index over a period of time.
Linde Germany DAX 30 Index Nippon Sanso Japan NIKKEI 225 Index Pensions Praxair US S&P 500 Index During the year, five directors accrued benets under the The BOC Group UK FTSE100 Index dened benefit schemes operated by the company.
Contributions amounting to 279,000 were paid by the company to money purchase plans in respect of three directors.
Includes overseas and relocation expenses.
Mr Bevan was appointed to the board on 5 December 2002.
Mr Grant resigned from the board on 31 December 2002 and he left the company on 30 June 2003.
Mr Grants termination entitlements were mitigated by an agreement that his contractual notice period would be treated as expiring on 30 September 2004.
He accordingly received a payment of 448,000, representing salary and compensation for benets in respect of the agreed 15-month notice period.
Mr Grant was also entitled to purchase his company car for a nominal amount.
In addition, Mr Grants benefit in the US top-hat pension plan was credited with 15 additional months of pensionable service in respect of his notional notice period.
The top-hat pension plan was also adjusted to meet Mr Grants accrued entitlement.
Additionally, he received the sum of 13,400 being the equivalent of the companys contribution which would have been credited to Mr Grants US cash balance retirement plan during the period of his agreed notice period.
These amounts are disclosed as Termination payments and have been charged against profit in 2003.
Total fees for non-executive directors services in the year were 443,000.
Included in this amount were the chairmans fees of 225,000.
Total directors remuneration in 2003, including the charge to profit in respect of amounts paid to former directors was 7.1 million compared with 6.4 million in 2002.
35 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Group balance sheet At 30 September 2003 2002 2001 million million million Fixed assets Intangible assets 206.1 150.7 48.1 Tangible assets 2,913.4 3,027.4 3,168.6 Investment in joint ventures 505.3 317.3 302.4 Investment in associates 64.5 63.7 56.2 Investment in own shares 48.1 42.5 59.5 Other investments 38.8 45.1 31.7 3,776.2 3,646.7 3,666.5 Current assets 1,104.9 1,246.4 1,286.5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,168.2 1,247.9 1,281.7 Net current liabilities assets 63.3 1.5 4.8 Total assets less current liabilities 3,712.9 3,645.2 3,671.3 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 1,133.1 1,179.0 1,079.3 Provisions for liabilities and charges 376.6 407.5 419.2 Total net assets excluding pension assets and liabilities 2,203.2 2,058.7 2,172.8 Pension assets 50.7 54.3 107.0 Pension liabilities 341.8 311.0 56.0 Total net assets including pension assets and liabilities 1,912.1 1,802.0 2,223.8 Shareholders funds 1,734.8 1,684.1 2,086.2 Minority shareholders interests 177.3 117.9 137.6 Total capital and reserves 1,912.1 1,802.0 2,223.8 significant accounting ratios 2003 2002 2001 1 Return on capital employed % 10.8 10.5 10.3 1, 2 Adjusted return on capital employed % 12.5 12.3 12.9 Interest cover times 4.6 4.1 3.4 2 Adjusted interest cover times 5.3 4.9 4.3 Net debt equity % 71.5 73.6 57.2 Net debt capital employed % 36.9 36.9 32.0 1.
Operating profit as a percentage of the average capital employed excluding net pension liabilities.
Capital employed comprises total capital and reserves, long-term liabilities and all current borrowings, net of cash and deposits.
The average is calculated on a monthly basis.
The summary financial statements on pages 35 to 39 were approved by the board of directors on 21 November 2003 and are signed on its behalf by: A E Isaac R Mdori Director Director 36 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Group cash ow statement Years ended 30 September 2003 2002 2001 million million million Total operating profit before exceptional items 505.6 500.1 530.6 Depreciation and amortisation 333.4 330.9 329.5 Net retirement benets charge less contributions 5.6 49.9 53.0 Operating profit before exceptional items of joint ventures 86.8 63.8 59.0 Operating profit before exceptional items of associates 11.4 10.7 13.2 Changes in working capital and other items 18.0 20.2 1.3 Exceptional cash ows 28.3 67.3 51.8 Net cash inow from operating activities 700.1 759.3 787.8 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 35.0 33.9 23.5 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 94.4 90.7 87.2 Tax paid 90.7 96.2 100.6 Capital expenditure and financial investment 233.3 324.5 311.9 Acquisitions and disposals 118.3 215.5 133.6 Equity dividends paid 192.1 186.6 180.3 Net cash inow outow before use of liquid resources and nancing 6.3 120.3 2.3 Management of liquid resources 16.2 52.6 102.8 Net cash outow inow from nancing 125.0 89.1 34.4 Decrease increase in cash 102.5 21.4 66.1 Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt 2003 2002 2001 million million million Net debt at 1 October 1,325.6 1,272.1 1,308.4 Net cash inow outow 6.3 120.3 2.3 Issue of shares 3.7 25.0 16.9 Net borrowings assumed at acquisition 0.8 0.5 Net liquid resources eliminated on disposal 31.0 Inception of finance leases 0.4 0.5 Exchange adjustment 20.7 42.7 22.2 Net debt at 30 September 1,368.1 1,325.6 1,272.1 37 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation These accounts are based on the historical cost accounting convention and comply with all applicable UK accounting standards.
The accounts are prepared on the going concern basis.
This means that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The Group accounts include the accounts of the parent undertaking and of all subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiary undertakings are those businesses controlled by the Group and their results are fully included.
Joint ventures are those businesses which the Group jointly controls with one or more other parties.
Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a participating interest and exercises significant inuence.
The results of businesses acquired are included from the effective date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions during the year the difference between the fair value of the purchase price of a business and the fair value of the net assets acquired is capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life.
Exchange rates The majority of the Groups operations are located outside the UK and operate in currencies other than sterling.
profit and loss and other period statements of the Groups overseas operations are translated at average rates of exchange for the financial year.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange at the end of the financial year.
The rates of exchange to sterling for the currencies which principally affected the Groups results were as follows: 2003 2002 2001 Average for the year: US dollar 1.60 1.47 1.44 Australian dollar 2.62 2.77 2.76 Japanese yen 191.01 184.34 170.04 South African rand 13.24 15.64 11.47 At 30 September: US dollar 1.66 1.57 1.47 Australian dollar 2.45 2.89 2.98 Japanese yen 185.60 191.45 175.09 South African rand 11.57 16.58 13.24 3.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings Group companies are parties to various legal proceedings, including some in which claims for damages in large amounts have been asserted.
The outcome of litigation to which Group companies are party cannot be readily foreseen, but the directors believe that such litigation should be disposed of without material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition or profitability.
Welding fumes litigation BOC has been named in numerous lawsuits in the US alleging injury from exposure to welding fumes.
Many of these cases were led during 2003.
Certain of these cases have been either led in, or transferred for pre-trial purposes to, the federal district court in the Northern District of Ohio, where a multi-district litigation MDL proceeding has been commenced.
The MDL proceeding is still at an early stage.
The MDL proceeding is a vehicle for co-ordinating pre-trial proceedings in cases pending in different federal district courts in the US.
In addition to the cases in federal court, BOC is a defendant in a number of similar cases pending in state courts.
These cases are in different stages of procedural development, and certain cases are scheduled for trial from time to time.
From the time it purchased Airco in 1978 until this year, BOC had never had an adverse jury verdict returned against it in a case alleging injury from exposure to welding fumes.
On 28 October 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois, rendered a verdict 38 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 4.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings continued against BOC and two co-defendants.
The jury awarded US$1 million to Mr Elam, a former labourer who asserted that his idiopathic Parkinsons disease was attributable to his exposure to welding fumes over a period of years.
BOC believes that the verdict is inconsistent with the decisions rendered by juries in previous cases, is not supported by the existing scientific evidence and intends to pursue vigorously its post-trial and appeal rights.
BOC believes that it has strong defences to the claims asserted in these various proceedings related to alleged injury from exposure to welding fumes and intends to defend vigorously such claims.
Based on BOCs experience to date, together with BOCs current assessment of the merits of the claims being asserted, and applicable insurance, BOC believes that continued defence and resolution of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or profitability and no provision has been made.
Fluorogas litigation In February 2003, the company was notied that a jury verdict in the US District Court for the Western District of Texas was obtained for US$132 million against Fluorogas Limited, The BOC Group Inc and The BOC Group plc.
The verdict arises primarily out of an alleged breach of a memorandum of understanding by Fluorogas Limited before it was acquired by The BOC Group plc in September 2001.
In March 2003, the court also awarded interest and costs against the defendants, making them jointly and severally liable for a total of US$174 million.
A bond for the full amount has been posted with the Court as part of the normal appeals process.
The company believes that the jurys verdict reects a misunderstanding of the law and does not reect the facts of any loss that may have been suffered by the plaintiff.
The company is challenging the verdict through the appropriate appeals process in the US and hence no provision has been made.
In addition, Fluorogas Limited was placed in administration under the Insolvency Act of 1986 pursuant to an order of the English Courts.
In a related proceeding in a US Bankruptcy Court, the UK administrators have obtained injunctive relief preventing the plaintiff in the Fluorogas litigation from commencing or continuing any action or proceeding enforcing any judgement against Fluorogas Limited in the US.
ERISA litigation An action was led in the US District Court for the Southern District of Illinois against The BOC Group Cash Balance Retirement Plan the Plan.
The plaintiffs brought this action on behalf of themselves and all others similarly affected, alleging that the Plan improperly calculated lump sum distributions from the Plan in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
The maximum potential liability could have reached US$116 million and any award would be paid out of Plan assets.
The parties have reached an agreement in principle to settle at US$69 million.
The settlement documents are being prepared.
The settlement is subject to approval by the court at a fairness hearing.
A provision of US$69 million has been made in the financial statements.
Under UK accounting principles FRS17, this has been recognised as a charge in the profit and loss account of the Group.
It has been shown as an exceptional item.
Guarantees At 30 September 2002, BOC had guaranteed a portion of the borrowings of its joint venture company in Mexico.
The amount of the guarantee was 116.7 million and it was shown as a contingent liability in the Groups report and accounts at that date.
In March 2003, as a result of certain conditions being met by the joint venture company, BOCs guarantee has been released and no contingent liability remains at 30 September 2003.
US accounting information The consolidated financial statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP.
These differ in certain respects from accounting principles accepted in the US US GAAP.
The application of the different accounting principles results in adjustments being needed to show what the Groups profit would be under US GAAP.
The main adjustments are shown individually in the table below.
2003 2002 2001 million million million Net profit under UK GAAP 219.1 202.9 224.1 Pensions 62.5 35.4 24.9 Revaluations realised on asset disposals 1.1 5.8 1.1 Amortisation of goodwill and other intangibles 13.4 3.7 7.9 Financial instruments 2.8 19.5 8.5 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 0.6 4.8 Restructuring costs 6.5 Write-down of previously revalued assets 20.5 Unrealised profit on disposal of subsidiary 8.2 Other adjustments on profit on disposal of subsidiary 20.7 Other 3.6 0.3 1.1 Taxation effect of above adjustments 20.7 24.7 6.3 Net income under US GAAP 264.3 255.4 234.2 Earnings per 25p Ordinary share Basic profit from continuing operations and for the financial year 53.7p 52.1p 48.1p 6.
Post balance sheet events a On 17 November 2003, the Groups South African subsidiary company African Oxygen Limited announced that it had agreed to sell its entire holding in Afrox Healthcare Limited.
At that date, the estimated impact of the transaction was a reduction of a maximum of 1.5p in Group earnings per share for the year to 30 September 2003.
The sale remains subject to certain conditions, including clearance from the relevant competition and other regulatory authorities.
39 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Shareholder information Ordinary shareholdings by investor type at 30 September 2003 % Number of % Number of of total number 25p shares of ordinary accounts of accounts Type of investor million capital 32,828 73 Individuals 29.2 6 11,412 25 Institutional investors 455.1 91 949 2 Other corporate investors 13.4 3 45,189 100 497.7 100 Financial calendar 1 Ordinary Shares American Depositary Shares 12 4% Unsecured Loan Stock 2012 2017 1 First interim Second interim Half year Half year Ex-dividend 31 Dec 2003 30 Jun 2004 3 Mar 2004 1 Sep 2004 Record date 5 Jan 2004 2 Jul 2004 5 Mar 2004 3 Sep 2004 DRIP notice date 12 Jan 2004 12 Jul 2004 Payment date UK 2 Feb 2004 2 Aug 2004 2 Apr 2004 2 Oct 2004 US 9 Feb 2004 9 Aug 2004 1.
Proposed dates 3 months Half year 9 months Preliminary Report and accounts Group results 3 Feb 2004 13 May 2004 3 Aug 2004 18 Nov 2004 Dec 2004 Shareholder enquiries Shareholding information Shareholders who have questions relating to the Groups To view up-to-date information about your shareholding, business or wish to receive copies of the interim statements change your address details, set up a new, or change an should write to: existing, dividend mandate, visit the Lloyds TSB Registrars shareview website at www.
co. uk Director Investor Relations The portfolio service provides access to more information The BOC Group plc on your investments including balance movements, indicative Chertsey Road, Windlesham share prices and details of recent dividend payments.
Surrey GU20 6HJ, England To register with Lloyds TSB Registrars as a user of the Telephone: 01276 477222 portfolio service and for more information visit the website E-mail: ir@boc.
co. uk Registrar Electronic shareholder communications Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in the Shareholders can now elect to receive shareholder documents, company such as the loss of share certicates, change of such as annual and interim reports and notices of general address, dividend payment arrangements, amalgamation of meetings, electronically from the companys website rather multiple accounts, or requests for the full report and accounts than in hard copy through the mail.
This has the advantage should be sent directly to: of improving the speed of communications and reducing Lloyds TSB Registrars administrative costs of printing and postage.
The terms on The Causeway, Worthing which this electronic facility is provided can be found on the West Sussex BN99 6DA, England companys website www.
com or on request from the Telephone: 0870 600 3958 registered ofce.
Any shareholder wishing to take advantage Fax: 0870 600 3980 of this free service may do so by registering their details on Teltex for shareholders with hearing difficulties: the Lloyds TSB Registrars shareview website at 0870 600 3950 www.
co. uk Correspondence should refer to The BOC Group plc, stating clearly the registered name and address and, if available, the full account number which starts with 0385.
40 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2003 Highlights of the year Contents Successful acquisition and integration of 02 Financial highlights industrial gases businesses in Poland and 03 2003 results Canada strengthens position in key countries.
All enquiries regarding this plan should be addressed to: Global Invest Direct JPMorgan Chase Bank PO Box 43013 Providence, RI 02940-3013, USA Telephone, toll free: JPMorgan Service Center on 1 800 749 1687 or 1 800 428 4237 The BOC Group plc 2003 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London Principal photography by George Brooks Printed by CTD Capita The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2003 The BOC Group plc Registered office: Annual review and summary financial statements 2003 Chertsey Road, Windlesham, Surrey GU20 6HJ, England Tel: 01276 477222 Fax: 01276 471333 English Register No.
