ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17 24 3 04 3:10 pm Page 53 Financial Calendar Annual general meeting 26 May 2004 Final dividend for 2003 5 July 2004 Interim results for 2004 August 2004 Interim dividend for 2004 January 2005 Results for 2004 March 2005 Shareholder Enquiries Enquiries on the following administrative matters can be addressed to the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Hudderseld HD8 0LA.
com - Change of address - Lost share certicates or dividend cheques - Dividend mandates - Amalgamation of holdings Forms for these matters can be downloaded from the registrars website at www.
com, where shareholders can also check their holdings and details.
com... Bodycote International plc 2004 Ref: ID1313 Designed and produced by ID www.
com Printed by Shanleys PLEASE DETACH ALONG PERFORATION BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
MB122 2 2 Capita Registrars Proxy Department PO Box 25 Beckenham Kent BR3 4BR Form of proxy Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday, 26 May 2004 at The Stanneylands Hotel, Stanneylands Road, Wilmslow SK9 4EY at 3pm NOTES 1 The appointment of a proxy will not preclude you from attending and voting at the meeting in person.
If you want to appoint a proxy other than the Chairman, delete the words the Chairman of the meeting and insert your own choice in the space provided and initial the amendment.
A proxy need not be a member, but must attend the meeting in person to represent you.
"2 Please indicate how you wish your votes to be cast by placing ""X"" in the box provided."
On receipt of this form duly signed, but without any specific direction as to how you wish your votes to be cast, you will be deemed to have authorised your proxy to vote, or to abstain from voting, as they think fit.
3 A corporation may execute either under seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised in writing.
In the case of joint shareholders, the signature of the first named joint shareholder on the register will be accepted to the exclusion of all other joint shareholders.
4 To be valid, this proxy must be filled in, signed and deposited at the office of the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, Special Projects, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, or posted in time to be delivered there, not later than 3pm on 24 May 2004.
5 To register your proxy electronically, log on to our registrars website at www.
com and follow the instructions.
You will need to input your family name, postcode and investor code as printed below.
To be valid, your proxy must be lodged not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for holding the Meeting.
Do not show these details to anyone else, unless you wish them to give proxy instructions on your behalf.
PLEASE DETACH ALONG PERFORATION RESOLUTIONS Ordinary Business: FOR AGAINST ABSTAIN 1.
Receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements Investor Code 2.
Declaration of Dividend You will need to quote the above if you chose to submit 4.
Re-election of Mr R T Scholes as a Director your proxy electronically 5.
Re-election of Mr D F Landless as a Director See note 5 6.
Reappointment of Auditors Special Business: 7.
General Authority to the Directors to allot Shares 9.
Authorisation of the Directors to allot Equity Securities for cash pursuant to Section 95 Companies Act 1985 10.
Authority to enable the Company to purchase its own shares I We the undersigned, being a Member s of BODYCOTE INTERNATIONAL PLC, HEREBY APPOINT THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING or note 1............................................................................................................ as my our proxy to vote for me us and on my our behalf as indicated above at the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held at the The Stanneylands Hotel, Stanneylands Road, Wilmslow SK9 4EY at 3pm on 26 May 2004 and at every adjournment thereof and in respect of any business which may properly come before the meeting.
