ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17 24 3 04 3:10 pm Page 51 Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 51st Annual General Meeting of BODYCOTE INTERNATIONAL PLC will be held at The Stanneylands Hotel, Stanneylands Road, Wilmslow SK9 4EY on Wednesday 26 May 2004, at 1500 hours for the following purposes: As ordinary business 1.
To receive the annual report and statement of accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003.
To approve the Board Report on Remuneration.
To re-elect Mr R T Scholes as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr D F Landless as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company and authorise the Directors to x their remuneration.
As special business To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as to resolutions 7 and 8 as ordinary resolutions and as to resolutions 9 and 10 as special resolutions: 7.
That the authorised share capital of the Company be increased from 34,706,000 divided into 347,060,000 ordinary shares of 10p each to 43,000,000 by the creation of 82,940,000 additional ordinary shares of 10p each.
That the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise any power of the Company to allot and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert securities into shares of the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount equal to the nominal amount of authorised but unissued share capital immediately following the passing of resolution 7 above PROVIDED THAT the authority hereby given shall expire on the date which is fifteen calendar months after the passing of this resolution unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting save that the Directors may, notwithstanding such expiry, allot any shares or grant any such rights under this authority in pursuance of an offer or an agreement so to do made by the Company before the expiry of this authority.
That, subject to the passing of the resolution numbered 8, the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Companies Act 1985 for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the said resolution as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Companies Act 1985 in connection with rights issues in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors consider appropriate, necessary or expedient to deal with any fractional entitlements or with any requirements of any regulatory body or recognised investment exchange or otherwise: b to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the terms of the Bodycote International executive share option schemes c to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraphs a and b above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,603,939 being 5% of the issued share capital of the Company: and d the authority hereby given shall expire at the close of the next annual general meeting of the Company to be held after the date hereof unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be executed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
That the Company be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the Company provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 32,078,790: b the maximum price which may be paid for any such share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased: c the minimum price which may be paid for any such share is 10 pence: and d the authority hereby given shall expire at the close of the next annual general meeting of the Company to be held after the date hereof unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be executed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board Hulley Road, Hurdseld, J. R. GRIME, Maccleseld, Cheshire SK10 2SG Secretary.
9 March 2004 Bodycote Bodycote annual report 2003 annual report 2003 51 51 ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17 24 3 04 3:10 pm Page 52 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 1.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company species that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 1700 hours on 24 May 2004 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 1700 hours on 24 May 2004 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
Every member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote in his her stead.
A proxy need not be a member.
Brief biographical details of Directors standing for re-election at the Meeting are set out on page 18.
Recommendation and explanatory notes Increase in authorised share capital Resolutions 7.
When the issued share capital of the Company is increased by the rights issue announced on the 9th March 2004, the headroom available for the further issue of new shares pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 will be reduced from 26.1% to 7.6% of authorised share capital, which the Directors consider insufficient.
Resolution 7 will increase the authorised share capital by 23.9% and restore the headroom to approximately 25.4%.
Renewal of authority to allot shares Resolutions 8 and 9.
Under the provisions of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Directors are not able to allot shares except with the general or specic approval of shareholders.
A general authority was granted on 28 May 2003 in respect of the shares then unissued and it is now proposed in resolution number 8 in the notice convening the annual general meeting that this authority be renewed for a period of fifteen months from the date of passing the resolution in respect of unissued share capital immediately following the passing of resolution 7, which will then represent approximately 25.4% of the authorised share capital.
No shares are held in treasury.
The Board has no present intention of issuing any further shares nor will any such issue be made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Sections 89 and 95 of the Companies Act 1985 provide that any ordinary shares issued for cash must first be offered to existing shareholders unless their approval is obtained that this stipulation should not be applied.
The Directors consider it desirable that they should have the authority to make allotments of ordinary shares for cash, other than by way of rights issues to existing shareholders, up to a maximum nominal value of 1,603,939 being 5% of the issued ordinary share capital immediately following the passing of resolution 7.
Purchase of own Shares Resolution 10 Under Article 9 the Company is empowered to purchase its own shares.
The Directors consider that the power to make purchases in the market of the Companys own shares should be maintained even in the circumstances of the announcement of a fully underwritten rights issue, and accordingly recommend the approval of the special resolution set out as resolution number 10.
The Directors intend to exercise this authority only where, in the light of market conditions prevailing at that time, they believe that the effect of such purchases would be to increase earnings per share, or to deliver shares to participants in the Bodycote International executive share option schemes.
Any shares purchased in this way will either be cancelled, in which case the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly, or held as treasury shares.
The resolution species the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought, and the maximum number of shares which may be bought, this being 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital following completion of the rights issue announced on 9 March 2004.
As at 31 December 2003 outstanding share options over unissued shares totalled 9,173,839 and this represented 3.6% of the Companys issued share capital.
Based on the estimated issued share capital following the rights issue, if the Company utilised the authority proposed by resolution 10 in full, outstanding share options would then represent 3.2% of the consequently reduced share capital.
The Directors consider that the proposals described in this notice are in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommend shareholders to vote in favour of all the resolutions proposed, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
A form of proxy is enclosed for those entitled to vote.
Instructions are given for electronic proxy voting.
