Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Meeting of Dunedin Income Growth Investment share shall be 25p: Trust PLC will be held at Donaldson House, 97 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh, on iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses Tuesday 22 April 2003 at 12 noon, for the which may be paid for a share shall be an following purposes: amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from ORDINARY BUSINESS the Daily Official List of the London Stock 1.
To receive the reports of the directors and Exchange for the shares for the five business auditors and the accounts for the year to 31 days immediately preceding the date of January 2003. purchase: and 2.
To approve the directors report on remuneration iv unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, for the year ended 31 January 2003. the authority hereby conferred shall expire at 3.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary the conclusion of the annual general meeting shares.
of the company to be held in 2004 save that the company may, prior to such expiry, enter 4.
To re-elect Max Ward as a director of the into a contract or contracts to purchase company.
shares under such authority which will or 5.
To re-elect Jean Matterson as a director of the might be completed or executed wholly or company.
partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant 6.
To re-elect Ruaridh Budge as a director of the to any such contract.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of By order of the board the company.
Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, Secretary 8.
To authorise the directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors for the year to 17 March 2003 31 January 2004.
Registered office: Donaldson House, 97 Haymarket SPECIAL BUSINESS Terrace, Edinburgh EH12 5HD To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution: Notes: 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at Special resolution the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to 9.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A the company be and it is hereby authorised in proxy need not be a member of the company.
accordance with section 166 of the Companies 2.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases enclosed with these accounts.
Completion and within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act return of the form of proxy will not prevent any of ordinary shares of 25p each in the company shareholder from attending the meeting and shares provided that: voting in person.
To be valid, the form of proxy i the maximum number of shares hereby should be lodged, together with any Power of authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% Attorney or other authority if any under which of the issued share capital of the company as it is signed or an extract from the Books of at the date of the passing of this resolution: Council and Session or a notarially certified copy PAGE 35 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Notice of Meeting of such power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be received not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the company specifies that only those shareholders entered on the register of members of the company as at 6.00pm on 21 April 2003 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries on the register of members after 6.00pm on 21 April 2003 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, the articles of association of the company or other instrument to the contrary.
There are special arrangements for holders of shares through The Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan, Investment Trust PEP ISA and Investment Trust Pension.
These are explained in the Letter of Direction which such holders will have received with this report.
PAGE 36 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
