Information for Investors EDINBURGH FUND MANAGERS Children.
Existing shareholders can also transfer Edinburgh Fund Managers plc was formally their shares into the Plan and have their dividends established in 1969 and has grown considerably reinvested.
There is no charge for buying or holding since that time.
It now has offices in Edinburgh, shares through InvestIT other than 0.5% Dundee, London and Newcastle.
Today Government Stamp Duty which is currently payable Edinburgh Fund Managers is one of the larger on all share purchases.
There is a nominal 10 VAT managers of investment trusts in the UK with transaction fee applied to all sales.
around 1.4 billion of such funds under management as at 31 January 2003.
Total assets Edinburgh Fund Managers managed by the group at the same date were Investment Trust ISA PEP over 4.3 billion.
ISA Investors have the opportunity to invest up to Investment Trusts 7,000 in an Individual Savings Account ISA in It is the business of investment trusts, advised by their each of the tax years up to 2005 2006.
7,000 managers, to invest in the shares of other companies.
invested in DIGIT through the Edinburgh Fund The investment objectives vary from trust to trust Managers Investment Trust Maxi ISA allows ranging from investment for capital growth and or investors to maximise the amounts placed in stocks income, to trusts which invest internationally, in a and shares in a tax-efficient savings vehicle.
specific area of the world or in a single country market.
Investing in investment trusts provides a spread of The initial charge is 30 VAT and the annual investments, managed by experts, at low cost.
management fee is 0.5% VAT capped at 60 VAT.
No charges are made for buying or The objective of Dunedin Income Growth Investment selling shares other than Government Stamp Duty Trust DIGIT is to achieve growth of income and on share purchases.
capital from a portfolio invested in the UK.
PEP HOW TO INVEST PEP investors can continue to hold their existing Ordinary shares PEPs.
No further contributions can be made to Investors can buy and sell shares in DIGIT directly DIGIT through a PEP other than reinvestment of through the Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment any income generated.
However, investors will be Trust Savings Plan, Investment Trust ISA and able to transfer between different PEP funds and Investment Trust Pension.
An on-line ISA facility is different PEP providers without losing their tax available through DIGITs and Edinburgh Fund advantages.
To enable new investors to take Managers website.
Alternatively shares can be advantage of investing in a PEP in DIGIT, a PEP bought directly through a stockbroker or indirectly transfer brochure is available.
Again charges are low through a lawyer, accountant or other professional with no entrance transfer fee being charged.
annual management charge of 0.5% VAT capped at 40 VAT is charged.
PRODUCT DETAILS InvestIT The Edinburgh Fund Managers The Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan Investment Trust Pension InvestIT provides a straightforward way to invest in The Investment Trust Pension enables investors to DIGIT.
Investors can make regular monthly save for retirement by investing in DIGIT.
A wide payments minimum 30 per month or invest range of investors can enjoy the benefits of a occasional lump sums minimum 250 initially and Personal Pension.
Contributions can be made 30 thereafter.
Lower amounts of 20, 150 and monthly, yearly or by lump sums, and there are low 20 respectively can be made into InvestIT for minimum investment amounts.
PAGE 38 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Information for Investors Note For information concerning your shareholding, Please remember that past performance is not please contact: necessarily a guide to the future.
Stock market and Registrar currency movements may cause the value of shares Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland and the income from them to fall as well as rise and PO Box 28448 investors may not get back the amount they Finance House originally invested.
Orchard Brae Edinburgh EH4 1WQ As with all equity investments, the value of Telephone: 0870-601 5366 investment trusts purchased will immediately be Textphone: 0870-600 3950 reduced by the difference between the buying and Website: www.
co. uk selling prices of the shares, the market makers spread.
For information and application forms on the Investors should further bear in mind that the value InvestIT, ISA PEP, Pension and Share Exchange of any tax relief will depend on the individual Schemes please contact: circumstances of the investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs PEPs, Shareholder Relations may be changed by future legislation.
Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Donaldson House Keeping you informed 97 Haymarket Terrace DIGITs share price appears under the heading Edinburgh EH12 5HD Investment Trusts in the Financial Times and other Telephone: 0131-313 1000 national newspapers.
In the Financial Times, DIGIT or FREE on 0800-028 6789 24 hours currently appears as DUNINC.
Investors can also InvestIT Administrator obtain the latest share price by phoning FT Cityline Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland on 0906-843 3334.
All calls cost 60p per minute.
Registrar Department SP PO Box 28448 For internet users, detailed data on DIGIT, including Finance House price and performance information, is available on Orchard Brae www.
com, the Edinburgh Fund Managers Edinburgh EH4 1WQ website www.
com and the TrustNet website Telephone: 0870-606 0268 www.
Individual Savings Account Personal Equity Plan Lloyds TSB Registrars also have a website Administrator www.
co. uk which includes a Bank of New York Europe Ltd page entitled Shareholder Services, which gives Edinburgh Fund Managers plc shareholders an insight into their shareholding.
The ISA PEP Department website also has information about how to register a 12 Blenheim Place change of name and what to do if you have lost Edinburgh EH7 5ZR your share certificate.
Telephone: 0800-028 6789 Pension Administrator Edinburgh Pension Centre Personal Pension Management Limited 141 Castle Street Salisbury Wiltshire SP1 3TB Telephone: 0800-137 079 The above has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Edinburgh Fund Managers plc which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
PAGE 39 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Head Office Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Donaldson House 97 Haymarket Terrace Edinburgh EH12 5HD Telephone: 0131-313 1000
