68 Index Index Page Page Accounting policies 37 Independent auditors report 30 Accounting standards 37 Internal control 16, 20 Annual general meetings 67 Interest 16, 33, 44, 53, 54, 64 Acquisition of businesses 36, 43 Investor relations 19 Auditors remuneration 32, 42 Investment properties 38, 47, 48, 55 Balance sheets Joint ventures 33, 35, 40, 42, 43, 45, 49, 64 Group 35, 65 Liquidity funding 16 Parent 35 Low cost share dealing service 67 Board committees 18 Minority interests 33, 35, 64, 65 Board of directors 13, 18, 21, 27 Net assets 35, 41, 65 Borrowings 36, 52, 53, 57 Net debt 36, 57, 65 Capital commitments 58 New holding company 37, 55 Capital expenditure 36, 58, 65, 66 Note on historical cost profits and losses 34 Capital structure 16, 31 Operating leases 16, 42, 58 Cash and liquid resources 36, 38, 57 Operating profit 14, 33, 42, 64, 66 Cash ow 14, 36, 43, 57, 65 Review of operations: Chairmans statement 01 Boots The Chemists 05 Charitable & political donations 32 Boots Healthcare International 07 Chief executives review 03 Opticians & Eyecare, Dentalcare and Wellbeing Services 08 Company secretary 67 Boots Retail International 09 Contingent liabilities 58 Supply and Support Services 09 Corporate governance 18 Own shares QUEST ESOP AESOP 23, 26, 27, 49, 50 Corporate social responsibility 02, 11, 19, 20 Payment of suppliers 32 Creditors 35, 51, 52 Pensions 15, 28, 39, 59 Current asset investments and deposits 35, 51 Principal activities 31, 63 Debtors 35, 50 Principal companies 63 Deferred taxation 39, 50, 55 profit and loss account 33, 46, 64 Depreciation and amortisation 38, 42, 45, 47, 48, 49 Property development stocks 50 Directors remuneration 19, 21, 62 Property valuations 34, 38, 47, 48, 64 Directors report 31 Provisions for liabilities and charges 35, 54 Directors responsibilities statement 29 Reconciliation of movements Directors shareholdings and in shareholders funds 34, 64 share options 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 62 Registrar 67 Disposal of businesses 33, 36, 42, 43, 47, 48 Registered ofce company secretary 67 Dividends 01, 14, 33, 34, 36, 46, 51, 64, 65, 67 Related party disclosures 62 Earnings per share 14, 15, 33, 46, 65 Research and development 31, 39, 42 Employees People 01, 10, 32, 62 Reserves 35, 55 Exceptional items 33, 40, 42, 44, 45, 64 Revaluation reserves 35 Finance leases 36, 39, 44, 48, 52, 58 Segmental information 40, 41, 66 Financial highlights Inside front cover Share capital 31, 35, 55, 56 Financial instruments and derivatives 38, 53 Share information Financial record 64, 66 Analysis of holdings 32, 67 Financial review 14 Highest lowest prices 15, 65 Fixed assets Share options 24, 25, 50 Investments 35, 49, 65 Share premium 35, 55 Tangible 35, 38, 47, 48, 65 Share repurchase 01, 14, 31, 34, 56 Intangible 35, 38, 47, 65 Shareholder returns 01, 15, 65 Foreign currencies 16, 34, 37, 54 Staff numbers and costs 62 Free cash ow 15 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 34, 64 Going concern 20 Stocks 35, 39, 50 Goodwill 34, 38, 47, 55, 64 Taxation 14, 33, 36, 45, 51, 64, 65 Halfords 14, 40, 43, 62 Treasury policy and controls 15 Historical cost tangible xed assets 48 Turnover 14, 33, 39, 40, 64, 66 Impairments 38, 47, 64 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 A simple goal Boots aims to be the place for health and beauty customers.
We want to secure market leadership in the UK and build on our brands growing success internationally.
A simple structure Weve focused the organisation on that twofold goal.
We now have two core businesses Boots The Chemists and Boots Healthcare International.
A simple strategy A leaner management team, under new leadership, is working to grow profitable sales in both core businesses through increased, carefully targeted investment in stores, product and brand development, price and service competitiveness, and operational efficiency.
Contents 01 Chairmans statement 03 Chief executives review 05 Review of operations 11 Corporate social responsibility 13 Board of directors 14 Financial review 17 Contents of the financial statements 68 Index Designed and produced by Addison Copy by Lang Communications Printed by Westerham Press Boots supports Rethink Rubbish www.
com Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Please recycle this report when no longer required.
Boots Group PLC 31st March 2003 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2003 Boots Group PLC 1 Thane Road West Nottingham NG2 3AA Telephone: 0115 950 6111 www.
com o N 1 for health and beauty Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement for the year ended 31st March 2003 A simple goal Boots aims to be the place for health and beauty customers.
Turnover including share Total operating profit before Dividends p of joint ventures m exceptional items m 99 00 01 02 03 99 00 01 02 03 99 00 01 02 03 Contents 01 Chairmans statement 04 Chief executives review 08 Review of operations 18 Corporate social responsibility 20 Board of directors 22 Summary financial review 23 Summary financial statement, Auditors statement, Summary directors report 24 Summary directors remuneration report 26 Group profit and loss account 27 Balance sheet 28 Summary group cash ow statement inside back cover Shareholder information Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 5,045 5,189 5,226 5,332 5,327 562 565 580 626 544 23.8 25.2 26.3 27.4 28.6 772 772 bottles of nail varnish were sold in our stores every hour over the past year 01 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement held or grown market share in all on a single company with two core counter health and beauty categories.
As we predicted last year, profits That focus has already resulted have been impacted in the short term in several strategically important by three factors breakthroughs.
Were investing to get a major programme of investment in all our stores up to the standards our BTC, Boots Healthcare International customers expect, weve got on-shelf BHI, and reducing costs for the future availability up to where it should be, the sale of Halfords which resulted in and weve returned to strong, an exceptional loss of 123.2m, and profitable sales growth.
This is my third and last annual report increased pension costs.
In BHI our strategy of increased to you.
As already announced, I am investment in brand and product retiring on 15th September and handing Shareholder returns The proposed development has restored strong over to Sir Nigel Rudd, who has been our final dividend of 20.2p per share makes organic growth and profits grew deputy chairman since December 2001. a total for the year of 28.6p up 4.4% ahead of last year.
He takes the reins at an exciting on last year.
Our core operations are performing time.
The past three years have seen Boots is a strongly cash generative very well and our international retail Boots transforming itself.
It is now business and the Halfords sale brought operation is moving towards profitability a much simpler and more focused us an additional 396.0m.
As promised, with its new low risk, capital light business, and we are continuing to we have been returning this extra cash business model.
increase the pace and improve the to investors through share buy backs, This year we will continue to invest effectiveness of change.
in addition to the earlier buy back to improve product, price and service programme completed in September competitiveness, and to grow the Results Our growth strategy is 2002.
During the financial year we business.
To do this while stabilising delivering the results we expected.
bought and cancelled 78.8m shares at margins at about their present level, Sales responded quickly to our renewed a total cost of 462.8m.
we will keep improving productivity investment in the business, with The progress we are making and cutting costs through our Getting underlying growth of 6.0%.
As a result with the business is being recognised in Shape programme.
group sales for the year, at 5,327.3m, in the share price.
Over the past two We have already acted to stem the were almost unchanged on the years Boots shares have outperformed losses from activities that look unlikely previous year despite a sharply reduced the FTSE100 by 31.9% and the retail to deliver satisfactory returns in the contribution from Halfords, which we sector by 6.0%.
We are closing our sold in August 2002.
After a difficult 12 Wellbeing Services Centres and the first quarter, sales have grown strongly Strategy Boots is now more focused six Pure Beauty stores while continuing for three consecutive quarters.
than it has been for over a decade and with Boots Opticians, LASIK, Dentalcare Boots The Chemists BTC had its best a great deal leaner.
We are now able to and Footcare.
We are slimming down Christmas for a decade and we have concentrate attention and investment our international retail operations in Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 02 Chairmans statement are consistent with the expectations of Europe and simplifying them in South become too complex, refocusing it on East Asia.
its core strengths and restoring the modern society.
Our passion for innovation in momentum of sales growth.
Many reviews, such as the FTSE4Good products and brands remains as strong Richard has an outstanding track and Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, as ever.
Our ability to develop powerful record in both retail and marketing, highlight the positive contribution we own brand and exclusive ranges sets and we are very pleased to welcome are making: while others, like the us apart from competitors and gives him to Boots.
He joins us from Asda, Business in the Community Corporate customers compelling reasons to see where he has held a number of senior Responsibility Index, have helped us to Boots as the place for health and beauty.
appointments including group develop new CSR processes and thinking.
marketing director and, latterly, chief Further details of our achievements Pharmacy In January the Ofce of Fair operating officer.
Previously to this he and plans are set out in our dedicated Trading recommended proposals for full worked at Mars.
I believe that with CSR Review.
This demonstrates that Boots deregulation of NHS pharmacy licensing.
Sir Nigel as chairman and Richard as is determined to live up to its proud The Governments intentions are not yet chief executive we have an excellent social heritage and the trust customers clear, but we expect to see at least combination of skills to lead our strong place in the Boots name.
This would give us new executive team.
a welcome opportunity to build market Fiona Harrison resigned from the Outlook Boots has got back to its share similar to that presented by the board in November due to ill health.
Were recognising the abolition of Resale Price Maintenance During her time on the Boots board importance of our store managers and on over the counter medicines in 2001, she made a distinctive and valuable staff, and engaging them in the drive which has enabled us to increase profits contribution, most recently as chairman to create an outstanding retail offering.
Pharmacy is an of our Social Responsibilities Committee.
We have begun a review to simplify and important growth area in which we are We will all miss her deep interest in, further improve our still over-complex market leader.
We are investing and knowledge of, our customers and supply chain.
Weve consolidated our substantially in systems and in-store employees, and her understanding of position as the place for health and beauty.
pharmacy to maintain our prethe business climate in which we operate.
And internationally, BHI is making its eminence and condently expect our Ken Piggott retired from the board presence felt increasingly in the consumer pharmacists to play a growing role in at the end of December, taking a new healthcare market.
We have a robust primary healthcare over the coming part-time role as corporate responsibility business model, a strong balance sheet years, helping to relieve the pressure on director, and Barry Clare left the and cash ow, good growth prospects overworked doctors.
company at the end of January.
We are and plenty more to play for.
grateful to both of them for their Our new chairman and chief People Change is always challenging contribution to the transformation of executive still have important issues to and rapid change can be very the business over the past few years.
The store portfolio needs to be uncomfortable.
The past few years We took the opportunity to rebalanced with a stronger edge of have been tough for our people and strengthen the executive committee town presence.
We have to continue I am grateful to them for their support, by adding Paul Stoneham, managing exing our pricing and promotions to exibility and hard work.
All levels of director of BHI, and David Kneale, who match customers expectations of value the organisation have been affected, took on the new role of chief operating for money.
The challenge for our new and there has been more change at officer, Boots Retail.
Paul had previously marketing director is to make all our stores the top than almost anywhere else.
been president of Alberto Culver even more distinctive.
But we are in no In the past three years we have International and held a variety of doubt that vigorous growth in the health reduced our senior management team senior marketing positions at Procter & and beauty markets will give us ample from 233 to 167 over half the old Gamble.
David rejoins the Company opportunity to grow the core business.
team has gone and 66 new members after being managing director at Our ambition is to strengthen our market have joined by promotion or from Waterstones.
He brings back to the leadership and we are investing in the outside.
Virtually all todays board business exceptional trading skills and right things to achieve this.
and executive committee members customs focus.
Ann Francke joined the This year we will feel the benefit have been appointed since I became executive committee as director of of the past years cost reductions and chairman.
We now have a strong, strategic marketing.
We intend to keep sales rising energetic and experienced executive been a vice president at Mars, and strongly while holding our margins team with an average age of 44. general manager for skincare and steady, making last years profit dip After reviewing our succession plans cosmetics at Procter & Gamble.
merely a pause in a continuing story we announced in December that we of long term growth.
were looking for a new chief executive Corporate social responsibility CSR to drive the pace of change faster.
In Boots is one of Britains most trusted May we announced that Richard Baker brands.
The foundation for this is the would be joining us as chief executive companys long established community from 15th September: Steve Russell investment programme and desire for stepped down at the end of May continuous improvement in its John McGrath and I have taken on the role of chief environmental performance.
We regularly participate in a Chairman We are enormously grateful to Steve variety of benchmarking surveys and for all he has done for the company in welcome the opportunity to share a distinguished 36-year career.
In best practice and experience with particular, we thank him for his work others.
The feedback we receive is over the past three years in simplifying extremely valuable and helps us to the business he inherited, which had shape our future plans to ensure they Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 85 85 people in the UK use Nurofen for pain relief every second 04 Chief executives review Chief executives review Boots is consolidating its leadership in health and beauty retailing.
We have one of the most trusted brands on the high street and weve backed it with investment in attractive stores, innovative products and effective promotion.
Our aim is to be the place for health and beauty.
6m Clearasil has helped 6m people get rid of 600m spots in the last year world wide Over and over again in this report youll had some successes, but also some see one word: simplify.
the transformation of the business, our Boots Dentalcare addresses a fast central aim has been to eliminate growing market with clear profit complexity.
We are making operational Complexity wastes time and improvements that will accelerate its resources.
It gets progress towards profitability.
Footcare between our customers and us.
We are is a smaller opportunity but, like simplifying our activities, our structure, dentistry, ts comfortably with our our systems, our processes.
All in pursuit brand: customers trust Boots to provide of a single, simple ambition: to primary healthcare advice and services strengthen our position as the leader from qualied professionals.
Our LASIK in health and beauty.
laser eye correction clinics have seen Fullling that simple ambition is not strong demand from customers and easy in a competitive marketplace.
To were now integrating this business maintain our leadership, we have to do more closely with Boots Opticians.
two things: focus resolutely on health Our broader range of services, and beauty, with no distractions, and piloted in 12 Wellbeing Services make sure we really are the best.
BTC stores were not the right environment Focusing on health and beauty for pampering beauty services, and Now that weve sold Halfords, Boots the alternative therapy market is is dedicated to health and beauty.
currently too small to be attractive for Halfords is a good business and we a mainstream brand like Boots.
So we got a good price for it but it was have decided to withdraw from this diverting attention from our core activity.
We are now a single company with two We opened six Pure Beauty stores core businesses: BTC and BHI.
to pilot a specialist premium cosmetics Health and beauty is an attractive offer.
Customers liked it, but the returns market our core categories have been simply didnt justify rolling it out.
We are growing at 4-5% a year over the last closing the stores but will apply successful three years.
Its also a broad one, elements of the offer in larger BTC stores.
encompassing services as well as Pharmacy is a fundamentally products.
In the past couple of years important part of our offer.
It represents weve been running trials to discover about a quarter of BTCs sales and is the just how much of that ground we can foundation of our authority and cover under the Boots brand.
Its a market with attractive Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 A Boots brand toothbrush is sold every second second 1 long term growth prospects, driven BRI business.
We are closing operations availability of key lines from 90% to by ageing populations and the prescribing in Europe, slimming support operations over 98% in time for the Christmas of higher cost drugs.
In the UK its and streamlining activities in South East season.
Across all lines, including key growing at 7-8% a year.
We are a UK Asia to concentrate on rolling out the lines, availability is now over 98%.
In leader in pharmacy, and as the market new model in selected markets.
one year weve moved from a clearly place changes we will react quickly to unacceptable performance to one of strengthen our position further.
Being the best Todays consumers the best in the retail sector.
Weve BHI is our channel into the want excellent store environments, changed policies and procedures and international consumer healthcare advice, service and products.
To meet retrained 12,000 people throughout market.
Its an attractive, growing customer expectations we have to the supply chain and stores to make brands business that weve created invest in all aspects of retail excellence sure everyone could play their part.
through sustained investment over while reducing costs so that we can The improvement in on-shelf the past decade.
Now its fast becoming offer real value for money.
availability so far has come from xing a material contributor to group profits In the past year weve been our existing system.
Were now in the with excellent growth prospects.
encouraged by how quickly customers second year of a three year programme Our target is for the business to make respond when we start to get it right: to completely overhaul the supply chain 100m of operating profit within the weve already stabilised the long term to deliver a step change in efficiency.
next three years from organic growth decline in transaction numbers, our To satisfy customers appetite for alone.
It has built significant management indicative measure of the number of new products, we brought some 1,400 capability and is delivering strong customers in our stores.
We increased growth from a strategy of focusing Weve begun a major investment the distribution of premium cosmetics investment on selected strong brands programme to refurbish all our stores and now have them in 125 stores.
primarily Nurofen, Strepsils, and Clearasil.
In the past year weve We joined forces with Adams, the It plans to accelerate that growth by improved some 239, mainly in Central leading childrenswear specialist, to acquiring more brands and revitalising London, and a further 300 will follow launch a new 0-4 years baby and them, as its currently doing with Clearasil.
toddler clothing range mini mode Overseas, Boots Retail International Weve stepped up our investment exclusive to Boots.
We launched BRI is becoming a simpler business.
Our customers tell us that they Healthy Living in over 100 stores, Our original concept a full drug store really value the knowledge our store offering over 550 products ranging offering proved too capital intensive staff have.
We intend to build on that from exercise equipment to detoxing to establish and too complex to strength.
After increasing training and systems, and we signicantly broadened support.
We now have a low risk, low introducing new pay packages weve our Christmas and seasonal ranges.
cost export model, based around Boots seen a measurable improvement in staff As promised last year, we invested own brands and exclusives, which satisfaction and motivation.
over 17m in product innovation to involves opening small implants in host At the start of the year our on-shelf sustain our own brands.
Having rened this product availability was just not good included new brands like Starlet, model, we can now greatly simplify the enough.
A concerted effort raised Essentials and Advanced Plus.
We Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 06 Chief executives review 60m Essentials has added bubbles to over 60m baths and showers 1,000 1,000 people detox every day introduced over 500 new products under existing Boots brands and over 120 under Boots-exclusive brands such as TONI&GUY and Charles Worthington.
Well maintain substantial investment in new product development to create additional sales opportunities.
The other essential action last year was to sharpen our price competitiveness in commodity toiletries.
This reduced margin, but it was a decisive factor in stemming the decline in transaction numbers and driving sales up.
Well continue to offer value for money this year.
Weve also expanded points for the Advantage Card offer to include healthcare sales.
Since relaunching the card last year weve issued one million new cards.
Its one of the worlds largest loyalty schemes, with nearly nine million active users.
We will continue to use the information the Advantage Card gives us to better anticipate customer needs in the future.
We continue to invest in our pharmacy business.
Last year we opened a new automated warehouse and distribution system costing 10m that replenishes pharmacies every morning.
To improve the speed of our dispensing were also investing in innovations such as our carousel dispensaries.
By reducing the time it takes to dispense a prescription, it allows our pharmacists, who are 07 Chief executives review zero Boots Advanced mouthwash is alcohol free If were going to achieve sustained highly skilled healthcare professionals, to spend more time with our customers.
strong growth, we have to address Customers value the difference, and a this.
Our pilot implants in edge of town typical installation brings a pharmacy Sainsbury stores were profitable: but sales uplift of up to 6%.
we were unable to agree mutually To deliver all these improvements acceptable terms for reaping the while making good returns for potential benets.
Instead, weve shareholders, we have to make changes accelerated our opening programme behind the scenes as well as in the for suitable standalone sites.
Weve made great strides in We opened two edge of town stores simplifying the Boots organisation and last year and we intend to open a driving out costs, and in November we further 20 this year.
started a new programme aimed at To return to the theme of saving a further 100m in costs.
simplication, a simpler organisation Our purchasing continues to is faster and more agile.
Boots has a become keener, and we believe there strong management team and under are major savings to be made through the leadership of Sir Nigel Rudd and outsourcing.
Last year we outsourced Richard Baker I look forward to seeing our IT, which will bring savings of sustained and profitable growth.
The proposed closure of the Airdrie manufacturing plant was announced in February, as part of a plan to simplify and rationalise production capacity.
And in May this year we announced plans to outsource transport and some of our warehousing.
Steve Russell Chief Executive Where next?
Last years sales boost was just the start.
Boots is beginning to reap the benefit of recent investments.
But if we want to continue to be the best place for health and beauty, we need to be in the right places.
We have an unrivalled presence on Britains high streets but are underweight on edge of town sites.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 08 Review of operations Review of operations Both core businesses reaped the benefit of increased investment.
Boots The Chemists increased market share in key areas and had its best Christmas for a decade.
Boots Healthcare Internationals four-year growth strategy delivered the promised boost to sales and profits ahead of schedule.
Meanwhile Wellbeing Services and Boots Retail International cut out less promising activities to focus on those with greatest potential for profitable growth.
o N 7 Gay Geranium lip colour, one of the original shades sold in 1935, is still sold today Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 2 10 Review of operations 2m 2m people in the UK have used Mediterranean Body Butter seconds Over the past year someone sprayed Boots Hayfever Relief Nasal Spray every 2 seconds on average Boots The Chemists Sales m 4,284.4 Increase % 5.2 profit m before exceptionals 568.6 Decrease % 6.0 Sales split m Health 1,716.4 Beauty & Toiletries 1,891.9 Other 676.1 Boots the Chemists showed strong sales growth in the year, particularly in the second half.
The business held or grew market share by value in all counter health and beauty categories.
The Christmas trading performance was the best for a decade, and the decline in transaction numbers was stemmed.
Our prices in commodity toiletries and healthcare became more competitive, in part passing on the benets of better buying and cost efficiencies.
This, together with investment in store rets and higher pension costs, resulted in a fall in operating profit to 568.6m before exceptionals.
Strategy BTCs customer appeal is founded on the trust and heritage of the Boots brand, broad choice of own brand and proprietary products, innovative new product development and expert service and advice.
We are focused on the health and beauty markets and are confident of growing with them.
We will maintain our Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 131,218 131,218 litres of childrens multi-vitamin syrup are sold each year in 200ml bottles 11 Review of operations 214 miles All the bottles of Soltan sold last year would reach 214 miles, from Nottingham to Dublin leadership position through innovation, key driver.
Since relaunching it last year, units which speed-up customer service continued development of our store we have issued a million new cards.
and let pharmacists spend more time portfolio, understanding of consumer Operating profit was affected consulting with patients.
We have begun needs reinforced by analysis of by investment in stores, keener a programme to double the number by Advantage Card data, and clear value promotions and increased pension March 2004.
We also began to introduce positioning supported by tight control charges.
Underlying margins were our new pharmacy system, SmartScript, of operating costs.
down by about 1.1 percentage points, which will further enhance customer due largely to pricing, promotions service and give us more detailed Trading Sales rose 5.2% over the year and a slightly adverse change in the information on our dispensing business.
The increase was sales mix, partially offset by savings Since the abolition of Resale Price stronger in the second half than in the in the cost of goods.
Maintenance on OTC medicines we have first, and growth over the Christmas gained market share on the back of an period was the best for ten years third Health The regulation of the pharmacy attractive programme of promotions.
quarter sales were 8.1% up on the market is under review by the previous year.
Department of Trade and Industry DTI.
Beauty & Toiletries Sales grew strongly Healthcare sales rose by 5.1%, led At the time of writing it is unclear what throughout the year but particularly by our prescriptions business.
Beauty the outcome of the review will be, over Christmas which saw an increase & Toiletries grew by 6.8%, with a however the DTI are known not to of over 10% overall and sales of beauty particularly strong performance from favour total deregulation.
We believe gifts up almost 40%.
Sales of premium cosmetics and fragrance.
Sales in other that some degree of regulation is cosmetics grew by over 15% increasing categories, including baby, food, photo, necessary to secure convenient access market share by 1.5% in the year.
We seasonal and Digital Wellbeing, grew by to community pharmacy for all.
now sell them in 125 stores and we are 1.3%, driven by our enhanced Christmas We are keen to work with all the the leading UK retailer range and a strong performance in relevant authorities to ensure that of a number of major cosmetic brands.
any changes to the current regulations Within our own brands N We held market share in all counter deliver an enhanced service, offer continued to perform strongly with health and beauty categories with wide access to convenient community sales up 14% following the launches improvements in cosmetics where we pharmacies, and play a fuller role of Intelligent Colour Foundation and saw particularly strong sales growth, in the nations primary health care.
The prebaby and over the counter OTC During the year, although we increased Mothers Day week was the biggest healthcare.
Market share in toiletries the number of prescriptions dispensed, in the brands history.
was maintained and we saw a slight we saw a slight decline in market share Toiletries grew in line with the decline in our dispensing market share.
because the pattern of prescribing market supported by a combination The number of transactions was changed to favour older people.
New own slightly down for the year as a whole, We began a substantial investment brand ranges included Mediterranean branded toiletries but the long term decline stabilised in programme in our pharmacy operations, Essentials and fcuk mid-year.
The Advantage Card was a installing more carousel style dispensing for women.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 6,750 2,410 12 Review of operations 6,750 No7 Ultimate Volumising Mascara were sold every week last year 2,410 packs of Intelligent Colour Foundation are sold every day Boots is also the partner of choice Photo sales were down 7.6% in a for launching and promoting new rapidly declining market, reecting proprietary products, and last year customers switching to digital we continued to emphasise this area.
photography and the associated Boots led the launch of the new Gillette reduction in spending on lms and Mach III Turbo blades in January similar products.
In response we are attracting immediate share of 60%.
broadening our range of digital Some four months later we continued cameras and installing instore to sell more than our expected share.
technology to produce photo quality During the year we ran strong promotions prints from digital memory cards.
in the toiletries category including Growth in sales of seasonal 99 pence price points, and were merchandise was due largely to an successful in maintaining market share.
enhanced range of Christmas lines.
In sun preparations sales were up The inclusion of a broader assortment over 14% and we gained 4% of market of products is valued by our customers share, helped by the strong performance and helps us to become a destination of the St Tropez self tan range.
We intend to place more emphasis on seasonal lines in Other Sales grew by 1.3% reversing the future for example, broadening the trend of the last two years.
our range of summer related products Baby had a good year, with sales up such as swimwear to sell alongside 4.7%.
We are supporting this category sun preparations.
with stronger promotions because During the year we brought the they are very effective in raising overall wellbeing.
com website in-house and footfall.
As a further boost we have renamed it boots.
developed the mini mode childrenswear Total online sales grew 120% range in conjunction with Adams.
in the year, and average order value Launched in February, it is making grew 17% as customers became more encouraging progress.
In November Food sales showed no growth over 2002 independent research reported a the last year and we saw a decline in record 592,000 unique visitors, making sales in London affected by increased it the UKs tenth busiest retail website.
competition and the downturn in tourism.
We relaunched our sandwich Products Product innovation played packaging in May 2003 to enhance an important role in the years sales o 7 had the best sales in its customer perceptions of our range.
N Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 needs 13 Review of operations 5 Clearasil total control provides products for the five most important needs of young skin: shine reduction, moisturisation, blemish control, sun protection and evenness of skin tone Boots Healthcare International grown the volume sales of our everyday history, with Intelligent Colour Sales m 460.4 Foundation proving to be its most value products by bringing them Increase % 13.0 successful product launch ever.
This together under the Boots Essentials profit m before exceptionals 70.1 innovative foundation is a unique brand, which has won an award for its Increase % 5.1 silicone gel pigment blend which packaging design.
Essentials now covers Core brand sales m promises to match the skin tones of all all major toiletry categories washing increase% women with just three shades.
Sales and bathing, haircare and mens.
Nurofen 117.8 21.7 have exceeded forecast by almost 40%.
Strepsils 77.8 7.7 o 7 debuts included the relaunch Other N Store development In addition to our Clearasil 86.9 14.4 of DailyV Skincare, which is store reinvigoration programme, we Dermacosmetics 61.5 10.0 outperforming the old range by 34%.
undertook other schemes including the at comparable exchange rates The most successful addition to the retting of our Victoria Centre, 17 range was Fat Lash, a volumising Nottingham store.
Although we In February 2002 Boots Healthcare mascara in an innovative tube pack reduced the product sales area by 22%, International BHI announced a format which achieved excellent sales we increased weekly takings by four-year plan to step-up in its first six months.
Over a third of 35,000 per week, representing a sales investment in marketing and new buyers are new to the 17 brand.
product development, to deliver a We continued to extend the popular Over the next 12 months we will new strategy of building major Botanics range.
Its Face Renewal Cream accelerate our store development international consumer healthcare was named best anti-ageing cream by programme.
We have restarted our brands.
A pause in profit growth M magazine.
And the simple idea of edge of town programme and aim to was predicted for 2002 03 while we bundling miniature packs of Botanics open 20 more stores by April 2004. regenerated organic sales growth products into themed kits such as the In addition, we will undertake many through the increased brand Facial Pamper Kit and Weekend Pamper projects within our existing portfolio investment.
Nevertheless, we have Kit has been a great success in of high street stores.
To respond to delivered sales growth of 12.3% at introducing new customers to the brand.
evolving customer shopping patterns comparable exchange rates and The new Mediterranean range these will be a combination of opening delivered a 5% rise in operating proved a good example of turning new stores, space changes and profit.
consumer insights into popular closures.
Taken together, these changes products.
It capitalises on the popular represent a significant increase in our appeal of Mediterranean diets and development programme to enhance Strategy BHI aims to become a top ten lifestyle to create innovative toiletries that the quality of our store portfolio.
global player in OTC healthcare.
We already have annual sales of over 4m.
aim to achieve this by developing six to Innovation and style are part of the eight leading consumer healthcare whole Boots brand offer, not confined brands.
We are driving brand innovation to our premium products.
We have to capture a top three leadership position Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 120 Strepsils are sold in 120 countries around the world 14 Review of operations 800 All the packs of Nurofen sold each year in the UK, stacked end to end, would be 800 times higher than Mount Everest in our three core OTC categories of of the previous year.
analgesics Nurofen, cough cold In line with the growth plan, brand Strepsils and skincare Clearasil, while investment including brand marketing also developing new brands.
To full and new product development our aspirations more rapidly, we will expenditure increased by 27.3m, also seek to acquire brands to which moving from 25.1% to 28.3% of sales.
we can apply our brand rejuvenation Brand marketing expenditure rose by and development capabilities.
26%, while new product development We are aiming to accelerate organic spend was up 42% to rebuild the threegrowth through increased marketing year product innovation pipeline.
and new product development Operating margin of 15.2% reected expenditure.
We will have greater focus effective control of operating costs, on both our development pipeline and which fell as a percentage of sales by in-market execution.
In 2002 03, over 1.5 percentage points, and cost of goods, half our organic growth was generated which fell by 0.6 percentage points.
from products launched during the year.
Our research and development The years largest product launch programme made significant progress was a major extension of the Clearasil in developing products that will continue brand, Clearasil total control, targeting to build our brands and take us into the high-value young skincare market.
Clinical trials have We also broadened the Nurofen brand progressed well.
by launching indication-specic Organisational change is focused products for conditions such as on four goals: breakthrough brand menstrual pain.
These projects were innovation, streamlined decision brought from marketing concept to making, building high performance launch within 14 months.
We remain on track to deliver the financial projections we communicated Analgesics Sales of Nurofen grew to the City in February 2002.
However, to 21.7% at comparable exchange rates, reach our goal of being a top ten player driven by strong performances in the more rapidly we intend to supplement UK, Australia and Eastern Europe.
Growth was driven by new products, new packaging such as Results Sales of 460.4m represented handbag packs to offer convenience, top line growth of 13% 12.3% and quality new advertising.
Key at comparable exchange rates.
launches were Nurofen for Children profit of 70.1m was 5.1% ahead Singles, and Nurofen Recovery in the Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 1.
4m Last year Boots Opticians carried out more than 1.4m eye examinations 15 Review of operations 1.5m Boots Dentalcare conducted 50,000 initial new patient examinations last year thats around 1.5m teeth UK, and Nurofen Menstrual in Poland.
range, which extends Clearasil Opticians & Eyecare The UK Nurofen Plus strong painkillers led from spot control to young skincare.
optical market is a mature one highly us to pharmacy market leadership Targeting women aged 16-24, it competitive and growing at only 2-3% in Australia.
The continuing success provides products for the five most a year.
Our strategy is to achieve modest of Nurofen for Children is growing important needs of young skin: shine sales growth and stable market share, our share of the childrens market in reduction, moisturisation, blemish while controlling costs tightly to enhance several parts of Europe.
control, sun protection and evenness of profits.
After a period of moving skin tone.
These have received very upmarket we are returning to a broad Cough & Cold Strepsils worldwide positive trade reaction as we have built appeal, in keeping with the overall growth was 7.7% at comparable the distribution pipeline.
The roll-out of Strepfen In dermacosmetics, total sales rose Sales for our core business grew benefited from the wide distribution by 10%.
E45 sales benefited from new 7% in the first half, but were weak of Strepsils internationally.
We also product launches including the E45 in the second, with a year on year had early signs of success with our Junior range.
Lutsine continued to grow decline of 1% bringing growth for entry into the cough segment in Asia, strongly in Italy and Spain, but in France the full year to 3% roughly in line extending the brand beyond sore throats.
sales were disappointing they will with the market.
Tight cost control improve as we benefit from the held profits level at 9.6m.
Skincare Overall sales of core skincare more unied global platform, further LASIK sales grew 84% increasing products grew 12.6% at comparable product innovation, and improved our market share from 15% to 18%.
exchange rates, led by strong progress in-market execution.
We opened four new clinics during the in revitalising Clearasil.
year at Bluewater, Bristol, Glasgow Clearasil sales grew 14.4%, advancing Opticians & Eyecare, Dentalcare and Nottingham making a total of nine.
strongly in the US, UK and Australia.
and Wellbeing Services The business made a trading loss Sales m 262.5 Growth has been accelerating, from largely due to higher marketing costs Increase % 13.6 4% in the first half to 26% in the in a more competitive market.
We are Operating loss m 28.6 second, backed by new TV advertising now integrating LASIK more closely Increase % 13.6 and extensions of the base range into with the core Opticians business to body wash, cleansing wipes, overnight reduce costs and increase cross-referral.
During the year we decided treatment gel and sensitive face wash. We have switched the brand from to close our Wellbeing Services Dentalcare While we have closed our decline to growth in all major markets while retaining Dentalcare and Wellbeing Services we have decided to except Germany and France and Footcare.
The Opticians & retain our Dentalcare business.
Private expect stronger growth this year from Eyecare business continues to dentistry is a 2bn market in the UK these markets as investment increases.
rebuild profits in its core market.
and may have the potential for Boots In the fourth quarter this growth The exceptional costs of closing to develop a profitable business model.
was supplemented in the US and UK by Wellbeing Services were 34.5m.
Sales rose 64% to 21.8m and we the launch of the Clearasil total control increased the number of registered Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 16 Review of operations patients by 75% to 175,000.
The Kong, where we now have eight implants business is growing well, but we want and performance to date is encouraging.
to shorten the time it takes to bring In Thailand, we have had a very new practices to profitability.
successful year in turning the business We have changed the model, around.
Strong like for like sales growth moving into line with standard industry of 7%, margin growth and cost reduction practice by transferring our dentists to have signicantly improved the results self-employed status.
This will make it of the business.
easier to recruit and incentivise dentists while making the professional staff cost Supply and support services base more exible.
We believe this will The simplication of the shorten the period to breakeven.
organisation has enabled us to Footcare continues to operate integrate our supply chain, logistics, from 44 locations, in association procurement, IT, manufacturing, with dental practices.
properties, engineering and facilities management activities Insurance Services Health and travel and our retail buying operation in cover is a small but profitable business.
Hong Kong into a single support Sales and profits were in line with the organisation serving all our retail previous year.
Boots Retail International The years principal achievements were Sales m 37.0 the dramatic improvement in on-shelf Decrease % 8.2 availability without which our sales Loss m 22.3 growth would not have been possible Increase % 7.5 and the outsourcing of IT, which will save 100m over 10 years.
We have found that there is significant demand for Boots Supply chain Now that on-shelf own brand and exclusive products availability is running at acceptable in some overseas markets.
We will levels, we can begin to reduce the meet this demand through the large distribution inventories that use of a low cost export model we currently hold around the country.
with retail partners who host Boots In June we opened a new brand implants in their stores.
automated single-picking warehouse on our Nottingham site to support Strategy BRI has 66 stores and 106 our dispensing operations.
This now implants, almost all in South East Asia.
provides top-up deliveries to all our Our strategy is now based on export pharmacies every morning.
It is the sales through low cost, low risk biggest system of its kind in Europe and implants selling a select range of about has enabled us to close our Aldershot 800 Boots own brand and exclusive warehouse and downsize Heywood, products through selected host reducing total headcount by 700. retailers.
This simplied approach This year we have launched a supply enables us to focus on managing the chain transformation programme instore offer, controlling costs and involving long term structural building scale.
change, including rationalisation of manufacturing.
The aim is to deliver Performance Overall sales were in line best in class on-shelf availability in with the previous year, in a period of parallel with reductions in cost and major change involving the closure of working capital.
stores and opening of many implants.
We are working towards a supply In Thailand like for like sales grew 7%.
chain that will replenish stores stocks The operating loss of 22.3m includes of most lines every day delivering 5.5m for exiting the loss making straight to the shelf.
We will only hold European operations and restructuring inventory in store stockrooms for the our business in Asia.
few lines such as nappies and seasonal items that need replenishing more than South East Asia A year ago we once a day.
This will deliver significant announced agreement with Watsons, savings in store staff time, and reduce South East Asias leading drugstore inventory.
Trials of the new replenishment chain, to open implants in Taiwan.
We now have 54 implants in Watsons Currently there are multiple locations stores.
We are now simplifying our holding balanced stocks around the Taiwan operation, growing to around country.
Vehicle capacity utilisation is 100 implants, closing our Boots stores low because of inherent inefficiencies BRI sold half a million and shipping direct to Watsons.
We are moving towards litres of liquid soap 1 In October we launched a similar category-specic warehouses supplying last year m 2 arrangement with Watsons in Hong regional distribution centres which Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 17 Review of operations will crossfeed into delivery vehicles and range planning systems, and for stores.
Transport will be better will be about to begin deploying integrated, greatly improving vehicle a new merchandising and supply utilisation.
On the upstream side, chain system.
we will also move closer to just-in-time We have installed 2,290 new touchdelivery from suppliers.
All these screen tills in 218 stores as part of the changes will use proven technology store reinvigoration programme.
This and should result in better customer year we will add a further 3,000 new service at much lower cost.
tills in 109 large stores in time for the We will also outsource all our Christmas season.
transport services and the management We continue to develop the of a major Nottingham warehouse.
Advantage Cards capabilities, upgrading the instore kiosk system to generate Manufacturing We have completed more personalised offers based on a review aimed at simplifying and individual customers spending patterns.
rationalising production capacity, and in Very few retailers anywhere are able to February 2003 we announced proposals use their loyalty cards in this way, and to close our Airdrie manufacturing we are continuing to add enhancements.
facility over the next two years.
Savings from the closure will amount to 16m Property Our property team has greatly a year.
About 1,000 people work simplied its processes, to improve the at the site and we have declared our efficiency of its acquisition, construction determination to minimise the social and maintenance operations.
It is now impact of any closure.
Closure of Airdrie clearly focused on servicing the Boots will allow us to realign production The Chemists and the disposal of its resources in favour of short-cycle investment and development portfolios manufacturing.
Until now, big-batch is almost complete.
Last year we production has meant that some lines realised 61m from disposals, are made infrequently resulting 23m from investment properties in large inventories, exposure to and 38m from Halfords sites.
forecasting errors and slow response The only sites remaining to be sold to changing fashions.
The investment are the shopping centres at Hastings cost of switching to short-cycle and Kendal.
The plan is to dispose of manufacturing will be relatively low these in the current financial year.
because we will be able to adapt existing equipment, including some transferred from Airdrie.
Purchasing During the year we reduced purchasing costs by 30m, mainly in buying goods not for resale.
We are continuing to make effective use of global internet auctions, saving money on purchases ranging from TV advertising to plastic bags.
IT In 2001 02 we reorganised our IT function, bringing 14 groups into one and establishing an integrated business process and information systems blueprint for the future.
In the past year we have made real progress in the development and implementation of that blueprint, Project Backbone, and announced investment of 79m in the coming year.
To support our new IT strategy we have outsourced our IT operations under contracts worth a total of 800m, transferring over 600 staff to IBM and Xansa.
The result will be annual savings of 8m immediately, and a total of 100m over the ten-year contract period.
These savings will help to offset investment in new systems and processes that support the organisational change going on across the business.
By the end of this year we will have made substantial progress in implementing new finance, human resource, space Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 18 Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility People have high expectations of Boots.
One of the strengths of the Boots brand is that it is more trusted than almost any other brand or institution in the UK.
To earn and sustain that trust, we must be seen to behave with integrity and responsibility.
Business in the Community recently published a strategy on biodiversity, Our transport eet continues to raise published the preliminary findings of its another important sustainability issue.
In 2000 we set a first Corporate Responsibility Index.
If we are to make meaningful, three-year target of reducing diesel 3 of stock carried by 3%.
These confirmed our strength in areas measurable steps towards becoming use per m such as community investment and the a more sustainable business we need We have beaten that gure, with a environment.
They also highlighted the to decouple our growth from our 4.0% improvement from 12.87 to 3 of stock.
Last year need which we have been addressing environmental impacts so that 12.36 litres per m for more engagement with corporate business success does not come at a we also cut the fuel used per m of social responsibility CSR issues at corresponding cost to the environment.
For example, despite increasing Like for like energy consumption Last year we strengthened the role turnover last year we cut waste disposal improved by 2.7% from 147kWh to of the boards Social Responsibility by 8.4%.
This saved us around 160,000 143kWh per 000 turnover.
We are Committee, now led by non-executive in disposal costs alone and disposal increasing our focus in this area, to director Hlne Ploix, and gave executive costs represent only a relatively small sustain progress against a background board responsibility for CSR to HR part of the total cost of waste to the of increasingly energy-intensive director Andy Smith.
business, which also includes the cost business needs such as comfort cooling We are reinforcing the linkage of extracting, manufacturing and for customers and staff, and increasing between CSR policy formation at board transporting the raw materials to warehouse automation.
level and effective programmes of action Boots.
Around 46% of the 37,000 Further details of our environmental throughout the organisation.
This work tonnes of waste we produced last strategies and policies, and a full report is led by Ken Piggott, who moved from year was recovered through recycling of our environmental performance running Boots The Chemists to take or incineration with heat recovery.
during 2002 03, are available on our charge of it.
He has carried out a major We have now set a five year goal website at www.
bootsCSR review, benchmarking our of reducing like for like waste disposal plc.
com environment performance against other organisations by a further 20%.
and developing detailed targets and Packaging recovery and recycling Ethical sourcing We source products action plans.
grew 31.6% to record levels, 4.1% up internationally and recognise our on our previous best.
This avoided the responsibility for the conditions under Environment Boots has long been need to dispose of over 15,000 tonnes which they are manufactured.
By committed to rigorous environmental of material, saving over 1.3m in landll building social accountability into our management and reporting, and to costs and generating income of around purchasing procedures we aim to becoming a more sustainable business.
ensure that we and our customers do In 2003 we took a major step forward A KPMG audit of our compliance with not unwittingly support abuse of by establishing a sustainability strategy packaging waste legislation reported human rights, unsafe working for the chemicals we use in our products, an excellent result and Repak, the Irish conditions, unfair wage rates, child developed in consultation with a wide compliance scheme, awarded us a labour or forced labour.
We have also Certicate of Excellence.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 19 Corporate social responsibility The standards we ask suppliers to meet Community investment Our are set out in the Boots Code of community investment last year Conduct for Ethical Trading, based on amounted to 5.0m in cash, donations International Labour Organisation and sponsorships, and contributions in standards and UN conventions.
We kind including 680k worth of recycled require all our suppliers to comply and merchandise.
We encourage all our to ensure that their own suppliers meet stores to develop initiatives in their local our standards.
In cases of non-compliance communities, and following extensive we first give the supplier an opportunity consultation are preparing a guidance to take specified remedial action, as manual of best practice for distribution summary withdrawal of our business to stores this summer.
could itself have a harmful social impact.
Perhaps the most significant Our own compliance team covers development in our community suppliers of Boots branded products in programme has been its increased the UK and Europe, and expects to have alignment with the strategic aims of the assessed all 400 existing suppliers by business.
In particular, we have worked April 2006.
In Asia we use consultants, with the NHS in Nottinghamshire and who expect to complete assessment of with other health organisations to our existing 270 suppliers there by support and develop health promotion autumn 2005. initiatives in the community.
This year we joined the Ethical Regular consultation surveys with Trading Initiative, an alliance of our staff confirm their support for companies, non-governmental health related activities.
We also know organisations and trade unions.
This will that our staff are among the most enable us to learn from other members, generous employees in the country.
share experience and further rene our The Charities Aid Foundation gave our approach to ethical sourcing.
relaunched Give As You Earn scheme its Smile award last year, noting that Boots Our people The way we recruit, people donated 40% more than the retain, develop and motivate people national average.
determines our ability to serve customers We continue to support the time and meet our responsibilities to other and energy our people give to stakeholders such as shareholders.
fundraising and community activities Boots has a reputation as a good and last year we matched the 168,000 employer: in recent years, for example, raised by staff for the charities of their we have done much work on familychoice.
We also supported team friendly policies and we retain a good challenges in which 193 staff took a day pension scheme.
out of normal work activity to improve In the past couple of years we have facilities for local community groups faced a new challenge: large-scale for example by decorating rooms in organisational change.
Change can hospitals and landscaping the area affect people for better or for worse.
brings new opportunities, but also stress A partnership between Nottingham and uncertainty.
Some gain new skills City Hospital, New College Nottingham and challenges and unfortunately others and Boots has resulted in the creation of lose their jobs.
To maintain our integrity Time for a Treat workshops at the City as an organisation we must address Hospital.
These have provided a health these issues sensitively and effectively.
boost for more than 100 hospital We have involved people in the patients and clients from the local change process through two-way community.
The positive response to communication and consultation.
Where the workshops for long term patients appropriate we have provided training has led to the development of a for staff representatives and access to permanent patient massage service at independent advice.
Wherever possible, the hospital for patients who are unable when job losses are unavoidable, we to leave their beds.
have developed programmes to help NHS staff have benefited too.
In the people through these difficult times past year two staff Time for a Treat days and to nd alternative work.
at Nottingham City Hospital have In training and development we provided a range of health treatments have focused on giving people the skills for some 300 people from the hospital they need for new roles and ensuring and a neighbouring primary care trust.
that their managers can provide support, The success of these events has led to leadership and motivation.
We have the development plans for a permanent also run programmes geared to specic service for staff at the hospital.
strategic objectives: specialist training For further information on our for some 12,000 people was a crucial community investment, see our element in the drive to raise on-shelf website at www.
com communityinvestment Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 20 Board of directors 12 34 Board of directors 1 3 John McGrath 64, appointed Paul Bateman 50, group operations December 1997, chairman since director.
Responsible for logistics, August 2000 and chief executive since manufacturing, engineering, 1st June 2003.
Group chief executive of procurement and properties.
Joined Diageo until his retirement in December Boots in 2001 to lead supply chain and 2000.
He was group chief executive of business services development.
Grand Metropolitan before GrandMet Previously worked for Procter & Gamble.
and Guinness merged in December 4 1997 to form Diageo.
Previously Andy Smith 42, group human resource chairman and chief executive of IDV, GrandMets spirits and wines business.
Joined Boots in 1997 as director of personnel.
He was director of 2 personnel for Boots The Chemists from Howard Dodd 43, appointed finance 1999 before being appointed to the director April 2002.
Howard is a chartered board in April 2001.
Previously he worked accountant and a fellow of the for Pepsi Cola and Mars Confectionery.
Previously he worked for AstraZeneca and ICI, where he gained significant international experience in finance and treasury.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 21 Board of directors 56 78 9 5 8 Sir Nigel Rudd 56, appointed Dr Martin Read 53, appointed 1999.
December 1999 and deputy chairman Group chief executive of Logica CMG, since December 2001.
Non-executive one of the worlds leading global IT chairman of Kidde, Pilkington and solutions companies.
He is also a non-executive at Logica in 1993, he held a number of director of Barclays.
senior positions at GEC Marconi.
He was appointed a non-executive director 6 of British Airways in 2000 and served as Hlne Ploix 58, appointed a non-executive director of Asda Group September 2000.
Chairman of Pechel from 1996 to 1999.
She is also a non-executive 9 director of BNP Paribas, Ferring, Lafarge Jan Bennink 46, appointed 2001. and Publicis.
President and chief executive of Numico, 7 a leader in infant and clinical nutrition Dr John Buchanan 60, appointed and nutritional supplements.
Formerly group chief experience includes seven years with financial officer and a managing Danone as president of the dairy director of BP.
He is also a non-executive division, six years with Benckiser in Italy director of AstraZeneca, BHP Billiton and Germany and seven years with and Vodafone Group.
Procter & Gamble in the Netherlands and the US.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 22 Summary financial review Summary financial review in Boots The Chemists and Boots 358.1m realised from disposals and Healthcare International but shows acquisitions of businesses includes the cost of the investments we are 367.6m in respect of the sale of making to renew our core businesses Halfords in August 2002.
The proceeds and those associated with exiting from this sale are being used to fund loss-making activities.
the current 400m share repurchase programme.
Profit before tax declined 16.9% to 78.8m shares at a cost of 462.8m 494.9m, due to 123.2m loss on the were repurchased during the year.
41.4m sale of Halfords and 34.5m costs for shares at a cost of 253.9m were Free cash flow m the closure of certain wellbeing purchased to complete the 300m buy services.
These are both shown as back programme announced in March exceptional items and are partially 2002 and 37.4m shares at a cost of offset by an exceptional interest credit 208.9m were purchased as part of the of 92.1m arising from the closure of current programme.
Share price Our share price fell Taxation Excluding non-operating 21.1% from 672.5p at the end of last exceptional items before interest, the year to 530.5p on 31st March 2003. effective tax rate for the group was The price ranged from a high of 725p 31.5%, slightly higher than last years to a low of 492p.
rate of 31.1% due to increased Whilst this fall reflects a general profits overseas which were taxed decline in stock market values it at a higher rate.
represents a better performance than the FTSE100 which fell by 31.5% in the Basic earnings per share before same period.
exceptional items decreased by 9.4% 99 00 01 02 03 to 45.2p basic earnings per share Total shareholder return TSR over decreased by 21.6% to 36.0p.
the last five years compared with those Earnings per share p See table opposite.
of our peer companies were as follows: before exceptional items Five years to 31st March 2003 % Dividend The board has proposed a 1 Smith and Nephew 123.9 final dividend of 20.2p.
This brings the 2 Alliance UniChem 24.0 total dividend for the year to 28.6p, 3 Reckitt Benckiser 21.4 an increase of 4.4% over last year.
4 Tesco 13.1 5 GUS 17.1 Cash flow The following summary of cash 6 Debenhams 17.4 flow demonstrates the companys ability 7 Boots 24.0 to consistently generate free cash flow.
8 WHSmith 24.2 Summary of cash flows 2003 2002 9 Kingfisher 35.6 m m 10 Marks & Spencer 37.8 Operating cash flows 11 J Sainsbury 39.3 before exceptionals 590 752 Exceptional operating Position seven this year is an improvement cash flows 8 29 of two places compared with last year.
Acquisition disposal 99 00 01 02 03 Our five-year TSR of 24.0 % represents of businesses 358 4 5.3 % on an annualised basis.
Purchase of fixed assets 146 172 Group performance Over a ten-year period our equivalent Disposal of fixed assets 119 62 During the year our aim has been to annualised return was 5.7%.
Disposal of own shares 3 8 refocus on the two core businesses: Taxation paid 197 139 Boots The Chemists and Boots Healthcare Free cash flow 719 486 International.
Our priorities have been Repurchase of shares 465 36 to drive profitable top line growth while Dividends paid 238 235 increasing investment in the future.
Net interest 75 41 This has been a year of substantial Net cash flow 91 256 change and the Financial Results Howard Dodd Free cash flow is defined as the cash flow reflect this.
Chief Financial Officer available to all providers of capital.
Turnover from continuing operations Cash flow from operating activities increased by 6.0% to 5,092.4m.
before exceptionals was 590.4m, a decrease of 161.3m on last year mainly Operating profit fell by 10.7% to arising through lower operating profit 544.1m.
This masks underlying progress and higher stock levels.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 41.4 95 44.9 376 45.4 60 49.9 486 45.2 719 23 Summary financial statement Summary financial statement This summary financial statement is only a summary of information contained in the annual report and accounts, directors report and the directors remuneration report.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the company or group, or of their policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration, as is provided by the full annual report and accounts.
The financial statements, directors report and auditors report which is unqualified are included in a separate document entitled Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2003, which is available to shareholders, free of charge, from the address shown in shareholder information on the inside back cover.
Statement of the independent auditors to the members of Boots Group PLC pursuant to section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
We have examined the summary financial statement set out on pages 23 to 28.
This statement is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in such a statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual review and summary financial statement in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the annual review and summary financial statement with the full annual financial statements and directors report and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the annual review and summary financial statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the groups full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual financial statements, the directors report and the directors remuneration report of Boots Group PLC for the year ended 31st March 2003 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Birmingham 4th June 2003 Summary directors report The directors of Boots Group PLC present their summary financial statement to shareholders for the year ended 31st March 2003.
It is a summary of the information contained in the Report and Accounts.
Capital reorganisation During the year a new group holding company was interposed between The Boots Company PLC and its shareholders through a scheme of arrangement.
Principal activities The groups principal activities during the year were: retailing of chemists merchandise.
the provision of opticians and other healthcare services.
the development, manufacture and marketing of healthcare and consumer products.
The group completed the sale of its autoparts retailer on 30th August 2002. Business review and future developments A review of group activities during the year, research and development, and likely future developments are dealt with in the chairmans statement, chief executives review and review of operations on pages 1 to 17.
Appropriations The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 20.2p per share which, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 22nd August 2003 to shareholders registered on 20th June 2003.
When added to the interim dividend of 8.4p paid on 7th February 2003, this makes a total dividend payment for the year of 28.6p per share 2002 27.4p per share.
Payment of these dividends requires 230.7m 2002 240.6m, leaving a profit of 71.0m 2002 163.7m retained in the business.
Directors Details of directors are shown on pages 20 and 21.
Mr D A R Thompson was a director of The Boots Company PLC until his retirement from the board on 4th September 2002 and Mr B Clare was a director of The Boots Company PLC and Boots Group PLC until his resignation on 31st January 2003.
Ms F M Harrison was a director of The Boots Company PLC until her resignation on 6th November 2002 and Mr K S Piggott was a director of The Boots Company PLC until his resignation on 31st December 2002.
Corporate governance The requirements of corporate governance are set out in the Financial Services Authority FSA Listing Rules together with the related Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code, now adopted by the FSA.
Directors are assisted in complying with the internal control requirements of the Combined Code by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales publication Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance.
The board has reviewed the groups corporate governance policies and practice and has determined that the company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the period.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 24 Summary directors remuneration report Summary directors remuneration report Remuneration policies Executive directors salaries and non-executive directors fees have been positioned at the market median in the light of independent assessment of market practices.
The Committee intends that executive directors salaries assuming no change in responsibilities will be increased annually in line with inflation, subject to total pay being benchmarked against the market every three years and that over time the proportion of executive directors total remuneration that is dependent upon performance will become greater.
The committee has also introduced a personal performance measure into the executive directors short term bonus scheme, in addition to the business performance tests.
The terms of the current Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Executive Share Option Plan were approved by the shareholders of The Boots Company PLC in 2001, and at the time were designed to have a value equal to 59.8% of executive directors base pay.
The current short term bonus scheme is likely to increase the percentage of directors total pay dependent upon performance, but using the binomial valuation model, the value of the Executive Share Option Plan has reduced by 10.2% of base pay.
Based upon current estimates of the value of short and long term incentive plans and share option schemes, variable performance based remuneration is likely to form 49.8% of the chief executives total remuneration and 43.6% of other executive directors total remuneration in 2003 04.
Bonus schemes provide an opportunity for executive directors to receive additional rewards, if and only if, personal and business performance meets specified objectives and targets.
The way that business performance is measured for bonus and share option schemes for executive directors flows from, and is consistent with, business strategy, and with the boards governing objective of maximising the value of the company for the benefit of shareholders, and is described below.
The short term executive bonus scheme rewards executive directors for achieving operating efficiencies and profitable growth in the relevant year by reference to challenging but achievable forecasts derived at the beginning of the year from strategic plans.
During 2002 03, the performance criteria were profit after tax and sales growth and a combined bonus of up to 60% of base salary was payable depending upon performance against target.
The maximum short term bonus that can be earned in 2003 04 has been increased from 60% to in the case of the chief executive 100%, and for all other directors 75%.
In 2003 04 one third of the available bonus depends on individual performance against personal targets, and two thirds depends upon business performance targets for sales, profit and return on capital.
The business targets have been chosen for their relevance in driving short term performance of the business.
The long term bonus scheme can provide executive directors with a maximum potential bonus award worth up to125% of basic salary, and provides a direct link between the pay of executive directors and the creation of value for shareholders by rewarding directors for the companys performance in terms of total shareholder return TSR over a three or four-year performance period relative to a peer group of ten other leading companies which the Committee consider to be appropriate comparators by virtue of their size and markets in which they operate.
TSR was chosen as the appropriate performance measure for the Long Term Incentive Plan as it aligns the interests of the executive with the actual return received by shareholders.
The peer group is reviewed before each performance cycle to maintain its relevance.
Under the Executive Share Option Plan executive directors and other employees can be granted options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the company.
The Executive Share Option Plan aligns returns to shareholders with reward to executives but only if share price growth is achieved and if a performance target is met.
An option is not exercisable unless a performance target has been met, and the value of the options is directly linked to share price movement.
The condition imposed in respect of all options granted to date was average annual growth in earnings per share EPS over the relevant period at least equal to the increase in the index of retail prices 3%.
EPS growth is first compared to the performance condition at the end of the third year of the performance period.
If the condition is not met, performance is re-tested annually until the end of the sixth year when, if the condition has still not been met, the options lapse.
The EPS performance measure in the share option scheme provides an absolute as opposed to relative financial measure of company performance.
Share ownership provides an effective way to align the interests of shareholders and executives.
For all performance periods commencing on or after 1st April 2002 the whole of an executive directors long term bonus is payable in shares of the company, and executive directors now participate in a share option plan.
Moreover, the Committee has adopted a policy of requiring executive directors over time to achieve a holding in the companys shares having a value equivalent to their base salary.
The Committee does not currently intend to propose any amendments to the executive share option or long term bonus schemes.
It is the practice of the board to maintain contact where appropriate with its major shareholders about remuneration issues.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 25 Summary directors remuneration report Performance graph The following graph, required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, shows the total shareholder return over the five-year period to 31st March 2003 for the companys shares and the FTSE100 index.
The FTSE100 is considered to be an appropriate index for comparison as the company forms part of that index, investors in the company are likely to regard other FTSE100 companies as alternative investments, and investors are familiar with it.
Components of emoluments Salaries and fees Salaries and fees paid to directors are shown in the table below.
Short term executive bonus scheme Performance against targets during the year was such that a bonus equal to 27% of salary was earned by executive directors.
Other benefits Executive directors receive other benefits, including a company car, sick pay and holidays, which overall provide a reasonably competitive package comparable with that provided by other major companies.
Analysis of directors emoluments Full details of directors emoluments are set out in the directors remuneration report, contained in the 2003 Annual Report and Accounts, copies of which are available on request.
The cash elements of the remuneration for the year to 31st March 2003 are set out in the table below.
Commutation of accrued Other Short Compensation unapproved payments Salaries term Long term Other for loss pension on Total Total 000 and fees bonuses incentives benefits of office entitlements termination 2003 2002 P Bateman from 1st April 2002 260 70 25 355 J Bennink from 10th September 2001 32 32 17 Dr J G S Buchanan 34 34 30 B Clare resigned 31st January 2003 313 33 64 528 1,200 37 2,175 496 H Dodd from 1st April 2002 350 95 1 446 F M Harrison resigned 6th November 2002 19 19 30 J B McGrath chairman 250 1 251 255 K S Piggott 272 73 48 16 409 499 resigned 31st December 2002 H Ploix 32 32 30 Dr M P Read 32 32 30 Sir Nigel Rudd deputy chairman 55 55 55 S G Russell 600 162 73 24 859 809 A P Smith 275 74 9 20 378 336 D A R Thompson retired on 4th September 2002 207 56 75 81 419 677 J J H Watson retired on 31st July 2001 185 2,731 530 238 232 528 1,200 37 5,496 3,449 Includes nine months salary in lieu of notice and 67,500 in respect of short term bonus.
Mr B Clare and certain of his dependants surrendered their entitlements under the unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme, and received a total of 1.2m being the actuarial value of these benefits.
The company also met the cost of certain legal and financial advice given to Mr B Clare.
Mr K S Piggott remains an employee of the company and received, in addition to the sums stated in this table, a salary of 45,313 and short term bonus of 11,328 in respect of the period from 1st January 2003 to 31st March 2003.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 26 Group profit and loss account Group profit and loss account 2003 2002 For the year ended 31st March 2003 m m Turnover Turnover from continuing operations 5,092.4 4,803.7 Discontinued operation 234.9 528.5 Turnover: group and share of joint ventures 5,327.3 5,332.2 Less: share of joint ventures turnover 2.1 3.9 Group turnover 5,325.2 5,328.3 Operating profit Operating profit from continuing operations 534.8 575.7 Discontinued operation 22.5 54.3 Group operating profit 557.3 630.0 Share of operating loss of joint ventures 13.2 20.9 Total operating profit including share of joint ventures 544.1 609.1 Profit loss on disposal of fixed assets 5.1 6.0 Provision for loss on closure of operations 34.5 Loss on disposal of businesses 123.2 14.9 Share of joint venture loss on closure of business 5.6 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 391.5 582.6 Net interest receivable and similar items 103.4 13.2 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 494.9 595.8 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 192.7 191.2 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 302.2 404.6 Equity minority interests 0.5 0.3 Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 301.7 404.3 Dividends paid and proposed 230.7 240.6 Retained profit for the financial year 71.0 163.7 Basic earnings per share 36.0p 45.9p Basic earnings per share before exceptionals 45.2p 49.9p Diluted earnings per share 35.9p 45.8p Diluted earnings per share before exceptionals 45.1p 49.8p Directors remuneration can be found on pages 24 and 25.
Operating profit is stated after deducting exceptional costs of nil 2002 16.4m comprising a 10.4m charge relating to the withdrawal of the on-line photographic services of bootsphoto.
com and 6.0m additional costs incurred within Boots The Chemists on the cost reduction programme and leisure exit.
The loss on disposal of businesses was 123.2m 2002 14.9m.
The principal disposal in the year was the sale of Halfords Limited completed on 30th August 2002 to CVC Capital Partners.
A provision for loss on closure of operations of 34.5m 2002 nil relates to the withdrawal from certain wellbeing services.
Included within net interest is an exceptional credit of 92.1m 2002 nil resulting from the closure of various interest rate swaps.
Turnover Exceptional items Basic earnings per share Sales to customers, excluding VAT.
Items which due to their size and Profit earned for ordinary shareholders incidence are disclosed separately.
divided by the average number of Operating profit shares in issue.
Profit from normal trading activities Joint ventures of the group.
An entity over which the company Diluted earnings per share Boots has joint control.
As basic, adjusted to reflect the average number of shares which may be Retained profit issued in the future, therefore That part of profit for the year which diluting earnings.
has been retained for the future.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 27 Balance sheet Balance sheet Group Group Company 2003 2002 2003 31st March 2003 m m m Fixed assets Intangible assets 301.3 298.2 Tangible assets 1,516.5 1,727.7 Investment in joint ventures share of gross assets 23.0 share of gross liabilities 5.0 18.0 Other investments 84.7 103.7 1,387.4 1,902.5 2,147.6 1,387.4 Current assets Stocks 638.6 648.1 Debtors falling due within one year 536.6 550.0 4.6 Debtors falling due after more than one year 114.0 96.1 Current asset investments and deposits 293.1 308.7 275.0 Cash at bank and in hand 203.4 100.4 24.5 1,785.7 1,703.3 304.1 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 1,112.7 1,174.7 175.1 Net current assets 673.0 528.6 129.0 Total assets less current liabilities 2,575.5 2,676.2 1,516.4 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 401.8 480.0 315.0 Provisions for liabilities and charges 173.8 177.9 Net assets 1,999.9 2,018.3 1,201.4 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 203.5 223.2 203.5 Share premium account 253.9 Revaluation reserve 260.3 254.4 Capital redemption reserve 5.6 42.6 5.6 Merger reserve 310.8 Profit and loss account 1,219.2 1,243.5 992.3 Equity shareholders funds 1,999.4 2,017.6 1,201.4 Equity minority interests 0.5 0.6 Non-equity minority interests 0.1 1,999.9 2,018.3 1,201.4 There are no comparatives for the 2003 company balance sheet as the company only came into existence on 31st May 2002.
The summary financial statement was approved by the board of directors on 4th June 2003 and is signed on its behalf by: John McGrath Chairman Howard Dodd Chief Financial Officer Fixed assets Investments Creditors Assets used by the group on a long term Amounts invested in the companys Amounts due to suppliers and others.
own shares and in other businesses.
Share capital Intangible assets Stocks The nominal value 25 pence each Assets used by the group on a long term Raw materials, goods in the course of shares issued by the company.
basis which do not have a physical of manufacture and finished goods substance e. g. brands.
Tangible assets Debtors Property, plant and machinery and Amounts owed by customers and fixtures and equipment owned by others, including payments in advance.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 28 Summary group cash flow statement Summary group cash flow statement Group cash flow statement 2003 2002 For the year ended 31st March 2003 m m Cash inflow from operating activities 582.3 722.4 Returns on investment and servicing of finance 75.0 40.7 Taxation 196.7 139.2 Capital expenditure and financial investment 24.1 102.2 Acquisitions and disposals 358.1 3.9 Equity dividends paid 238.3 234.5 Cash inflow before use of liquid resources and financing 556.3 291.1 Management of liquid resources 15.8 234.3 Financing 511.8 55.2 Increase in cash in the year 60.3 1.6 Cash is defined as cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less overdrafts repayable on demand.
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2003 2002 For the year ended 31st March 2003 m m Increase in cash in the year 60.3 1.6 Cash inflow outflow from change in liquid resources 15.8 234.3 Cash outflow from change in borrowings and lease financing 46.0 20.0 Movement in net debt resulting from cash flows 90.5 255.9 Finance lease additions 1.8 11.6 Increase in value of investment in 10.125% bond 2017 5.8 21.9 Currency and other non-cash adjustments 0.3 2.3 Movement in net debt during the year 94.8 263.9 Opening net debt 146.3 410.2 Closing net debt 51.5 146.3 Net debt comprises cash, liquid resources, finance leases and all other borrowings.
Cash inflow from operating Capital expenditure Financing activities Investment in new properties, Net cash flow from the issue of Cash generated by the normal plant, fixtures and equipment and shares and loans, the repayment trading activities of the group before other intangible assets.
of loans and movement in bank interest, tax, dividends, business borrowings.
acquisitions and disposals and net Management of liquid resources capital expenditure.
Movement in short term investments and deposits.
Boots Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 Shareholder information Annual general meetings The annual general meeting will be held at 11.00 am on Thursday, 24th July 2003 at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London.
Each shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting, the arrangements for which are described in a separate notice.
The proposed date of the annual general meeting next year is 22nd July 2004. Dividend payments The proposed final dividend if approved will be paid on 22nd August 2003 to shareholders registered on 20th June 2003.
Most shareholders excluding those in Canada and the USA will have the opportunity to reinvest their cash dividend in existing shares bought on the London Stock Exchange through a dividend reinvestment plan.
All applications to join that plan or amend existing instructions under it must be received by the companys registrars by 5.00 pm on 1st August 2003.
The expected dividend payment dates for the year to 31st March 2004 are: Interim dividend February 2004 Final dividend August 2004 Results For the year to 31st March 2004: Interim results announced November 2003 Interim statement circulated November 2003 Preliminary announcement of full year results May 2004 Annual report circulated June 2004 Capital gains tax For capital gains tax purposes, the market price of the companys ordinary shares of 25p each on 31st March 1982 was 112.5p.
Low cost share dealing services Details of special low cost dealing services in the companys shares may be obtained from: Hoare Govett Limited telephone 020 7678 8300 Natwest Stockbrokers telephone 0870 600 2050 Both Hoare Govett Limited and Natwest Stockbrokers are regulated by the Financial Services Authority and members of the London Stock Exchange and have approved the references to themselves solely for the purposes of section 21 2 b of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 only.
Registrar and transfer office Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH.
Company secretary and registered office M J Oliver, Boots Group PLC, Nottingham NG2 3AA.
Boots Group PLC is registered in England and Wales No.
com Please recycle this report when no longer required.
Boots Group PLC 1 Thane Road West Nottingham NG2 3AA Telephone: 0115 950 6111 www.
