The Fidelity ISA, PEP and Investment Trust Share Plan To transfer your holdings to Fidelity simply call The Manager on 0800 41 41 10 for a transfer pack or log onto The manager, Fidelity Investments International, www.
co. uk to download a transfer application offers a flexible and good value range of products form.
with no exit fees to help you get the most from investing in the company.
ISA & PEP charges - The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA is 3.25%.
The annual charge for The Fidelity Investment Trust ISA and PEP The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc within an ISA ISA - investing in the company through the Fidelity or PEP is 0.5% VAT.
There is an additional charge ISA Individual Savings Account can be an of 0.5% VAT per annum for investors investing via excellent way to get more from your investment an authorised financial adviser.
because there is no income or capital gains tax to pay on your returns.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan There are two types of ISA: investment trust savings scheme Share Plan - This product offers a particularly low Maxi ISA allows you to invest your full tax cost, convenient and flexible way to invest in The allowance of 7,000 per year into stocks and Edinburgh Investment Trust plc.
You can invest shares from 1,000 for lump sums or from 50 for Mini ISA enables you to invest up to 3,000 monthly savings.
The Fidelity Investment Trust per tax year into stocks and shares Share Plan can be particularly attractive if you have You can invest a lump sum from 1,000 or start a already used your full ISA allowance or would like monthly savings plan from 50 a month.
You can to invest on behalf of a child.
In addition, youll also top-up your ISA from 250. receive a twice yearly report detailing the value of your shareholding and a statement of your 5 in 1 ISA - As part of the range of 5 Fidelity transactions.
managed investment trusts, you can also invest in the company via the 5 in 1 ISA which spreads your Investing for Children - The Fidelity Investment money equally across Fidelitys whole investment Trust Share Plan is also a highly flexible and trust range.
The 5 in 1 ISA is a simple and inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
To convenient way to invest across Europe, the UK, take advantage of this, simply enter the initials or Japan and Asia, providing a broadly diversified name of the child for whom you are investing in the investment.
Designation Box when you complete the standard Share Plan application form.
A special leaflet on ISA & PEP transfers - You can transfer ISAs and investing for children through investment trusts is PEPs you currently hold with other providers into available from Fidelity.
the company within the Fidelity ISA or PEP without losing your existing tax benefits there is no Transfers - If you hold shares directly in the transfer charge for this service.
However, please bear company you can transfer these into the Fidelity in mind that your current ISA or PEP manager may Investment Trust Share Plan by completing an ask you to pay an exit charge.
application form and CREST transfer form.
To receive these forms please call Fidelity on If you hold shares in the company in an ISA or PEP 0800 41 41 10. with the previous manager Edinburgh Fund Managers EFM and wish to transfer your ISA or If you hold the companys shares within the EFM PEP to Fidelity, Fidelity will cover the exit fee investment trust savings scheme InvestIT you can charged by EFM.
Page 46 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 The Fidelity ISA, PEP and Investment Trust Share Plan also transfer these to the Fidelity Investment Trust Detailed data on the company, including price and Share Plan and Fidelity will cover any exit fees performance information is available on the charged by EFM.
Such a transfer could be of website www.
particular benefit to investors who would like to Further information recommence monthly savings now no longer For further details of the products described or to available with the EFM scheme and would like to request literature and application forms please have all their holdings together in one account.
For contact the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on investors transferring existing holdings, Fidelity will 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer also accept monthly savings contribution below its representative 9am to 6pm every day.
To arrange a transfer please call Fidelity on 0800 41 41 10.
If you live in the London area, you may like to visit Fidelitys Investor Centre, on the ground floor of Share Plan charges - There are no charges for their offices at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls buying, selling or holding shares through the Cathedral.
Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan other than 0.5% Government Stamp Duty which is currently You can also find out more about investing in The payable on all share purchases.
Advisers may receive Edinburgh Investment Trust plc at www.
co. uk, a commission up to 3% through the addition of an alternatively, please contact your Independent initial charge.
Keeping you informed The companys share price appears daily in The Financial Times, The Times, The Guardian, The Daily Telegraph, The Scotsman and The Herald.
Investors can also obtain the latest share price by phoning FT Cityline on 0906 843 2422.
All calls cost 60p per minute.
A 10% tax credit on equity dividends will be reclaimable within an ISA until 5 April 2004.
The value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
The value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount invested.
Fidelity only provides information about its products and will not give investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact an Independent Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Investment Trust ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited and the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is offered by Fidelity Investments International.
Both companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The above information has been approved for the purposes of section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Fidelity Investments International which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Page 47 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Page 48 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 CB14755
