Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and company may from time to time determine, fourteenth Annual General Meeting of The provided that: Edinburgh Investment Trust plc will be held in the i the maximum number of shares hereby Caledonian Hilton Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the on Wednesday 2 July 2003 at 12 noon, for the issued share capital of the company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: following purposes: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a ORDINARY BUSINESS share shall be 25p: 1.
To receive the report of the directors and auditors and the financial statements for iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses the year ended 31 March 2003. which may be paid for a share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the 2.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary middle market quotations as derived from the shares.
Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the shares 3.
To re-elect Miss Eileen Mackay a director of the for the five business days immediately preceding company.
To re-elect Mr Ian Inglis a director of the iv unless previously revoked, renewed or varied, company.
the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier of 1 January 2005 or at the 5.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report conclusion of the annual general meeting of the for the year ended 31 March 2003 company to be held in 2004, save that the company may, prior to such expiry enter into a 6.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the contract or contracts to purchase shares under company.
such authority which would or might be 7.
To authorise the directors to fix the executed wholly or partly after the expiry of remuneration of the auditors for the year to such authority and the company may make such 31 March 2004. a purchase in pursuance of any such contract or contracts as if the authority hereby conferred SPECIAL BUSINESS had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as a special By order of the board resolution.
Fidelity Investments International Special resolution Secretary 8.
"That, in substitution for any existing authority, 2 June 2003 the company be and it is hereby authorised in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the ""Act"", to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of any of its ordinary shares of 25p each shares in such manner and upon such terms as the directors of the Page 43 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Notice of Meeting Note: 1."
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at after 6.00pm on 30 June 2003 or, in the event the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to that the meeting is adjourned, in the register of attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A members 48 hours before the time of any proxy need not be a member of the company.
adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or 2.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any enclosed with these accounts.
Completion and provisions in any enactment, the articles of return of the form of proxy will not prevent any association of the company or other instrument to shareholder from attending the meeting and the contrary.
To be valid, the form of proxy should be lodged, together with any Power of 4.
There are special arrangements for holders of Attorney or other authority if any under which shares through The Fidelity Investment Trust it is signed or an extract from the Books of Share Plan and The Fidelity Investment Trust Council and Session or a notarially certified copy ISA PEP, and for holders through InvestIT - The of such power or authority at the address stated Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust thereon, so as to be received not less than 48 Savings Plan and ISA PEP and Pension hours before the time of the meeting.
These are explained in the Letter of Direction which such holders will have 3.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated received with this report.
Securities Regulations 2001, the company specifies that only those shareholders entered on the register of members of the company as at 6.00pm on 30 June 2003 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries on the register of members Page 44 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
