Information for Investors EDINBURGH FUND MANAGERS Edinburgh Fund Managers Edinburgh Fund Managers plc was established Investment Trust ISA PEP in 1969.
Today Edinburgh Fund Managers is ISA one of the larger managers of investment trusts The Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust in the UK with over 1.3 billion of funds under Individual Savings Account ISA is a tax efficient management as at 31 January 2003.
There are two types of ISAs managed by the group at the same date were available, a Maxi and a Mini.
A Maxi ISA allows over 4.1 billion.
investors to maximise the amounts placed in stocks and shares.
Investors will have the opportunity to Investment Trusts invest up to 7,000 in each of the tax years up to It is the business of investment trusts, advised by 2005 06 in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust where they their managers, to invest in the shares of other take out a Maxi ISA.
The investment objectives vary from trust to trust ranging from investment for capital The initial charge is 30 VAT and the annual growth and or income, to trusts which invest management fee is 0.5% VAT capped at internationally, in a specific area of the world or in a 60 VAT.
No charges are made for buying or single country market.
Investing in investment trusts selling shares other than Government Stamp Duty can provide a spread of investments, managed by on share purchases.
PEP HOW TO INVEST PEP investors can continue to hold their existing Ordinary shares PEPs.
No further contributions can be made to a Investors can buy and sell shares in Edinburgh US PEP other than reinvestment of any income Tracker Trust directly through a stockbroker or generated.
However, investors will be able to indirectly through a lawyer, accountant or other transfer between different PEP funds and different professional adviser.
Alternatively shares can be PEP providers without losing their tax advantages.
bought directly through The Edinburgh Fund To enable investors to take advantage of transferring Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan, Investment into a PEP in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust, a PEP Trust ISA PEP and the Investment Trust Pension.
Again charges are low with no entrance transfer fee being charged.
An PRODUCT DETAILS annual management charge of 0.5% VAT capped at InvestIT The Edinburgh Fund Managers 40 is charged.
Investment Trust Savings Plan InvestIT provides a straightforward way to invest in The Edinburgh Fund Managers Edinburgh US Tracker Trust and other investment Investment Trust Pension trusts managed by Edinburgh Fund Managers.
The Investment Trust Pension enables investors to Investors can make regular monthly payments save for retirement by investing in Edinburgh US minimum 30 per month or invest occasional Tracker Trust.
A wide range of investors can enjoy the lump sums minimum 250 initially and 30 benefits of a Personal Pension Plan.
Lower amounts of 20, 150 and 20 can be made monthly, yearly or by lump sums, and respectively can be made in InvestIT for Children.
there are low minimum investment amounts.
Existing shareholders can also invest in the Plan and have their dividends reinvested.
There is no charge Note for buying or holding shares through InvestIT other Please remember that past performance is not than 0.5% Government Stamp Duty which is necessarily a guide to the future.
Stock market and currently payable on all share purchases.
A currency movements may cause the value of shares transaction fee of 10 VAT is levied on all sales.
and the income from them to fall as well as rise and PAGE 29 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Information for Investors investors may not get back the amount they For information and application forms on the originally invested.
InvestIT, ISA PEP, Pension and Share Exchange Schemes please contact: As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts purchased will immediately be Shareholder Relations reduced by the difference between the buying and Edinburgh Fund Managers plc selling prices of the shares, the market makers spread.
Donaldson House 97 Haymarket Terrace Investors should further bear in mind that the value Edinburgh EH12 5HD of any tax relief will depend on the individual Telephone: 0131-313 1000 circumstances of the investor and that tax rates and or FREE on 0800-028 6789 24 hours reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs and PEPs, may be changed by future legislation.
InvestIT Administrator Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland Keeping you informed Registrar Department SP The companys share price appears under the PO Box 28448 heading Investment Trusts in the Financial Times, Finance House The Daily Telegraph, The Times, The Independent Orchard Brae and The Scotsman.
Investors can also obtain the Edinburgh EH4 1WQ latest share price by phoning FT Cityline on Telephone: 0870-606 0268 0906-003 1598.
All calls cost 60p per minute.
Individual Savings Account For internet users, detailed data on Edinburgh US Personal Equity Plan Administrator Tracker Trust, including price and performance Bank of New York Europe Ltd information, is available on the companys website Edinburgh Fund Managers plc www.
com and on the ISA PEP Department Edinburgh Fund Managers website www.
com 12 Blenheim Place and the TrustNet website www.
Edinburgh EH7 5ZR Telephone: 0800-028 6789 For information concerning your shareholding, please contact: Pension Administrator Edinburgh Pension Centre Registrars Personal Pension Management Limited Computershare Investor Services PLC 141 Castle Street Owen House Salisbury 8 Bankhead Crossway North Wiltshire SP1 3TB Edinburgh EH11 4BR Telephone: 0800-137 079 Telephone: 0870-702-0010 Website: www.
co. uk The above has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Edinburgh Fund Managers plc which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
PAGE 30 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one-hundreth Annual within the meaning of Section 94 2 of the Act General Meeting of Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc for cash at a price not below the net asset value will be held at the registered office of the company, per share, pursuant to any general authority Donaldson House, 97 Haymarket Terrace, conferred upon them for the purposes of Section Edinburgh, on Wednesday 28 May 2003 at 80 of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did 11.00am for the purpose of transacting the not apply to any such allotment, up to an following business: aggregate nominal amount of 7,365,097, provided that this power shall be limited: ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To adopt the reports of the directors and auditors i to the allotment of equity securities in and the financial statements for the year ended connection with any rights issue in favour of 31 January 2003: the holders of ordinary shares on the register on a date fixed by the directors where the 2.
To approve the directors report on remuneration equity securities respectively attributable to for the year ended 31 January 2003: the interests of all the holders of ordinary shares are proportionate as nearly as 3.
To declare a final dividend of 2.85p per share: practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on that date, 4.
To re-elect William Wilson as a director: provided that the directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they may 5.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors: deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical 6.
To authorise the directors to determine the problems under the laws in any territory or auditors remuneration for the year ended 31 the requirements of any relevant regulatory January 2004. body or stock exchange: and SPECIAL BUSINESS ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to To consider and, if thought fit, to pass Resolution 7 paragraph i of this resolution of equity as an Ordinary Resolution and Resolutions 8 and 9 securities up to an aggregate nominal amount as Special Resolutions.
of 2,209,529 being 10% of the nominal value of the existing issued share capital of Ordinary resolution the company: 7.
That the board of directors be released from the obligation in Article 152 of the companys and such power shall expire at the conclusion of articles of association to convene an the next annual general meeting of the company Extraordinary General Meeting of the company after the passing of this resolution or 15 months to be held on 31 July 2003 at which an ordinary from the passing of this resolution, whichever is resolution will be proposed pursuant to Section earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or 84 of the Insolvency Act 1986 requiring the extended by the company in general meeting, company to be wound up voluntarily.
save that the company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or Special resolutions might require equity securities to be allotted after 8.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, such expiry and the directors may allot equity the directors be and are hereby empowered securities pursuant to any such offer or pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act agreement as if the power conferred hereby had 1985 the Act to allot equity securities not expired.
PAGE 31 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Notice of Meeting 9.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, Note: the company be authorised, in accordance with 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to Act, to make market purchases within the attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of proxy need not be a member of the company.
ordinary shares of 25p each ordinary shares, provided that:- 2.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed with these accounts.
Completion and a the maximum number of ordinary shares return of the form of proxy will not prevent any hereby authorised to be purchased shall be shareholder from attending the meeting and 14.99% of the issued share capital of the voting in person.
To be valid, the form of proxy company as at the date of the passing of this should be lodged, together with any Power of resolution: Attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or an extract from the Books of b the minimum price which may be paid for Council and Session or a notarially certified copy an ordinary share shall be 25p: of such power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be received not less than 48 c the maximum price exclusive of expenses hours before the time of the meeting.
which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the 3.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated average of the middle market quotations as Securities Regulations 2001, the company specifies derived from the Daily Official List of the that only those shareholders entered on the London Stock Exchange for the ordinary register of members of the company as at 6.00pm shares for the five business days immediately on 26 May 2003 or, in the event that the meeting preceding the date of purchase: and is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in the authority hereby conferred shall expire on respect of the number of ordinary shares registered 27 November 2004, save that the company in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract on the register of members after 6.00pm on 26 to purchase ordinary shares under such May 2003 or, in the event that the meeting is authority which will or might be executed adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours wholly or partly after the expiration of such before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be authority and may make a purchase of disregarded in determining the rights of any ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
person to attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, By order of the board, the articles of association of the company or other instrument to the contrary.
Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Secretary 4.
There are special arrangements for holders of 20 March 2003 shares through InvestIT The Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan and Registered office: Individual Savings Account Personal Equity Plan Donaldson House and Pension arrangements.
These are explained 97 Haymarket Terrace in the Letter of Direction which such holders Edinburgh EH12 5HD will have received with this report.
PAGE 32 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 PAGE 33 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Head Office Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Donaldson House 97 Haymarket Terrace Edinburgh EH12 5HD Telephone: 0131-313 1000
