Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Item 1: Report and accounts The directors must present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the report of the directors and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2003.
The report of the directors, the accounts and the report of the Company's auditors on the accounts are contained within the annual report and accounts.
Item 2: Directors remuneration The directors are required to present the report on directors remuneration, which sets out remuneration policy, to shareholders for approval.
The report on directors remuneration can be found on pages 53 to 63 of the report and accounts.
Item 3: Final dividend Subject to the declaration of the final dividend at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 21 May 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23 April 2004.
Items 4, 5 and 6: Re-appointment of directors The Company's Articles of Association require that at every Annual General Meeting one third of the directors who are subject to retirement by rotation shall retire from office.
Stephen Harvey Brazier and Timothy David Melville-Ross will retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-appointment.
The Company's Articles of Association also require that any director appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting shall hold office only until the next following Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Mrs Lesley Anne MacDonagh will offer herself for re-appointment.
The new Combined Code on Corporate Governance contains provisions dealing with the re-appointment of non-executive directors.
In relation to the re-appointment of Timothy David Melville-Ross and Mrs Lesley Anne MacDonagh as non-executive directors, the Chairman has confirmed that they continue to be effective in and demonstrate commitment to their roles, including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings and, in respect of Timothy David Melville-Ross, his appointment as the Senior Independent Director.
Brief details of all the directors are to be found on pages 38 and 39 of the report and accounts.
Items 7 and 8: Re-appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 7 proposes the re-appointment of the Company's existing auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, for a further year.
Resolution 8 gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
"Item 9: Amendment to the Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan The directors propose and seek approval of a change to the rules of the Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan ""the Plan""."
"The remuneration package for executive directors and certain senior executives currently includes both the grant of options under the Bovis Homes Group PLC Executive Share Option Scheme ""the Scheme"" and the grant of conditional performance-related awards of shares under the Plan."
"The Remuneration Committee ""the Committee"" considers that the Scheme is no longer consistent with current market practice and therefore proposes to make no further grants under the Scheme."
In place of future grants of options under the Scheme, the Committee proposes to increase the maximum value of awards which can be made under the Plan.
Currently, the maximum number of ordinary shares in the Company which may be awarded under the Plan to an eligible employee in any financial year calculated by reference to the market value of those shares at the date of the award is 75% of the participants basic salary.
The directors propose to increase this limit to 100% of basic salary.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 93 Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Item 10: Authority to allot shares Resolution 10 renews the authority given to your directors at the last Annual General Meeting to allot relevant securities in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The authority sought is limited to an aggregate nominal amount of 16,129,598.50 being 27.40% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 5 March 2004.
The Company did not hold any shares in treasury as at 5 March 2004.
The Board has no specific plans to exercise this authority other than in connection with the employee share schemes.
However, it wishes to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made should it be desirable and should suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
Item 11: Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 11 empowers the directors until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2005 to make limited allotments of ordinary shares for cash other than according to the statutory pre-emption rights, which require a company to offer all allotments of ordinary shares for cash proportionately to existing shareholders first.
This power would provide the directors with the flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders when opportunities arise, so that: i the Company can follow normal practices in the event of a rights issue: and ii ordinary shares may be issued wholly for cash other than proportionately to existing ordinary shareholders up to a maximum of 5% of the Company's total ordinary share capital in issue as at 5 March 2004.
There are presently no plans to allot ordinary shares wholly for cash other than in connection with the employee share schemes.
Shares allotted under an employee share scheme are not subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
The authority sought by Resolution 11 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting, or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Item 12: Authority to purchase own shares In accordance with Article 45 the directors are seeking authority to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 11,774,080 of its own shares representing approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 5 March 2004.
Before exercising such authority, the directors would ensure that the Company was complying with the current relevant UK Listing Authority and ABI guidelines.
No purchases would be made unless the effect would be to increase the earnings per share of the remaining shareholders and the directors consider the purchases to be in the best interest of shareholders generally.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors have no present intention of making such purchases but, in view of the strong balance sheet position, would like to have the flexibility to consider such purchases in the future.
The maximum price per share for any purchase would not be in excess of 5% above the average of the market values for an ordinary share of the Company derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for each of the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased.
The minimum price would be 50 pence being the nominal value of each ordinary share.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2005.
As at 5 March 2004 there were options over 3,112,201 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which represent 2.64 % of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these options would represent 2.94 % of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
Page 94 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
