$101 billion in investments from 2000 to 2003 $27 billion in portfolio divestments from 2000 to 2003 2.
Operate with diligence and determination BP is preparing for an era of greater innovation and new portfolio is designed to provide a buffer against a trading productivity.
We believe we have the assets, the market positions environment in which prices are determined by market forces and the people.
But we need to retain and expand the valuation outside our control.
While collectively strong, these assets and investors place on us as an industry leader.
This means we must market positions are a constant work in progress, with each operate these resources with discipline, using our strategic insights project or business different or complex in its own way.
and rigorous performance culture to evaluate the opportunities before us and derive maximum value from each of them.
Managing a portfolio of this sophistication and geographic diversity requires a degree of corporate multi-tasking that few players Financial discipline comes first.
Our financial framework is the can pull off.
However, as the conventional pattern of access and mechanism by which we seek to ensure prudent management exploration changes in the next decade, we believe that building of capital expenditure, divestments, debt, costs and competitive external relationships will become just as significant an activity as returns to shareholders as we continue to invest for the longapplying technology.
These relationships will be essential throughout term future of BP.
This discipline enables us to provide returns our businesses, from upstream development opportunities to to our investors, building on a sustained track record of access to new downstream markets.
We expect BPs diversity of global experience, sensitivity to local Operationally, we believe that BP now has a leading portfolio of needs and delivery of mutual advantage to serve us well in this assets and market positions in its sector.
The composition of this operating environment.
12 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003
