Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity European Values PLC will be held at 25 Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA, on 7 May 2004 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003.
To re-elect Mr Walther as a Director.
To re-elect Mr Simpson as a Director.
To re-elect Mr Bjrkman as a Director.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2003.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special Business Resolutions 7 and 8 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to allot a limited number of the currently unissued ordinary shares for cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is 5% of the number of ordinary shares of the Company in issue on 16 March 2004.
The Directors will only issue new shares under this authority to take advantage of opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed, Resolution 7 as an ordinary resolution and Resolution 8 as a special resolution: 7.
"THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the ""Act"" to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 786,290 approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company as at 16 March 2004 such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired."
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 7 set out above, the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 7 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant equity securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : and 42 Notice of Annual General Meeting b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 786,290 approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company as at 16 March 2004 : and c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less than the fully-diluted net asset value per share and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority, and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
Resolution 9 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew the Companys authority to purchase its shares for cancellation.
The limit set by the Board is 14.94% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on 16 March 2004.
Purchases of shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board and in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share, thereby resulting in an increase in net asset value per share.
"THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the ""Act"" to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company the ""shares"" provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 9,400,000: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 25p: c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract."
By Order of the Board Fidelity Investments International Secretary 29 March 2004 43 Notes: 1 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
2 A form of proxy is enclosed for use by shareholders.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
3 To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a copy of any such authority certified notarially or in some other way approved by the Directors, must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, P O Box 25, Beckenham, Kent BR3 3BR not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
4 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
5 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 5.30pm on 5 May 2004 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the Register of Members after 5.30pm on 5 May 2004 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
6 Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint agree by attending the meeting that they are expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, including communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
7 No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Registered Office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP CB17337 44
