Investor Information The objective of Fidelity European Values PLC is to achieve the ISA.
For more information about ISAs, you can long-term capital growth from the stockmarkets of request a free guide from Fidelity on continental Europe.
The Company was launched on 5 November 1991 with The Fidelity PEP - no further new PEP investments may one warrant attached to every five shares.
The original be made, but you may transfer your existing PEP with subscription price for each share was 1.
In 2005 and another PEP plan manager to Fidelity without losing the every two years thereafter, shareholders will have the right tax free status.
to approve, or otherwise, the continued existence of the Company.
"The Company is a member of The Association Since 6 April 2001 the range of investments that can be of Investment Trust Companies ""AITC"" from whom held in a PEP has been expanded to correspond with general information on investment trusts can be obtained those available for investment in an ISA."
by telephoning 020 7282 5555 email address: enquiries@aitc.
For PEP and ISA investors, the reclaimable tax credit attached to dividends is 10% until 5 April 2004.
Interest How to Invest - ordinary shares can be bought and sold on uninvested cash in a stocks and shares component of directly through a stockbroker or indirectly via a lawyer, an ISA is subject to a 20% flat rate charge, which accountant or other independent financial adviser.
A extinguishes any liability to tax on the interest.
The value number of banks and building societies also offer this of tax savings and eligibility to invest in a PEP or an ISA service.
The shares can also be bought directly through will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the Fidelity may change in the future.
"Individual Savings Account ""ISA""."
The Fidelity ISA and PEP are offered and managed by The Share Plan allows an investor to make regular Financial Administration Services Limited and the monthly payments minimum 50 per month or to invest Fidelity Share Plan is offered by Fidelity Investments a lump sum initial minimum 1,000, thereafter 250 International.
Both companies are authorised and into any of the five investment trusts managed by Fidelity.
regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The only plan charge is Government Stamp Duty of 0.5% For information on how to invest through the Share Plan, payable on all share purchases.
Any dividends can be PEP or ISA, please contact your financial adviser or call reinvested in additional shares or taken as cash, as Fidelity free on 0800 41 41 10. preferred.
Statements and valuations are sent twice yearly.
For those investors who use a professional adviser, the Please note that the value of investments and the income Share Plan allows for commission of up to 3% to be paid from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may direct to your adviser.
not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
Fidelity only The Fidelity ISA was launched on 6 April 1999.
Like its provides information about its products and will not give predecessor, the PEP, it allows you to build up your investment advice.
savings free from personal liability to income and capital gains tax.
You are able to invest up to 7,000 in the Should you wish to seek advice, please contact an 2003 2004 tax year.
There is an initial charge of 3.25% independent financial adviser.
For the purpose of 3.5% from 6 April 2004 and, for those investors who use Sections 21 and 25 of the Financial Services and Markets a professional adviser, the ISA allows for commission of Act 2000, the content of this report has been approved up to 3% to be paid directly to your adviser.
The full by Fidelity Investments International, authorised and range of Fidelitys investment trusts is available through regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
40 Investor Information Annual General Meeting - with this Report you will find an 30 June - half year end.
23 July - announcement of interim results to 30 June.
invitation to attend the AGM at midday on 7 May 2004 at August - publication of Interim Report.
Fidelitys London office at 25 Cannon Street.
It is hoped that as many shareholders as possible, including those who Contact Information hold their shares through the Share Plan, PEP or ISA, will Private investors can call free on 0800 41 41 10, 9am to take this opportunity to meet the Directors and hear a 6pm, seven days a week.
report from the Investment Manager on the progress of your Company.
The formal AGM notice can be found on Financial advisers can call free on 0800 41 41 81, 8am to pages 42 to 44.
"Price Information - the mid-market price of the ordinary Existing shareholders who have specific queries shares is published daily in the Financial Times under the regarding their holding, for example a change of address, heading ""Investment Trusts""."
The ordinary share price is should contact the appropriate administrator:- also published in The Times, The Daily Telegraph and The Holders of ordinary shares - the Companys Registrars, Independent.
You can also obtain current price Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, information by phoning FT Cityline on 0336 43 then Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
The Reuters code for Fidelity European Values is Telephone: 0870 162 3100 FEV.
L. Details of individual shareholdings and other information NAV Information - the net asset value of the Company is can also be obtained from the Registrars website: calculated on a daily basis and released to the London www.
Share Plan investors - Fidelity Investment Trust Share Capital Gains Tax - your Directors have been advised that, Plan, Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland, PO Box 28448, for the purposes of calculating an investors possible Finance House, Orchard Brae, Edinburgh EHA 1WQ.
liability to capital gains tax, the base cost of ordinary Telephone : 0800 41 41 10 shares, acquired at the time of the Companys launch, is www.
All UK individuals, under present legislation, are permitted to have 7,900 of capital gains in the current tax ISA PEP investors - Fidelity, using the freephone numbers year ie 2003 2004 7,700: 2002 2003 tax year before given above, or by writing to: Financial Administration being liable for capital gains tax.
Capital gains are treated Services Limited, Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, as the top slice of income and will be taxable at 10% for Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Kent TN11 9DZ.
taxpayers up to the starting rate limit, 20% for basic rate www.
co. uk taxpayers or 40% for higher rate taxpayers.
General enquiries should be made to Fidelity Investments Financial Calendar - the key dates in the Companys International, the Investment Manager and Secretary, at the calendar for the year from 31 December 2003: Companys registered office: Fidelity Investments International, Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, 31 December 2003 - financial year end.
29 March - publication of this Annual Report.
