Information about the Company FINANCIAL CALENDAR Financial year end 31st March Interim results announced November Final results announced May June Dividend payment on ordinary shares Annually in July Annual General Meeting July History Share Transactions The Fleming Continental European Investment The shares may be dealt in directly through a Trust was formed in 1929 as The London and stockbroker or through a professional adviser acting Holyrood Trust Limited and was a general on an investors behalf.
They may also be purchased investment trust until 1982 when the name was and held through the JPMorgan Fleming Investment changed to The Fleming Universal Investment Trust Share Plan, Individual Savings Account ISA, Trust.
Under this name the portfolio became more Personal Equity Plan PEP and Pension Account, internationally invested until November 1988, details of which are set out on page 46. when the Board decided to concentrate on Manager, Secretary and Registered Office Continental European investments.
In 1992 J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK shareholders approved a formal adoption of this Limited, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, specialisation and a change of name to its present London EC2Y 9AQ form.
Telephone number: 020 7742 6000, Company Numbers Please contact Jonathan Latter for company secretarial and Company registration number: 237958 administrative matters.
London Stock Exchange Sedol number: 0527004 Registrars Market Information Lloyds TSB Registrars, Reference 1080, The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA London Stock Exchange.
The market price is shown Telephone number: 0870 600 3984 daily in the Financial Times, The Times, The Daily Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding Telegraph, The Independent, The Guardian, The share certificates or dividend cheques should be made in Yorkshire Post, The Herald and The Scotsman, BBC writing to the Registrar quoting reference 1080.
Ceefax and on the JPMorgan Fleming Internet site at Registered shareholders can obtain further details on their www.
com its, where the share holdings on the internet by visiting www.
price is updated every fifteen minutes during trading hours.
Auditor Ernst & Young LLP, Rolls House, 7 Rolls Buildings, Fetter Lane, London EC4A 1NH The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Trust Companies Fleming Continental European 45
