Notice of Meeting b pursuant to and during the period of the Notice is hereby given that the seventy sixth authority referred to in paragraph a Annual General Meeting of The Fleming above the Directors be empowered to allot Japanese Investment Trust plc will be held at equity securities up to an aggregate 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF on nominal amount of 2,322,524 as if Thursday 18th December 2003 at 2.00pm for section 89 1 of the said Act did not apply the following purposes: to any such allotment: 1 To receive the Directors Report & Accounts c by such authority and power the Directors and the Auditors Report for the year ended may during such period make offers or 30th September 2003. agreements which would or might require 2 To receive the Directors Remuneration Report allotments after the expiry of such period: for the year ended 30th September 2003. and 3 To elect David Pearson a Director of the d for the purposes of this resolution, words Company.
and expressions defined in or for the purposes of Part IV of the said Act, shall 4 To re-elect Blaise Hardman a Director of the bear the same meanings in this resolution.
Authority to repurchase shares 5 To re-elect Jeremy Paulson-Ellis a Director of the 10 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as Company.
hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised 6 To re-elect David Ritchie a Director of the in accordance with Section 166 of the Company.
Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of 7 To re-elect Patrick Gifford a Director of the the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 25p Company.
each in the capital of the Company 8 To re-appoint Begbies Everett Chettle as PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT auditors to the Company and to authorise the i the maximum number of ordinary shares Directors to determine their remuneration.
hereby authorised to be purchased shall Special Business be 27,851,707 or, if less, that number of To consider the following resolutions which will be shares which is equal to 14.99% of the proposed as Special Resolutions: Companys issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this Resolution: Authority to issue shares for cash 9 THAT ii the minimum price which may be paid for a the Directors be generally and an ordinary share shall be 25p: unconditionally authorised pursuant to iii the maximum price which may be paid for and in accordance with section 80 of the an ordinary share shall be an amount Companies Act 1985 to exercise for the equal to 105 per cent of the average of period ending on 17th December 2008 all the middle market quotations for an the powers of the Company to allot ordinary share taken from and calculated relevant securities up to an aggregate by reference to the London Stock nominal amount of 2,322,524.
Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: Fleming Japanese 25 Notice of Meeting continued Notes iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the market for cash at prices 1 Members entitled to attend and vote at the above below the prevailing net asset value per meeting are entitled to appoint one or more proxies ordinary share as determined by the to attend and on a poll vote on their behalf.
A proxy Directors : need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy does not prevent a member from v the authority hereby conferred shall expire attending and voting if they so wish.
on 17th June 2005 unless the authority is 2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must renewed at the Companys Annual General be lodged at the Companys Registrars not less than Meeting in 2004 or at any other general 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
meeting prior to such time: and 3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and vi the Company may make a contract to for the purpose of the determination by the Company purchase ordinary shares under the of the number of votes they may cast, members authority hereby conferred prior to the must be entered on the Companys register of expiry of such authority and may make a members 48 hours before the time of the meeting purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a any such contract notwithstanding such time not more than 48 hours after the specified time expiry.
applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement Change of Company name of members to attend and vote and for the purpose 11 THAT subject to the consent of the Registrar of of determining the number of votes they may cast at Companies, the name of the Company be the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is changed to JPMorgan Fleming Japanese adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, Investment Trust plc.
members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the By order of the Board Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, the time specified in that notice.
Secretary 14th November 2003 4 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests only by prior agreement.
