Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT i the maximum number of Shares hereby seventeenth Annual General Meeting of The authorised to be purchased shall be Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc will be 20,360,413 or if less, that number of shares held at 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF at 3.00 which is equal to 14.99% of the Companys p. m. on Thursday 29th May 2003 for the following issued share capital as at the date of the purposes.
passing of this Resolution: 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report, the ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Annual Accounts and the Auditors Report for the Share shall be 25p: year ended 31st January 2003. iii the maximum price which may be paid for a 2 To receive the Directors Remuneration Report for Share shall be an amount equal to 105 per the year ended 31st January 2003. cent.
of the average of the middle market 3 To re-elect Mr SL Keswick a Director of the quotations for a Share taken from and Company.
calculated by reference to the London Stock 4 To re-elect Mr LE Linaker a Director of the Exchange Daily Official List for the five Company.
business days immediately preceding the 5 To consider the following resolution, special day on which the Share is purchased: notice having been received of the intention to iv any purchase of Shares will be made in the propose the resolution as an ordinary resolution: market for cash at prices below the THAT  LLP be prevailing net asset value per Share as reappointed auditors of the Company having determined by the Directors : previously been appointed by the Board to fill v the authority hereby conferred shall expire the casual vacancy arising by reason of the at the earlier of 28th November 2004 or at resignation of , to hold the conclusion of the Companys Annual office until the conclusion of the next General General Meeting in 2004 unless the Meeting at which accounts are laid before the authority is renewed prior to such time: and Company and that their remuneration be fixed by vi the Company may make a contract to the Directors.
purchase Shares under the authority hereby Special Business: conferred prior to the expiry of such authority To consider the following resolution which will be and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant proposed as a special resolution: to any such contract notwithstanding such 6 THAT expiry.
the Company be generally and subject as By order of the Board hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act Secretary 1985 the Act to make market purchases within 16th April 2003 the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of its issued Shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company.
Notes 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy does not prevent a member from attending and voting if he so wishes.
2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged at the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at 3pm on Tuesday 27th May the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
4 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to ordinary shareholders, with guests only by prior agreement.
