Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy-fourth 7 THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised Annual General Meeting of The Fleming Continental in accordance with Section 166 of the European Investment Trust plc will be held at Companies Act 1985 the Act to make 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF on Monday market purchases within the meaning of 21st July 2003 at 12.00 noon for the following Section 163 of the Act of its issued ordinary purposes.
shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Accounts and the Auditors Report for the year i the maximum number of ordinary shares ended 31st March 2003. hereby authorised to be purchased shall 2 To receive the Directors Remuneration Report be 8,485,239 or, if less, that number of for the year ended 31st March 2003. ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% 3 To declare a dividend on the ordinary shares.
of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this 4 To re-elect William Berry a Director of the resolution: Company.
5 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor to ii the minimum price which may be paid for the Company and to authorise the Directors to an ordinary share shall be 25p: fix their remuneration.
iii the maximum price which may be paid for Special Business an ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of To consider the following resolutions which will be the middle market quotations for an proposed as special resolutions: ordinary share taken from and calculated 6 THAT by reference to the London Stock i the Directors be generally and Exchange Daily Official List for the five unconditionally authorised pursuant to business days immediately preceding the and in accordance with section 80 of the day on which the ordinary share is Companies Act 1985 to exercise for the purchased: period ending on 20th July 2008 all the powers of the Company to allot relevant iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be securities up to an aggregate nominal made in the market for cash at prices amount of 706,325: below the prevailing net asset value per ordinary share as determined by the ii Pursuant to and during the period of the Directors : authority referred to in paragraph i above the Directors be empowered to v the authority hereby conferred shall allot equity securities up to an aggregate expire on 20th January 2005 unless the nominal amount of 706,325 as if section authority is renewed at the Companys 89 1 of the said Act did not apply to any Annual General Meeting in 2004 or at any such allotment: other general meeting prior to such time: and iii by such authority and power the Directors may during such period make offers or vi the Company may make a contract to agreements which would or might require purchase ordinary shares under the allotments after the expiry of such peirod: authority hereby conferred prior to the and expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to iv for the purposes of this resolution, words any such contract notwithstanding such and expressions defined in or for the expiry.
purposes of Part iv of the said Act shall bear the same meanings in this resolution.
Fleming Continental European 29 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 8 THAT subject to the consent of the Registrar of Companies, the name of the Company be changed to JPMorgan Fleming Continental European Investment Trust plc.
By order of the Board JM Latter, for and on behalf of J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary.
12th June 2003 Notes 1 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the above Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy does not prevent a shareholder from attending and voting if he so wishes.
2 Proxy forms must be lodged not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting at the office of the Registrar.
3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, shareholders must be entered on the Companys register of members 48 hours before the time of the meeting the Specified Time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of shareholders to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, shareholders must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
4 Admittance to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders.
Guests will only be admitted by prior arrangement.
