Information about the Company FINANCIAL CALENDAR Financial year end 30th September Interim results announced April Final results announced November Annual General Meeting December History Taxation The Company was formed in 1927 as The Capital & The Company is managed so as to maintain approval National Trust Limited.
It was a general investment as an investment trust by the Inland Revenue and, as trust until 1982, when its shareholders approved a such, is exempt from capital gains tax on profits change of name to The Fleming Japanese arising from the sale of its investments.
Investment Trust plc and the adoption of a policy of Manager and Secretary specialising in investment in Japan.
It is the largest J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited UK investment trust specialising in Japan.
Companys Registered Office Company Numbers Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, Company registration number: 223583 London EC2Y 9AQ London Stock Exchange Sedol number: 0174002 Please contact Jonathan Latter for company secretarial issues Market Information and administrative matters at the above address, or telephone The Companys net asset value NAV is published 020 7742 6000. daily, via the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Registrar Stock Exchange.
The market price of the shares is Lloyds TSB Registrars, Reference 1090, shown daily in the Financial Times, The The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Independent, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Telephone number: 0870 600 3984 Scotsman, The Herald, the Daily Mail, on BBC Ceefax and on the JPMorgan Fleming internet site at Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding www.
com its, where the share share certificates or dividend cheques should be made in price is updated every fifteen minutes during writing to the Registrar quoting reference 1090. trading hours.
Registered shareholders can obtain further details on their Share Transactions holdings on the internet by visiting www.
The shares may be dealt in directly through a Auditors stockbroker or through a professional adviser acting Begbies Everett Chettle, Cromwell House, on an investors behalf.
They may also be purchased Fulwood Place, London WC1 6HZ and held through the Investment Trust Share Plan, ISA and Pension Account.
The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Trust Companies Fleming Japanese 41
