Information for Shareholders NET ASSET VALUE AND SHARE PRICE also has details of ISA, PEP and other investment plans The Companys Net Asset Value NAV is released daily, on available.
For further details, please contact the AITC on the working day following the calculation date, to the 020 7282 5555, or visit the website: www.
UK CAPITAL GAINS TAX CGT The current share price of Foreign & Colonial Investment An approved investment trust does not pay tax on capital Trust is shown in the investment trust section gains.
UK resident individuals may realise net capital gains of the stockmarket page in most leading newspapers, of up to 7,900 in the tax year ended 5 April 2004 without usually under For & Col. Investors in New Zealand and incurring any tax liability.
Germany can obtain share prices from leading newspapers in those countries.
Up to April 1998, the cost of investments for CGT purposes was adjusted to allow for inflation between the month of PERFORMANCE INFORMATION acquisition and the month of disposal of the investments.
Information on the Companys performance is provided in For investments held at 6 April 1998 and disposed of after the interim and final reports which are sent to shareholders that date, this indexation allowance will be computed for the in August and March respectively.
period from the date of acquisition to April 1998, with taper More up-to-date performance information is available on the relief applying after April 1998.
For assets acquired on or Internet at www.
com select your country, click on after 6 April 1998, only taper relief applies.
The taper Private Investors, then Funds & Products, followed by reduces the amount of chargeable gain according to the Investment Trusts.
This website also provides a monthly number of complete years after 5 April 1998 for which the update on the Companys geographic spread and largest investment has been held.
holdings, along with comments from the Fund Manager.
For UK investors who acquired Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust stock prior to 31 March 1982, the costs SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT for CGT purposes, based on the price at that date, adjusted An Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement for for capital changes, are as follows: the year ended 31 December 2003 is obtainable during normal working hours from the Companys Registered Office at Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A Unit of Quotation Market Price 2NY.
This document contains the Chairmans Statement Ordinary shares 25p 14.875p and Managers Review, together with a Summary Report of 4.25% perpetual debenture stock 100 28.25 the Directors and their compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Directors Remuneration Report, INCOME TAX Summary Statement of Total Return, Summary Balance The proposed final dividend is payable in May 2004.
It does not contain sufficient information Individual UK resident shareholders who are subject to UK to allow as full an understanding of the results and state of income tax at the lower rate or the basic rate have no affairs of the Company as is provided by the full Annual further tax liability.
Shareholders not resident in the UK, and any shareholders The full Annual Report and Accounts and Annual Review in doubt as to their tax position, should consult their and Summary Financial Statement are also published on professional advisers.
ASSOCIATION OF INVESTMENT TRUST COMPANIES AITC Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is a member of the AITC, which publishes a monthly statistical information service in respect of member companies.
The publication 48 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Report and Accounts 2003
