Accounting Policies Accounting Policies gross equity method.
The attributable share balance sheet date are estimated and provided Accounting Convention of results of other associated undertakings, for.
Estimates are based upon an assessment The accounts have been prepared under generally based on audited accounts, is of the likely costs taking account of all known the historical cost convention in compliance included in consolidated profit using the facts.
Where the outcome of outstanding cases with the special provisions of Part VII of the equity method of accounting.
is unclear, statistical techniques are used which Companies Act 1985 applicable to banking groups modified by the revaluation of items take into account the cost of recent similar iii.
Goodwill held for trading purposes and the revaluation claim settlements.
Claims equalisation The excess of the fair value of purchase of investment properties.
The accounts have provisions are calculated in accordance with consideration over the fair value of net assets relevant legislation and guidance.
been prepared in accordance with applicable at the date of acquisition of subsidiary accounting standards and pronouncements of undertakings, associated undertakings Where the Group acts as intermediary, the Urgent Issues Task Force UITF and in including joint ventures and other businesses commission income net of provisions for accordance with applicable Statements of arising on acquisitions after 31 December expected future policy cancellations and claims Recommended Practice, being those issued 1997 is capitalised.
This goodwill is amortised handling is credited to fees and commissions at by the British Bankers Association and the by equal instalments over its estimated useful the commencement of each insurance policy.
Loans and Advances Accounting policies are reviewed regularly to Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to Loans and advances are held at cost ensure they are the most appropriate to the 1 January 1998 was written off to reserves less provisions.
circumstances of the Group for the purposes in the year in which it arose and has not Specific provisions are made for advances that of giving a true and fair view.
been reinstated, as permitted by Financial are recognised to be bad or doubtful.
Specific Reporting Standard FRS 10 Goodwill Changes in Accounting Policy provisions are assessed on a case by case and Intangible Assets.
On the disposal of Own shares held for the purpose of satisfying basis or, where this is not practical, as part subsidiary undertakings and other businesses obligations arising from certain share based of a portfolio of similar advances using loan any related goodwill charged directly to compensation schemes amount to 15 million loss estimation models.
A general provision, reserves prior to 1 January 1998 is reinstated at 31 December 2003 2002 17 million.
to cover advances that are latently bad or and included in the calculation of the profit Previously, these were presented within other doubtful, but not yet identified as such, is assets and as own shares within the or loss on disposal.
also maintained based on loan loss estimation consolidated and company balance sheets, Goodwill carried in the consolidated balance models.
The models reflect the historical respectively.
Own shares held by the longsheet is subject to impairment review when loan loss experience relevant to the particular term assurance business policyholders fund events or changes in circumstances indicate market segment or product and include amount to 37 million 2002 33 million.
that the carrying amount may not be adjustments for economic and business Previously, these were presented within longrecoverable and is written down by the climate factors and management experience.
term assurance assets attributable to amount of any impairment loss identified Provisions made during the year are charged to policyholders within the consolidated balance in the year.
Impairment charges, if any, are the profit and loss account, net of recoveries.
In accordance with UITF Abstract 37 included within goodwill amortisation.
If the collection of interest is considered Purchases and sales of own shares and UITF Long-term Assurance Business doubtful, it is suspended and excluded from Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts these shares have been reclassified and are now The Group accounts for the income from its interest income in the profit and loss shown within other reserves as a deduction long-term assurance business using the account.
Provisions and suspended interest embedded value basis.
The income represents are written off to the extent that there is no from Shareholders Funds.
the change in the surplus attributable to the longer any realistic prospect of recovery.
Basis of Consolidation Group, including minority interests, and the Securitisation i.
Consolidation net present value of the in-force business.
The consolidated accounts include the results Loans and advances to customers include The value is a prudent estimate of the net of the Company and its subsidiary advances that are subject to non-returnable present value of future cash flows finance arrangements following securitisation undertakings.
The accounts of all principal attributable to the shareholders, based on of portfolios of mortgages and other advances.
subsidiary undertakings are made up to the market value of the assets at the balance The principal benefits of these advances were 31 December.
The value of the long-term sheet date, using assumptions which reflect acquired by special purpose securitisation assurance business attributable to experience and a long-term outlook for the companies which fund their purchase primarily shareholders and the assets and liabilities economy and then discounting at an through the issue of floating rate notes.
In attributable to policyholders are presented appropriate risk discount rate.
accordance with FRS 5, Reporting the separately on the consolidated balance General Insurance Business Substance of Transactions, the proceeds of sheet from those of other businesses in order to reflect the different nature of The Group both underwrites and acts as these note issues are shown as a deduction the shareholders and policyholders intermediary in the sale of general insurance from the securitised assets on the face of the products.
For each general insurance policy balance sheet.
underwritten, premiums net of refunds Finance Leases, Instalment Credit and ii.
Associated Undertakings including are credited to net operating income over Operating Leases Joint Ventures the duration of the insurance policy.
The Groups share in associated undertakings Assets leased to customers which transfer Premiums received relating to future is stated in the consolidated balance sheet at substantially all the risks and rewards of accounting periods are deferred as accruals ownership to the customer are classified as the Groups share of their net tangible assets and deferred income and credited to net finance leases and, together with instalment plus attributable goodwill.
Joint ventures in operating income when earned.
credit agreements, are recorded within loans which the Group has a long-term interest and shares control under a contractual agreement The cost of claims notified but not settled and advances to customers or loans and with other parties are accounted for using the and claims incurred but not reported at the advances to banks.
The net investment in HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 75 Accounting Policies Accounting Policies continued finance leases and instalment credit straight line basis over the period to reserve except when an impairment is deemed agreements represents total minimum redemption.
The use of a straight line basis to be permanent, when the loss is charged payments less gross earnings allocated to does not result in a material difference to the directly against the current years profit.
amount of amortisation taken to interest future periods.
Obligations under finance No depreciation is provided in respect of receivable compared to the amortisation had leases with third party lessors are included investment properties.
This treatment is a in customer accounts.
a level gross yield basis been used.
Gains or departure from the requirements of the losses on realisation are recorded in other Companies Act 1985 which requires all All other assets leased to customers are operating income as they arise.
However, the classified as operating leases.
These assets iii Debt securities sold subject to repurchase Directors consider that these properties are are separately disclosed in the balance sheet agreements are retained within the balance not held for consumption but for investment and are recorded at cost less aggregate and that to depreciate them would not give a depreciation.
sheet where the Group retains substantially true and fair view.
The amount of depreciation all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
Income from finance leases and instalment which might otherwise have been charged Funds received under these arrangements credit agreements is credited to interest cannot be separately identified or quantified as are included within deposits by banks or receivable using an actuarial method to give it is not practical to assess the estimated useful customer accounts.
Conversely, debt securities a constant periodic return on the net cash lives for investment properties.
acquired under commitments to resell are investment.
Operating lease rentals are not recognised in the balance sheet as debt Tangible Fixed Assets and Depreciation recognised in other operating income on securities where substantially all the risks and Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold a straight line basis with depreciation charged rewards do not pass to the Group.
In this case, and leasehold property, other than freehold using an actuarial method to give a constant the purchase price is included within loans investment properties, is stated at cost and periodic return on the net cash investment.
and advances to banks or loans and advances depreciated over 50 years or the length of Unguaranteed residual values in respect of to customers.
The difference between sale the lease term if shorter.
Improvements to both finance lease and operating lease assets and repurchase prices for such transactions is leasehold properties with unexpired lease are reviewed regularly and any impairments reflected in the profit and loss account over terms of 50 years or less are stated at cost identified are charged to operating expenses.
the lives of the transactions, within interest and are depreciated in equal instalments over payable or interest receivable as appropriate.
the lesser of the remaining life of the lease or Debt Securities eight years.
Premiums are amortised over the i Debt securities and other fixed interest Equity Shares period of the lease.
securities held for trading are included at Equity shares held for investment are stated at cost less amounts written off.
Income from market value with gains or losses included in The cost of equipment, including fixtures listed equity shares is credited to other dealing profits.
The difference between the and fittings, vehicles and computer hardware, operating income on the ex-dividend date cost and market value of securities held for less estimated residual value, is written off trading is not disclosed as its determination and from unlisted equity shares on an in equal instalments over the expected lives is not practicable.
of the assets, generally between three and fifteen years.
Software development costs Investment Properties ii Debt securities and other fixed interest which lead to the creation of a definable securities held for the longer term are Investment properties are accounted for in software asset, subject to a fide minimis limit, included at cost less amounts written off and accordance with Statement of Standard are capitalised and depreciated over their adjusted for the amortisation of premiums or Accounting Practice SSAP 19, Accounting expected lives, generally four years.
discounts arising on purchase of investments for Investment Properties and are revalued redeemable at fixed dates.
Such premiums or annually to open market value.
Changes in Provision is made for the diminution in value market value are reflected in the revaluation of any tangible fixed asset where impairment discounts are taken to interest receivable on a 76 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Accounting Policies is identified.
The resulting net book value account as incurred.
For certain categories of interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, of the asset is written off over its remaining business, fees are amortised over a period not futures, options, forward rate agreements expected economic life.
Impairment charges exceeding four years.
and caps, floors and collars.
are included within operating expenses.
i Trading derivatives, which include customer Mortgage Incentives All costs associated with mortgage incentive driven and proprietary transactions and Taxation schemes are charged in full in the year in hedges thereof, are carried in the accounts Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, which the expense is incurred.
in respect of all timing differences between at fair value with gains or losses included in the treatment of certain items for taxation dealing profits.
The fair value is based on Retirement Benets and accounting purposes which have arisen quoted market prices.
Where representative The cost of providing retirement pensions but not reversed by the balance sheet date market prices are not available, the fair value and related benefits is charged against profits except as otherwise required by FRS 19, is determined from appropriate financial on a systematic basis over the employees based on the corporation tax rate expected models using the actual or modelled cash service lives in accordance with SSAP 24 when the timing differences reverse.
Fair value adjustments are made, where Accounting for pension costs.
appropriate, to cover credit risk, liquidity risk Dated and Undated Loan Capital Foreign Currencies and future administrative costs.
Dated and undated loan capital is included Assets, liabilities and profit and loss at the nominal value adjusted for premiums, ii Non-trading derivatives, which are used accounts are translated at the rates of discounts and expenses, all of which are primarily as a risk management tool for exchange ruling on the balance sheet date amortised evenly over the period to hedging interest rate and foreign exchange rate or at the forward exchange rate, as risk arising on on-balance sheet assets and redemption or reset.
This does not result appropriate.
Exchange differences arising liabilities, are accounted for on the same basis in a material difference to the amount of on the translation of foreign equity as the underlying items being hedged.
amortisation had a level gross yield basis investments are taken to reserves and are offset by corresponding differences arising been used.
In order to qualify as a hedge, a derivative on the translation of related borrowing.
Interest Receivable and Payable must effectively reduce any risk inherent in All other exchange differences are included the hedged item from potential movements Interest receivable and payable is recognised in dealing profits.
in interest rates, exchange rates and market in the profit and loss account on an accruals Collateral and Netting values.
Changes in the fair value of the basis.
The Group nets loans, deposits and derivative derivative must be highly correlated with Fees and Commissions transactions where it enters into master changes in the fair value of the underlying Arrangement fees and commissions receivable agreements with counterparties to ensure hedged item over the life of the hedge for the continuing servicing of loans and that if an event of default occurs all amounts contract.
Gains and losses on instruments advances are recognised on the basis of outstanding with these counterparties will be used for hedging purposes are not recognised work done.
Those receivables in respect settled on a net basis.
Where the master until the exposure that is being hedged is of bearing risk, including premiums received agreements are collateralised, the collateral itself recognised.
Where a hedge transaction by the Group on high loan to value will take the form of a lien over the is terminated early, any profit or loss is spread mortgages, are recognised on a straight counterpartys assets thereby enabling the over the remainder of the original life of the line basis over the expected period of the Group to claim on these assets in respect of hedge contract.
In other circumstances, advance or risk exposure.
Other fees are existing and future liabilities.
where the underlying item subject to the recognised when receivable.
Derivatives hedge is extinguished, the hedge transaction Fees and commissions payable to third parties Derivative financial instruments used for is measured at fair value and any profit or loss are normally charged to the profit and loss trading and non-trading purposes include is recognised immediately.
HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 77
