70 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 Notes on the accounts Balance sheet 29 Investments in Group companies The Companys directly owned subsidiaries are British American Tobacco 1998 Limited, B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. B.
A. T Capital Corporation, BATMark Limited, British American Ventures Limited and British American Tobacco QUEST Limited.
The Directors are of the opinion that the individual investments in the subsidiary undertakings have a value not less than the amount at which they are shown in the balance sheet.
30 Other investments Other investments are listed equity investments being shares in the Company owned by the British American Tobacco Employee Share Ownership Trust.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2003 was 241 million 2002 227 million.
31 Debtors 2003 2002 m m Amounts due from Group undertakings 2,176 1,934 Prepayments and accrued income 4 1 2,180 1,935 All the above amounts are due within one year.
32 Shareholders funds Share Capital Share premium redemption Other profit and capital account reserves reserves loss account Total m m m m m m 1 January 2003 576 27 30 64 1,168 1,865 Increase in share capital 14 5 Transfer from profit and loss account 1,752 1,752 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 799 799 convertible redeemable preference shares 47 47 amortisation of discount on preference shares 18 18 Purchase of own shares 27 27 698 698 Other movements 218 2 18 31 December 2003 550 33 57 82 1,356 2,078 2003 2002 m m Shareholders funds comprise Equity 1,965 1,770 Non-equity below 113 95 2,078 1,865 Non-equity interests comprise Convertible redeemable preference shares 31 31 Amortisation of the discount arising on the issue of these shares 82 64 113 95 As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been presented in these financial statements.
The profit for the year ended 31 December 2003 was 1,752 million 2002 1,607 million.
British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 71 32 Shareholders funds continued Convertible redeemable Ordinary preference shares of 25p each shares of 25p each Share capital No.
Share premium The increase of 6 million relates solely to ordinary shares issued under the Companys share option schemes.
These schemes are described in the remuneration report on pages 6 to 16.
Convertible redeemable preference shares On 7 June 1999, the Company issued 604,336,627 ordinary shares of 25p each and 241,734,651 convertible redeemable preference shares of 25p each in consideration for the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of Rothmans International B. V. During 2000, in accordance with the terms of the convertible redeemable preference shares, the holders of such shares gave notice of the redemption of 50 per cent of the preference shares, at a price of 575p per share.
An amount of 695 million was paid on 7 June 2000 to redeem the preference shares.
On the fifth anniversary of the date of issue of the convertible redeemable preference shares, the Company will be required to redeem all such shares not previously redeemed or converted into ordinary shares.
The redemption price will be 675p per share.
Each convertible redeemable preference share will automatically convert into an ordinary share on a one for one basis on any disposal of such a share to a third party not under the control of the shareholders.
The holders of convertible redeemable preference shares may at any time require the Company to convert such shares into ordinary shares on a one for one basis, provided that such conversion will not result in such holders having an aggregate holding of more than 25 per cent of the entire issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The shares will rank uniformly with ordinary shares for distribution of profits.
On a return of capital on a winding-up, the assets will be applied in priority to a payment to the holders of any other class of shares in paying the holders of convertible redeemable preference shares the sum of 675p per share.
Holders of convertible redeemable preference shares will only be entitled to vote at general meetings on a resolution for the winding-up of the Company: or on any resolution varying, modifying, or abrogating any of the rights or provisions attaching to their shares.
The amortisation of discount on convertible redeemable preference shares reects the difference between the share price at 7 June 1999 and the redemption price in 2004, which is being amortised over the period to the redemption date.
72 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 Notes on the accounts continued Balance sheet and other financial information 33 Creditors 2003 2002 m m Dividends payable 585 555 Amounts due to Group undertakings 103 103 Sundry creditors 3 2 691 660 All the above amounts are due within one year.
34 Audit fees 2003 2002 Auditors fees 30,000 30,000 Fees paid to  for advisory and accountancy services UK nil nil 35 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments British American Tobacco p. l. c. has guaranteed borrowings by subsidiary undertakings of 7,133 million 2002 4,777 million and total borrowing facilities of 14,442 million 2002 11,891 million.
Performance guarantees given to third parties in respect of Group companies were 181 million 2002 nil.
Contact information Registered ofce Globe House 4 Temple Place London WC2R 2PG Tel 44 0 20 7845 1000 Fax 44 0 20 7240 0555 Incorporated in England and Wales No.
3407696 Secretary Alan Porter General Counsel Neil Withington Investor relations Enquiries should be directed to: Ralph Edmondson Rachael Cummins Tel 44 0 20 7845 1180 Press ofce Enquiries should be directed to: Fran Morrison David Betteridge Tel 44 0 20 7845 2888 Internet Information on British American Tobacco is available on www.
com Auditors  LLP 1 Embankment Place London WC2N 6RH Designed and produced by CGI BrandSense Printed in the UK by Wace Wace operates an environmental policy and is IS014001 accredited WWW.
COM ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2003 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2003 Operational and financial highlights WE HAVE DELIVERED A TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN THAT HAS CONSISTENTLY OUTPERFORMED THE FTSE 100 OVER THE LAST ONE, FIVE AND TEN YEAR PERIODS.
THIS REFLECTS OUR STRATEGY FOR A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS BY FOCUSING ON GROWTH, PRODUCTIVITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
THIS ANNUAL REVIEW IS MORE THAN A SNAPSHOT OF OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2003.
IT ALSO HIGHLIGHTS THE WINNING COMBINATION OF BRANDS AND PEOPLE THAT IS DRIVING US TOWARDS LEADERSHIP OF OUR INDUSTRY.
MAINTAINING KEY EVENTS & GROWTH BRAND ACHIEVEMENTS MOMENTUM ITALY REVIEW Performance of our global drive brands.
PAGE 10 SPECIAL SUCCESS IN Martin Broughtons FEATURE NIGERIA.
Chairmans on our acquisition PAGE 6 statement.
Centre pages Cover: Fran Morrison, Head of Corporate Communications As we work to enhance the transparency of our business through open communications, external recognition of our efforts has been very encouraging.
We won the Stakeholder Communication award in the new  Building Public Trust Awards, bat.
com was again ranked best of the FTSE 100 in the comprehensive Webranking survey published in the Financial Times, the Investor Relations Society awarded the website two Best Practice awards for Private Investors and Analysts and our online Social Report won the Electronic Media category in the Sustainability Reporting Awards run by the Association of Chartered Certied Accountants.
British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 01 4% 20% 26% 4% 1 0% OPERATING OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE PROFIT AFTER ADJUSTED EXCEPTIONALS EXCEPTIONALS DILUTED AND GOODWILL AND GOODWILL EARNINGS DIVIDENDS AMORTISATION AMORTISATION PRE-TAX PROFIT PER SHARE PER SHARE 2,781M 1,852M 1,567M 69.21P 38.8P 01 Operational and financial highlights 02 Chairmans statement 06 Management review 16 Regional summary 20 Financial review 24 Summary Group profit and loss account 24 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 25 Summary Group balance sheet 25 Interest of British American Tobaccos shareholders 26 Summary financial statement This Annual Review and Summary Financial and notes Statement does not contain sufficient information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the 27 Independent auditors statement Group and the state of affairs of the Company or of 28 Corporate governance the Group.
For further information, the full annual including Board of Directors accounts, the independent auditors report on those ibc Contact and shareholder accounts, the Directors report and the remuneration report should be consulted see page 26. information 02 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Chairmans statement We have achieved organic growth and taken important steps to position ourselves for the future with a higher quality and more sustainable business.
Martin Broughton Chairman British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 03 MAINTAINING OUR MOMENTUM British American Tobaccos We bought back over 106 million The year has also been rewarding for operating profit before goodwill shares, nearly 5 per cent of the issued our shareholders, with a total return amortisation and exceptional share capital, at an average price of of 32 per cent, relative to 18 per cent items rose by 4 per cent to 6.56 per share, enhancing earnings from the FTSE 100.
This is not an 2,781 million, as volumes per share and we plan to continue isolated performance: over the past grew by 2 per cent to 792 billion the programme this year.
five years, our total shareholder return cigarettes.
At the pre-tax level, has been even more impressive, at profit was 26 per cent lower The Board is proposing a 10 per cent 15 per cent per annum, compared to at 1,567 million, reecting the rise in the final dividend to 27.0p, a negative 3 per cent for the FTSE 100. exceptional items and losses taking the increase for the year as a on the disposal of subsidiaries.
This reects our planning for Basic earnings per share were sustainable profit growth through 26.9p compared to 50.9p in 2002.
2003 has been a highly significant focusing on a balanced approach to year for the Group.
We have achieved growth, productivity and responsibility.
However, adjusted diluted earnings per organic growth and taken important share improved by 4 per cent to 69.2p, steps to position ourselves for the In terms of organic growth, our local as the growth in operating profit and future with a higher quality and brands grew slightly and the real stars the benefit from the share buy-back more sustainable business.
We expect shone more brightly.
Our four global programme more than offset the the real momentum in our business drive brands: Kent, Dunhill, Lucky Strike increases in the effective tax rate and to continue during 2004, although and Pall Mall, grew by 13 per cent minorities.
Net cash generation was at current exchange rates the between them.
Kents volume reached 29 per cent higher at 1,515 million, growth in our profit would be almost 30 billion, improving 14 per cent due to the rise in underlying operating adversely affected when translated while Dunhill, already over the 30 billion profit, reductions in working capital into sterling.
Lucky Strike and lower tax payments.
had a difficult time but performed more 04 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Chairmans statement continued TSR Total shareholder return 13.3 per cent per annum compared to 6.0 per cent Ten steps in transformation for the FTSE 100 since 1 January 1994 1994 Acquisition of American Tobacco Investment drive into Eastern Europe 1996 Launch of single tobacco business 1997 Acquisition of Cigarrera La Moderna in Mexico 1998 Demerger of financial services Master Settlement Agreement in US 1999 Rothmans merger 2000 Canadian interests focused exclusively on tobacco 2003 Acquisition of Ente Tabacchi Italiani Agreement to combine Brown & Williamsons US businesses with R. J. Reynolds strongly as the year progressed.
and we expect the transaction to in the Group.
We developed and Pall Mall broke the 30 billion barrier be completed around the middle disseminated our Statement of Business for the first time, powering ahead of the year.
Principles, being the basis on which by 32 per cent, largely due to an we expect our businesses to be run in impressive performance in Italy.
Turning to productivity, the key terms of responsibility, and produced developments in the year have been a Framework for Corporate Social Italy also demonstrates our ability to the major restructuring in Canada and Responsibility which, we believe, achieve growth through acquisition.
the UK, as we continue our drive for an could form a blueprint for a responsible Buying Ente Tabacchi Italiani ETI has effective and efficient integrated supply tobacco company in the 21st century.
given us a much higher quality business chain.
We believe that we can improve There have also been a number of in Italy, taking us to the number two our service to customers, as well as instances of external recognition for position in the second largest tobacco releasing funds that can then be invested our efforts in the eld of Corporate market in the European Union.
in our brands to increase the momentum Social Responsibility and they are all behind our organic growth.
We are also most encouraging.
The proposed Reynolds American committed to saving some 200 million transaction, combining R. J. Reynolds a year in overheads and indirects by As this is my last Chairmans statement RJR and Brown & Williamsons B&W 2007 and we made a good start in before retiring from British American US businesses, will also create a stronger 2003, saving some 64 million.
Tobacco at the end of June, I should and more sustainable business, in which particularly like to thank my colleagues the Group will have a 42 per cent share.
As well as focusing on growth and around the world for all their hard work The process of achieving the various productivity, we have continued to and support.
It has been an immense regulatory approvals is proceeding embed our approach to responsibility privilege to lead such a talented and British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 05 In 1995, we were able to set a credible, if challenging, vision of regaining the leadership of the tobacco industry within ten years a goal now within reach.
committed group of people and I shall the reorganisation of our interests guidance given by the US Supreme miss them enormously.
in Canada and, more recently, the Court on punitive damages and with acquisition of ETI and the proposed the strength of Reynolds American, At a time like this, it is interesting Reynolds American transaction, have the litigation discount in the share to look at the key milestones in the totally transformed the Group.
price should gradually be eliminated.
development of the Group during the past decade.
In 1994, we characterised Wherever I go in the British American I leave the Group safe in the knowledge the acquisition of American Tobacco Tobacco world, the restored sense of that there is a strong team very well as conrming our commitment to belief in the sustainability of our business led by Paul Adams as Chief Executive tobacco.
This move, combined with is plain to see.
It has been rewarding and Jan du Plessis as Chairman.
This is the investment drive into Eastern Europe, for our shareholders too, with a total an outstanding business, with terric laid the foundations of our belief in shareholder return of 13.3 per cent brands, confident, capable people tobacco as a growth business once again.
per annum, compared to 6.0 per cent and real momentum.
I shall remain In 1995, we were able to set a credible, for a much changed FTSE 100 since a significant individual shareholder!
if challenging, vision of regaining the 1 January 1994. leadership of the tobacco industry within ten years a goal now within reach.
There are good reasons to expect the high quality The steps that followed: the acquisition business we are building to continue in Mexico, the demerger of financial to perform extremely well.
Moreover, services, the Master Settlement with class actions increasingly being Martin Broughton Agreement, the merger with Rothmans, seen to have had their day, with the Chairman 06 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Management review 2003 has been an important year for us.
There is a real momentum driving us towards leadership of the tobacco industry.
On these pages we summarise the key events and achievements of the year.
To add to another set of solid By bringing together B&Ws US the US are, nevertheless, examples financial results, we achieved businesses and RJR, we will create of the opportunities for enhancing organic volume growth and a new operation with the ability to our business.
our global drive brands were up compete more effectively in the worlds 13 per cent.
In addition, we have most profitable cigarette market.
Our plans to drive significant undertaken two big deals that will costs from the business are advancing.
change the shape of the business, Winning the auction for Italys In 2003, we saved 64 million in developed a major cost reduction state tobacco company gives us overheads and indirects and are on track programme and made considerable a major presence in the European to deliver real savings of 200 million progress in embedding the Unions second largest tobacco per annum by the end of 2007. principles of Corporate Social market.
Later in this Review, there Responsibility around the Group.
is a special report that outlines To add even greater transparency why this strategically important to our operations, we published our Adjusted diluted earnings per share deal makes good sense for British Statement of Business Principles rose 4 per cent and dividends 10 per cent.
Mutual benefit, Responsible Product Stewardship and Good Corporate Our global drive brands were up In Peru, we acquired control of Conduct.
They form the basis on 13 per cent in 2003, continuing the Tabacalera Nacional and in Serbia we which we expect our businesses strong growth trend that has seen won the bid for the tobacco company to be run in terms of responsibility.
their volume increase by 34 per cent Duvanska Industrija Vranje that has over the last three years.
This year around 8 per cent of the Serbian our star performer has been Pall Mall, market.
These deals, although less leading the way with a 32 per cent rise.
eye-catching than those in Italy or British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 07 STRATEGY Our application of a consistent strategy is helping us to build a sustainable LEADERSHIP business.
From innovation that is POSITION growing our brands, value adding investments and deals, productivity improvements and a commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility, the following pages feature the work of a few of the people bringing our strategy to life with their drive and imagination.
Ours is a business on the move.
GROWTH PRODUCTIVITY RESPONSIBILITY SPOTLIGHT ON ITALY To see our strategy in action, turn to the centre pages Paul Adams Antonio Monteiro fide Castro Paul Rayner Chief Executive Chief Operating officer Finance Director 08 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Management review continued EXPANDING THROUGH INNOVATION Japan In the past, our efforts to expand market share were hampered by our competitors higher marketing spend.
To grow, we had to nd an imaginative way to challenge the status quo in a traditionally conventional market.
The solution was a new range of light menthol products, differentiated by menthol taste rather than the usual tar deliveries.
This was a radical new approach to the menthol category in Japan.
It was accompanied by highly original product communication featuring teaser advertising for the first time in the tobacco category.
The result was the most successful Kent product launch in over 15 years, contributing to a significant increase in market share, making us the fastest growing tobacco company in Japan, where total industry volumes have been falling.
Our belief that we can double the size of the business in ten years is a clear statement of our ambition.
US restructuring Katsumi Doi Adrian Marshall We announced a plan to combine Group Brand Manager, Mainstream Marketing Director, BAT Japan BAT Japan The success of new Kent Menthol B&Ws US businesses with RJR under in Japan is a good example of how a new listed company, Reynolds innovative ideas can drive growth.
American, with completion of the deal expected around the middle of this year.
GROWTH This exciting combination makes In a year dominated by two major deals, both strategic and financial sense.
the increase in our Group volumes to It will improve our competitive position 792 billion may not seem particularly in the most profitable cigarette market newsworthy.
Yet to grow volumes in an in the world.
It gives the Group a increasingly competitive environment 42 per cent holding in a stronger and is encouraging.
more sustainable business, with an British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 09 PROUDLY NIGERIAN A GREAT SUCCESS STORY enhanced brand portfolio, and enables The team largely consists of young, our interest to be valued transparently.
newly recruited Nigerians, some of We believe the combination is the whom have returned from Europe best way to achieve our long term and the US, reversing the endemic strategic ambitions in the US, while brain drain from Nigeria.
In Nigeria, improving our earnings per share we are known as a proudly Nigerian and our cash ow in the first full year company securing remarkable success following completion.
by unleashing the true potential of its talented people.
In the Group as a In addition, B&W will be indemnified whole, we are proud of and inspired for all existing and future litigation by their achievements.
relating to the US tobacco business.
While we have seen litigation as little more than a cost of doing business in the US, the perceived risk has clearly had an effect on our share price.
The 10 per cent rise that immediately followed the announcement provided a clear endorsement of the strategic, commercial and financial rationale for the innovative deal.
Nigeria In last years Review, we mentioned the growth of our market share in Nigeria, following our US$150 million investment.
One year on, we regard the scale of our teams achievements in Nigeria as one of our great success stories.
In a short time, they have: generated annual turnover approaching US$250 million: established one of the countrys leading distribution networks: built a world class manufacturing facility: helped the Government to reform the tobacco Flora Okereke sector and increase tax revenues Legal Director, BAT Nigeria The team spirit and can do tenfold: and engaged extensively culture at BAT Nigeria have with local stakeholders, culminating helped us to exceed some in the launch of a first Social Report.
10 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Management review continued South African pack Argentinian pack Italian pack OUR GLOBAL DRIVE BRANDS HAD ANOTHER RECORD YEAR Pall Mall Kent Pall Mall has become a truly global After its complete redevelopment and brand with significant growth during relaunch in 1999, Kent has achieved the past three years.
This reects our its fourth consecutive year of organic total updating of the brand launched volume growth, rising 14 per cent.
over 100 years ago to make it relevant This impressive performance came as to todays consumers.
Launches of a result of continuing strong volume new Pall Mall in the US, Malaysia and and market share growth in our key Argentina, and during 2003 in Iran, Asian and Eastern European markets, Turkey and Taiwan, have broadened the led by Japan, Russia and Romania.
geographic base of the brand.
In 2003, Pall Mall strengthened its position as one More recent launches in some of the of the leading international mid-priced key strategic markets, namely Brazil, cigarette brands globally by achieving Mexico, Egypt and Turkey are helping a record volume of nearly 32 billion, to consolidate our global position in representing an outstanding growth the premium segment.
New launches of 32 per cent over 2002. in Poland and Ukraine, plus continued exports to Iran, will contribute to Much of the growth in 2003 was further volume and earnings growth.
driven by the brands tremendous success in Italy, following its successful One of Kents strategic objectives repositioning.
Growth continued in the is to deliver consistent innovation other key markets: the US, Germany, to stay contemporary, illustrated by Romania, Poland and Malaysia.
our recent successful introduction of a new menthol range in Kents biggest Pall Malls exciting new range of market, Japan see page 8.
It was high quality product variants, together subsequently rolled out in Hong Kong.
with consumer relevant product and packaging innovations and contemporary colourful design, made it one of the most successful brands in 2003.
British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 11 Jimmi Rembiszewski BRANDS Director, Marketing Today we have a well-positioned In 2003, our four global drive portfolio of contemporary global brands had another record year, up brands which provides us with a 13 per cent.
Between them, Pall Mall, powerful engine for future growth.
Kent, Dunhill and Lucky Strike now account for nearly 44 per cent of our international brand sales.
Russian pack 12 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Management review continued CONSUMER INSIGHTS Research conducted in one key market identied that 30 per cent of all premium brand purchases were made after 9pm.
This insight resulted in marketing activities which increased our share of occasional usage in the Adult Smoker under 30 ASU 30 segment from 5 per cent to over 30 per cent in 3 years.
We also launched a striving to improve our insights into our In 2003, Dunhill had another record replica of the original product and pack consumers, ensuring we stay in touch year with significant improvement, from 1916 in pilot markets, making with ever-changing consumer needs.
in terms of both brand margin and Lucky Strikes great heritage relevant for volume, growing 8 per cent to almost todays consumer.
It was enthusiastically Consumer dialogue 33 billion.
As with Pall Mall and Kent, received in Japan, becoming a bestseller In the past, consumers were seen as a we have modernised the entire Dunhill in the stores handling the product.
mass audience to be communicated at.
strategy, range, product and packaging Now consumers will only engage with to make it more relevant to todays Marketing those brands that make themselves consumers.
The world of tobacco marketing has relevant.
As we move from mass fundamentally changed.
It goes beyond marketing to a more integrated, Volume in South Korea grew a the impact of tobacco regulations permission-based model, we have further 30 per cent, helped by a on marketing activity and covers the updated our brand language, carefully managed transfer to localised ways in which our consumers want to marketing processes, agency production.
Other key Dunhill markets engage with our brands.
Consumers integration and planning systems.
like Malaysia, South Africa, Australia and are asking for responsible, personalised Above all, we continue to improve Taiwan showed strong progress behind communication.
The key elements the skills of our marketing people.
new line extensions and focused brand enabling us to respond to this changing rejuvenation programmes.
world by updating our brands are For example, in Hungary we outlined below.
developed promotions where In addition to the Signed Cigar range, veried adult consumers could Top Leaf was introduced to strengthen Consumer insights choose to communicate through a Dunhills distinctive proposition of true As a Fast Moving Consumer Goods range of channels.
During the period expertise in tobacco.
Top Leaf, which group, it is imperative that we know our of the campaign, consumers switched as the name suggests, comes from consumers and, more importantly, how from competitive brands and our only the top of the plant thereby they will change in future.
To help us, market share grew by 3.5 per cent.
receiving the most sun, was launched we have a consumer research community in several Asian markets and exceeded that spans the world, sharing data and Trade marketing expectations from the start.
As well as conducting research, We have always focused on building the we spend a lot of energy exploring best Trade Marketing & Distribution Lucky Strike ways of doing research.
This enables operation which allows us to execute Lucky Strike volume was slightly down us to develop bespoke methods owning our marketing strategy more effectively in 2003 as a result of lower industry the intellectual and information capital, and efficiently, embracing cuttingvolumes in several European markets, and making them transferable across edge technology.
We benchmark although performance improved in the the Group.
Through local links with our Trade Marketing organisation last quarter, up 3 per cent.
The brand research associations, academic regularly against leading consumer has regained momentum in Germany bodies and comprehensive competitor goods companies and in most markets after the successful relaunch of evaluation activity, we are continually score at the very top of the ratings.
British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 13 WHEN IT COMES TO OUR CONSUMERS IT PAYS TO HAVE INSIGHT AGENCY PARTNERSHIPS The development of a strong base of consumer data, has been supported by agency partnerships.
For example, MASMI started in Moscow in 1994 with two people and US$500.
Now, through a long working relationship with British American Tobacco, it is a full-service market research company with complete coverage across the emerging markets of Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia.
Today, MASMI Research Group employs more than 200 research specialists with local experience and knowledge in emerging markets.
Sergey Kolobanov Chairman and CEO, MASMI Research Group Rob Ferris Head of Consumer Dialogue and Insights Our change programme is delivering a marketing model that will provide a sustainable competitive advantage for British American Tobacco across the world.
14 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Management review continued Productivity In a nutshell, professional procurement Aus$1.3 million per annum spread We said in the last Review that we aim people, with the help of an integrated across 40 suppliers but by bringing to reduce overheads and indirect costs IT solution built by a global team, everything together for a competitive to achieve real savings of 200 million will do all the shopping for British tendering process the spend was per annum by the end of 2007.
element of the overall savings will come from a new approach to procurement.
The new way of procuring indirects Ultimately, the Group will be in a position has been piloted in the Asia-Pacic to leverage global buying power and the The potential for tremendous cost savings region and the benets of applying Indirects project will result in a quantum exists because we spend in the region of professional procurement skills to leap in procurement efficiency.
The 2 billion every year on items and services such a huge and diverse spend are result will be a positive impact on from legal fees to stationery.
our bottom line for years to come.
us deliver significant cost savings across the Group, we are introducing a new For example, in Australia, property way of buying indirects anything management services were put under we spend money on other than leaf, the spotlight during 2003.
Services such wrapping materials, cigarette making as cleaning, pest control and ground machinery and permanent labour costs.
maintenance were costing the business ADDING VALUE BY SMARTER SHOPPING Jim Campbell Regional Procurement Manager, Asia-Pacic We aim to leverage our buying power fully through professional procurement in all areas of the business.
British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 15 RECOGNITION External recognition of our efforts RESPONDING TO has been encouraging.
For example, We won the Stakeholder STAKEHOLDER Communication Award in the new  Building Public Trust Awards.
EXPECTATIONS British American Tobacco p. l. c. and our Malaysian subsidiary were again the only tobacco companies selected for the 2004 Dow Jones Sustainability World Index.
Nicky Donnelly In the annual Business in the UK Social Reporting Manager We are looking for continual improvement in Environment Index of Corporate our reporting to assist stakeholders in evaluating Environmental Engagement we our actions and commitment to CSR.
were ranked in the Premier League of 18 British companies out of 207 assessed.
com was again the highest ranked of FTSE 100 companies in a survey published in the Financial Times.
Responsibility Both were developed with the help The principles of Corporate Social of internal and external stakeholders Responsibility CSR continue to and respond to expectations of greater be strongly embedded in the Group.
We have strengthened our governance through local and regional CSR We have now also expanded the committees, now working in a Corporate Governance section of uniform way and monitored by the our website bat.
com, for example by Board CSR Committee.
publishing the full Terms of Reference for all Board Committees, including Stakeholder engagement is very active the CSR Committee, and publishing and our companies in 35 countries are externally the Groups long standing Paul Adams now carrying out social reporting, with Standards of Business Conduct.
Chief Executive 22 Social Reports published in 2003.
All the Groups Social Reports continue We believe these developments to be measured, through rigorous offer more insight into our approach independent review, against the to corporate responsibility and should AA1000 Standard and we intend to help stakeholders to evaluate our apply the latest AA1000 Assurance performance.
Standard as we move forward.
Paul Rayner Conclusion Finance Director Within our Social Report 2002 03, We believe we have the right strategy we published the Groups Statement for building a sustainable business.
of Business Principles and, based on We will grow organically, search for it, the British American Tobacco p. l. c. investment opportunities, free up Framework for Corporate Social the financial resource to invest in our Responsibility, which we believe could brands and strive to meet stakeholders form a blueprint for a responsible expectations of how a responsible Antonio Monteiro fide Castro tobacco company in the 21st century.
tobacco company should be run.
Chief Operating officer SPECIAL FEATURE, BAT A BIT MORE ITALIAN Introduction During 2003, British American Tobacco won the bidding for the acquisition of Ente Tabacchi Italiani S. p. A. ETI Italys state tobacco company.
This investment of 1.6 billion was signicantly higher than our competitors were prepared to pay in the sealed bid and the amount did surprise the market.
Our bid was based on detailed financial information, discussions with the ETI management, our view of the market, the long term prospects for the business and an assessment of the savings to be achieved.
In its first full year, we anticipate the acquisition to be earnings enhancing and for returns to easily exceed the cost of capital over the medium term.
So, in becoming a bit more Italian we will certainly be creating value for our shareholders.
This is not British American Tobaccos first In recent times, a process of restructuring A WINNING TEAM step into the Italian market.
In 2001, we and some smart decision making has acquired the business of Italtabacchi and enabled ETIs management team to make by 2003, had doubled our market share significant strides in halting the long-standing to over 8 per cent.
decline of domestic brands in the face of A team comprised of the strongest management talent in international competition.
Their insight into ETI and BAT Italia has been formed to guide the integration This exciting acquisition of ETI has elevated the Italian market will be invaluable as the British American Tobacco to the number two newly merged company begins to compete and begin to implement the business plan presented during position in Italy, transforming the scale of for increased market share.
Along with the tremendous benets we see, comes the initial challenge of integrating the two businesses.
Below: Members of the Italian management team Francesco Valli, General Manager, Giovanni Carucci, Finance Director and Robert Gallo, Corporate and Regulatory Affairs Director.
Italy is one of the largest tobacco markets is one of the characteristic Italian cigars OPPORTUNITIES FOR GROWTH in the European Union, second only to manufactured by ETI and even today, at Germany.
ETI brings with it approximately the sites where several of these unique 26 per cent of the cigarette market, almost cigars are hand-made, production methods 40 per cent of the countrys cigar sales, remain in some cases identical to those MARKET SHARE IN 2003 We see significant opportunities 11 per cent of the smoking tobacco market, invented almost two centuries ago.
to grow the portfolio of ETIs five cigarette and two cigar factories.
ETI, through its subsidiary Etinera, is also local brands and British American The key local brands are MS, accounting for responsible for the distribution of most Tobaccos international brands.
over 70 per cent of ETIs total cigarette sales and tobacco companies products to Italys Philip Morris 54.3% SAX a brand relaunched in January 2002 and 58,000 tobacconist shops.
The famous Toscano British American Tobacco 7.9% Japan Tobacco 6.0% Below: Lucca home of the famous Toscano cigars.
We estimate that consumption in Italy has, in The tobacco sector in Italy is regulated by the THE ITALIAN MARKET recent years, been contracting by an average Autonomous State Monopoly Administration, of 0.6 per cent per year.
Nevertheless, thanks to a branch of the Ministry of Finance which the Governments success in tackling smuggling, handles all matters relating to the sale of tobacco the legal duty-paid market has increased and is products including price changes, ingredients For many years, Italian tobacco manufacturers have operated currently stable at around 103 billion cigarettes and the provision of licences to tobacconists.
in one of the most restricted tobacco marketing environments per annum.
Over 24 per cent of the adult population choose to smoke.
Since 1962, a total ban has been in place regarding both direct and indirect advertising and the promotion of tobacco products.
Consumer contact is limited to Point of Sale and relationships with the approximately 58,000 Italian tobacconists are therefore particularly important.
Below: Rome a typical tabacchi, one of the 58,000 tobacconists in Italy.
GREAT BRANDS PER FAVORE Part of our strong brand portfolio for the Italian market.
The three pillars of our global strategy to Responsibility achieve leadership of the tobacco industry British American Tobacco operates to high namely Growth, Productivity and Responsibility standards of corporate social responsibility will provide rm foundations for the newly and transparency in each of the markets merged Italian operations business plan.
where it does business and Italy will be no exception.
We look forward to a long and Growth very successful relationship with ETIs We will strive to maintain the momentum employees and all interested Italian parties, behind the recent achievements of BAT Italia including customers, tobacco growers, and continue to grow our international brands, other suppliers and the Italian Government.
with focus on Lucky Strike, Pall Mall and Dunhill.
At the same time, we aim to build upon the Our relationship with the communities in which strengths of popular local brands such as MS we operate is of particular importance to us.
and SAX previously owned by ETI, in the mid We rmly believe that young people under the and value for money price sectors, providing age of 18 should not smoke and we commit our newly merged company with a strong time and resource to promoting this message.
product portfolio to compete effectively in Our international marketing standards which each consumer category.
com expressly prohibit any marketing activity which may Productivity appeal to those below that age.
We can achieve considerable synergies in both the short and long term, resulting in We are delighted with our increased productivity across the business.
We now We believe there will be scope for reducing the combined overhead base of our enlarged have the brands and people Italian operations and for cost saving from its in place to grow our business greater purchasing scale.
In total, these are effectively in this strategically expected to amount to at least 35 million per year and be achieved in full by 2007. important market.
16 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Regional summary Sustained profit growth is achieved through the focus on global, regional and local brands, improved productivity and corporate responsibility.
CIGARETTE VOLUMES Group operating profit, excluding These results exclude any contribution goodwill amortisation and from ETI, which was acquired just 12% 13% exceptional items as set out on before the year end.
The acquisitions 24% 32% page 20, was 4 per cent higher in Peru and Serbia contributed 2 billion 19% at 2,781 million, with higher to Group volumes and 5 million to contributions from Asia-Pacic, operating profit before charging Latin America and Africa and restructuring costs of 2 million.
The growth acquisitions are described on page 23.
NET REVENUE in profit at comparable rates of exchange would have been America-Pacic 3 per cent as the impact of a profit from the America-Pacic region 11% 31% stronger euro and South African was 995 million, down 23 million 31% 15% rand more than offset the from last year, as US dollar exchange 12% continued weakness of the rate movements and the very difficult US dollar and currency trading conditions in the US cigarette devaluations in Latin America.
business were only partly offset by a strong profit increase from the rest OPERATING PROFIT Group volumes grew by almost of the region.
Volumes were down 2 per cent, from 777 billion to 4 per cent to 103 billion, as the 12% 36% 792 billion, with net turnover increases from South Korea and Japan 19% at 11,427 million increasing by were more than offset by the impact of 16% 17% over 2 per cent at comparable lower industry volumes in the US and rates of exchange.
Net turnover was 8 per cent growth was boosted by the lower at comparable rates of exchange, America-Pacific good performance of the four principally reecting the position in the Asia-Pacific global drive brands Kent, Dunhill, US market.
Latin America Lucky Strike and Pall Mall, which Europe achieved an overall growth of Imperial Tobacco Canada delivered Africa and Middle East 13 per cent.
This was the result a good performance in difficult of an outstanding performance circumstances.
There was a steep by Pall Mall, strong growth from decline in industry volumes as a result Kent and Dunhill and a stable of significant increases in tobacco position for Lucky Strike.
taxes, which promoted the growth of the lower-priced segment and a resurgence of illicit trade.
British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 17 The company contributed 464 million The contribution from the US cigarette partially offset by reduced profit from of profit before restructuring and business would have been 35 per cent Cambodia, Indonesia and duty-free.
other exceptional costs, up 6 per cent lower than last year without the inclusion Regional volumes at 192 billion were in from last year due to the stronger of a benefit of 27 million in respect line with last year, as strong increases in Canadian dollar, price increases and of the settlement of certain disputed Vietnam, Malaysia, Bangladesh and India reduced costs.
The market leader, MSA payments.
were offset by declines from Indonesia, du Maurier, grew market share, while Cambodia and duty-free sales.
overall market share in the premium As described on page 8, the Group segment, where volume and margins announced in October 2003 that Australia delivered impressive profit are the highest, was in line with last agreement had been reached to growth through higher margins, year.
However, the strong growth combine the US domestic businesses supply chain efficiencies and overhead in the lower-priced segment eroded with RJR in a new holding company, reductions.
Both volumes and market total market share and volumes.
Reynolds American, and to sell Lane share rose, reecting the growth of to this new company.
Dunhill and Wineld, together with In the US, industry profitability for a stable performance from Benson the year was severely affected by In Japan, the good performance & Hedges.
profit in New Zealand continued competitive pricing and continued with a higher overall was higher than last year despite promotional activities, as well as by market share as Kent and Kool lower volumes.
industry volumes down 5 per cent increased volumes, while other due to state excise tax increases and brands maintained share.
profit profitability in Malaysia was enhanced lower wholesale inventory levels.
benefited from the increased margins by significant operational efficiencies B&Ws contribution from its US following a business restructuring.
The increased cigarette business was 256 million, volumes were driven by higher Dunhill 27 per cent lower than last year, After the smooth transition to local volumes, reecting the success of the as a result of lower volumes, a weaker manufacturing in South Korea, the new pack range and the continuing US dollar and lower net pricing, very strong growth of Dunhill Lights strong growth of Pall Mall.
partly offset by lower ongoing continued.
The improved volumes and settlement expenses.
record market share, which increased In Vietnam, an outstanding performance 2 share points to 13 per cent, resulted was achieved as both profit and volumes Good performances in the strategic in a substantially higher profit.
grew strongly, led by State Express 555 brands, Kool, Pall Mall and Misty, and Craven A, with a much higher were more than offset by the declines Asia-Pacic market share.
Indonesia witnessed a in non-strategic brands, mainly GPC, In Asia-Pacic, regional profit of downturn in profitability and volume, which resulted in the shipment share 473 million was 10 million above last as a result of punitive excise increases, down from 11.2 to 10.5 per cent.
year with outstanding performances in while lower volumes seriously affected Australia, Malaysia, Vietnam and India, profit in Cambodia.
18 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Regional summary continued Regional data Cigarette volumes Net revenue Operating profit 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 bns bns m m m m America-Pacic 103 107 3,562 4,026 995 1,018 Asia-Pacic 192 192 1,765 1,792 473 463 Latin America 150 153 1,309 1,410 440 393 Europe 249 233 3,502 3,064 536 547 Africa and Middle East 98 92 1,289 1,087 337 260 792 777 11,427 11,379 Operating profit, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 2,781 2,681 Net revenue and operating profit, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, restated at comparable rates of exchange 11,635 11,379 2,759 2,681 In Pakistan, volumes were higher compared to last year and the difficult Volumes in Argentina were higher, with John Player Gold Leaf continuing economic conditions in many of the with good performances from Viceroy its growth but the pressure from illicit countries.
Volumes in the region and Pall Mall.
profit benefited from products led to lower pricing and profit declined by 2 per cent to 150 billion, higher volumes but price increases was down on last year.
In Bangladesh, mainly due to lower volumes in Brazil, in July were not sufficient to cover volumes grew with an excellent but net turnover at comparable rates inationary pressures on the cost base contribution by Benson & Hedges, of exchange rose by 8 per cent.
Volumes although profit was lower as the company in Venezuela remained in line with was unable to pass on the full extent of profit in Brazil increased following last year but Belmont and Consul the additional 2002 excise increase.
price increases in 2002 and late 2003, helped to grow overall market share.
partially offset by lower sales volumes However, three price increases did In Sri Lanka, despite the presence of with continued high levels of illicit not compensate for the severe impact counterfeit product which affected trade.
Volumes were lower, mainly of the devaluation of the currency and the growth of John Player Gold Leaf, in the low-priced segment, as a higher VAT, resulting in a significant total volumes were in line with last year consequence of the difficult economic reduction in profit.
The Groups environment, price increases which associated companies in India reported reduced the size of the market and Europe strong increases in profit.
ITC grew competitor pricing activities.
Total profit in Europe was down volumes by the successful launch of 11 million to 536 million, despite new brands and extending distribution In Mexico, profit was higher due to the strengthening of the euro.
While for some existing brands.
price increases at the end of 2002 there were good performances in Eastern and during 2003, coupled with lower and Central Europe, led by Russia and Latin America expenses.
Market share grew slightly Romania, they were insufficient to cover In Latin America, profit of 440 million despite lower volumes reecting the the lower profit from Western Europe, was 47 million higher with increases higher prices and the economic especially in the fourth quarter.
Volumes from many markets in the region slowdown.
In Chile, both profit and for the region increased by 7 per cent and a first time contribution from volumes were up, mainly driven by to 249 billion, with strong growth the acquisition in Peru.
profit increased in Central from Russia, Romania and Italy, which regional results were achieved despite America as margins improved, while was partly offset by decreases in France the impact of currency devaluations volumes were stable.
British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 19 In Germany, the total market share showing a good performance.
A well The performances in the Middle East was broadly in line with last year as the balanced portfolio of ne cut products were particularly noteworthy in the three key brands, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall allowed the operations to successfully light of the difficult environment.
and Gauloises Blondes continued to cope with changing consumer Volume and profit rose as a result of grow their share.
profit, however, preferences towards lower priced the solid performance of Kent in Iran, declined as a result of lower margins products, while increased cigar sales which improved the sales mix, as well and volumes, reecting the reduction in the Far East and Russia compensated as good results from Israel and Yemen.
in total industry volumes following for declines in Germany.
The increasing investment in Turkey the excise related price increases contributed strongly to the growth at the beginning of the year.
The Africa and Middle East in volumes but adversely affected French market suffered as a result of In the Africa and Middle East region, the regional results.
a significant reduction in the overall profit at 337 million was up by market size and intense competitive 77 million.
This good performance was Non-trading items pricing, resulting in both volumes achieved despite the costs of continuing The above results were achieved before and profit sharply down.
investments in this region and reected accounting for goodwill amortisation generally good performances, as well and exceptional items.
In Italy, both volume and market share as the favourable impact of the stronger showed strong growth following the South African rand.
Volumes increased very successful repositioning of Pall Mall, by 7 per cent to 98 billion with strong with profit in line with last year after growth in Nigeria, good performances the one-off investment to support in the Middle East and from the launch the brand.
The three main brands of our business in Turkey.
Net turnover in Switzerland, Barclay, Lucky Strike at comparable rates of exchange was and Parisienne continued to perform 14 per cent higher.
well and drove the overall market share growth.
profit grew strongly The contribution from South Africa in both Belgium and the Netherlands showed strong growth, with price and on account of higher margins, despite mix driven margin gains partly offset by a small decline in volumes.
cost increases and lower volumes as the total market shrank.
Peter Stuyvesant, In Russia, excellent results were achieved Rothmans and Dunhill increased market with the continuation of volume and share, contributing to the higher margins.
profit growth, driven mainly by Kent.
The 30 key city volume share grew to In the rest of the Southern Africa area, a record level of 25 per cent and the cigarette volumes were in line with last market leadership position in Moscow year, while profit was higher as a result further improved to a share of almost of margin gains in Mozambique and 34 per cent.
The sustained volume Zimbabwe, partly offset by a lower growth in Ukraine resulted in record contribution from leaf sales following volumes but profit was lower due to the dramatic crop size reduction.
In Romania, share gains made by Kent, Pall Mall and profit in East Africa improved, Viceroy, combined with higher margins, with volumes in Uganda and Kenya, led to a significant improvement in margins in Kenya and the Congo and profitability and volume.
leaf sales in Uganda all higher than last year.
profit in West Africa decreased as In Hungary, a record market share adverse trading conditions in the Ivory was achieved despite a marginal Coast and Cameroon resulted in lower decline in volumes, while profit was volumes.
In Nigeria, where the newly similar to last year.
Lower volumes built factory was commissioned during and depressed pricing due to very 2003, volumes increased and market competitive market conditions led share was higher, mainly driven by to a profit decline in Poland.
However, higher marketing and infrastructure costs Smoking Tobacco and Cigars continued led to a small decline in profit.
its profit growth, with all product groups 20 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Financial review OPERATING PROFIT INTEREST COVER 03 2,781m 03 8.8x 02 2,681m 02 8.6x Operating profit, before goodwill and As part of taking a controlling interest in exceptional items, was up 4 per cent British American Racing, an exceptional at 2,781 million.
The strengthening charge of 87 million was taken on of the average euro rate from 1.58 to writing down the Groups convertible 1.45 and the South African rand from loan stock in that company.
15.74 to 12.33 more than offset the weakening of the US dollar from 1.50 Below operating profit there was a to 1.64 and currency devaluations in 72 million loss on disposal of companies, Latin America.
Consequently, the growth mainly through the disposal of a nonin profit at comparable rates of exchange trading subsidiary by our Canadian would have been 3 per cent.
Details of the Groups operating Net interest was 23 million higher at performance can be found on 213 million, despite improved interest pages 16 to 19. rates.
This reected the impact of the Groups share buy-back programme, Operating profit after goodwill and the interest costs of acquisitions and exceptional items was 451 million new market entries and one-off items lower at 1,852 million.
In 2002, there in both 2002 and 2003. were no exceptional items.
The Group assesses its financial capacity The goodwill amortisation charge of by reference to cash ow and interest 405 million 2002 378 million is in cover.
Interest cover is distorted by respect of goodwill which principally goodwill amortisation and exceptional arose from the Rothmans transaction items and so the chart above shows the during 1999 and the Imasco transaction cover, adjusting for these items, on the during 2000.
As the acquisition of ETI basis of profit before interest paid over was completed at the end of 2003, no interest paid.
As can be seen the interest amortisation charge was made for the cover is strong at 8.8x 2002 8.6x.
The increase in the charge mainly reects the impact of exchange rate At 31 December 2003, the ratio of movements.
oating to xed rate financial liabilities was 58:42 2002 48:52.
During 2003, the Group commenced a detailed review of its manufacturing operations and organisational structure, including the initiative to reduce overheads and indirect costs.
There have been a number of restructurings in addition to the closure of the Darlington factory in the UK and major restructuring of the business in Canada.
The cost of the restructurings in 2003 was 437 million.
British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 21 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDEND PER SHARE 03 33.5% 03 69.21p 03 38.8p 02 32.8% 02 66.54p 02 35.2p profit before tax was 546 million Basic earnings per share for 2003 were With the recommended final dividend lower at 1,567 million, reecting 26.93p 2002 50.91p.
of 27.0p, the total dividends per share the exceptional charges against are 38.8p for 2003, up 10 per cent on operating profit, the losses on disposal With the distortions that can occur the prior year.
of subsidiaries and higher interest in profit over the years, as well as the and goodwill amortisation charges.
potential dilutive effect of the convertible Our policy is to pay out as dividends at redeemable preference shares and least 50 per cent of long term sustainable The tax rates of 49.7 per cent in employee share schemes, earnings earnings, excluding the impact of goodwill.
2003 and 38.7 per cent in 2002 were per share is best viewed on the basis Dividends per share in 2003 represent both adversely affected by goodwill of adjusted diluted earnings per share.
56.1 per cent of adjusted fully diluted amortisation, while 2003 was also This removes the impact of exceptional earnings per share 2002 52.9 per cent.
adversely affected by the impact of the items and goodwill amortisation, as well exceptional items described on page 20. as reecting the impact of the potential Although there was an increase in reserves conversion of shares.
of 206 million due to exchange rate The underlying tax rates in the chart movements, shareholders funds were above are as reected in the adjusted On this basis, the earnings per share are 702 million lower at 4,483 million.
earnings per share calculations, which 69.21p, a 4 per cent increase over 2002, This mainly reected the impact of a remove the impact of goodwill and as higher operating profit and the benefit 698 million reduction in respect of exceptional items.
Both years benefited from the share buy-back programme the share buy-back programme.
The from the resolution of various outstanding more than offset the higher effective exchange movement was particularly tax issues.
The increase in the underlying tax rate and increased minority charges.
affected by the strength of the year end tax rate from 32.8 per cent to 33.5 per cent euro rate, which was 1.42 compared reects changes in the mix of profits.
to 1.53 last year, the South African rand rate of 11.95 compared to 13.81 and the Canadian dollar rate of 2.31 compared to 2.54.
These more than offset the weakening of the US dollar from 1.61 to 1.79.
DIVIDENDS 2003 2002 Pence Pence per share m per share m Ordinary shares Interim 2003 paid 15 September 2003 11.8 247 10.7 229 Final 2003 payable 27 April 2004 27.0 552 24.5 526 38.8 799 35.2 755 Convertible redeemable preference shares Interim 2003 paid 15 September 2003 11.8 14 10.7 13 Final 2003 payable 27 April 2004 27.0 33 24.5 29 Amortisation of discount 18 18 38.8 65 35.2 60 22 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Financial review continued CASH FLOW 2003 2002 m m Net operating cash ow 3,113 2,986 Investment returns finance costs 424 405 Taxation 709 907 Capital expenditure financial investment 465 503 Net cash generation 1,515 1,171 Acquisitions less disposals 1,820 25 Equity dividends paid 773 707 Net cash ow before nancing activities 1,078 489 Share buy-back 698 Net debt 5,219 3,379 Net operating cash ow was 127 million All contractual borrowing covenants higher at 3,113 million due to higher have been met and none of these underlying operating profit and reductions are expected to inhibit the Groups in working capital.
Investment returns and finance Treasury operations costs which include preference and Treasury is tasked with raising finance for minorities dividends, as well as interest the Group, managing the financial risks were 19 million higher at 424 million, arising from underlying operations and reecting increases in dividends to managing the Groups cash resources.
Tax outows at 709 million All these activities are carried out under were 198 million lower than last year, dened policies, procedures and limits.
mainly due to the timing of payments which led to abnormally high outows in The Board reviews and agrees the 2002.
The outow for capital expenditure overall treasury policies and procedures, and financial investments was down delegating appropriate authority to the 38 million at 465 million reecting Finance Director, the Treasury function lower capital expenditure.
and the boards of the central finance companies.
The Finance Director chairs The above cash ows resulted in net the boards of the major central finance cash generation of 1,515 million, up companies.
Any significant departure 344 million over last year.
from agreed policies is subject to prior approval of the Board.
Acquisitions less disposals resulted in a net outow of 1,820 million in 2003.
Clear parameters have been established, This principally reects the net cash including levels of authority, on the movements on the acquisition of ETI type and use of financial instruments of 1,599 million, together with the to manage the financial risks facing acquisitions in Peru and Serbia.
Such instruments are only net inow of 25 million in 2002 was transacted if they relate to an underlying mainly due to the sale of a non-trading exposure: speculative transactions are Malaysian company.
expressly forbidden under the Groups treasury policy.
The Groups treasury After equity dividends of 773 million, the position is monitored by the Group net cash outow was 1,078 million.
This, Treasury Committee, which meets together with a 698 million outow for monthly and is chaired by the Finance the Groups share buy-back programme Director.
Regular reports are provided and the small negative exchange rate to senior management and treasury impact, led to the Groups net debt rising operations are subject to periodic by 1,840 million to 5,219 million.
independent reviews and audits, both internal and external.
The net debt movement was reected in total borrowings up by 2,296 million One of the principal responsibilities to 7,610 million and cash, short term of Treasury is to manage the financial deposits and current investments increasing risk arising from the Groups underlying by 456 million to 2,391 million.
Specically, Treasury manages, British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 23 within an overall policy framework, 23 December 2003 and the goodwill International Accounting Standards the Groups exposure to funding and arising is provisionally estimated at IFRS liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange 1.6 billion.
As the profit for the period In 2005, the Group, in common with and counterparty risks.
in 2003 after acquisition is not material other listed companies in the European for the Group results, the effective date Union, will be required to publish its Derivative contracts are only entered into of acquisition has been deemed to be results using IFRS rather than the current to facilitate the management of these risks.
The move to IFRS is complicated by the uncertain In 2003, the Groups banking facilities It was announced on 4 August 2003 content of the IFRS to be applied in 2005. were renewed on substantially similar that the Group had successfully bid terms, with the centres committed bank for a 68 per cent holding in the Serbian The changeover in accounting systems facility increased from US$1.0 billion to tobacco company Duvanska Industrija and reporting is an area of focus and US$1.75 billion.
The Group also negotiated Vranje.
The Groups shareholding was has been a specic project since the a 1.5 billion committed bank facility subsequently increased to 78 per cent, second half of 2002.
Systems have to provide additional liquidity during which brought the total consideration been amended to collect IFRS data the period the Group was tendering to 43 million.
The acquisition resulted during 2004 in preparation for the full for various privatisations.
This facility in goodwill of 40 million.
The Group has matures in June 2004. the Group has committed to invest also set in place the necessary work to 17 million in factory modernisation address the position in 2005, when all The Group continues to enjoy full access over two years and further amounts reporting and the supporting systems to the debt capital markets and, during over five years on social programmes.
will be in accordance with IFRS.
the year, several successful debt issues were made totalling almost 2.5 billion.
These As described on page 8, the Group debt issues included a sixteen year xed rate announced on 27 October 2003 bond one of the longest dated tobacco the agreement to combine B&Ws US sector bond issues currently outstanding.
domestic businesses with RJR under The funds raised were used to renance Reynolds American, a new holding maturing debt and finance acquisitions.
company 58 per cent owned by RJR shareholders and 42 per cent by the Changes in the Group Group, through B&W.
The Group will On 4 April 2003, the Group announced also sell Lane to Reynolds American that it had acquired controlling interests for US$400 million in cash.
in a number of companies in Peru, including Perus leading tobacco On 12 December 2003, the Group company Tabacalera Nacional S. A.
A. converted loan stock it held in British With the aggregate consideration to the American Racing to shares, changing vendors of all the various shareholdings the status of that company from a joint acquired of 146 million, the goodwill venture to a subsidiary.
arising on these transactions is provisionally estimated at 123 million.
Share buy-back programme The Group initiated an on-market On 16 July 2003, the Group announced share buy-back programme at the a successful bid to acquire ETI, Italys end of February 2003.
During the year, state tobacco company, for 2.32 106.3 million shares were bought at a billion, subject to regulatory approval.
The acquisition was completed on 24 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Summary Group profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2003 2002 m m Revenue Subsidiary undertakings 24,151 23,330 Share of associates and joint ventures 1,471 1,352 25,622 24,682 profit Subsidiary undertakings 1,777 2,180 after charging: restructuring costs 437 goodwill amortisation 405 378 Share of associates and joint ventures 75 123 after charging: write down of loan to joint venture 87 Total operating profit 1,852 2,303 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 72 profit on ordinary activities before interest 1,780 2,303 Net interest subsidiary undertakings 209 184 Share of associates and joint ventures net interest 4 6 profit on ordinary activities before taxation 1,567 2,113 Taxation on ordinary activities 779 818 profit on ordinary activities after taxation 788 1,295 Minority interests 157 143 profit for the year 631 1,152 Dividends and other appropriations: ordinary shares 799 755 convertible redeemable preference shares 65 60 Retained loss profit 233 337 Earnings per share: basic 26.93p 50.91p diluted unadjusted 26.69p 50.10p adjusted 69.21p 66.54p Statement of total recognised gains and losses for the year ended 31 December 2003 2002 m m profit for the year above 631 1,152 Differences on exchange 206 70 Total recognised gains related to the year page 25 837 1,222 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 25 Summary Group balance sheet at 31 December 2003 2002 m m Assets Fixed assets Intangible assets 8,012 6,248 Tangible assets 2,578 2,602 Investments in associates and joint ventures 327 347 Other investments 518 473 11,435 9,670 Current assets Stocks 2,582 2,599 Debtors 2,571 2,082 Current investments 108 163 Short term deposits and cash 2,283 1,772 7,544 6,616 Total assets 18,979 16,286 Liabilities Capital and reserves Share capital 550 576 Share premium account 33 27 Merger reserves 3,748 3,999 Capital redemption reserves 57 30 Other reserves 565 547 profit and loss account 470 6 Shareholders funds including non-equity interests of 810 million 2002 792 million 4,483 5,185 Minority shareholders equity interest 225 267 4,708 5,452 Other liabilities Provisions for liabilities and charges 1,541 1,350 Borrowings 7,610 5,314 Creditors 5,120 4,170 14,271 10,834 Total funds employed 18,979 16,286 Interest of British American Tobaccos shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2003 2002 m m Balance 1 January 5,185 4,754 Total recognised gains related to the year page 24 837 1,222 Issue of shares 5 6 Dividends and other appropriations 864 815 Purchase of own shares 698 Other movements 18 18 Balance 31 December 4,483 5,185 This summary financial statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2004 and signed on its behalf by Martin Broughton, Chairman.
26 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Summary financial statement and notes Summary financial statement and to reduce reported shareholders funds and has dismissed B.
A. T Industries on The summary financial statement at 31 December 2003 by 486 million jurisdictional grounds but is allowing on pages 24 to 27 is a summary of 2002 561 million.
During 2003, the the government to proceed with information in the Directors Report and impact of the improvement in equity its claims for equitable relief, which Accounts and should be read with the markets on shareholders funds under includes a claim for disgorgement of Chairmans statement pages 2 to 5 and FRS17 was offset by changes in actuarial profit up to US$289 billion against the reviews pages 6 to 23.
The Chairman assumptions, especially the impact of industry.
The court has scheduled trial will comment on the current year in his lower interest rates used to discount the for September 2004. speech at the Annual General Meeting value of liabilities.
Class actions may be obtained from the Company Contingent liabilities As at 31 December 2003, B&W was named Secretary after the meeting.
There are contingent liabilities in respect of as a defendant in some 36 2002 47 litigation, overseas taxes and guarantees in separate actions attempting to assert The Annual Review and Summary various countries.
claims on behalf of classes of persons Financial Statement does not contain allegedly injured by smoking.
At the sufficient information to allow for as Product liability litigation end of the second phase of a three full an understanding of the results of Group companies, notably Brown phase trial in the Engle case Florida, the Group and the state of affairs of the & Williamson Tobacco Corporation the jury awarded compensatory damages Company, or of the Group, and their B&W, as well as other leading cigarette totalling US$12.7 million to three class policies and arrangements concerning manufacturers are defendants, principally representatives US$5.8 million of which Directors remuneration, as would be in the US, in a number of product liability was found to be time barred and assessed provided by the full annual accounts cases.
In a number of these cases, the US$17.6 billion in punitive damages and reports.
Shareholders requiring amounts of compensatory and punitive against B&W and US$127 billion in total more detailed information have the right damages sought are significant.
punitive damages against the other major to obtain, free of charge, a copy of the companies in the US tobacco industry.
full annual Group accounts and Directors The total number of US product liability On 21 May 2003, the intermediate report for 2003, or for future years, by cases pending at year end involving appellate court reversed the trial courts contacting British American Tobacco Group companies was approximately judgement and remanded the case to the Publications as set out on the inside 4,302 31 December 2002 4,219 cases.
trial court with instructions to decertify back cover.
UK based Group companies were named the class.
Plaintiffs are seeking further as co-defendants in some 1,128 of those review by the Florida Supreme Court.
Report of the auditors cases 2002 1,272 cases.
Since many B&W continues to believe condently The auditors report of the full annual of these pending cases seek unspecified that the Florida Supreme Court will accounts of the Group for the year damages, it is not possible to quantify uphold the reversal of the trial courts ended 31 December 2003 is unqualied the total amounts being claimed but judgement against B&W.
In a Louisiana and does not contain any statement the aggregate amounts involved in such medical monitoring case brought on concerning accounting records or failure litigation are significant.
External legal behalf of Louisiana smokers Scott, phase to obtain necessary information and fees and other external product liability one of the trial began in January 2003. explanations.
defence costs were 66 million in 2003 On 28 July 2003, the jury returned a 2002 66 million.
The cases fall into verdict in favour of defendants on the Going concern four broad categories: medical monitoring claim.
However, After reviewing the Groups annual the jury made findings against the budget and plans, the Directors consider 1.
Medical reimbursement cases defendants on claims relating to fraud, that the Group has adequate resources These civil actions seek to recover conspiracy, marketing to minors and to continue in operational existence amounts spent by government entities smoking cessation.
The court has for the foreseeable future and that it and other third party providers on health scheduled a phase two trial to begin on is therefore appropriate to continue care and welfare costs claimed to result 29 March 2004 to address the scope and to adopt the going concern basis in from illnesses associated with smoking.
cost of smoking cessation programmes.
Despite the almost uniform success of the industrys defence to these actions 3.
Individual cases Accounting policies to date, the US Department of Justice Approximately 4,245 cases were pending As the Group is making use of the has led suit against the leading US against B&W at 31 December 2003 transitional arrangement permitted cigarette manufacturers, certain afliated 2002 4,123, led by or on behalf under FRS17 on pensions and other post companies including parent companies, of individuals in which it is contended retirement benets, the reported income and others seeking reimbursement for that diseases or deaths have been caused and shareholders equity are not affected Medicare and other health expenses by cigarette smoking or by exposure to by the standard.
However, the additional incurred by the US Federal Government environmental tobacco smoke ETS.
Of disclosures are being made as required by as well as various equitable remedies, these cases: a approximately two thirds the standard.
The impact of FRS17 would including paying over of proceeds from are ETS cases brought by ight attendants be to increase Group pre-tax profit for alleged unlawful acts.
The court has who were members of a class action 2003 by 34 million 2002 4 million dismissed the reimbursement claims Broin that was settled on terms that British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 27 allow compensatory but not punitive B&W was named as defendant in judgement were entered against any of damages claims by class members: four 2002 28 US cases brought by the Group companies in any case, an b approximately one quarter are cases foreign government entities seeking appeal would be made.
Such appeals brought in consolidated proceedings reimbursement of medical costs which could require the appellants to post in West Virginia: and c only about they incurred for treatment for persons appeal bonds or substitute security in 10 per cent are cases led by other in their own countries who are alleged amounts which could in some cases individuals.
Four of the ten cases to have smoked imported cigarettes, equal or exceed the amount of the tried during 2003 resulted in verdicts including those manufactured by B&W.
At least in the aggregate against B&W at the trial court level.
Thirty four foreign government cases and despite the quality of defences In April 2003, a Florida jury Eastman have been dismissed.
available to the Group, it is not impossible awarded US$650,000 damages against that the results of operations or cash B&W.
In May 2003, an Arkansas At year end, active claims against Group ows of the Group in particular quarterly jury Boerner awarded US$4 million companies existed in 18 other countries or annual periods could be materially in compensatory damages and but the only countries with more than five affected by this and by the final outcome US$15 million in punitive damages active claims were Argentina, Australia, of any particular litigation.
In November 2003, Brazil, Canada, Italy, the Netherlands and a Missouri jury Thompson awarded the Republic of Ireland.
Having regard to these matters, US$210,000 damages against B&W.
the Directors i do not consider it In December 2003, a New York jury Conduct-based claims appropriate to make any provision in Frankson awarded US$350,000 Claims seeking damages for conduct respect of any pending litigation and ii compensatory damages against unrelated to smoking and health have do not believe that the ultimate outcome B&W and two industry organisations.
None of these of all this litigation will signicantly impair In January 2004, the same jury awarded claims are considered to be meritorious.
the financial condition of the Group.
B&W is appealing all these verdicts.
Conclusion Department of Trade and Industry While it is impossible to be certain of the On 30 October 2000, the UK Secretary of 4.
Other claims outcome of any particular case or of the State for Trade and Industry announced As at 31 December 2003, seven amount of any possible adverse verdict, the commencement of a condential 2002 eight cases were pending on the Company believes that the defences investigation under Section 447 of the behalf of asbestos companies, seeking of the Group companies to all these Companies Act 1985.
The Company reimbursement for costs and judgements various claims are meritorious both on the stated at that time that it would be paid in litigation brought by third parties law and the facts, and a vigorous defence cooperating fully with the investigators.
As at 31 December 2003, is being made everywhere.
If an adverse Independent auditors statement to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have examined the summary financial report if we become aware of any statement issued by the Auditing Practices statement of British American Tobacco p. l. c. apparent misstatements or material Board for use in the United Kingdom.
inconsistencies with the summary Respective responsibilities of financial statement.
Opinion Directors and auditors In our opinion the summary financial The Directors are responsible for preparing This report, including the opinion, statement is consistent with the annual the Annual Review and Summary Financial has been prepared for and only for accounts, the Directors report and the Statement in accordance with applicable the Companys members as a body Directors remuneration report of British law.
Our responsibility is to report to you in accordance with Section 251 of the American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year our opinion on the consistency of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other ended 31 December 2003 and complies summary financial statement within the purpose.
We do not, in giving this with the applicable requirements of Annual Review and Summary Financial opinion, accept or assume responsibility Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, Statement with the annual accounts, for any other purpose or to any other and the regulations made thereunder.
the Directors report and the Directors person to whom this report is shown remuneration report, and its compliance or into whose hands it may come save  LLP with the relevant requirements of Section where expressly agreed by our prior Chartered Accountants and 251 of the United Kingdom Companies consent in writing.
Registered Auditors Act 1985 and the regulations made London thereunder.
We also read the other Basis of opinion information contained in the Annual We conducted our work in accordance 24 February 2004 Review and Summary Financial Statement with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors and consider the implications for our statement on the summary financial 28 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Corporate governance Board of Directors Antonio Monteiro fide Castro Jan du Plessis Martin Broughton Chief Operating officer and Non-Executive Director Chairman Director, America-Pacic Jan du Plessis will become Chairman on Joined the British American Tobacco Group Appointed a Director in March 2002 and 1 July 2004, having been a Non-Executive in 1971.
Appointed to the Board of B.
A. T has been Chief Operating officer since Director since the merger with Rothmans Industries p. l. c. in 1988, he was Group 1 January 2004.
He was previously Regional in June 1999.
He joined the Rembrandt Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman at Director, Latin America and Caribbean since Group in 1981 and held various positions the time of the demerger in 1998.
He held senior executive positions at before becoming Group Finance Director of Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Gillette do Brasil and Alcoa Brazil before Richemont, the Swiss public company which He is an independent Director of The British joining Souza Cruz of Brazil as Vice President was formed in 1988 following the demerger Horseracing Board and a member of the in March 1989.
In 1991, he became of Rembrandts non-South African interests.
He will retire President and CEO of Souza Cruz SA the In 1990, he took on the additional role from the Board on 30 June 2004 to become listed company in which British American of Group Finance Director of Rothmans Chairman of British Airways Plc where he is Tobacco has a 75 per cent interest.
58 International when it was a member of the presently Deputy Chairman and Chairman FTSE 100 Index.
He will leave his present Dr Harald Einsmann of the Audit Committee.
56 position as Group Finance Director of Non-Executive Director Compagnie Financire Richemont SA in The Rt.
Kenneth Clarke QC MP Appointed a Director in 1999, he was April 2004.
50 Deputy Chairman and President of Procter & Gamble Europe, Senior Independent Director Middle East and Africa and Executive Thys Visser Appointed a Director in 1998.
He is Chairman Vice-President of Procter & Gamble USA, Non-Executive Director of the Remuneration and Corporate Social 1984-1999.
He is a Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in 2001.
He is Vice Responsibility Committees.
He has been MP of EMI Group plc, Tesco PLC and Stora Enso Chairman and CEO of Remgro Limited, for Rushcliffe for over 30 years.
Harald Einsmann retires from having held senior management positions Queens Counsel in 1980.
From 1993 the Board at the end of the Annual General with Rembrandt Group since 1980.
He is until May 1997, he was Chancellor of the Meeting on 21 April 2004.
69 Chairman of Rainbow Chicken Ltd and is Exchequer.
He is Non-Executive Chairman a Non-Executive Director of Nampak Ltd Dr Ana Maria Llopis of Savoy Asset Management plc and British and Distell Group Ltd. 49 Non-Executive Director American Racing Holdings Limited.
He is A Director since February 2003.
She is Wong Kok Siew also a Director of Alliance UniChem Plc, Executive Vice-President of the Financial Non-Executive Director Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC and Insurance Markets at Indra, the leading Joined the Board in 1998.
He is Deputy and Independent News & Media UK Spanish IT consultancy.
Previously she was Chairman and CEO of SembCorp Industries, Limited.
63 Chief Executive of the Banco Santander online a leading Singapore engineering and Paul Adams bank.
She has been a Non-Executive Director technology group listed on the Singapore Chief Executive of Reckitt Benckiser plc since 1998.
His other Non-Executive Appointed a Director in March 2001 and has appointments include Chairman of Nomura Admiral William Owens been Chief Executive since 1 January 2004.
He Singapore, Chairman of International Non-Executive Director joined British American Tobacco from Pepsi Enterprise Singapore and a Director of Appointed a Director in 1998, Admiral International in July 1991 and held senior PSA International Pte Limited and Brierley Owens is Chief Executive officer of appointments as Regional Director, Asia-Pacic Investments Limited.
57 Teledesic LLC USA, which he joined in and Regional Director, Europe prior to 1998.
He had a distinguished career in the Board Committees becoming Deputy Managing Director in June US Navy, which included the appointments Committee membership is indicated by the following 2001 and Managing Director in January 2002. symbols: of Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, He became a Non-Executive Director of Nominations Committee Deputy Chief of Naval Operations and Allied Domecq plc in December 2003.
50 Audit Committee Commander of the Sixth Fleet.
63 Remuneration Committee Paul Rayner Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Rupert Pennant-Rea Finance Director Non-Executive Director Joined Rothmans Holdings Limited in Formerly Editor of The Economist and Australia in 1991 as General Manager, Deputy Governor of the Bank of England.
Group Finance and Corporate Services.
He is Chairman of The Stationery Ofce Before joining Rothmans he worked with Holdings Limited, Plantation & General General Electric, Rank Industries and the Investments PLC and Electra Kingsway Elders IXL Group, latterly with Elders VCT plc.
He was appointed Non-Executive Resources NZFP Limited.
He held senior Director of B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. in 1995, executive positions with Rothmans before becoming a Director of British American becoming Chief Operating officer of Tobacco in 1998.
He chairs the Audit British American Tobacco Australasia Committee.
He joined the Management Board in June 2001 and became Finance Director in January 2002.
49 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 29 Management Board A new Code of Corporate Governance The Remuneration Committee is The Management Board comprises the applies to accounting years starting chaired by Kenneth Clarke and the Executive Directors of British American on or after 1 November 2003.
Under summary remuneration report below sets Tobacco p. l. c. together with the following a provision of this Code, a chairman out the Committees role, responsibilities executives: should on appointment be independent and policies during 2003. as dened.
Jan du Plessis, who will become Flavio fide Andrade 55 Chairman with effect from 1 July 2004, Summary remuneration report Director, Latin America and Caribbean is presumed not to be, because of the This report is extracted from the full shareholding he currently represents.
Remuneration Report set out in the Susan Ivey 45 The Board nevertheless considers that Companys Report and Accounts 2003 a Director, USA he is the right choice because of his deep copy of which is available on request and Luc Jobin 44 knowledge and understanding of the can be located on our website, bat.
Director, Canada tobacco industry, his independence of mind and his business skills.
Executive remuneration policy Tony Jones 56 The Remuneration Committee Director, Asia-Pacic The Board and its Committees determines the Companys remuneration Jacques Kruger 53 The Board is responsible for deciding policy and the framework of executive Director, Africa and Middle East the Groups strategy, budgets and major remuneration and benets for Executive corporate actions.
It held six scheduled Directors and the Management Board.
Michael Prideaux 53 meetings last year.
Responsibility for The Remuneration Committee also Director, Corporate and Regulatory Affairs implementing the Groups strategy is decides their specic remuneration.
Tessa Raeburn 53 delegated to the Management Board, During 2003, the Committee made Director, Human Resources which met eight times.
use of professional advice together with specialist reports and analyses provided Jimmi Rembiszewski 53 The Board is also responsible for the by Towers Perrin, a leading rm of Director, Marketing overall system of internal control for the remuneration and benets consultants.
Ben Stevens 44 Company and its subsidiaries.
The system Director, Europe is designed to manage risks that may The Committees policy on Executive impede the achievement of the Companys Directors remuneration continues to: Peter Taylor 51 business objectives rather than to eliminate 1 aim for a structured and balanced Director, Operations and IT these risks.
The internal control system remuneration package for each Executive Neil Withington 47 can therefore only provide reasonable Director with an emphasis on linking Director, Legal and General Counsel assurance, not absolute assurance, against rewards to corporate and individual material misstatement or loss.
performance: 2 set out performance Corporate governance based variable rewards being on average The Company believes that the most The Audit Committee is chaired by about 52 per cent of total remuneration potent form of corporate governance Rupert Pennant-Rea.
It meets regularly and comprising cash and share based comes from within, with external codes with internal and external auditors, as performance related annual bonus plans: being overlays to the standards that well as with management, to review the and a long term incentive plan and core we set ourselves.
Those standards were effectiveness of internal controls, any xed elements being on average about codified in our own Standards of Business matters raised in regular reports to the 48 per cent of total remuneration and Conduct, most recently revised in 2003, Committee and the full and half year comprising base salary, pension and other and every Group company and every financial statements prior to their benets : and 3 embed performance employee worldwide is expected to live submission to the Board.
based rewards having challenging and up to them.
Last year, we also published stretching targets.
our Statement of Business Principles, The Corporate Social Responsibility which is designed to help meet the Committee is chaired by Kenneth Clarke Details of the application of this policy expectations, sometimes conicting, and its role is to help identify and assess during the year ended 31 December 2003 placed on us by our various stakeholders.
the risks that might impair the Companys are set out in the full Remuneration Report Both documents, together with the strategic objective of being recognised as referred to above.
The Remuneration terms of reference of the four Board a responsible company in a controversial Committee will continue to apply and Committees referred to below, are set industry.
review the policy during 2004. out in full on our website, bat.
com The Nominations Committee is chaired Executive Directors remuneration The main external code for 2003 is the by Martin Broughton and recommends comprises: 1 base salary: for salaries UK Listing Authoritys Combined Code.
candidates for appointment to the Board effective from April 2003, the The Company has continued to apply and the Management Board.
During the Remuneration Committee benchmarked the Principles of the Combined Code process to appoint a new Chairman, it Executive Directors salaries against the and considers that it has complied with was chaired by the Senior Independent market upper quartile for main board all its Provisions throughout the year.
directors from a UK comparator group 30 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Corporate governance continued of companies with a mainly international noted below: 5 participation, as Index: and 2 a peer group of orientated consumer goods focus chosen appropriate, in UK tax approved share international fast-moving consumer goods from the FTSE 100 Index: going forward incentive and Sharesave schemes: and FMCG companies.
These comparator Executive Directors salaries will be 6 membership of the British American groups are used to reect, as far as possible, benchmarked against a mid-market Tobacco UK Pension Fund, a dened the Companys financial and business level of main board directors from the benefit plan which covers employees in trading environments.
The earnings per comparator companies, with additional the UK: Antonio Monteiro fide Castro is share measure relates to earnings per reference to published salary data a member of the dened benefit plan share growth on an adjusted diluted including that for comparable positions of Souza Cruz S. A. of Brazil.
To the extent for companies in the UK comparator that the performance conditions have group: 2 certain benets in kind, Long Term Incentive Plan been satisfied following assessment by principally a car or car allowance and Two performance conditions, each the Remuneration Committee, awards are private medical and personal accident accounting for 50 per cent, attach to an normally exercisable between three and insurance: 3 participation in an annual award of ordinary shares made under the ten years after they have been made.
Incentive Bonus Scheme cash and a LTIP.
These relate to an apportionment Deferred Share Bonus Scheme the between measures relating to Total As reported last year, 84.4 per cent of the Deferred Scheme free ordinary shares Shareholder Return TSR and earnings 2000 LTIP award vested on 10 March 2003. held in trust for three years : rewards per share based criteria with reference The third LTIP award was made in 2001, under these two plans are subject to to a three year performance period.
Both with the performance period being the achievement of performance based these measures are widely accepted and completed at 31 December 2003. targets measured against financial understood benchmarks of a companys elements such as operating profit and performance.
TSR performance combines The Remuneration Committee has cash ow and commercially sensitive both the share price and dividend assessed the performance of British goals such as growth and productivity : performance of the Company during American Tobacco against the two 4 long term incentives under the the performance period as set against two performance conditions outlined Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP the comparator groups: 1 the constituents above and has determined that performance conditions of which are of the London Stock Exchanges FTSE 100 77.6 per cent of the award will vest.
2 Executive Directors benets in kind include principally a car or a car allowance and private medical and personal accident insurance.
3 Kenneth Clarke received 25,000 from British American Racing Holdings Limited BAR in respect of his services as Chairman of that company.
Of that amount, 1,370 was paid by BAR from the time that BAR became a subsidiary company of the British American Tobacco group with effect from 12 December 2003 and is shown in the table above.
4 Paul Rayners remuneration package included: a a home leave allowance which will cease to be payable on 31 December 2004: and b certain benets in kind 64,518: family education and medical insurance which followed his relocation to the UK from Australia.
5 Antonio Monteiro fide Castros remuneration package included: a an allowance in respect of expenses incurred whilst outside Brazil, and b certain benets in kind 247,597: payment of UK income tax which reected his contractual arrangements during 2003 when he derived his emoluments in both the UK and Brazil.
Further to his new contractual arrangements effective from 1 January 2004, Antonio Monteiro fide Castro also received the benefit of an allowance of 71,363 in December 2003 in respect of his relocation to the UK from Brazil.
6 The benets in kind for these Directors relate to the provision of tax and related information services following the outsourcing in 2002 of the Non-Executive Directors payroll arrangements.
7 Further to his appointment as Chief Executive with effect from 1 January 2004, Paul Adams salary was increased to 850,000 per annum.
8 The Directors remuneration shown above does not include the illustrative value as at 20 February 2004 of the Executive Directors Long Term Incentive Plan awards made in March 2001 which will vest on 12 March 2004.
Reference should be made to note 4 to Table 2 on page 31.
British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 31 On the TSR measure, the Company contract such as medical insurance, or to endorsement by the Board and ranked third out of the FTSE 100 the Company may at its option continue the approval of shareholders.
Fees for group of companies, giving a vesting those benets for a 12 month period.
In Non-Executive Directors are determined of 25 per cent for performance at the addition, the Committee also maintains by the Board with reference to the time upper quartile.
A vesting of 25 per cent discretion in respect of this policy for commitment and responsibilities was achieved for ranking second out of those Executive Directors who may be associated with the roles.
Under the the peer group of international FMCG recruited externally or from overseas, terms of their letters of appointment, companies, this being upper quartile.
when it may be appropriate to offer a on termination at any time, a Illustrative graphs showing the relative contract with an initial period of longer Non-Executive Director is entitled to position on the TSR measures are than one year, reducing to a one year any accrued but unpaid Directors fees shown on page 32. rolling contract after the expiry of the but not to any other compensation.
Earnings per share growth was For Tables 1 and 2, please note the dates 5.645 per cent per annum in excess Non-Executive Directors of appointment and retirement for the of ination, resulting in a vesting of remuneration policy and following Directors: 27.6 per cent.
terms of appointment The Non-Executive Directors do not Antonio Monteiro fide Castro Executive Directors service contracts have service contracts with the Company appointed 1 March 2002 The Remuneration Committee continues but instead have letters of appointment.
Ana Maria Llopis to operate a policy of one year rolling The terms of appointment provide that a appointed 24 February 2003 contracts for Executive Directors: these new Director is appointed for a specified contracts incorporate a provision for a term, being an initial period to the next Johann Rupert termination or compensation payment AGM after appointment and, subject retired 15 April 2003 in lieu of notice.
This will comprise: to reappointment at that meeting, for 1 12 months salary at the then current a further period ending not later than base pay and 2 a cash payment in the AGM held three years thereafter.
respect of other benets under the Subsequent reappointment is subject TABLE 2.
SUMMARY OF SHARE INTERESTS INCLUDING LONG TERM INCENTIVES Share options Ordinary shares Options and Options and exercisable at 1 Jan 2003 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares awards over awards over from to or date of Ordinary shares deferred scheme deferred scheme ordinary shares ordinary shares LTIP awards initial appointment at 31 Dec 2003 at 1 Jan 2003 at 31 Dec 2003 at 1 Jan 2003 at 31 Dec 2003 vesting date M F Broughton 356,749 566,732 210,048 172,590 Share Option and Sharesave Schemes 153,111 153,111 Sep 01-Sep 08 LTIP 564,177 449,837 Mar 04-Mar 06 PN Adams 51,063 174,058 93,644 88,103 Share Option and Sharesave Schemes 119,670 119,670 Jun 00-Sep 08 LTIP 332,798 254,655 Mar 04-Mar 06 PA Rayner 228 57,435 43,981 44,122 Share Option and Sharesave Schemes 25,071 25,071 Sep 02-Sep 09 LTIP 129,325 161,780 Mar 04-Mar 06 A Monteiro fide Castro 56,147 122,136 106,887 70,414 Share Option Schemes 275,276 102,155 Sep 01-Sep 08 LTIP 292,861 222,416 Mar 04-Mar 06 KH Clarke 4,091 4,091 H Einsmann 11,000 A M Llopis WA Owens RL Pennant-Rea 3,023 3,023 JP du Plessis MHVisser KSWong 3,000 8,000 Notes: 1 No Director had a non-beneficial interest in the shares of the Company at the dates stated above.
2 Share options granted under the Share Option Scheme are not normally granted in any year to Executive Directors who receive an award under the LTIP: no options were granted in the year ended 31 December 2003.
The aggregate gains on share options exercised by Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2003 were 634,433 2002 327,287.
Options granted under the Share Option Scheme are exercisable subject to a performance condition based on earnings per share growth: the Companys published adjusted earnings per share growth has to exceed ination by an average of 3 per cent per annum over any consecutive three year period during the ten year life of the options.
3 The value of LTIP awards which vested to Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2003 was 2,941,229 2002 1,454,592.
4 March 2001 LTIP award will vest on 12 March 2004 at 77.6 per cent in the manner described on page 30.
For illustrative purposes only, the aggregate value of the vesting awards for the Executive Directors was 1,987,287 based on a share price on 20 February 2004 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of 801.5p per ordinary share.
32 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2003 Corporate governance continued Performance graphs FTSE 100 COMPLIANCE GRAPH HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE The Directors Remuneration Report Five year growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding British American Tobacco Regulations 2002 state that the Company FTSE 100 comparison based on 30 trading day average values must provide a graph comparing the TSR 200 performance of a hypothetical holding 170 of shares in the Company with a broad equity market index over a five year 140 period the compliance graph.
110 The compliance graph illustrates the 80 performance of TSR against the FTSE 50 100 Index over a five year period Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec commencing on 1 January 1999.
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 In the opinion of the Directors, the FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate index against which TSR should be TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN ANNUAL % measured because it is a widely used 1 JAN 2001 31 DEC 2003 FMCG GROUP and understood index of broadly similarBAT 20.2% UPPER QUARTILE MEDIAN 3.9% sized UK companies to the Company.
30 LOWER QUARTILE In addition to the compliance graph, 20 illustrative graphs show the relative 10 position on the TSR measures for the LTIP award vesting in March 2004.
0 10 20 The FMCG comparison is based on three months average values TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN ANNUAL % 1 JAN 2001 31 DEC 2003 FTSE 100 MEDIAN 8.6% BAT 20.2% 40 UPPER QUARTILE LOWER QUARTILE 20 0 20 40 60 80 The FTSE 100 comparison is based on three months average values THE MEMBERS OF THE FMCG GROUP AT THE DATE OF VESTING WERE: Allied Domecq Gallaher Group Nestl Gillette Pepsico Altria Group Altadis Heineken Procter & Gamble HJ Heinz R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Anheuser-Busch Campbell Soup Hershey Foods Reckitt Benckiser Imperial Tobacco Group Sara Lee Carlsberg Coca-Cola Johnson & Johnson Unilever Kellogg Whitbread Colgate-Palmolive Danone Kimberly-Clark LVMH Mot Hennessy Diageo Contact and shareholder information Registered ofce Online Contact British American Tobacco Globe House, 4 Temple Place, www.
com Publications, Unit 84, London Industrial Park, London WC2R 2PG, Access comprehensive information Roding Road, London E6 6LS, tel: 44 0 20 7845 1000: about British American Tobacco and tel: 44 0 20 7511 7797: facsimile: 44 0 20 7240 0555 download shareholder publications facsimile: 44 0 20 7540 4326: at the corporate website e-mail: bat@team365.
co. uk Incorporated in England and Wales Visit the Investor Centre for valuation No.
3407696 Dividend Reinvestment Plan and charting tools and share price data A straightforward and economic way of to help you track the performance of your Secretary utilising your dividends to build up your British American Tobacco ordinary shares Alan Porter shareholding in British American Tobacco Subscribe to the e-mail alert service for Contact Lloyds TSB Registrars for details General Counsel key financial events in the British American of the British American Tobacco Dividend Neil Withington Tobacco calendar Reinvestment Plan British American Tobacco share Investor relations price information is also available American Depositary Receipts Enquiries should be directed to on the Financial Times Cityline Service, British American Tobacco sponsors Ralph Edmondson or Rachael Cummins, tel: 44 0 906 843 1770 an American Depositary Receipt ADR tel: 44 0 20 7845 1180 calls charged at 60p per minute programme in the United States and on Ceefax and Teletext Press ofce ADRs represent two British American Enquiries should be directed to Tobacco ordinary shares and are publicly www.
co. uk Fran Morrison or David Betteridge, traded in the US on the American Stock Register for the web-based enquiry tel: 44 0 20 7845 2888: Exchange under the symbol BTI with a and portfolio management service e-mail: press ofce@bat.
com CUSIP number 110448107 for shareholders operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars Enquiries regarding ADR holder accounts Auditors and payment of dividends define a portfolio of investments  LLP, 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH Contact Shareholder Relations, View details of your recent dividend The Bank of New York, P. O.
Box 11258, payments Final dividend Church Street Station, New York, Access dividend tax vouchers: mandated Ex-dividend date 3 March 2004 NY 10286-1258, USA, dividends only Record date 5 March 2004 tel: 1 888 BNY ADRS toll-free or Payment date 27 April 2004 1 610 382 7836: Register a preference for receiving e-mail: shareowners@bankofny.
com notication of British American Tobacco Annual General Meeting website: www.
com shareholder mailings by e-mail: alternatively, Wednesday 21 April 2004 at 11.30am you may register your mailing preference by The Porter Tun Room, The Brewery, Individual Savings Accounts ISAs accessing www.
com shareholders Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4SD A British American Tobacco sponsored ISA www.
co. uk dealing Contact The Share Centre, Financial results 2004 Go online to sell British American Tobacco tel: 44 0 1296 414 144: First quarter late April ordinary shares website: www.
co. uk Interim late July Telephone facility, tel: 0870 850 0852 UK Third quarter late October Capital gains tax Postal low cost share dealing facility Fact sheet for British American Tobacco Registrar sales and purchases also available, historical capital gains tax information Enquiries concerning your shareholding, tel: 0870 242 4244 UK mandating your dividends and notifying Contact the British American Tobacco changes in your personal details Company Secretarial Department, Publications tel: 44 0 20 7845 1000 or access the Copies of current and past Annual Report Contact Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, British American Tobacco Investor Centre and Accounts and Annual Reviews are Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, at www.
Copies of the Group tel: 0870 600 3983 UK : corporate descriptive booklet About Us and 44 0 121 415 7059 International past Quarterly Reports are also available A text phone facility for those with Designed and produced by CGI BrandSense Highlights from these publications can Printed in the UK by Wace hearing difficulties is available, be produced in alternative formats such Wace operates an environmental policy and is tel: 0870 600 3950 UK : IS014001 accredited as Braille, audio tape and large print 44 0 121 415 7028 International Photography throughout by Matthew Ford Printed on Mega Matt: 50% recycled content using elemental chlorine free processes utilising renewable and sustainable bre WWW.
