24 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 Accounting policies 1 Basis of accounting 5 Revenue represents turnover of subsidiary undertakings The Group accounts have been prepared under the historical and the Groups share of associates turnover.
Group turnover cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act comprises sales to external customers and includes duty, 1985 and applicable UK accounting standards.
2 Basis of consolidation 6 Retirement benefit costs The consolidated financial information includes the accounts The costs of providing pensions and retirement healthcare of British American Tobacco and its subsidiary undertakings, benets, calculated by reference to actuarial valuations, are together with the Groups share of the results of its associates charged against profits on a systematic basis with surpluses and joint ventures.
Associates and joint ventures comprise and deficits arising allocated over the expected average investments in undertakings, which are not subsidiary remaining service lives of current employees.
Differences undertakings, where the Groups interest in the equity between the amounts charged in the profit and loss account capital is long term and over whose operating and financial and payments made to pension schemes are treated as assets policies the Group exercises a significant inuence.
They are or liabilities in the balance sheet.
accounted for using the equity method.
The Group has continued to account for retirement benefit The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during costs in accordance with SSAP24 Accounting for Pension the period are included from the date of acquisition of Costs.
The transitional disclosures required by FRS17 a controlling interest at which date, for the purposes of Retirement Benets are set out on page 53 note 24. consolidation, the purchase consideration is allocated between the underlying net assets acquired, other than 7 Research and development revenue expenditure is goodwill, on the basis of their fair value.
charged against profits as incurred.
The results of subsidiary undertakings which have been 8 Taxation provided is that chargeable on the profits of sold during the year are included up to the date of disposal.
the period, together with deferred taxation.
The profit or loss on sale is calculated by reference to the net asset value at the date of disposal, adjusted for purchased Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences goodwill previously written off to reserves on acquisition.
between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their recognition in tax computations.
3 Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998 has However, the Group does not discount deferred tax assets been eliminated during the year of purchase against reserves.
Goodwill on acquisitions from 1 January 1998 is capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life.
Adjustments to 9 Tangible xed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
provisional fair values of assets acquired in the preceding Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to write off period are reected as adjustments to goodwill.
the cost of tangible xed assets over their useful lives.
Freehold and long leasehold land and buildings are depreciated at 4 Foreign currencies rates between 2.5 per cent and 4 per cent per annum, and Turnover, profits and cash ows expressed in currencies plant, machinery and equipment at rates between 7 per cent other than sterling are translated to sterling at average and 25 per cent per annum.
No depreciation is provided on rates of exchange in each year.
Assets and liabilities are freehold land.
translated at rates of exchange at the end of each year.
For high ination countries, the translation from local 10 Other investments are stated at cost less any currencies to sterling makes allowance for the impact impairment provisions.
of ination on the local currency results.
11 Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable The differences between retained profits of overseas value.
The method used in calculating cost, which includes subsidiary and associated undertakings translated at average raw materials, direct labour and overheads where appropriate, and closing rates of exchange are taken to reserves, as are is average cost.
differences arising on the retranslation to sterling using closing rates of exchange of overseas net assets at the beginning of the year, after taking into account related foreign currency borrowings.
Other exchange differences, including those on remittances, are reected in profit.
British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 25 12 Leased assets Assets held under finance leases are included under tangible xed assets at their capital value and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Leasing payments consist of capital and finance charge elements and the finance element is charged to the profit and loss account.
The annual payments under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account.
13 Geographical analyses are presented on the basis of five regions, which reect the principal segmentation of the Groups operations.
Royalty income, less related expenditure, is included in the region in which the licensor is based.
14 Financial instruments The Group utilises a number of differing derivative instruments as part of its interest rate and exchange rate risk management.
These instruments include interest rate swaps, swaptions, caps and collars and forward rate agreements as well as cross-currency swaps, tax equalisation swaps and forward foreign currency contracts.
Interest rate risk management Interest differentials are recognised on an accruals basis and adjusted against interest payable.
Initial premiums and discounts are amortised over the lives of the instruments.
Where instruments are terminated early, gains and losses are amortised over their original lives if the underlying exposure remains in place or otherwise recognised immediately.
Exchange rate risk management Cross-currency swaps are revalued at the balance sheet date and utilised to adjust the book values of the related foreign currency borrowings.
Where forward foreign currency contracts are used to hedge existing assets and liabilities, the contract rates are used to value the related assets and liabilities.
Gains and losses arising on hedges of future transactions are not recognised until the transactions occur.
