HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Taxation of shares and Dividends provisions of a double taxation agreement between Taxation their country of residence and the United Kingdom.
The following is a summary, under current law, of However, in most cases no amount of the tax credit the principal UK tax considerations that are likely to is in practice repayable.
be material to the ownership and disposition of Information on the taxation consequences of the shares.
The summary does not purport to be a HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the comprehensive description of all the tax 2003 first and second interim dividends was set out considerations that may be relevant to a holder of in the Secretarys letters to shareholders of 1 April shares.
In particular, the summary deals principally 2003, 3 September 2003 and 9 December 2003.
The with shareholders who are resident in the United market value of the scrip dividend was not Kingdom for UK tax purposes and only with holders substantially different from the dividend forgone who hold the shares as investments and who are the and, accordingly, the price of HSBC Holdings beneficial owners of the shares, and does not address US$0.50 ordinary shares the shares for UK tax the tax treatment of certain classes of holders such as purposes for the dividends was the cash dividend dealers in securities.
purchasers should consult their own advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment in Taxation of capital gains shares in light of their particular circumstances, including the effect of any national, state or local The computation of the capital gains tax liability laws.
arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders subject to UK capital gains tax can be Taxation of dividends complex, partly depending on whether, for example, the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired No tax is currently withheld from dividends paid by in 1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong and HSBC Holdings.
However, dividends are paid with Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired an associated tax credit which is available for set-off in 1992 in exchange for shares in Midland Bank plc, by certain shareholders against any liability they may now HSBC Bank plc.
Currently, the associated tax credit is equivalent to 10 per cent of the combined For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cash dividend and tax credit, i. e. one-ninth of the cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of cash dividend.
subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
Further adjustments apply where an individual shareholder For individual shareholders who are resident in has chosen to receive shares instead of cash the United Kingdom for taxation purposes and liable dividends, subject to scrip issues made since 6 April to UK income tax at the basic rate, no further UK 1998 being treated for tax as separate holdings.
Any income tax liability arises on the receipt of a capital gain arising on a disposal may also be dividend from HSBC Holdings.
Individual adjusted to take account of indexation allowance shareholders who are liable to UK income tax at the and, in the case of individuals, taper relief.
Except higher rate on UK dividend income currently for gains made by a company chargeable to UK 32.5 per cent are taxed on the combined amount of corporation tax, any such indexation allowance will the dividend and the tax credit.
The tax credit is be calculated up to 5 April 1998 only.
available for set-off against the higher rate liability, leaving net higher rate tax to pay equal to 25 per cent If in doubt, shareholders are recommended to of the cash dividend.
From 6 April 1999, individual consult their professional advisers.
UK resident shareholders have not been entitled to any tax credit repayment, unless the dividend income Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax arises in a Personal Equity Plan PEP or Individual Savings Account ISA, and then only for a five-year Transfers of shares generally will be subject to UK period to 5 April 2004. stamp duty at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the consideration paid for the transfer, and such stamp Although non-UK-resident shareholders are duty is generally payable by the transferee.
generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest such shareholders may be so entitled under the therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp 367 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Taxation of shares and Dividends continued duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the holders are no longer entitled to claim a special consideration.
However, provided an instrument of foreign tax credit in respect of dividends that was transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the available under the terms of the old Treaty, except agreement and duly stamped before the date on for a limited period of time during which such which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, holders may elect to apply the old Treaty in its under current UK Inland Revenue practice it will not entirety in preference to the new Treaty.
be necessary to pay the stamp duty reserve tax, nor to Holders and prospective purchasers should apply for such tax to be cancelled.
Stamp duty consult their own advisers regarding the tax reserve tax generally is payable by the transferee.
consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs in Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the light of their particular circumstances, including the United Kingdoms paperless share transfer system, effect of any national, state or local laws.
are liable to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 In general, the beneficial owner of a share or per cent of the consideration.
In CREST transactions, ADS will be entitled to benefits under the new Treaty the tax is calculated and payment made and, therefore, will be an eligible US holder if it is automatically.
Deposits of shares into CREST i an individual resident of the United States, a US generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve corporation meeting ownership criteria specified in tax, unless the transfer into CREST is itself for the new Treaty or other entity meeting criteria consideration.
specified in the new Treaty: and ii not also resident in the United Kingdom for UK tax purposes.
Special Taxation US residents rules, including a limitation of benefits provision, may apply.
The Treaty benefits discussed below The following is a summary, under current law, of generally are not available to US holders that hold the principal UK tax and US Federal tax shares or ADSs in connection with the conduct of a considerations that are likely to be material to the business through a permanent establishment, or the ownership and disposition of shares or ADSs by a performance of personal services through a fixed holder that is a resident of the United States for the base, in the United Kingdom.
purposes of the income tax convention between the United States and the United Kingdom the Taxation of dividends Treaty, and is fully eligible for benefits under the Treaty an eligible US holder.
The summary does A US holder must include cash dividends paid on the not purport to be a comprehensive description of all shares or ADSs in ordinary income on the date that of the tax considerations that may be relevant to a such holder or the ADS depositary receive them, holder of shares or ADSs.
In particular, the summary translating dividends paid in UK pounds sterling into deals only with eligible US holders that hold shares US dollars using the exchange rate in effect on the or ADSs as capital assets, and does not address the date of receipt.
Qualified dividends paid before 2009 tax treatment of holders that are subject to special tax to individual US holders, may be subject to federal rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance tax at the 5 per cent or 15 per cent maximum tax rate companies, dealers in securities or currencies, that applies to net capital gains.
To qualify for the persons that hold shares or ADSs as part of an 5 per cent or 15 per cent maximum tax rate, the integrated investment including a straddle dividends must have been paid by a qualified foreign comprised of a share or ADS and one or more other corporation and must be paid on shares that the positions, and persons that own, directly or holder has held for more than 61 days during the indirectly, 10 per cent or more of the voting stock of 121-day period that begins 60 days before the exHSBC Holdings.
This discussion is based on laws, dividend date.
In addition, amongst other criteria, treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory dividends on any shares to the extent the holder is interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of obligated under a short sale or otherwise to make which are subject to change.
A new income tax related payments for positions in substantially treaty the new Treaty between the United similar or related property are not qualified Kingdom and the United States entered into effect on dividends.
A non-US corporation is a qualified 1 May 2003 with respect to dividends superseding foreign corporation if it is eligible for the benefits of the previous tax treaty the old Treaty.
Following a comprehensive income tax treaty with the United entry into effect of the new Treaty, eligible US States that the US Treasury Department has 368 determined is satisfactory for this purpose and transfer of shares to the Depository UK stamp duty includes an exchange of information programme and and or stamp duty reserve tax will be payable.
The if the non-US corporation is not a foreign personal stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally holding company, a foreign investment company or a payable on the consideration for the transfer and is passive foreign investment company during the tax payable at the aggregate rate of 1.5 per cent.
The year in which the dividends are paid or in the amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a preceding tax year.
For purposes of these provisions, transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in HSBC Holdings plc is a qualified foreign corporation connection with the same transfer.
and dividends paid on its ordinary shares will be No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, qualified dividends if the holding period and other or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that the criteria are met by the holder.
ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain at all times Taxation of dividends tax credits under the outside the United Kingdom, and provided further old Treaty that any such transfer or written agreement to If a US holder qualified for benefits under the old transfer is not executed in the United Kingdom.
No Treaty, such holder may be eligible, subject to stamp duty reserve tax will be payable on a transfer generally applicable limitations, to receive a special of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the US foreign tax credit equal to one-ninth of the transfer of an ADR.
amount of certain cash dividends received on the On a transfer of shares from the Depository to a shares or ADSs, so long as such holder makes an registered holder of an ADS upon cancellation of the election to include in income, as an additional ADS, a fixed stamp duty of 5 per instrument of notional dividend, an amount equal to the tax credit.
transfer will be payable by the registered holder of This foreign tax credit benefit is generally only the ADR cancelled.
available with respect to dividends paid before 1 May 2003, unless a US holder elects to apply the US backup withholding tax and information old Treaty in its entirety for an optional 12-month reporting extension period.
US holders should consult their own tax advisers regarding their potential eligibility Distributions made on shares and proceeds from the for this foreign tax credit benefit.
sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within the United States, or through certain financial Taxation of capital gains intermediaries to US holders, are subject to information reporting and may be subject to a US Gains realised by an eligible US holder on the sale or backup withholding tax unless, in general, the US other disposition of shares or ADSs normally will holder complies with certain certification procedures not be subject to UK taxation unless at the time of or is a corporation or other person exempt from such the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a withholding.
Holders that are not US persons trade, profession or vocation in the United Kingdom generally are not subject to information reporting or through a branch or agency or permanent backup withholding tax, but may be required to establishment and the shares or ADSs are or have comply with applicable certification procedures to been used, held or acquired for the purposes of such establish that they are not US persons in order to trade, profession, vocation, branch or agency or avoid the application of such information reporting permanent establishment.
Such gains will be requirements or backup withholding tax to payments included in income for US tax purposes, and will be received within the United States or through certain long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs were financial intermediaries.
held for more than one year.
A long-term capital gain realised by an individual holder generally is subject to US tax at a maximum rate of 5 or 15 per cent.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax ADSs If shares are transferred into a clearance service or depository receipt arrangement which will include a 369
