HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation a The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain investments and land and buildings, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the special provisions of Part VII Chapter II of the UK Companies Act 1985 the Act relating to banking groups.
The consolidated financial statements comply with Schedule 9 and the financial statements of HSBC Holdings comply with Schedule 4 to the Act.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Act, no profit and loss account is presented for HSBC Holdings.
HSBC has adopted the provisions of the UITF Abstract 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, and UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
For a discussion of the impact of the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 and 38 see Note 1 e below.
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Statements of Recommended Accounting Practice SORPs issued by the British Bankers Association BBA and Irish Bankers Federation IBF and with the SORP Accounting issues in the asset finance and leasing industry issued by the Finance & Leasing Association FLA.
The SORP issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI Accounting for insurance business contains recommendations on accounting for insurance business for insurance companies and insurance groups.
HSBC is primarily a banking group, rather than an insurance group, and, consistent with previously established practice for such groups preparing consolidated financial statements complying with Schedule 9 to the Act, values its long-term assurance businesses using the Embedded Value method.
This method includes a valuation of the discounted future earnings expected to emerge from business currently in force, taking into account factors such as recent experience and general economic conditions, together with the surplus retained in the long-term assurance funds.
b The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and assumptions about future conditions.
In this connection, management believes that the critical accounting policies where management judgement is necessarily applied are those in relation to provisions for bad and doubtful debts, goodwill impairment, and the valuation of unquoted and illiquid debt and equity securities.
Application of these policies and the key estimates and assumptions used are described in the Financial Review section on pages 118 to 121 under the heading Critical Accounting Policies.
c The consolidated financial statements of HSBC comprise the financial statements of HSBC Holdings and its subsidiary undertakings.
Financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are made up to 31 December, with the exception of the banking and insurance subsidiaries of HSBC Bank Argentina, whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually to comply with local regulations.
Accordingly HSBC uses interim financial statements for its principal banking and insurance subsidiaries in Argentina, drawn up to 31 December annually, and these interim financial statements are audited.
The consolidated financial statements include the attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates, based on financial statements made up to dates not earlier than six months prior to 31 December.
All significant intra-HSBC transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
d HSBCs financial statements are prepared in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP, which differs in certain respects from Hong Kong and US generally accepted accounting principles Hong Kong GAAP and US GAAP.
A discussion of the significant differences between UK GAAP and Hong Kong GAAP is contained in note 49.
A discussion of the significant differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP and a reconciliation to US GAAP of certain amounts is contained in Note 50.
The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken together with the Financial Review, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy both UK and US reporting requirements.
e The presentation in the financial statements of shares in HSBC Holdings held by HSBC changed in 2003 following the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 and 38.
HSBC Holdings shares held on HSBCs own account are 239 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued now deducted from shareholders funds: previously they were included in equity shares and other assets.
No gains or losses are recognised in the profit and loss account reserve on purchases, sales or cancellation of own shares.
The change in accounting policy has been reflected by way of a prior period adjustment.
Comparative figures have been restated as follows: Consolidated profit and loss account UITF Abstract 38 does not impact on the profit and loss account.
Profit and loss account comparative figures have not been restated upon the adoption of UITF Abstract 37 since the effect is immaterial.
The effect on the results for the current period of the adoption of UITF Abstract 37 is to reduce profits by US$39 million arising from the increase in the market value of own shares held within long-term assurance assets attributable to policy holders see Note 27.
Fee and commission income is accounted for in the period when receivable, except where it is charged to cover the costs of a continuing service to, or risk borne for, the customer, or is interest in nature.
In these cases, it is recognised on an appropriate basis over the relevant period.
b Loans and advances and doubtful debts It is HSBCs policy that each operating company will make provisions for bad and doubtful debts promptly where required and on a consistent basis in accordance with established Group guidelines.
There are two basic types of provision, specific and general, each of which is considered in terms of the charge and the amount outstanding.
Specific provisions Specific provisions represent the quantification of actual and inherent losses from homogeneous portfolios of assets and individually identified accounts.
Specific provisions are deducted from loans and advances in the balance sheet.
The majority of specific provisions are determined on a portfolio basis.
Portfolios Where homogeneous groups of assets are reviewed on a portfolio basis, two alternative methods are used to calculate specific provisions: When appropriate empirical information is available, the Group utilises roll rate methodology a statistical analysis of historical trends of the probability of default and amount of consequential loss, assessed at each time period for which payments are overdue, other historical data and an evaluation of current economic conditions to calculate an appropriate level of specific provision based on inherent loss.
Additionally, in certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models also take into account behavioural and account management trends such as bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
Roll rates are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
In other cases, when information is insufficient or not sufficiently reliable to adopt a roll rate methodology, the Group adopts a formulaic approach which allocates progressively higher loss rates in line with the period of time for which a customers loan is overdue.
Individually assessed accounts Specific provisions on individually assessed accounts are determined by an evaluation of the exposures on a case-by-case basis.
This procedure is applied to all accounts that do not qualify for, or are not subject to, a portfolio based approach.
In determining such provisions on individually assessed accounts, the following factors are considered: the Groups aggregate exposure to the customer including contingent liabilities : the viability of the customers business model and the capability of management to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service their debt obligations: the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy: 241 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued the extent of other creditors commitments ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, the Group and the likelihood of other creditors continuing to support the company: the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to which legal and insurance uncertainties are evident: the amount and timing of expected receipts and recoveries: the realisable value of security or other credit mitigants and likelihood of successful repossession: the deduction of any costs involved in recovery of amounts outstanding: and the ability of the borrower to obtain the relevant foreign currency if loans are not in local currency.
Releases on individually calculated specific provisions are recognised whenever the Group has reasonable evidence that the established estimate of loss has been reduced.
Cross-border exposures Specific provisions are established in respect of cross-border exposures to countries assessed by management to be vulnerable to foreign currency payment restrictions.
This assessment includes analysis of both economic and political factors.
Provisions are applied to all qualifying exposures within these countries unless these exposures: are fully performing and of less than one years maturity: are mitigated by acceptable security cover held outside the country concerned: or are represented by securities held for trading purposes for which a liquid and active market exists, and which are marked to market daily.
General provisions General provisions augment specific provisions and provide cover for loans that are impaired at the balance sheet date but which will not be individually identified as such until some time in the future.
HSBC requires operating companies to maintain a general provision, which is determined after taking into account: historical loss experience in portfolios of similar risk characteristics for example, by industry sector, loan grade or product : the estimated period between a loss occurring and that loss being identified and evidenced by the establishment of a specific provision against that loss: and managements judgement as to whether the current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of inherent losses is likely to be greater or less than that suggested by historical experience.
The estimated period between a loss occurring and its identification as evidenced by the establishment of a specific provision for that loss is determined by local management for each identified portfolio.
Loans on which interest is being suspended and non-accrual loans Loans are designated as non-performing as soon as management has doubts as to the ultimate collectibility of principal or interest or when contractual payments of principal or interest are 90 days overdue.
When a loan is designated as non-performing, interest is not normally credited to the profit and loss account and either interest accruals will cease non-accrual loans or interest will be credited to an interest suspense account in the balance sheet which is netted against the relevant loan suspended interest 242 The designation of a loan as non-performing and the suspension of interest may be deferred for up to 12 months in either of the following situations: cash collateral is held covering the total of principal and interest due and the right of set-off is legally sound: or the value of any net realisable tangible security is considered more than sufficient to cover the full repayment of all principal and interest due and credit approval has been given to the rolling-up or capitalisation of interest payments.
In certain subsidiaries, principally in the UK and Hong Kong, provided that there is a realistic prospect of interest being paid at some future date, interest on non-performing loans is charged to the customers account.
However, the interest is not credited to the profit and loss account but to an interest suspense account in the balance sheet, which is netted against the relevant loan.
In other subsidiaries and in any event where the probability of receiving interest payments is remote, interest is no longer accrued and any suspended interest balance is written off.
On receipt of cash other than from the realisation of security, the overall risk is re-evaluated and, if appropriate, suspended or non-accrual interest is recovered and taken to the profit and loss account.
A specific provision of the same amount as the interest receipt is then raised against the principal balance.
Amounts received from the realisation of security are applied to the repayment of outstanding indebtedness, with any surplus used to recover any specific provisions and then suspended interest.
Loans are not reclassified as accruing until interest and principal payments are up-to-date and future payments are reasonably assured.
Loan write-offs Loans and the related provisions are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery of these amounts and when the proceeds from the realisation of security have been received.
Assets acquired in exchange for advances Assets acquired in exchange for advances in order to achieve an orderly realisation continue to be reported as advances.
The asset acquired is recorded at the carrying value of the advance disposed of at the date of the exchange and subsequent provisions are based on any further deterioration in value.
c Treasury bills, debt securities and equity shares Treasury bills, debt securities and equity shares intended to be held on a continuing basis are disclosed as investment securities and are included in the balance sheet at cost less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
Where dated investment securities have been purchased at a premium or discount, these premiums and discounts are amortised through the profit and loss account over the period from the date of purchase to the date of maturity so as to give a constant rate of return.
If the maturity is at the borrowers option within a specified range of years, the earliest maturity is adopted.
These securities are included in the balance sheet at cost adjusted for the amortisation of premiums and discounts arising on acquisition.
The amortisation of premiums and discounts is included in Interest receivable.
Any profit or loss on realisation of these securities is recognised in the profit and loss account as it arises and included in Gains on disposal of investments.
Other treasury bills, debt securities, equity shares and short positions in securities are included in the balance sheet at market value.
Changes in the market value of such assets and liabilities are recognised in the profit and loss account as Dealing profits as they arise.
For liquid portfolios market values are determined by reference to independently sourced mid-market prices.
In certain less liquid portfolios securities are valued by reference to bid or offer prices as appropriate.
Where independent prices are not available, market values may be determined 243 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued by discounting the expected future cash flows using an appropriate interest rate adjusted for the credit risk of the counterparty.
Where securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price, they remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received.
Conversely, securities purchased under analogous commitments to resell are not recognised on the balance sheet and the consideration paid is recorded in Loans and advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers.
d Subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associates and other participating interests i HSBC Holdings investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at net asset values, including attributable goodwill, adjusted for shares held by subsidiaries in HSBC Holdings.
Changes in the value of subsidiary undertakings are accounted for as movements in the revaluation reserve.
ii Interests in joint ventures are stated at HSBCs share of gross assets, including attributable goodwill, less HSBCs share of gross liabilities.
iii Interests in associates are stated at HSBCs share of net assets, including attributable goodwill.
iv Other participating interests are investments in the shares of undertakings which are held on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to HSBCs business, other than subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures or associates.
Other participating interests are stated at cost less any permanent diminution in value.
e Goodwill and intangible assets i Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures or associates when the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair value of HSBCs share of separable net assets acquired.
Negative goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates when the fair value of HSBCs share of separable net assets acquired exceeds the cost of acquisition.
For acquisitions made on or after 1 January 1998, goodwill is included in the balance sheet in Goodwill and intangible assets in respect of subsidiary undertakings, in Interests in joint ventures in respect of joint ventures and in Interests in associates in respect of associates.
Capitalised goodwill is amortised over its estimated life on a straightline basis.
Capitalised goodwill is tested for impairment when necessary by comparing the present value of the expected future cash flows from an entity with the carrying value of its net assets, including attributable goodwill.
Negative goodwill is credited to the profit and loss account in the periods expected to be benefited.
For acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998, goodwill was charged against reserves in the year of acquisition.
At the date of disposal of subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures or associates, any unamortised goodwill or goodwill previously charged directly to reserves is included in HSBCs share of net assets of the undertaking in the calculation of the gain or loss on disposal of the undertaking.
ii Intangible assets represent contracts with retailers and other organisations to originate and promote HSBC products such as credit cards, store cards and retail loans.
They are stated at their cost less amortisation to write off the assets over the contract lives.
Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
f Tangible fixed assets i Land and buildings are stated at valuation or cost less depreciation calculated to write off the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows: freehold land and land held on leases with more than 50 years to expiry are not depreciated: land held on leases with 50 years or less to expiry is depreciated over the unexpired terms of the leases: and 244 buildings and improvements thereto are depreciated on cost or valuation at the greater of 2 per cent per annum on the straight-line basis or over the unexpired terms of the leases or over the remaining useful lives.
ii Equipment, fixtures and fittings are stated at cost less depreciation calculated on the straight-line basis to write off the assets over their estimated useful lives, which are generally between 5 years and 20 years.
iii HSBC holds certain properties as investments.
No depreciation is provided in respect of such properties other than leaseholds with 20 years or less to expiry.
Investment properties are included in the balance sheet at their open market value and the aggregate surplus or deficit, where material, is transferred to the investment property revaluation reserve.
g Finance and operating leases i Assets leased to customers under agreements which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards associated with ownership, other than legal title, are classified as finance leases.
Where HSBC is a lessor under finance leases the amounts due under the leases, after deduction of unearned charges, are included in Loans and advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers.
Finance charges receivable are recognised over the periods of the leases so as to give a constant rate of return on the net cash investment in the leases, taking into account tax payments and receipts associated with the leases.
ii Where HSBC is a lessee under finance leases the leased assets are capitalised and included in Equipment, fixtures and fittings and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in Other liabilities.
Finance charges payable are recognised over the periods of the leases based on the interest rates implicit in the leases.
iii All other leases are classified as operating leases and, where HSBC is the lessor, are included in Tangible fixed assets.
Provision is made to the extent that the carrying value of equipment is impaired through residual values not being fully recoverable.
Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are accounted for on the straight-line basis over the periods of the leases and are included in Administrative expenses and Other operating income respectively.
h Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in full on timing differences between the accounting and taxation treatment of income and expenditure, subject to assessment of the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable to the extent that it is more likely than not there will suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
i Pension and other post-retirement benefits HSBC operates a number of pension and other post-retirement benefit schemes throughout the world.
For UK defined benefit schemes annual contributions are made, on the advice of qualified actuaries, for funding of retirement benefits in order to build up reserves for each scheme member during the employees working life and used to pay a pension to the employee or dependant after retirement.
The costs of providing these benefits are charged to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis.
Arrangements for staff retirement benefits in overseas locations vary from country to country and are made in accordance with local regulations and custom.
The pension cost of the major overseas schemes is assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries so as to recognise the cost of pensions on a systematic basis over employees service lives.
245 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Since 1 January 1993, the cost of providing post-retirement health-care benefits, which is assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries, has been recognised on a systematic basis over employees service lives.
At 1 January 1993, there was an accumulated obligation in respect of these benefits relating to current and retired employees which is being charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over 20 years.
j Foreign currencies i Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange ruling at the year-end.
The results of branches, subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates not reporting in US dollars are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the year.
ii Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening foreign currency net investments and the related cost of hedging and exchange differences arising from retranslation of the result for the year from the average rate to the exchange rate ruling at the year-end are accounted for in reserves.
iii Other exchange differences are recognised in the profit and loss account.
k Off-balance-sheet financial instruments Off-balance-sheet financial instruments comprise futures, forward, swap and option transactions undertaken by HSBC in the foreign exchange, interest rate, equity, credit derivative, and commodity markets.
Netting is applied where a legal right of set-off exists.
Accounting for these instruments is dependent upon whether the transactions are undertaken for trading or nontrading purposes.
Trading transactions Trading transactions include transactions undertaken for market-making, to service customers needs and for proprietary purposes, as well as any related hedges.
Transactions undertaken for trading purposes are marked-to-market and the net present value of any gain or loss arising is recognised in the profit and loss account as Dealing profits, after appropriate deferrals for unearned credit margin and future servicing costs.
Off-balance sheet trading transactions are valued by reference to an independent liquid price where this is available.
For those transactions where there are no readily quoted prices, which predominantly relates to over the counter transactions, market values are determined by reference to independently sourced rates, using valuation models.
Adjustments are made for illiquid positions where appropriate.
Assets, including gains, resulting from off-balance sheet exchange rate, interest rate, equities, credit derivative and commodity contracts which are marked-to-market are included in Other assets.
Liabilities, including losses, resulting from such contracts, are included in Other liabilities.
Non-trading transactions Non-trading transactions are those which are held for hedging purposes as part of HSBCs risk management strategy against cashflows, assets, liabilities or positions measured on an accruals basis.
Non-trading transactions include qualifying hedges and positions that synthetically alter the characteristics of specified financial instruments.
Non-trading transactions are accounted for on an equivalent basis to the underlying assets, liabilities or net positions.
Any gain or loss arising is recognised on the same basis as that arising from the related assets, liabilities or positions.
To qualify as a hedge, a derivative must effectively reduce the price, foreign exchange or interest rate risk of the asset, liability or anticipated transaction to which it is linked and be designated as a hedge at inception of the 246 derivative contract.
Accordingly, changes in the market value of the derivative must be highly correlated with changes in the market value of the underlying hedged item at inception of the hedge and over the life of the hedge contract.
If these criteria are met, the derivative is accounted for on the same basis as the underlying hedged item.
Derivatives used for hedging purposes include swaps, forwards and futures.
Interest rate swaps are also used to alter synthetically the interest rate characteristics of financial instruments.
In order to qualify for synthetic alteration, a derivative instrument must be linked to specific individual, or pools of similar, assets or liabilities by the notional principal and interest rate risks of the associated instruments, and must achieve a result that is consistent with defined risk management objectives.
If these criteria are met, accruals based accounting is applied, i. e. income or expense is recognised and accrued to the next settlement date in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement.
Any gain or loss arising on the termination of a qualifying derivative is deferred and amortised to earnings over the original life of the terminated contract.
Where the underlying asset, liability or position is sold or terminated, the qualifying derivative is immediately marked-to-market and any gain or loss arising is taken to the profit and loss account.
l Long-term assurance business The value placed on HSBCs interest in long-term assurance business includes a valuation of the discounted future earnings expected to emerge from business currently in force, using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as recent experience and general economic conditions, together with the surplus retained in the long-term assurance funds.
These are determined annually in consultation with independent actuaries and are included in Other assets.
Changes in the value placed on HSBCs interest in long-term assurance business are calculated on a post-tax basis and reported gross in the profit and loss account as part of Other operating income after adjusting for taxation.
Long-term assurance assets excluding own shares held see note 27 and liabilities attributable to policyholders are recognised in HSBCs accounts in Other assets and Other liabilities.
FRS 17 Retirement benefits was issued in November 2000.
Prior to full implementation, which has been deferred until accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, phased transitional disclosures are required from 31 December 2001.
These disclosures, to the extent not given in i, are set out in ii.
i HSBC Pension Schemes HSBC operates some 174 pension schemes throughout the world, covering 88 per cent of HSBCs employees, with a total pension cost of US$814 million 2002: US$558 million: 2001: US$572 million:, of which US$443 million 2002: US$316 million: 2001: US$349 million relates to overseas schemes.
Of the overseas schemes, US$146 million 2002: US$43 million: 2001: US$31 million has been determined in accordance with best practice and regulations in the United States and Canada.
Progressively HSBC has been moving to defined contribution schemes for all new employees and this will be the case for all major subsidiaries in 2004.
The majority of the extant schemes are funded defined benefit schemes, which cover 54 per cent of HSBCs employees, with assets, in the case of most of the larger schemes, held in trust or similar funds separate from HSBC.
The pension cost relating to these schemes was US$649 million 2002: US$406 million: 2001: US$428 million which is assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
The schemes are reviewed at least on a triennial basis or in accordance with local practice and regulations.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the projected benefit obligations of HSBCs pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they are situated.
Included in the above figures is the pension cost relating to the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme.
This scheme comprises a funded defined benefit scheme the principal scheme which is closed and a defined contribution scheme which was established on 1 July 1996 for new employees.
The latest valuation of the principal scheme was made at 31 December 2002 by C G Singer, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, of Watson Wyatt LLP.
At that date, the market value of the principal schemes assets was US$9,302 million.
The actuarial value of the assets represented 88 per cent of the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings, and the resulting deficit amounted to US$1,270 million.
The method adopted for this valuation was the projected unit method and the main assumptions used were a long-term investment return of 6.85 per cent per annum, salary increases of 3.0 per cent per annum, and post-retirement pension increases of 2.5 per cent per annum.
In anticipation of the above valuation result, HSBC made a payment into the scheme in February 2003 amounting to US$817 million.
In addition, following receipt of the valuation results, a further payment of US$137 million was made into the scheme.
HSBC has decided to continue ongoing contributions to the scheme at the rate of 20 per cent of pensionable salaries until completion of the next actuarial valuation, due as at 31 December 2005.
The deficit as at 31 December 2002 is being amortised over a thirteen year period, the average remaining service life of the existing employed members.
The amortisation is net of the interest benefit from the payments of US$817 million in February and US$137 million in August 2003.
In Hong Kong, the HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme covers employees of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and certain other employees of HSBC.
The scheme comprises a funded defined benefit scheme which is a lump sum scheme and a defined contribution scheme.
The latter was established on 1 January 1999 for new employees.
The latest valuation of the defined benefit scheme was made at 31 December 2003 and was performed by E Chiu, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries of the United States of America, of HSBC Life International Limited, a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings.
At that date, the market value of the defined benefit schemes assets was US$883 million.
On an ongoing basis, the actuarial value of the schemes assets represented 121 per cent of the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to US$156 million.
On a wind-up basis, the actuarial value of the schemes assets represents 124 per cent of the members vested benefits, based on current salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to US$169 million.
The actuarial method used was the projected unit credit method and the main assumptions used in this valuation were a long-term investment return of 5.5 per cent per annum and salary increases of 4.5 per cent per annum.
In the United States, the HSBC Bank USA Pension Plan the principal scheme covers employees of HSBC Bank USA and certain other employees of HSBC.
The latest valuation of the principal scheme was made at 1 January 2003 by R G Gendron and K G Leister, Fellows of the Society of Actuaries, of Hewitt Associates LLC.
At that date, the market value of the schemes assets was US$878 million.
The actuarial value of the assets represented 92 per cent of the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings, and the resulting deficit amounted to US$81 million.
This deficit was eliminated by means of contributions made to the scheme in 2003.
The method employed for this valuation was the projected unit credit method and the main assumptions used were a discount rate of 6.75 per cent per annum and average salary increases of 3.75 per cent per annum.
The acquisition of Household International brought with it additional retirement benefit schemes.
The largest of these is Household International Retirement Income Plan, which comprises a funded defined benefit scheme the Household principle scheme which is closed and a cash balance plan which was established on 1 January 2000.
The last reported actuarial valuation was made as at 1 July 2003.
At that date, the market value of the Household principle schemes assets was US$853 million, representing 127 per cent of the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for future increases in earnings.
The resulting surplus amounted to US$181 million.
The method employed for this valuation was the projected unit credit method and the main 249 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued assumptions used were a discount rate of 8 per cent per annum and average salary increases of 4 per cent per annum.
The HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme, the HSBC Bank USA Pension Plan and the Household International Retirement Plan cover 41 per cent 2002: 37 per cent: 2001: 42 per cent of HSBCs employees.
The pension cost for defined contribution schemes, which cover 34 per cent 2002: 38 per cent: 2001: 41 per cent of HSBCs employees, was US$165 million 2002: US$152 million: 2001: US$144 million.
Of the schemes in deficit, US$514 million relates to unfunded pension schemes in respect of which a provision, net of deferred tax, of US$388 million has been made.
In relation to main schemes, there is a surplus of US$156 million in the HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme and a surplus of US$112 million in the HSBC Bank USA Pension Plan.
The net pension liability will have a consequent effect on reserves when FRS17 is fully implemented.
The defined benefit section of the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme and the HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme are closed to new entrants.
For these schemes the current service cost will increase under the projected unit credit method as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
Of the schemes in deficit, US$442 million related to unfunded pension schemes in respect of which a provision, net of deferred tax, of US$402 million was made.
In relation to main schemes, there was a surplus of US$86 million in the HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme and a deficit of US$79 million in the HSBC Bank USA Pension Plan.
Of the schemes in deficit, US$565 million related to unfunded pension schemes in respect of which a provision, net of deferred tax, of US$356 million was made.
In relation to main schemes, there was a surplus of US$17 million in the HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme and a deficit of US$48 million in the HSBC Bank USA Pension Plan.
HSBC Holdings is unable to identify the share of the underlying assets and liabilities of this scheme which are attributable to its employees.
iii Post-retirement healthcare benefits HSBC also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits under schemes, mainly in the United Kingdom and also in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil.
The charge relating to these schemes is US$54 million for the year 2002: US$54 million: 2001: US$39 million.
The schemes are unfunded, except for the 253 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued scheme in Mexico which had assets of US$68 million at 31 December 2003 2002: US$13 million comprising US$nil in equities 2002: US$2 million, US$52 million in bonds 2002: US$6 million and US$16 million in cash 2002: US$5 million.
The latest full actuarial valuations of the liability were carried out at dates between 31 December 1999 and 31 December 2003 by independent qualified actuaries and have been updated to 31 December 2003 as necessary.
These latest actuarial reviews in accordance with FRS 17 estimated the present value of the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation at US$850 million 2002: US$491 million: 2001: US$404 million, of which US$656 million 2002: US$366 million: 2001: US$269 million has been provided and US$68 million 2002: US$13 million is held in assets in the funded scheme in Mexico.
Of the year-end obligation, US$251 million arose on the acquisition of Household International, Inc.
The actuarial assumptions used to estimate this obligation vary according to the claims experience and economic conditions of the countries in which the schemes are situated.
For the UK schemes, the main financial assumptions used at 31 December 2003 were price inflation of 2.5 per cent per annum 2002: 2.5 per cent, health-care claims cost escalation of 7.5 per cent per annum 2002: 7.5 per cent and a discount rate of 5.3 per cent per annum 2002: 5.6 per cent.
Under FRS 17, the deferred tax asset related to the unprovided liability of US$126 million 2002: US$112 million would be US$46 million 2002: US$38 million.
The provision as at 31 December 2003 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to former Directors amounted to US$7,273,000 2002: US$6,942,000: 2001: US$6,281,000.
254 During the year, aggregate contributions to pension schemes in respect of Directors were US$1,294,964 2002: US$1,592,024: 2001: US$1,462,000.
Discretionary bonuses for Directors are based on a combination of individual and corporate performance and are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The cost of the conditional awards under the Restricted Share Plan is recognised through an annual charge based on the likely level of vesting of shares, apportioned over the period of service to which the award relates.
Details of Directors remuneration, share options and conditional awards under the Restricted Share Plan are included in the Report of the Directors on pages 208 to 210 and Directors Remuneration Report on pages 213 to 229. d Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration in relation to statutory audit amounted to US$31.7 million 2002: US$24.8 million: 2001: US$24.3 million.
Of fees paid to auditors for non-audit work, US$2.1 million were capitalised 2002: US$0.4 million: 2001: US$0.4 million.
The following is a description of the type of services included within the categories listed above: Audit-related regulatory reporting services include services for assurance and other services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of financial statements, including comfort letters and interim reviews.
Further assurance services include services for advice on accounting matters, reporting on internal controls not connected with the financial statements, due diligence work and environmental audits.
Tax services include services for tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning.
Other services include other assurance and advisory services such as translation services, review of financial models and advice on IT security.
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of US$12 million by parties other than HSBC but where HSBC is connected with the contracting party.
These fees arise principally in respect of services such as audit of mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviews of the financial position of corporate borrowers where HSBC is a lender.
255 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 6 Loss from foreign currency redenomination in Argentina The Argentine Government have issued and propose to issue bonds as compensation to the banks including HSBC who suffered losses as a result of the original redenomination.
Certain of these bonds will be issued in exchange for Argentine Government loans which have been fair valued accordingly.
The net effect of these transactions largely offset losses in 2003 which arose from continued repayment of certain deposits historically denominated in US dollars at current market rates rather than the pesification rates specified by the Argentine Government.
The losses in 2002 related to the further impact of pesification including revisions to government decrees, renegotiation of banking contracts, and payments made to certain customers who had obtained court orders requiring HSBC to repay their deposits historically denominated in US dollars at the then current market rates rather than the pesification rate specified by the Argentine Government.
The loss of US$520 million in 2001 arose on the redenomination by the Argentine Government of certain in-country US dollar assets and liabilities into pesos at various mandatory but different rates of exchange.
Of the after-tax amount, US$23 million 2002: US$23 million: 2001: US$18 million is attributable to minority interests.
This has no impact on the total tax charge.
HSBC Holdings and its subsidiary undertakings in the United Kingdom provide for UK corporation tax at 30 per cent 2002 and 2001: 30 per cent.
Overseas tax includes Hong Kong profits tax of US$483 million 2002: US$408 million: 2001: US$450 million.
Subsidiary undertakings in Hong Kong provide for Hong Kong profits tax at the rate of 17.5 per cent 2002 and 2001: 16 per cent on the profits for the year assessable in Hong Kong.
Other overseas subsidiary undertakings and overseas branches provide for taxation at the appropriate rates in the countries in which they operate.
The difference between the fair value of assets and liabilities, which is included in the accounts, and the previous book value is amortised to the profit and loss account over the life of the relevant assets and liabilities.
The amortisation resulted in a credit to the profit and loss account of US$957 million and there is no tax associated with this adjustment to net income, which therefore reduces the effective tax rate for the year.
Although similar adjustments arose in prior years the effect was not significant and is included in Other items above.
Of the second interim dividend for 2002, US$444 million 2001: US$857 million: 2000 US$737 million was settled by the issue of shares in 2003.
11 Earnings per ordinary share Basic earnings per ordinary share was calculated by dividing the earnings of US$8,774 million 2002: US$6,239 million: 2001: US$4,992 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares, excluding own shares held, outstanding in 2003 of 10,421 million 2002: 9,339 million: 2001: 9,237 million.
Diluted earnings per share was calculated by dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on ordinary conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares being share options outstanding not yet exercised in 2003 of 10,539 million 2002: 9,436 million: 2001: 9,336 million.
These are mainly short-term in maturity and are analysed below.
14 Credit risk management HSBCs credit risk management process is discussed in the Financial Review in the section headed Credit risk management on pages 136 to 138, ending with the sentence Internal audit will discuss with management.
assigned to the facilities concerned.
261 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Securitisation transactions Loans and advances to customers include balances that have been securitised.
Certain of these balances meet the requirements for linked presentation under FRS 5 Reporting the substance of transactions.
The transaction was effected through a declaration of trust in favour of Clover Securitisation Limited.
Clover Securitisation Limited holds its beneficial interest in the trust for Clover Funding No.
4 plc collectively Clover Funding and HSBC.
To fund the acquisition of this beneficial interest, Clover Funding has issued US$2,541 million 2002: US$2,294 million floating rate notes FRNs.
2 plc is in scheduled accumulation and has collected US$395 million 2002: US$nil to repay its outstanding Notes in April 2004.
The offering circulars for the FRNs stated that they are the obligations of Clover Funding only and are not guaranteed by, or the responsibility of, any other party.
Non-returnable proceeds of US$1,882 million 2002: US$2,049 million received by HSBC from Clover Funding have been deducted from Loans and advances to customers.
Clover Securitisation Limited has entered into swap agreements with HSBC under which Clover Securitisation Limited pays the floating rate of interest on the loans and receives interest linked to three-month London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR.
The proceeds generated from the loans are used in priority to meet the claims of the FRN holders, and amounts payable in respect of the interest rate swap arrangements after the payment of trustee and administration expenses.
There is no provision whatsoever, either in the financing arrangements or otherwise, whereby HSBC has a right or obligation either to keep the loans and advances on repayment of the finance or to repurchase them at any time other than in certain circumstances where HSBC is in breach of warranty.
HSBC is not obliged to support any losses that may be suffered by the FRN holders and does not intend to provide such support.
HSBC has taken up US$73 million 2002: US$66 million of subordinated FRNs that are repayable after payments in respect of senior FRNs.
HSBC has made subordinated loans of US$46 million 2002: US$42 million to Clover Funding that are repayable after all other payments.
Interest is payable on the subordinated FRNs and subordinated loans conditional upon Clover Funding having funds available.
Clover Securitisation Limiteds entire share capital is held by Clover Holdings Limited.
Clover Fundings entire share capital is held by Clover Holdings Limited.
Clover Holdings Limiteds entire share capital is held by trustees under the terms of a trust for charitable purposes.
HSBC recognised net income of US$7 million 2002: US$4 million which comprised US$108 million 2002: US$96 million of interest receivable by Clover Funding less US$101 million 2002: US$92 million of interest on FRNs and other third party expenses payable by Clover Funding.
HFC Bank Limited Securitisations HSBC, through its wholly-owned subsidiary company, HFC Bank Limited formerly HFC Bank plc HFC Bank, has securitised certain amounts of its personal loan portfolios.
The transactions were effected through equitable assignment of those loans to receivables trusts, beneficial interests in which were purchased by several special purpose companies.
262 To fund the acquisition of these beneficial interests, the special purpose companies have issued asset backed notes, discounted notes, and subordinated loans, or have received funds on-lent by other companies that have issued such securities and loans for this purpose.
Certain of the notes issued were credit enhanced by a third party to provide the required ratings at the time of issue.
The securitisation documentation sets out the acknowledgement by the special purpose companies that they will seek to repay their financing only to the extent that repayment is funded by the proceeds generated by the securitised personal loans, and that they will not seek recourse in any other form from HFC Bank.
As at 31 December 2003 non-returnable proceeds of US$409 million received by HFC Bank from the receivables trusts have been deducted from Loans and advances to customers.
Certain of the special purpose companies have entered into swap agreements with HFC Bank via a third party swap provider under which the special purpose companies pay the fixed rate of interest on the personal loans and receive a floating interest rate.
The proceeds generated from the loans are used in priority to meet the claims of the note holders and other lenders, and amounts payable in respect of the interest rate swap arrangements after the payment of trustee and administration expenses.
HFC Bank is entitled to any residual income from the personal loans after the claims of the note-holders, other lenders and swap counterparties are met.
Under the terms of the securitisation agreements, during the initial periods of the securitisations, HFC Bank was able to substitute securitised loans that were prepaid or expired with further loans that met the same criteria as those originally securitised.
In the period since the acquisition of HFC Bank by HSBC, the special purpose companies acquired US$94 million of qualifying personal loans from HFC Bank under these arrangements.
These initial periods have now expired, and further substitutions are no longer possible.
There is no provision whatsoever, either in the financing arrangements or otherwise, whereby HFC Bank has a right or obligation either to keep the loans and advances on repayment of the finance or to repurchase them at any time other than in certain circumstances where HFC Bank is in breach of warranty.
HFC Bank is not obliged to support any losses that may be suffered by the note-holders and does not intend to provide such support.
The entire share capital of the special purpose companies is indirectly held by trustees under the terms of a trust for charitable purposes.
263 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued In the period since the acquisition of HFC Bank by HSBC, HFC Bank recognised net income of US$33 million from these personal loan securitisations.
The geographical information shown above has been classified by the location of the principal operations of the subsidiary undertaking, or in the case of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited and HSBC Bank USA, by location of the branch responsible for advancing the funds.
The above market valuations do not take account of transactions entered into to hedge the value of HSBCs investment securities.
If the market value of such hedges was included, the effective value of investment securities would be US$132,076 million 2002: US$109,204 million: 2001: US$94,100 million.
The weighted average yield for each range of maturities in the above table is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 31 December 2003 by the book amount of available-for-sale debt securities at that date.
The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives.
Proceeds from the sale and redemption of investment securities were US$153,910 million 2002: US$77,105 million: 2001: US$87,626 million.
Gross realised gains of US$182 million 2002: US$247 million: 2001: US$359 million and gross realised losses of US$21 million 2002: US$77 million: 2001: US$180 million were recorded on those sales.
All gains and losses arose on sales of securities from the available-for-sale portfolio.
Realised gains and losses are computed using the weighted average cost method.
There were no gains recorded on securities transferred from the investment book to the trading book.
The cost of investment securities purchased during the year ended 31 December 2003 was US$164,817 million 2002: US$85,837 million: 2001: US$94,214 million.
269 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 20 Equity shares 1 1 2003 2002 2001 Carrying Market Carrying Market Carrying Market value valuation value valuation value valuation US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Investment securities: listed on a recognised UK exchange.............. 44 65 14 23 87 93 listed in Hong Kong.... 238 379 241 400 245 564 listed elsewhere........... 1,163 1,207 1,389 1,436 1,531 1,757 unlisted....................... 3,577 4,016 2,866 3,127 2,426 2,606 5,390 6,217 4,284 4,757 4,147 4,699 Other securities: listed on a recognised UK exchange.............. 129 670 713 listed in Hong Kong.... 20 974 listed elsewhere........... 7,303 2,576 2,405 unlisted....................... 125 110 37 12,879 7,664 7,449 Where securities are carried at market value, and the market value is higher than cost, the difference between cost and market value is not disclosed as it cannot be determined without unreasonable expense.
Equity investment securities include interests in money market mutual funds primarily held by Household for liquidity management.
Proceeds from the sale of investment securities were US$6,117 million 2002: US$1,980 million: 2001: US$1,796 million.
Gross realised gains of US$281 million 2002: US$215 million: 2001: US$290 million and gross realised losses of US$43 million 2002: US$9 million: 2001: US$25 million were recorded on those sales.
The cost of investment securities purchased during the year ended 31 December 2003 was US$5,692 million 2002: US$1,748 million: 2001: US$1,604 million.
b HSBCs joint venture at 31 December 2003 is: HSBCs Issued Country of Principal interest in equity incorporation activity equity capital capital Asset Framlington Group Limited........................................... England management 51% 3m Framlington Group Limited is owned by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings and makes its financial statements up to 31 December.
Its principal country of operation is England.
Although HSBC owns more than 50 per cent of the equity capital of Framlington Group Limited, the agreement with another shareholder means that there are severe long-term restrictions which substantially hinder HSBCs rights over the assets and management of the entity.
HSBC does however continue to exercise significant influence and together with the other shareholder controls the entity.
c HSBCs share of total operating income in the joint venture is US$36 million 2002: US$19 million.
d Included within the Groups share of the joint ventures gross assets is goodwill of US$171 million which has been fully written off as at 31 December 2003 2002: net book value US$149 million.
03 Bermuda Shipping 50% US$58m 1 Issued equity capital is less than HK$1 million.
3 Issued equity capital is less than US$1 million.
All the above interests in associates are owned by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings.
The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for World Finance International Limited which operates worldwide, and British Arab Commercial Bank Limited which operates in the Middle East.
On 20 January 2004 HSBCs interest in World Finance International Limited was exchanged for a 7 per cent interest in Bergesen Worldwide.
The new investment will be included in equity shares investment securities from 2004. c The associates listed above have no loan capital, except for British Arab Commercial Bank Limited which has issued US$44.5 million of subordinated unsecured loan stock in which HSBC has a 34.66 per cent interest: Barrowgate Limited which has HK$928 million of loan capital in which HSBC has a 24.64 per cent interest: and The Cyprus Popular Bank Limited which has issued C15.6 million of convertible debentures in which HSBC has a 41.9 per cent interest.
The last period for conversion of these debentures into equity shares expired during 2003.
HSBC also has a 100 per cent interest in the issued preferred stock less than US$1 million of Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. HSBC has a 40 per cent economic interest in Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. by virtue of the joint agreement under which HSBCs equity capital and preferred stock interests are held.
The charge to the profit and loss account in respect of goodwill amortisation is net of a credit relating to negative goodwill of US$50 million 2002: US$24 million.
Included in Additions and acquisition of subsidiaries is goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses and increases of holdings in subsidiaries during 2003.
Positive goodwill is being amortised over periods of up to 20 years.
Negative goodwill is being credited to the profit and loss account over 5 years, the period to be benefited.
In September 2003, except as noted below, HSBCs freehold and long leasehold properties, together with all leasehold properties in Hong Kong, were revalued on an existing use basis or open market value as appropriate or, in the case of a few specialised properties, at depreciated replacement cost.
The properties were valued either by professional external valuers or by professionally qualified staff and updated for any material changes at 31 December 2003.
As a result of the revaluation, the net book value of land and buildings excluding investment properties decreased by US$311 million 2002: decrease US$322 million.
A deficit of US$292 million 2002: deficit of US$297 million, net of minority interest of US$19 million 2002: US$25 million was debited to reserves at 31 December 2003.
Investment properties in Hong Kong, the Macau Special Administrative Region and mainland China, which represent 57 per cent by value of HSBCs investment properties subject to revaluation, were valued by Chesterton Petty Limited who are members of the Hong Kong Institute of Surveyors.
As a result of the revaluation, the net book value of investment properties has decreased by US$41 million 2002: deficit of US$36 million.
A deficit of US$28 million, net of minority interests of US$13 million, has been debited to reserves at 31 December 2003.
HSBC Holdings had no investment properties at 31 December 2003 or 2002. e HSBC properties leased to customers HSBC properties leased to customers, none of which was held by HSBC Holdings, included US$499 million at 31 December 2003 2002: US$502 million let under operating leases, net of accumulated depreciation of US$52 million 2002: US$39 million.
Residual value exposure is regularly monitored by the business through reviewing the recoverability of the residual value projected at lease inception.
This entails considering the re-lettability and projected disposal proceeds of operating lease assets at the end of their lease terms.
Provision is made to the extent that the carrying values of leased assets are impaired through residual values not being fully recoverable.
On the historical cost basis, shares in HSBC undertakings would have been included as follows: 2003 2002 US$m US$m Cost less provisions of US$191 million 2002: US$191 million................................................ 46,531 43,731 1 Figures for 2002 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, and 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1. b The principal subsidiary undertakings of HSBC Holdings are: Country of incorporation or Principal Issued equity registration activity capital Europe CCF S. A.
S...................................................................... Turkey Banking TRL277bn HSBC Asset Management Europe Limited........................... England Investment banking 142m HSBC Asset Finance UK Limited........................................ England Finance 265m HSBC Bank Malta p. l. c. 70.03% owned............................... Malta Banking Lm9m HSBC Bank Middle East Limited............................................ Jersey Banking US$331m HSBC Bank plc directly owned............................................ England Banking 797m 1 HSBC Guyerzeller Bank AG 93.51% owned....................... Switzerland Private banking SFr95m HSBC Insurance Brokers Limited........................................... England Insurance 2.8m HSBC Life UK Limited........................................................ England Insurance 94m HSBC Private Bank Guernsey Limited 2 formerly HSBC Republic Bank Guernsey Limited........ Guernsey Private banking US$5m HSBC Private Bank Suisse S. A. formerly HSBC Republic Bank Suisse S. A..................... Switzerland Private banking SFr683m HSBC Republic Bank UK Limited....................................... England Private banking 112m HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt KGaA partnership limited by shares, 73.47% owned................... Germany Banking 70m Hong Kong Hang Seng Bank Limited 62.14% owned............................. Hong Kong Banking HK$9,559m The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited... Hong Kong Banking H HK$16,254m HSBC Insurance Asia Limited.............................................. Hong Kong Insurance HK$125m Retirement benefits HSBC Life International Limited.......................................... Bermuda and life assurance HK$327m Rest of Asia-Pacific HSBC Bank Egypt S. A. E. 94.53% owned............................ Egypt Banking E352m HSBC Bank Australia Limited................................................ Australia Banking A$641m HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad................................................. Malaysia Banking RM$114m HSBC Asset Management Taiwan Ltd 99.94% owned...... Taiwan Investment banking TWD788m 277 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued b The principal subsidiary undertakings of HSBC Holdings are: continued Country of incorporation or Principal Issued equity registration activity capital North America HSBC Bank Canada................................................................ Canada Banking C$950m HSBC Bank USA..................................................................... United States Banking US$205m 3 HSBC Securities USA Inc..................................................... United States Investment banking 3 HSBC USA Inc........................................................................ United States Holding company 3 Household Finance Corporation............................................... United States Financial services Household International, Inc.................................................... United States Holding company US$1,100m HSBC Mexico S. A.
99.74% owned formerly Banco Internacional S. A..................................... Mexico Banking MXP3,223m South America HSBC Bank Argentina S. A.
97.98% owned......................... Brazil Insurance BRL194m HSBC La Buenos Aires Seguros S. A.
99.39% owned........... Argentina Insurance ARS44m Pension fund management ARS84m Mxima S. A. AFJP 59.93% owned....................................... Argentina 1 Minority interest of 6.49% is held through HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt KGaA.
2 HSBC also owns 100% of the issued redeemable preference share capital of US$17 million.
All the above subsidiaries are included in the consolidation.
Details of all HSBC companies will be annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies.
Except where indicated otherwise, the issued equity capital of the above undertakings is wholly-owned by HSBC and is held by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings.
All the above make their financial statements up to 31 December except for HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. HSBC La Buenos Aires Seguros S. A. and Mxima S. A. AFJP, whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually.
The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for HSBC Bank Middle East Limited which operates mainly in the Middle East, and HSBC Life International Limited which operates mainly in Hong Kong.
c Acquisitions HSBC made the following acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings or business operations in 2003, which were accounted for on an acquisition basis: Household International, Inc. On 28 March 2003, HSBC acquired 100 per cent of the voting common shares of Household International, Inc. Household.
Household is the holding company of a group of companies offering a variety of consumer lending products including consumer loans, credit cards, motor vehicle finance and credit insurance to over 50 million customers across the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Ireland.
As part of the consideration for the acquisition, HSBC allotted 1,273,297,057 new ordinary shares of US$0.50.
This included approximately 5.3 million shares, which Household had already committed to repurchase from third parties under forward purchase agreements.
These are excluded from the purchase price.
The acquisition of Household: meets HSBCs stated objective of growing consumer assets: improves the geographical balance of HSBCs earnings, significantly increasing the contribution from North America: delivers to HSBC national coverage in the United States for consumer lending, credit cards and credit insurance with approximately 1,300 branches in 45 states: creates a global top 10 credit card issuer, and presents a significant opportunity to achieve cost benefits by consolidating HSBCs card processing, currently outsourced in a number of countries, with that of Household: offers opportunities to extend Households business model into countries and territories currently served by HSBC: and provides the opportunity for significant funding, cost and revenue synergies.
HSBCs financial statements include the results of Households operations, commencing 29 March 2003.
The adjustments in the above table represent the following: a Accounting policy alignments reflecting primarily: securitisations treated as sales under US GAAP but treated as financing transactions under UK GAAP: timing of expense recognition on loan origination and software costs: and deferred taxation relating to these items.
279 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued b Revaluations, reflecting the recognition of: the fair value of financial instruments acquired: the fair value of the pension scheme surplus: the tax effect of other revaluations: the write-off of goodwill and intangibles previously recognised on Households balance sheet: and the fair value of separable intangibles at the date of acquisition.
The fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired have been determined on a provisional basis pending completion of the fair value appraisal process.
Goodwill of US$16 million arose on this acquisition.
ii On 4 August 2003, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of HSBC, acquired 82.19 per cent of Asset Management Technology Korea for a cash consideration of US$13 million.
Goodwill of US$4 million arose on this acquisition.
On 10 December 2003, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited increased its stake in Asset Management Technology Korea from 82.19 per cent to 92.96 per cent for a cash consideration of US$1 million, on which goodwill of US$1 million arose.
iii On 3 October 2003, Grupo Financiero Bital S. A. a 99.59 per cent owned subsidiary of HSBC, increased its stake in Seguros Bital and its subsidiary Pensiones Bital from 51 per cent to 100 per cent for a cash consideration of US$144 million.
Goodwill of US$95 million arose on this acquisition.
Prior to becoming subsidiary undertakings, HSBCs 51 per cent interests were accounted for as joint ventures.
The fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired have been determined only on a provisional basis pending completion of the fair value appraisal process.
iv On 24 October 2003, HSBC Bank plc, a wholly owned subsidiary of HSBC, acquired 100 per cent of Polski Kredyt Bank S. A. for a cash consideration of US$7 million.
Goodwill of US$2 million arose on this acquisition.
v On 12 November 2003, Grupo Financiero Bital, S. A. a 99.59 per cent owned subsidiary of HSBC, acquired 100 per cent of the shares of AFORE Allianz Dresdner S. A. for a cash consideration of US$175 million.
Goodwill of US$127 million arose on this acquisition.
vi On 15 December 2003, HSBC Bank Brasil S. A. Banco Mltiplo, a wholly owned subsidiary of HSBC, acquired substantially all of Lloyds TSB Group plcs Brazilian operations for cash consideration of US$589 million.
This comprised 100 per cent of the shares of Banco Lloyds TSB S. A. Banco Mltiplo, 280 Losango Promotora fide Vendas and selected assets and liabilities of the Brazilian branch of Lloyds TSB plc.
Goodwill of US$437 million arose on these acquisitions.
vii On 14 April 2003, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of HSBC, acquired the New Zealand retail banking business of AMP Bank Limited for a cash consideration of US$16 million.
This acquisition has been excluded from the table below.
viii On 31 January 2003, CCF acquired the business in respect of two branches of Banque Worms from Deutsche Bank Group for a cash consideration of US$2 million.
ix HSBC undertook certain other minor acquisitions in the year, which involved assets acquired of less than US$3 million in aggregate, on which goodwill of US$3 million arose, which are excluded from the table below.
x Increases in stakes in a number of existing subsidiaries are excluded from the table below.
On 20 February 2003, HSBC Bank plc increased its stake in Equator Holdings Limited from 60 per cent to 100 per cent for a cash consideration of US$7 million.
Negative goodwill of US$2 million arose on this acquisition.
On 31 March 2003, CCF increased its stake in Banque Eurofin from 59.84 per cent to 61.43 per cent for a cash consideration of US$2 million.
On 30 June 2003, CCF further increased its stake to 77.56 per cent for a cash consideration of US$22 million.
Goodwill of US$13 million arose on this acquisition.
On 31 July 2003, CCF increased its stake again to 83.94 per cent for a cash consideration of US$10 million.
Goodwill of US$6 million arose on this acquisition.
On 1 September 2003, CCF increased its stake in Banque fide Savoie from 98.2 per cent to 99.94 per cent for a cash consideration of US$2 million.
On 24 November 2003, CCF increased its stake in Elysees Fonds from 51 per cent to 100 per cent for a cash consideration of US$16 million.
Goodwill of US$9 million arose on the acquisition.
The adjustments in the above table represent the following: a Accounting policy alignments reflecting primarily: HSBCs criteria for recognising deferred tax.
b Revaluations, reflecting the recognition of: the fair value of financial instruments acquired: and adjustments to provisions and other liabilities.
They have been included above to reconcile to the long-term assurance liabilities attributable to policyholders in Note 31.
1 Figures for 2002 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstract 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, details of which are set out in Note 1.
At 31 December 2003, there were potential future tax benefits of approximately US$963 million 2002: US$885 million in respect of trading losses, allowable expenditure charged to the profit and loss account but not yet allowed for tax, and capital losses which have not been recognised because recoverability of the potential benefits is not considered likely.
b Other provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions for pension and Provisions for other postcontingent retirement liabilities and Insurance Other obligations commitments provisions provisions Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2003........................... 1,038 574 1,412 659 3,683 Additional provisions increase in 1 provisions.................................. 110 35 305 309 759 Acquisition of subsidiaries.............. 249 505 126 880 Provisions utilised........................... 85 86 248 362 781 Exchange and other movements...... 70 212 185 70 537 At 31 December 2003.................... 1,382 735 2,159 802 5,078 1 The increase in other provisions includes unwinding of discounts of US$9 million 2002: US$7 million in relation to vacant space provisions and US$18 million 2002: US$5 million in relation to Brazilian labour claims provisions.
Included within Provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments are provisions for the costs of possible redress relating to the sales of certain personal pension plans of US$16 million 2002: US$35 million.
This is the result of an actuarial calculation extrapolated from a sample of cases and the timing of the expenditure depends on settlement of the individual claims.
Included within Other provisions are: i Provisions for onerous property contracts of US$203 million 2002: US$189 million, of which US$28 million 2002: US$110 million relates to discounted future costs associated with leasehold properties that became vacant as a consequence of HSBCs move to Canary Wharf in 2002.
The provisions cover rent voids whilst finding new tenants, shortfalls in expected rent receivable compared to rent payable and costs of refurbishing the buildings to attract tenants.
Uncertainties relate to movements in market rents, the delay in finding new tenants and the timing of rental reviews.
ii Labour, civil and fiscal litigation provisions in HSBC Brazilian operations of US$217 million 2002: US$135 million, of which US$56 million arose on the acquisition of Lloyds TSBs Brazilian operations.
This relates to labour and overtime litigation claims brought by employees after leaving the bank.
The provision is based on the expected number of departing employees, their individual salaries and historical trends.
The timing of settlement of these potential claims is uncertain.
The bonds may be redeemed in April 2013 at par and redemption has also been allowed from April 1998, subject to the prior consent of the Financial Services Authority, for an amount based on the redemption yields of the relevant benchmark treasury stocks.
2 The interest margin on the Subordinated Step-up coupon floating rate notes 2010 increases by 0.5 per cent from April 2005.
The notes are repayable from their step up date at the option of the borrower, subject to the prior consent of the Financial Services Authority.
3 HSBC exercised its option to repay the notes in November 2003.
Interest rates on the floating rate loan capital are related to interbank offered rates.
On the remaining subordinated loan capital, interest is payable at fixed rates up to 9.875%.
1 The interest on the 4.25% Callable subordinated notes changes in March 2011 to three-month EURIBOR plus 1.05 per cent.
2 The interest rate on the Callable subordinated variable coupon notes is fixed at 5.75 per cent until June 2012.
Thereafter, the rate per annum is the sum of the gross redemption yield of the then prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.70 per cent.
3 The interest on the 5% Callable subordinated notes changes in March 2018 to become the rate per annum which is the sum of the gross redemption yield of the prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.80 per cent.
4 The interest margin on the Subordinated Step-up coupon floating rate notes 2009 increases by 0.5 per cent five years prior to its maturity date.
5 The interest rate on the 9.25 per cent Step-up undated subordinated notes changes in December 2006 to become, for each successive five year period, the rate per annum which is the sum of the yield on the then five year benchmark UK gilt plus 2.15 per cent.
6 The interest rate on the 8.625 per cent Step-up undated subordinated notes changes in December 2007 to become, for each successive five year period, the rate per annum which is the sum of the yield on the then five year benchmark UK gilt plus 1.87 per cent.
7 The 7.65 per cent Subordinated notes are repayable at the option of each of the holders in May 2007.
Footnotes 1 to 6 all relate to notes that are repayable at the option of the borrower on the date of the change of the interest rate, and at subsequent interest rate reset dates and interest payment dates in some cases, subject to the prior consent of the Financial Services Authority.
2 See Step-up Perpetual Preferred Securities, note b Guaranteed by HSBC Bank.
3 The preferred stock has been redeemable, at the option of HSBC USA Inc. in whole or in part from 1 July 1999 at par.
4 The preferred stock is redeemable at the option of HSBC USA Inc. in whole or in part, at any time on or after 1 October 2007 at par.
5 The preferred stock of each series is redeemable at the option of HSBC USA Inc. in whole or in part, on any dividend payment date at par.
6 The preference shares were redeemed by HSBC Republic Holdings Luxembourg S. A. in April 2003.
The redemption of all preference shares is subject to the prior consent of the Financial Services Authority and the relevant local banking regulator.
Step-up Perpetual Preferred Securities a Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings The six issues of Non-cumulative Step-up Perpetual Preferred Securities footnote 1 were made by Jersey limited partnerships and are guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by HSBC Holdings.
The proceeds of the issues were on-lent to HSBC Holdings by the limited partnerships by issue of subordinated notes.
The Preferred Securities qualify as innovative tier 1 capital for HSBC.
The Preferred Securities, together with the guarantee, 290 are intended to provide investors with rights to income and capital distributions and distributions upon liquidation of HSBC Holdings that are equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares of HSBC Holdings.
The Preferred Securities are perpetual, but redeemable in 2014, 2010, 2013, 2030, 2015 and 2012 respectively at the option of the general partner of the limited partnerships.
If not redeemed the distributions payable step-up and become floating rate or, for the sterling issue, for each successive five-year period, the sum of the then fiveyear benchmark UK gilt plus a margin.
There are limitations on the payment of distributions if prohibited under UK banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBCs capital adequacy requirements, or if HSBC Holdings has insufficient distributable reserves as defined.
HSBC Holdings has covenanted that if it has been prevented under certain circumstances from paying distributions on the Preferred Securities in full, it will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect of its ordinary shares, or effect repurchase or redemption of its ordinary shares, until after a distribution has been paid in full.
If i HSBCs total capital ratio falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or ii in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Holdings, the Directors expect i to occur in the near term, then the Preferred Securities will be substituted by Preference Shares of HSBC Holdings having economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the Preferred Securities and the guarantee taken together.
b Guaranteed by HSBC Bank The 5.844% Non-cumulative Step-up Perpetual Preferred Securities were issued by a Jersey limited partnership and are guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by HSBC Bank.
The proceeds of the issue were on-lent to HSBC Bank by the limited partnership by an issue of a subordinated note.
The Preferred Securities qualify as innovative tier 1 capital for HSBC and for HSBC Bank on a solo and consolidated basis and, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with rights to income and capital distributions and distributions upon liquidation of HSBC Bank that are equivalent to the rights they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares of HSBC Bank.
The Preferred Securities are perpetual, but redeemable in 2031at the option of the general partner of the limited partnership.
If not redeemed the distributions payable step-up and become floating rate.
The same limitations on the payment of distributions applies to HSBC Bank, as to HSBC, as above, and HSBC Bank has provided a similar covenant to that provided by HSBC Holdings, also as above.
If i any Preferred Securities are outstanding in November 2048, or ii the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank on a solo and consolidated basis falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or iii in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Bank, the Directors expect ii to occur in the near term, then the Preferred Securities will be substituted by Preference Shares of HSBC Bank having economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the Preferred Securities and the guarantee taken together.
291 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 35 Called up share capital Authorised The authorised ordinary share capital of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2003 was US$7,500 million 2002 and 2001: US$7,500 million divided into 15,000 million 2002 and 2001: 15,000 million ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, and 301,500 2002 and 2001: 301,500 divided into 301,500 non-voting deferred shares of 1 each.
At 31 December 2003, 2002 and 2001, the authorised preference share capital of HSBC Holdings was 10 million non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 each, 10 million non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each, and 10 million non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 each.
Options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan, HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme, and HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans are as follows: Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2003........................................................ 347,007,843 2004 to 2013 2.1727 9.642 31 December 2002........................................................ 307,522,913 2003 to 2012 2.1727 9.642 31 December 2001........................................................ 284,267,280 2002 to 2011 2.1727 9.642 Following the acquisition of CCF in 2000, outstanding options over CCF shares granted at nil consideration to employees between 1993 and 2000 have vested.
On exercise of the options, the CCF shares are exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the same ratio as for the acquisition of CCF 13 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each CCF share.
During 2003, 226,000 2002: 229,066: 2001: 76,799 CCF shares were issued in connection with the exercise of employee share options and exchanged for 2,938,000 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 2002: 2,977,858: 2001: 998,387 and 7,000 CCF shares were exercised in connection with the exercise of employee share options and will 292 be exchanged for 91,000 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares on the fifth anniversary of the award.
During 2003, options over 100 2002 and 2001: nil CCF shares lapsed.
During 2003, 2,500 2002: 5,000: 2001: 4,000 CCF shares previously issued in connection with the exercise of employee share options were exchanged for 32,500 2002: 65,000: 2001: 52,000 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
At 31 December 2003, 10,000 2002: 5,500: 2001: 10,500 CCF shares were in issue and will be exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares on the fifth anniversary of the award of the options.
There are 2,615,660 CCF employee share options exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares outstanding at 31 December 2003 2002: 2,848,760: 2001: 3,077,826.
At 31 December 2003, The HSBC Holdings Employee Benefit Trust 2001 No.
1 held 32,775,055 2002: 35,745,555: 2001: 38,788,413 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be exchanged for CCF shares arising from the exercise of options.
CCF options including shares issued but not exchanged effectively outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under this arrangement are as follows: Number of CCF shares exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2003.................................................... 2,625,660 2004 to 2010 32.78 142.5 31 December 2002..................................................... 2,854,260 2003 to 2010 32.78 142.5 31 December 2001..................................................... 3,088,326 2002 to 2010 32.78 142.5 There also exist outstanding options over the shares of various CCF subsidiaries, the details of which are set out in the Directors Report on pages 195 to 197 and summarised below.
On exercise of options over shares of Sinopia Asset Management Sinopia the Sinopia shares are exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
The shares are exchangeable in the ratio of 2.143 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each Sinopia share.
During 2003, 94,400 2002: 91,200: 2001: nil Sinopia shares were issued in connection with the exercise of employee share options and exchanged for 202,296 2002: 195,439: 2001: nil HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
At 31 December 2003, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 held 483,253 2002: 685,549: 2001: nil HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be exchanged for Sinopia shares arising from the exercise of options.
Sinopia options effectively outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under this arrangement are as follows: Number of Sinopia shares exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2003................................................. 221,500 2004 to 2005 8.61 21.85 31 December 2002.................................................. 315,900 2003 to 2005 8.61 21.85 31 December 2001.................................................. 432,100 2002 to 2005 6.13 21.85 Following the mergers of HSBC Bank France S. A. Banque Eurofin, Banque du Louvre and CCF Banque Prive Internationale on 1 October 2003 options held over shares of Banque Eurofin, Banque du Louvre and CCF Banque Prive Internationale were converted into options over the shares of the merged entity, HSBC Private Bank France.
On exercise of these options HSBC Private Bank France shares will be exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the ratio of 1.83 HSBC Holdings shares for each HSBC Private Bank France share.
At 31 December 2003, 1,125 HSBC Private Bank France shares were in issue and will be exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares on the fourth anniversary of the awards of the options.
At 31 December 2003, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 held 1,900,000 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be exchanged for HSBC Private Bank France shares arising from the exercise of options.
293 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued HSBC Private Bank France options including shares issued but not exchanged effectively outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under this arrangement are as follows: Number of HSBC Private Bank France shares exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2003................................................. 1,359,810 2004 to 2012 10.84 22.22 On the acquisition of Banque Hervet in 2001, Banque Hervet shares were held in a Plan dEpargne Entreprise on behalf of Banque Hervet employees to vest and be released to employees over a 5 year period.
It was agreed to exchange these Banque Hervet shares, on vesting, for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the ratio of 3.46 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each Banque Hervet share.
During 2003, 8,303 2002 and 2001: nil Banque Hervet shares were released in connection with the vesting of interests in the Plan dEpargne Entreprise and exchanged for 28,729 2002 and 2001: nil HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
At 31 December 2003, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 held 767,971 2002: 796,700: 2001:796,700 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be exchanged for Banque Hervet shares from the vesting of interests.
Banque Hervet options effectively outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under this arrangement are as follows: Number of Banque Hervet shares exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of vesting 31 December 2003................................................. 221,956 2004 2006 31 December 2002................................................... 230,259 2003 2006 31 December 2001................................................... 230,259 2003 2006 Following the acquisition of Household on 28 March 2003, all outstanding options and equity-based awards over Household common shares were converted into rights to receive HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the same ratio as the share exchange offer for Household 2.675 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each Household common share and the exercise prices per share adjusted accordingly.
During 2003, options over 4,755,951 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were exercised with HSBC Holdings ordinary shares delivered from The HSBC Household Employee Benefit Trust 2003 to satisfy the exercise of these options.
At 31 December 2003, The HSBC Household Employee Benefit Trust 2003 held 12,444,049 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be used to satisfy the exercise of these options and equity-based awards under the Household share plans.
Options and equity-based awards outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the Household share plans are as follows: Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2003..................................................... 48,312,607 2004 to 2021 nil US$25.40 Prior to its acquisition by HSBC Holdings, Household issued 8.875% Adjustable Convertible-Rate Equity Security Units Units consisting of a contract under which the holder agreed to purchase, for US$25, Household common shares on 15 February 2006, with an option for early settlement.
The Units remained outstanding following the acquisition of Household, with the purchase contracts of the Units becoming contracts to purchase HSBC Holdings ordinary shares instead.
If a holder of Units elects to settle early, the holder will receive 2.6041 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares per Unit.
Units exercised at maturity, 15 February 2006, will entitle the holder to receive a number of shares based on the market value of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares at the time, up to a maximum of 3.1249 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each Unit.
During 2003, 51,072,691 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were issued in connection with the early settlement of 19,612,420 Units.
294 The maximum number of Units outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares are as follows: Number of Units exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2003...................................................... 2,050,540 2004 to 2006 US$8.00 US$9.60 The total obligations at 31 December 2003 to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above arrangements and the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan is 496,414,669.
The total number of shares at 31 December 2003 held by employee benefit trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares is 110,770,974.
The accumulated foreign exchange translation adjustment as at 31 December 2003 increased HSBCs reserves by US$5,729 million 2002: increased by US$411 million: 2001: reduced by US$3,370 million.
Cumulative goodwill amounting to US$5,138 million 2002: US$5,138 million: 2001: US$5,138 million has been charged against reserves in respect of acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings prior to 1 January 1998.
Statutory share premium relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 was taken in respect of the acquisition of CCF in 2000 and Household in 2003 and the shares issued were recorded at their nominal value only.
In HSBCs consolidated accounts the fair value difference of US$8,290 million in respect of CCF and US$12,768 million in respect of Household was transferred to a merger reserve, as a consequence of which, most of the net asset value including goodwill of Household is reflected in the reserve of HSBC Holdings in the revaluation reserve.
Many of HSBCs banking subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates operate under local regulatory jurisdictions which could potentially restrict the amount of reserves which can be remitted to HSBC Holdings plc in order to maintain local regulatory capital ratios.
In addition, the remittance of reserves may result in further taxation liabilities.
298 The HSBC Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust was established in 1999 to satisfy options exercised by UK participants of the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan.
During 2003, HSBC QUEST Trustee UK Limited, the corporate trustee of the QUEST, subscribed at market value for 2,200,630 ordinary shares at a total cost of US$27 million 2002: US$68 million: 2001: US$39 million.
HSBC provided US$nil 2002: US$nil: 2001: US$nil for this purpose.
During 2003, 3,175,232 ordinary shares 2002: 9,564,355 shares: 2001: 8,774,315 shares were transferred from the QUEST to employees who exercised under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan.
US$27 million 2002: US$68 million: 2001: US$39 million was received from the share option plan participants.
Dividends on these shares are waived by the QUEST.
HSBC has taken advantage of the exemptions applicable to Inland Revenue approved SAYE share option schemes and equivalent overseas schemes under UITF Abstract 17 revised 2000 Employee share schemes.
HSBC Own shares held reserve Included within the Own shares held reserve are: a US$33 million 2002: US$29 million: 2001: US$29 million of shares held by HSBC Life International.
b US$134 million 2002: US$nil: 2001: US$nil of shares held by CCF S. A. for market making activities.
c US$653 million 2002: US$540 million: 2001: US$571 million of shares held by HSBC Holdings as explained below.
d US$58 million 2002: US$56 million: 2001 US$76 million of ordinary shares held in trusts established by subsidiary companies for the purposes of conditional awards under the Restricted Share Plan, details of which are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 216 to 219.
At 31 December 2003, such trusts held 7,562,628 ordinary shares 2002: 5,029,157 ordinary shares: 2001: 3,455,821 ordinary shares.
e US$2 million 2002: US$nil: 2001 US$nil of ordinary shares held in trusts established by subsidiary companies which may be used in respect of the exercise of share options or for the purposes of share awards as detailed in Note 35.
At 31 December 2003, such trusts held 100,556 2002: nil: 2001: nil ordinary shares.
f US$43 million 2002: US$21 million: 2001: US$10 million of ordinary shares held in trusts established by subsidiary companies which may be used in respect of the exercise of share options or for the purposes of share awards as detailed in Note 35.
At 31 December 2003, such trusts held 3,151,224 ordinary shares 2002: 1,482,249 ordinary shares: 2001: 796,700 ordinary shares.
HSBC Holdings Own shares held reserve Included within the HSBC Holdings Own shares held reserve are: a US$64 million, of HSBC Holdings own shares 2002: US$43 million: 2001: US$32 million held in trust for the purposes of conditional awards under the Restricted Share Plan, details of which are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 216 to 219.
At 31 December 2003, the trust held 6,391,497 ordinary shares 2002: 4,664,315 ordinary shares: 2001: 3,230,422 ordinary shares with a market value at that date of US$100,191,651 2002: US$51,610,678: 2001: US$37,735,716 in respect of these conditional awards.
b US$455 million of HSBC Holdings own shares 2002: US$497 million: 2001: US$539 million held in trust which may be used in respect of the exercise of share options as detailed in Note 35.
299 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued c US$134 million of HSBC Holdings own shares 2002: US$nil: 2001: US$nil held in trust which may be used in respect of the exercise of Household share options as detailed in note 35.
At 31 December 2003, the trust held 12,444,051 ordinary shares 2002: US$nil: 2001: US$nil with a market value of US$195,070,109 2002: US$nil: 2001: US$nil in respect of these option holders.
2 Figures for 2002 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, and 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1.
38 Financial instruments a Derivatives Off-balance-sheet financial instruments, commonly referred to as derivatives, are contracts the characteristics of which are derived from those of the underlying assets, interest and exchange rates, equity indices, commodity prices or credit spreads.
They include futures, forwards, swap and options transactions in the foreign exchange, interest rate, equity, credit and commodity markets.
Transactions are negotiated directly with customers, with HSBC acting as a counterparty, or can be dealt through exchanges.
i Nature and terms of derivatives The following outlines the nature and terms of the most common types of derivatives used by HSBC.
Exchange rate contracts Forward foreign exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell fixed amounts of currency at agreed rates of exchange on a specified future date.
Cross currency swaps are agreements that involve the exchange of interest payments in one specified currency for interest payments in another specified currency for a specified period, based on an underlying amount.
The agreement may additionally involve the exchange and, on maturity of the swap, re-exchange of the principal amount.
Currency futures are typically exchange-traded agreements to buy or sell standard amounts of a specified currency at an agreed exchange rate on a standard future date.
Currency options give the buyer on payment of a premium the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell specified amounts of currency at agreed rates of exchange on or before a specified future date.
Interest rate contracts Interest rate swaps involve the exchange of interest rate obligations with a counterparty for a specified period without exchanging the underlying or notional principal.
HSBC may enter a swap transaction either as an intermediary or as a direct counterparty.
Interest rate futures are typically exchange-traded agreements to buy or sell a standard amount of a specified fixed income security or time deposit at an agreed interest rate on a standard future date.
Forward rate agreements give the buyer the ability to determine the underlying rate of interest for a specified period commencing on a specified future date the settlement date.
There is no exchange of 301 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued principal and settlement is effected on the settlement date.
The settlement amount is calculated by reference to the difference between the contract rate and the market rate prevailing on the settlement date.
Interest rate options give the buyer on payment of a premium the right, but not the obligation, to fix the rate of interest on a future deposit or loan, for a specified period and commencing on a specified future date.
Interest rate caps and floors give the buyer the ability to fix the maximum or minimum rate of interest.
There is no facility to deposit or draw down funds: instead the writer pays to the buyer the amount by which the market rate exceeds or is less than the cap rate or the floor rate respectively.
A combination of an interest rate cap and floor is known as an interest rate collar.
Equities contracts Equities options give the buyer on payment of a premium the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a specified amount of equities or a basket of equities in the form of published indices.
Equities futures are typically exchange-traded agreements to buy or sell a standard quantity of a specific equity at a future date, at a price decided at the time the contract is made, and may be settled in cash or through delivery.
Equity swaps are bilateral agreements to transfer the risk and returns on an equity in exchange for a stream of payments, typically interest.
Credit contracts Credit default swaps are bilateral agreements to transfer credit risks between counterparties.
Under the agreement, the party buying protection makes one or more payments to the party selling protection during the life of the swap in exchange for an undertaking by the seller to make a payment to the buyer following a credit event.
Commodity contracts Commodity derivatives include exchange traded and over the counter contracts involving commodities and base metals.
ii Uses of derivatives Users of derivatives typically want to convert an unwanted risk generated by their business to a more acceptable risk, or cash.
Derivatives provide an effective tool for companies to manage the financial risks associated with their business and, as a consequence, there has been a significant growth in derivatives transactions in recent years.
HSBC, through the dealing operations of its subsidiaries, takes positions in the market and acts as an intermediary between a broad range of users, structuring deals to produce risk management products to suit individual customer needs.
As a result, HSBC can accumulate significant open positions in derivatives portfolios.
These positions are managed constantly to ensure that they are within acceptable risk levels, with offsetting deals being undertaken to achieve this where necessary.
As well as acting as a dealer, HSBC also uses derivatives principally interest rate swaps in the management of its own asset and liability portfolios and structural positions.
iii Risks associated with derivatives Derivative instruments are subject to both market risk and credit risk.
Market risk The market risk associated with derivatives can be significant since large positions can be accumulated with a substantially smaller initial outlay than required in cash markets.
Recognising this, only certain offices within major subsidiaries with sufficient derivative product expertise and appropriate control systems are authorised to trade derivative products.
The management of market risk arising from derivatives business is monitored by Traded Markets Development and Risk, an independent unit within the Corporate, Investment 302 Banking and Markets operation, in combination with market risks arising from on-balance-sheet instruments Note 40. Credit risk Unlike assets recorded on the balance sheet, where the credit risk is typically the full amount of the principal value, together with any unrealised interest accrued or mark-to-market gain Note 14, the credit risk relative to a derivative is principally the replacement cost of any contract with a positive mark-tomarket gain and an estimate of the potential future change in value, reflecting the volatilities affecting the contract.
Credit risk on contracts having a negative mark-to-market value is restricted to the potential future change in value.
Credit risk on derivatives is, therefore, small in relation to a comparable balance sheet risk.
In addition, credit exposure with individual counterparties can be reduced by the receipt of collateral and close-out netting agreements which allow for positive and negative mark-to-market values on different transactions to be offset and settled by a single payment in the event of default by either party.
Such agreements are enforceable in the jurisdictions of the major market makers and HSBC has executed closeout netting agreements with the majority of its significant counterparties, notwithstanding the fact that HSBC deals only with the most creditworthy counterparties.
The credit risk profile generated by the use of credit derivatives has an additional dimension.
Where HSBC purchases protection, credit risk arises through the cost of replacing the contract as set out above and it is managed and reduced in the same way as for other derivative contracts.
Selling protection through credit derivatives gives rise to additional credit risk.
This credit risk arises as a direct consequence of the obligation of HSBC as the protection seller to make a payment to the protection buyer following a credit event on a reference name.
HSBC manages the credit risk with regards to reference names by including any such exposures arising from credit derivatives within its overall credit limits structure.
In addition the trading of credit derivatives is restricted to a small number of offices within the major centres which in managements view have the control infrastructure and market skills to effectively manage the credit risk inherent in the products.
iv Derivatives used for trading purposes The following tables summarise the contract amount, replacement cost, mark-to-market values and average mark-to-market values of third party and internal trading derivatives by product type.
The replacement cost shown is the positive mark-to-market value and represents the accounting loss HSBC would incur if the counterparty to a derivative contract failed to perform according to the terms of the contract and the collateral, if any, for the amount due proved to be of no value.
The notional or contractual amounts of these instruments indicate the volume of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date: they do not represent amounts at risk.
Because all derivative instruments used for trading purposes are marked to market, carrying values are equal to mark-to-market values.
Mark-to-market values are determined by reference to market rates prevailing on the date of valuation or by discounting future cash flows and include netted internal positions, except where otherwise indicated.
Internal positions are integral to HSBCs asset and liability management and are included within the analyses of non-trading positions in the tables below.
The following table summarises the contract amount and replacement cost of derivatives used for risk management purposes by product type.
The replacement cost shown represents the accounting loss HSBC would incur if the counterparty to a derivative contract failed to perform according to the terms of the contract and the collateral, if any, for the amount due proved to be of no value.
The table below summarises the carrying value and mark-to-market value of derivative contracts held for risk management purposes.
Mark-to-market values for assets and liabilities arising from derivatives held for nontrading purposes are determined in the same way as those set out for trading derivatives above, including internal positions.
2003 2002 Carrying Mark-toCarrying Mark-tovalue market values value market values US$m US$m US$m US$m Exchange rate assets.......................................... 3,658 4,297 325 456 liabilities..................................... 3,147 3,495 1,224 1,533 Interest rate assets.......................................... 1,824 5,814 1,532 5,975 liabilities..................................... 2,312 4,136 617 3,834 Equities assets.......................................... 459 7 vi Concentrations of credit risk Concentrations of credit risk exist if a number of counterparties are engaged in similar activities or activities in the same region, or have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
The following table analyses the replacement cost of all third party exchange rate, interest rate, equities and credit derivative contracts with positive mark-to-market gains by category of counterparty and by maturity, including netting where available at 31 December 2003 and 31 December 2002.
The table shows that the replacement cost of derivatives is predominantly with banks and under five years.
305 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued The following table analyses the maturity profile of the notional principal values of third party derivative contracts outstanding as at 31 December 2003.
Where market prices are not available, values have been estimated using quoted prices for financial instruments with similar characteristics, or otherwise using a suitable valuation technique where practicable to do so.
306 The techniques used in the two tables above are: Treasury bills and other eligible bills Mark-to-market value approximates to carrying value because these are mainly short-term in maturity with a carrying value not materially different from mark-to-market value.
Loans and advances to banks and customers For variable rate loans and advances with no significant change in credit risk, the carrying value is considered to represent mark-to-market value.
The mark-to-market values of other loans and advances are estimated by discounting future cash flows using market interest rates.
Debt securities and equity shares Listed securities are valued at middle-market prices and unlisted securities at managements valuation which takes into consideration future earnings streams, valuations of equivalent quoted securities and other relevant techniques.
Debt securities in issue, short positions in securities, subordinated liabilities and non-equity minority interests Mark-to-market values are estimated using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Deposits by banks and customer accounts Deposits by banks and customer accounts which mature or reprice after six months are grouped by residual maturity.
Fair value is estimated using discounted cash flows, applying either market rates, where applicable, or current rates offered for deposits of similar repricing maturities.
c Gains and losses on hedges Unrecognised gains and losses Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are recognised in line with the underlying items which are being hedged.
The unrecognised gains on instruments used for hedging as at 31 December 2003 were US$7,669 million 2002: US$4,302 million and the unrecognised losses were US$5,157 million 2002: US$3,261 million.
Unrecognised gains of US$4,767 million and unrecognised losses of US$2,713 million are expected to be recognised in 2004.
Of the gains and losses included in the profit and loss account in 2003, US$1,683 million of gains and US$1,389 million of losses were unrecognised at 1 January 2003. d Liquidity management HSBCs liquidity management process is discussed in the Financial Review section on page 166 from the paragraph under the heading Liquidity and funding management to the bullet point maintaining liquidity and funding contingency plans.
307 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 39 Memorandum Items a HSBC Contingent liabilities and commitments 2003 2002 Credit RiskCredit RiskContract equivalent weighted Contract equivalent weighted amount amount amount amount amount amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Contingent liabilities Acceptances and endorsements.................. 5,412 3,327 3,194 4,711 2,785 2,580 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security: guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit....................................... 54,439 42,792 31,110 46,527 36,333 28,190 Other contingent liabilities......................... 29 29 28 17 17 15 59,880 46,148 34,332 51,255 39,135 30,785 Commitments Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions....................... 7,511 2,750 1,616 6,131 2,221 1,157 Forward asset purchases and forward forward deposits placed......................... 1,437 1,437 618 1,464 1,463 268 Undrawn note issuing and revolving underwriting facilities............................ 671 605 66 85 43 42 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend over 1 year.......................................... 56,252 28,126 27,461 41,734 20,867 19,536 1 year and under................................. 176,215 362,893 428,764 32,918 29,761 225,629 24,594 21,003 The table above gives the nominal principal amounts, credit equivalent amounts and risk-weighted amounts of off-balance-sheet transactions.
The credit equivalent amounts are calculated for the purposes of deriving the risk-weighted amounts.
These are assessed in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys guidelines which implement the 1988 Basel Capital Accord on capital adequacy and depend on the status of the counterparty and the maturity characteristics.
Contingent liabilities and commitments are credit-related instruments which include acceptances, letters of credit, guarantees and commitments to extend credit.
The contractual amounts represent the amounts at risk should the contract be fully drawn upon and the client default.
Since a significant portion of guarantees and commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the contract amounts is not representative of future liquidity requirements.
Guarantees HSBC provides guarantees and similar undertakings on behalf of both third party customers and other entities within the HSBC Group.
These guarantees are generally provided in the normal course of HSBCs banking business.
The accepted instrument is then sold into the market on a discounted basis.
2 Financial guarantees include undertakings to stand behind the obligations of customers or other HSBC entities and to undertake these obligations if the other entity fails to do so.
Intra-group items of this type will also include guarantees of a capital nature, given to another HSBC entity and intended to be considered as capital support by the relevant regulatory authority.
3 Standby letters of credit which are financial guarantees are irrevocable obligations to pay a third party where a customer fails to repay an outstanding commitment.
4 Other direct credit substitutes include re-insurance letters of credit and trade-related letters of credit which have been issued without provision for the issuing entity to retain title to the underlying shipment.
5 Performance bonds, bid bonds, standby letters of credit and other transaction-related guarantees are undertakings whereby the requirement to make payment under the guarantee depends on the outcome of a future event which is independent of the creditworthiness of the customer.
The above maximum amounts payable reflect HSBCs maximum exposure under a large number of individual guarantee undertakings.
The risks and exposures arising from guarantees are captured and managed in accordance with HSBCs overall credit risk management policies and procedures.
Approximately one half of the above guarantees have a term of less than one year.
Guarantees with a term of more than one year are subject to HSBCs annual credit review process.
When HSBC has given a guarantee on behalf of a customer, it will have the right to recover from that customer any amounts paid under the guarantee.
At 31 December 2003, HSBC held collateral amounting to some US$9.8 billion 2002: US$9.4 billion which could be used to recover amounts paid under the above guarantees.
A provision is recognised only where HSBC considers that it is more likely than not that an obligation exists under the guarantees.
309 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued b Geographic concentration of contingent liabilities and commitments HSBC has the following geographic concentrations of exposure to contingent liabilities and commitments.
a Trading VAR VAR is a technique that estimates the potential losses that could occur on risk positions taken due to movements in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence.
Actual reset dates may differ from contractual dates owing to prepayments and the exercise of options.
In addition, contractual terms may not be representative of the behaviour of assets and liabilities.
For these reasons, HSBC manages its interest rate risk on a different basis from that presented below, taking into account the behavioural characteristics of the relevant assets and liabilities.
Although a positive gap position tends to benefit net interest income in a rising interest rate environment, the actual effect will depend on a number of factors, including the extent to which repayments are made earlier or later than the contracted date and variations in interest rates within re-pricing periods and among currencies.
Similarly, a negative interest rate sensitivity gap exists where more liabilities than assets re-price during a given period.
In this case, a negative gap position tends to benefit net interest income in a declining interest rate environment, but again the actual effect will depend on the same factors as for positive interest rate gaps, as described above.
312 d Structural currency exposures HSBCs structural foreign currency exposure is represented by the net asset value of its foreign currency equity and subordinated debt investments in subsidiary undertakings, branches, joint ventures and associates.
Gains or losses on structural foreign currency exposures are taken to reserves.
HSBCs management of structural foreign currency exposures is discussed in the Financial Review section on page 170.
2 The negative net investment in Argentine pesos reflects the deficiency in domestic net assets following the pesification of certain balances formerly denominated in US dollars.
This is not done on a line-by-line basis, as details cannot be determined without unreasonable expense.
2 Figures for 2001 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, and 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1.
2 Figures for 2001 and 2002 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, and 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1.
315 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 43 Analysis of cash HSBC is required to maintain deposits with central banks as a result of government regulations in the territories in which it operates.
As at 31 December 2003, these amounted to US$2,765 million 2002: US$2,154 million: 2001: US$2,030 million.
None of these proceedings is regarded as material litigation.
Turnover of nonbanking businesses is included in other operating income.
The allocation of earnings reflects the benefit of shareholders funds to the extent that these are actually allocated to businesses in the segment by way of intra-HSBC capital and funding structures.
Common costs are included in segments on the basis of the actual recharges made.
a By geographical region Geographical information has been classified by the location of the principal operations of the subsidiary undertaking, or in the case of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, Household International, Inc. and HSBC Bank USA operations, by the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or for advancing the funds.
Due to the nature of HSBCs structure, the analysis of profits and net assets shown below includes intra-HSBC items between geographical regions.
The Rest of Asia-Pacific geographical segment includes the Middle East, India and Australasia.
79 5 7 91 Share of operating profit in associates..... 42 17 99 5 1 164 Gains losses on disposal of investments and tangible fixed assets..................... 441 198 6 132 3 774 Profit loss on ordinary activities before tax............................................ 3,542 3,883 1,088 503 1,016 8,000 1 See page 106 for the impact of the acquisition Household on the Personal Financial Services customer group in North America.
b By Customer Groups HSBCs operations include a number of support services and head office functions.
The costs of these functions are allocated to business lines, where it is appropriate, on a systematic and consistent basis.
In addition, there are a number of income and expense items between customer group and the following profits analysis includes amounts within each customer group and then eliminates any duplication in a separate column.
In 2003, North America implemented a revised funds transfer pricing system to transfer interest rate risk from the business units to Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets.
The figures for 2002 have been restated to reflect the impact of transfer pricing had it been in place on a similar basis.
The effect on the figures for 2001 is immaterial.
Profit on ordinary activities before tax includes profit arising on intra-HSBC transactions of US$376 million 2002: US$406 million: 2001: US$488 million.
48 Related party transactions a Transactions, arrangements and agreements involving Directors and others Particulars of transactions, arrangements and agreements entered into by subsidiary undertakings of HSBC Holdings with Directors and connected persons and companies controlled by them and with officers of HSBC Holdings disclosed pursuant to section 232 of the Companies Act 1985 are as follows: 2003 2002 Number US$m Number US$m Directors and connected persons and companies controlled by them Loans and credit card transactions including US$274,198 in credit card transactions 2002: US$367,665 and US$25,776,133 in guarantees 2002: US$14,538,793........................................................................ 82 353 145 931 Officers Loans and credit card transactions including US$377,611 in credit card transactions 2002: US$169,025 and US$224,769 in guarantees 2002: US$nil...................................................................................... 32 38 28 18 Particulars of Directors transactions are recorded in a register held at the Registered Office of HSBC Holdings which is available for inspection by members for 15 days prior to the HSBC Holdings Annual General Meeting and at the Annual General Meeting itself.
The transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees.
The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
b Transactions with other related parties of HSBC Joint ventures Information relating to joint ventures can be found in the Notes on the Financial Statements where the following are disclosed: Note 16: amounts due from joint ventures: Note 21: interests in joint ventures and principal joint ventures: and Note 29: amounts due to joint ventures.
Associates Information relating to associates can be found in the Notes on the Financial Statements where the following are disclosed: Notes 15 and 16: amounts due from associates: Note 22: interests in associates: principal associates and interests in loan capital: and Notes 28 and 29: amounts due to associates.
323 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Pension funds At 31 December 2003, US$14.7 billion 2002: US$9.8 billion of HSBC pension fund assets were under management by HSBC companies of which US$1,315 million 2002: US$1,155 million of Long-term assurance assets attributable to policyholders were included in HSBCs balance sheet under Other assets.
Fees of US$23 million 2002: US$23 million were earned by HSBC companies for these management services.
HSBCs pension funds had placed deposits of US$211 million 2002: US$252 million with its banking subsidiaries.
49 UK and Hong Kong accounting requirements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK accounting requirements.
There would be no material differences had they been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Accounting Standards, except as set out below.
The presentation of the cash flow statement is in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 1 revised 1996 Cash Flow Statements rather than Hong Kong Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 15 Cash Flow Statements.
In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 11 Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill, no charge has been made in the profit and loss account in respect of those decreases in the valuation of HSBC properties that do not represent impairments.
If HSBC had prepared its financial statements under Hong Kong Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 17 Property, plant and equipment, there would have been a net charge to the profit and loss account of US$154 million 2002: US$94 million in respect of valuations below depreciated historical cost of which a credit of US$4 million 2002: US$2 million relates to minority interests.
In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Tax, HSBC has recognised deferred tax in full on timing differences between the accounting and taxation treatment of income and expenditure, subject to recoverability of deferred tax assets.
If HSBC had prepared its financial statements in accordance with Hong Kong Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 12 Income Taxes revised August 2002 it would have recognised additional deferred tax assets and liabilities, resulting in an increase in reserves at 31 December 2003 of US$174 million 2002: US$119 million.
The impact on the charge to the profit and loss account in respect of tax on profit on ordinary activities would have been nil 2002: increase of US$22 million.
If HSBC had prepared its financial statements under Hong Kong Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 1 Investments in Securities, US$1,746 million 2002: US$1,341 million would have been credited to reserves in respect of changes in the fair value of its investment securities.
In accordance with UK Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 17 Post balance sheet events, HSBC has recorded dividends declared after the period end in the period to which they relate.
If HSBC had prepared its financial statements in accordance with Hong Kong Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 9 Events after the balance sheet date, dividends would be recorded in the period in which they are declared and there would have been an increase in reserves at 31 December 2003 of US$2,627 million 2002: US$3,069 million.
HSBC Holdings has recorded its investment in HSBC undertakings at net asset value, including attributable goodwill, adjusted for shares held by subsidiaries in HSBC Holdings plc.
If HSBC Holdings had prepared its individual financial statements in accordance with Hong Kong Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 32 Consolidated Financial Statements and Accounting for Investments in Subsidiaries and elected to record its investment in HSBC undertakings at cost, less provisions for any impairment, there would have been a reduction in 1 the reserves of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2003 of US$33,970 million 2002: US$13,779 million.
There would have been no impact on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC.
HSBC applies UK Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 Accounting for pension costs to defined benefit schemes, which requires that the cost of providing pensions be recognised on a systematic and rational basis over the period during which benefit is gained from the employees services.
If HSBC had prepared its financial statements under Hong Kong Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 34 Employee benefits a defined benefit pension liability of US$4,406 million would have been recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2003 2002: 324 US$4,023 million.
There would have been an additional credit to the profit and loss account in 2003 of US$206 million 2002: charge of US$7 million.
HSBC has adopted the provisions of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares and 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
Both HSBCs previous and its current accounting policies are acceptable under Hong Kong GAAP and as a result no differences arise.
1 Figures for 2002 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, and 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1.
325 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 50 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP The consolidated financial statements of HSBC are prepared in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting principles GAAP which differ in certain significant respects from US GAAP.
The following is a summary of the significant differences applicable to HSBC: Leasing UK GAAP Finance lease income is recognised so as to give a constant rate of return on the net cash investment in the lease, taking into account tax payments and receipts associated with the lease.
Leases are categorised as finance leases when the substance of the agreement is that of a financing transaction and the lessee assumes substantially all of the risks and benefits relating to the asset.
All other leases are categorised as operating leases.
Operating leased assets are depreciated over their useful lives so that, for each asset, rentals less depreciation are recognised at a constant periodic rate of return on the net cash invested in that asset.
Rentals receivable under operating leases are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
US GAAP Unearned income on finance leases is taken to income at a rate calculated to give a constant rate of return on the investment in the lease, but generally no account is taken of the tax flows generated by the lease.
Leases are classified as capital leases when any of the criteria outlined under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards SFAS 13 Accounting for leases are met.
Operating leased assets are depreciated so that in each period the depreciation charge is at least equal to that which would have arisen on a straight line basis.
Debt swaps UK GAAP Assets acquired in exchange for other advances in order to achieve an orderly realisation are reported as advances.
The assets acquired are recorded at the carrying value of the advances disposed of at the date of the exchange, with any loan loss provision having been duly updated.
Any subsequent deterioration in their value will be recorded as an additional loan loss provision.
US GAAP Under SFAS 15 Debtors and Creditors for Troubled Debt Restructurings, debt securities and equity shares acquired in exchange for advances in order to achieve an orderly realisation are required to be accounted for at their fair value, usually their secondary market value, at the date of exchange.
Under SFAS 115 Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, certain of these debt swaps qualify as securities and accordingly are classified as available-for-sale.
Shareholders interest in the long-term assurance fund UK GAAP The value placed on HSBCs interest in long-term assurance business includes a valuation of the discounted future earnings expected to emerge from business currently in force, taking into account factors such as recent experience and general economic conditions, together with the surplus retained in the long-term assurance funds.
326 Changes in the value of HSBCs interest in long-term assurance business are calculated on a post-tax basis and are reported in the profit and loss account as part of Other operating income after adjusting for taxation.
US GAAP The net present value of these profits is not recognised.
Acquisition costs and fees are deferred and amortised in accordance with SFAS 97 Accounting and reporting by insurance enterprises for certain long-duration contracts and for realised gains and losses from the sale of investments.
Share compensation schemes UK GAAP Options granted under executive share option schemes are granted at market price and no compensation costs are recognised under the intrinsic value method.
Employees in save-as-you-earn schemes are granted shares at a 20 per cent discount to market price at the date of grant.
No compensation cost is recognised for such awards.
The fair value of shares awarded under longer term and other restricted share award schemes is charged to compensation cost over the period in respect of which performance conditions apply.
To the extent the award is adjusted by virtue of performance conditions being met or not, the compensation cost is adjusted in line with this.
US GAAP SFAS 123 Accounting for Stock Based Compensation encourages a fair value method of accounting for stockbased compensation plans.
HSBC follows this fair value method.
Under the fair value method, compensation cost is measured at the date of grant based on the value of the award and is recognised over the service period, which is usually the vesting period.
Where options lapse before their costs have been fully recognised, any costs previously recognised relating to lapsed options are written back.
Costs of software for internal use UK GAAP HSBC generally expenses costs of software developed for internal use.
If it can be shown that conditions for capitalisation are met under FRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets or FRS 15 Tangible fixed assets, the software is capitalised and amortised over its useful life.
Website design and content development costs are capitalised only to the extent that they lead to the creation of an enduring asset delivering benefits at least as great as the amount capitalised.
US GAAP The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants AICPA Statement of Position 98-1 Accounting for the costs of computer software developed or obtained for internal use requires that all costs incurred in the preliminary project and post implementation stages of internal software development be expensed.
Costs incurred in the application development stage must be capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful life.
Website design costs are capitalised and website content development costs are expensed as they are incurred.
Goodwill UK GAAP Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings, associates or joint ventures prior to 1998 was charged against reserves in the year of acquisition.
For acquisitions made on or after 1 January 1998, goodwill is included in the balance sheet and amortised over its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis.
UK GAAP allows goodwill previously eliminated against reserves to be reinstated, but does not require it.
In common with many other UK companies, HSBC elected not 327 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued to reinstate such goodwill on the grounds that it would not materially assist the understanding of readers of its accounts who were already familiar with UK GAAP.
Goodwill included in the balance sheet is tested for impairment when necessary by comparing the recoverable amount of an entity with the carrying value of its net assets, including attributable goodwill.
The recoverable amount of an entity is the higher of its value in use, generally the present value of the expected future cash flows from the entity, and its net realisable value.
At the date of disposal of subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures, any unamortised goodwill or goodwill charged directly against reserves is included in HSBCs share of the undertakings total net assets in the calculation of the gain or loss on disposal.
Where quoted securities are issued as part of the purchase consideration in an acquisition, the fair value of those securities for the purpose of determining the cost of acquisition is the market price at the date of completion.
US GAAP Goodwill acquired up to 30 June 2001 was capitalised and amortised over its useful life but not more than 25 years.
The amortisation of previously acquired goodwill ceased from 31 December 2001.
SFAS 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets requires that goodwill should not be amortised but should be tested for impairment annually at the reporting unit level by applying a fair-value-based test.
The goodwill of a reporting unit should be tested for impairment between annual tests in response to events or changes in circumstance which could result in an impairment.
Where quoted securities are issued as part of the purchase consideration in an acquisition, the fair value of those securities for the purpose of determining the cost of acquisition is the average market price of the securities for a reasonable period before and after the date that the terms of the acquisition are agreed and announced.
Intangible assets UK GAAP An intangible asset is recognised separately from goodwill where it is identifiable and controlled.
It is identifiable only if it can be disposed of or settled separately without disposing of the whole business.
Control requires legal rights or custody over the item.
An intangible asset purchased as part of a business combination is capitalised at fair value based on its replacement cost, which is normally its estimated market value.
US GAAP An intangible asset is recognised separately from goodwill when it arises from contractual or other legal rights or if it is separable, i. e. it is capable of being separated or divided from the acquired entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented, or exchanged in combination with a related contract, asset or liability.
The effect of this is that certain intangible assets such as trademarks and customer relationships are recognised under US GAAP, although such assets will not be recognised under UK GAAP.
Intangible assets are initially recognised at fair value.
An intangible asset with a finite useful life is amortised over the period for which it contributes to the future cash flows of the entity.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.
328 Property UK GAAP HSBC values its properties on an annual basis and adjustments arising from such revaluations are taken to reserves.
HSBC depreciates non-investment properties based on their cost or revalued amounts.
No depreciation is charged on investment properties other than leaseholds with 20 years or less to expiry.
US GAAP US GAAP does not permit revaluations of property, although it requires recognition of asset impairment.
Any realised surplus or deficit is, therefore, reflected in income on disposal of the property.
Depreciation is charged on all properties based on cost.
Accruals accounted derivatives UK GAAP Non-trading derivatives are those which are held for hedging purposes as part of HSBCs risk management strategy against cashflows, assets, liabilities, or positions measured on an accruals basis.
Non-trading derivatives are accounted for on an equivalent basis to the underlying assets, liabilities or net positions.
Any profit or loss arising is recognised on the same basis as that arising from the related assets, liabilities or positions.
To qualify as a hedge, a derivative must effectively reduce the price, foreign exchange or interest rate risk of the asset, liability or anticipated transaction to which it is linked and be designated as a hedge at inception of the derivative contract.
In order to qualify for synthetic alteration, a derivative instrument must be linked to specific individual, or pools of similar, assets or liabilities by the notional principal and interest rate risk of the associated instruments, and must achieve a result that is consistent with defined risk management objectives.
If these criteria are met, accrual based accounting is applied, i. e. income or expense is recognised and accrued to the next settlement date in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement.
Where the underlying asset, liability or position is sold or terminated, the qualifying derivative is immediately marked-to-market through the profit and loss account.
Derivatives that do not qualify as hedges or synthetic alterations at inception are marked-to-market through the profit and loss account, with gains and losses included within Dealing profits.
US GAAP All derivatives must be recognised as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and be measured at fair value SFAS 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.
The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative that is, gains and losses depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation as described below: For a derivative designated as hedging exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or a firm commitment, the gain or loss is recognised in earnings in the period of change together with the associated loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged.
Any resulting net gain or loss represents the ineffective portion of the hedge.
329 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued For a derivative designated as hedging exposure to variable cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or of a forecast transaction, the derivatives gain or loss associated with the effective portion of the hedge is initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the forecast transaction affects earnings.
The ineffective portion is reported in earnings immediately.
For net investment hedges in which derivatives hedge the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, the change in fair value of the derivative associated with the effective portion of the hedge is included as a component of other comprehensive income, together with the associated loss or gain on the hedged item.
In order to apply hedge accounting it is necessary to comply with documentation requirements and to demonstrate the effectiveness of the hedge on an ongoing basis.
For a derivative not designated as a hedging instrument, the gain or loss is recognised in earnings in the period of change in fair value.
Investment securities UK GAAP Debt securities and equity shares intended to be held on a continuing basis are disclosed as investment securities and are included in the balance sheet at cost less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
Other participating interests are accounted for on the same basis.
Premiums or discounts on dated investment securities purchased at other than face value are amortised through the profit and loss account over the period from date of purchase to date of maturity and are included in interest income.
Any profit or loss on realisation of these securities is recognised in the profit and loss account as it arises and included in Gains on disposal of investment securities.
SSAP 20 Foreign currency translation requires foreign currency exchange differences on foreign currencydenominated monetary items, including securities, to be recognised in the profit and loss account.
Other debt securities and equity shares held for trading purposes are included in the balance sheet at market value.
Changes in the market value of such assets are recognised in the profit and loss account as Dealing profits.
US GAAP All debt securities and equity shares are classified and disclosed within one of the following three categories: held-to-maturity: available-for-sale: or trading SFAS 115 Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.
Held-to-maturity debt securities are measured at amortised cost.
Available-for-sale securities are measured at fair value with unrealised holding gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported net of applicable taxes and minority interests in a separate component of shareholders funds.
Foreign exchange gains or losses on foreign currency denominated available-for-sale securities are also excluded from earnings and recorded as part of the same separate component of shareholders funds.
A decline considered other than temporary in fair value below cost of an available-for-sale or held-to-maturity security is treated as a realised loss and included in earnings.
This lower fair value is then treated as the cost basis for the security.
Trading securities are measured at fair value with unrealised holding gains and losses included in earnings.
330 Foreign currency UK GAAP A companys local currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates and generates net cash flows.
Foreign exchange differences arising when translating non-local currency assets and liabilities into the local currency are reported in the profit and loss account SSAP 20 Foreign currency translation.
US GAAP An entitys functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
An entity operating in a single economic environment may have only one functional currency.
Foreign exchange differences arising when translating non-functional currency assets and liabilities into the local currency are reported in the profit and loss account SFAS 52 Foreign Currency Translation.
Own shares held UK GAAP The adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 and 38 has required a change in the presentation of shares in HSBC Holdings held by HSBC.
HSBC Holdings shares are now deducted from shareholders funds including those HSBC Holdings shares held within Long term assurance assets attributable to policyholders.
No profits or losses are recognised on own shares held.
Previously, own shares held were classified as an asset.
US GAAP AICPA Accounting Research Bulletin 43 Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins requires a reduction in shareholders equity for own shares held.
HSBC shares held within Long-term assurance assets attributable to policyholders remain classified as an asset where the criteria for classification as separate accounts are met.
Dividends payable UK GAAP Dividends declared after the period end are recorded in the period to which they relate.
US GAAP Dividends are recorded in the period in which they are declared.
Deferred taxation UK GAAP Deferred tax is generally provided in the accounts for all timing differences subject to exceptions in FRS 19 and the assessment of the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Fair value adjustments on acquisition are treated as if they were timing differences arising in the acquired entitys own accounts.
Deferred tax is recognised on fair value adjustments where they give rise to deferral or acceleration of taxable cash flows.
US GAAP Deferred tax liabilities and assets are recognised in respect of all temporary differences.
A valuation allowance is raised against any deferred tax asset where it is more likely than not that the asset, or a part thereof, will not be realised SFAS 109 Accounting for Income Taxes.
331 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued The deferred taxation impact of all temporary differences arising from fair value adjustments on acquisition is recognised as part of the purchase accounting adjustment.
Sale and repurchase transactions repos and reverse repos UK GAAP Repos and reverse repos are accounted for as if the collateral involved remains with the transferor.
On the balance sheet, repos are included within Deposits by banks or Customer accounts and reverse repos are included within Loans and advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers.
US GAAP Repos and reverse repos transacted under agreements that give the transferee the right by contract or custom to sell or repledge collateral give rise to the following adjustments and disclosures SFAS 140 Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities : For repos, where the transferee has the right to sell or repledge the collateral, the transferor reports the securities separately in the financial statements from other securities not so encumbered.
For reverse repos, where the transferee has the right to sell or repledge the collateral, the transferee does not recognise the pledged asset but discloses the fair value of the collateral.
If the transferee sells collateral pledged to it, the proceeds from the sale and the transferees obligation to return the collateral are recognised.
Loan origination UK GAAP Fee and commission income is accounted for in the period when receivable, except when it is charged to cover the costs of a continuing service to, or risk borne for, the customer, or is interest in nature.
Loan origination costs are generally expensed as incurred.
As permitted by UK GAAP, HSBC applies a restricted definition of the incremental, directly attributable origination expenses that are deferred and subsequently amortised over the life of the loans.
US GAAP Certain loan fee income and direct loan origination costs are amortised to the profit and loss account over the life of the loan as an adjustment to interest income SFAS 91 Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases.
Pension costs UK GAAP Pension costs, based on actuarial assumptions and methods, are charged so as to allocate the cost of providing benefits over the average remaining service lives of employees.
US GAAP SFAS 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions prescribes a similar method of actuarial valuation but requires assets to be assessed at fair value and the assessment of liabilities to be based on current settlement rates.
Certain variations from regular cost are allocated in equal amounts over the average remaining service lives of current employees.
332 Securitisations UK GAAP FRS 5 Reporting the substance of transactions requires that the accounting for securitised receivables is governed by whether the originator has access to the benefits of the securitised assets and exposure to the risks inherent in those benefits and whether the originator has a liability to repay the proceeds of the note issue: The securitised assets should be derecognised in their entirety and a gain or loss on sale recorded where the originator retains no significant benefits and no significant risks relating to those securitised assets.
The securitised assets and the related finance should be consolidated under a linked presentation where the originator retains significant benefits and significant risks relating to those securitised assets but where the downside exposure is limited to a fixed monetary amount and certain other conditions are met.
The securitised assets and the related finance should be consolidated on a gross basis where the originator retains significant benefits and significant risks relating to those securitised assets and does not meet the conditions required for linked presentation.
US GAAP SFAS 140 Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Finance Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities requires that receivables that are sold to a special purpose entity and securitised can only be derecognised and a gain or loss on sale recognised if the originator has surrendered control over those securitised assets.
Control has been surrendered over transferred assets if and only if all of the following conditions are met: The transferred assets have been put presumptively beyond the reach of the transferor and its creditors, even in bankruptcy or other receivership.
Each holder of interests in the transferee i. e. holder of issued notes has the right to pledge or exchange their beneficial interests, and no condition constrains this right and provides more than a trivial benefit to the transferor.
The transferor does not maintain effective control over the assets through either an agreement that obligates the transferor to repurchase or to redeem them before their maturity or through the ability to unilaterally cause the holder to return specific assets, other than through a clean-up call.
If these conditions are not met the securitised assets should continue to be consolidated.
Where HSBC retains an interest in the securitised assets, such as a servicing right or the right to residual cash flows from the special purpose entity, HSBC recognises this interest at fair value on sale of the assets.
There are no provisions for linked presentation of securitised assets and the related finance.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities UK GAAP In accordance with FRS 5, entities that fall within the definition of quasi-subsidiaries are consolidated.
A quasisubsidiary is defined as an entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by HSBC and gives rise to benefits that are in substance no different from those that would arise were the vehicle a subsidiary.
FRS 5 states that this will arise where HSBC receives the benefits of the net assets of the entity and is exposed to the risks inherent in those net assets.
US GAAP FASB Interpretation 46 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities FIN 46 requires consolidation of Variable Interest Entities VIEs in which HSBC is the primary beneficiary and disclosures in respect of all other VIEs in which it has a significant variable interest.
333 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued A modified version of FIN 46 FIN 46R addresses certain implementation issues that arose under FIN 46 and changes some of the criteria used to determine whether HSBC is the primary beneficiary of an entity.
HSBC has applied FIN 46R to its assessment of certain entities where the impact of the modifications in FIN 46R is known.
HSBC is still assessing the impact of FIN 46R on other entities, and will adopt FIN 46R in 2004 for all interests in VIEs for accounting periods ending after 15 March 2004.
A VIE is an entity in which equity investors do not hold an investment with the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities.
HSBC is the primary beneficiary of a VIE if its variable interests absorb a majority of the entitys expected losses.
Variable interests are contractual, ownership or other pecuniary interests in an entity that change with changes in the fair value of an entitys net assets exclusive of variable interests.
If no party absorbs a majority of the entitys expected losses, HSBC consolidates the VIE if it receives a majority of the expected residual returns of the entity.
Under the transitional provisions of FIN 46R, HSBC is only required to consolidate VIEs where it is the primary beneficiary if HSBCs involvement in the VIE was created or acquired after 31 January 2003 and it had previously applied FIN 46 to those entities.
For VIEs created or acquired before this date, disclosure that HSBC is the primary beneficiary is sufficient.
HSBC will be required to consolidate all VIEs where it is the primary beneficiary from 1 January 2004.
Restructuring Provisions UK GAAP In accordance with FRS 12 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets, provisions are made for any direct costs and net future operating losses arising from a business that management is committed to restructure, sell or terminate, has a detailed formal plan to exit, and has raised a valid expectation of carrying out that plan.
US GAAP SFAS 146 Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, requires that the fair value of a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognised when the liability is incurred.
Accordingly, provisions are recognised upon the implementation of the restructuring plan.
Acceptances UK GAAP Acceptances outstanding are not included in the consolidated balance sheet.
US GAAP Acceptances outstanding and matching customer liabilities are included in the consolidated balance sheet.
Profit and loss presentation UK GAAP The following items are separately disclosed in the profit and loss account: Provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments.
Amounts written off fixed asset investments.
Gains on disposal of investments and tangible fixed assets.
334 US GAAP The above items are disclosed as follows: Provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments are classified as Operating expenses.
Amounts written off fixed asset investments and gains on disposal of investments and tangible fixed assets are classified as Other operating expense and Other operating income respectively.
Gains on disposal of investments and tangible fixed assets are classified as Other operating income.
Net liabilities arising due to repo transactions of US$12,226 million 2002: US$8,271 million and US$15,201 million 2002: US$13,126 million are included in Deposits by banks and Customer accounts respectively.
Average repo liabilities during the year were US$25,883 million 2002: US$21,089 million.
The maximum quarterend repo liability outstanding during the year was US$30,938 million 2002: US$21,468 million.
HSBC enters into repo and reverse repo transactions which are accounted for as secured borrowings.
Under SFAS 140, securities pledged as collateral, where the counterparty has the right to sell or repledge the collateral, would be reclassified within Debt securities and equity shares and Treasury bills and other eligible bills as encumbered.
As at 31 December 2003, the impact on Debt securities and equity shares and Treasury bills and other eligible bills would be to reclassify securities amounting to US$22,292 million as encumbered 2002: US$20,061 million.
At 31 December 2003, collateral received under reverse repo transactions where HSBC had the right to sell or repledge the security obtained amounted to US$45,319 million gross 2002: US$27,439 million.
Approximately US$26 billion of the collateral obtained from reverse repo transactions had been sold or pledged by HSBC in connection with repo transactions and securities sold not yet purchased 2002: approximately US$15 billion.
HSBC also enters into stock lending and borrowing transactions by which either cash or other securities may be received in exchange for stock.
At 31 December 2003, stock lending transactions where the securities lent were subject to sale or repledge amounted to US$7,062 million 2002: US$5,050 million.
At 31 December 2003, stock borrowing transactions where the securities borrowed were subject to sale or repledge amounted to US$11,428 million 2002: US$4,643 million.
337 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued a Acquisition of Household In accordance with SFAS 141 Business Combinations, the following additional disclosures are required in respect of the acquisition of Household.
The value ascribed to each HSBC ordinary share for US GAAP purposes was US$11.28, derived from the fiveday average 12 November 2002 to 18 November 2002 of the daily HSBC ADR price at the time the bid was announced.
The total consideration paid for the acquisition of Household, calculated in accordance with US GAAP, was US$15,761 million.
previously recognised gains on the sale of assets to securitisation vehicles under US GAAP are eliminated for UK GAAP purposes and the securitised assets are recognised on balance sheet.
Offsetting this is the recognition of a deferred tax liability under US GAAP in respect of gains on sale of assets to securitisation vehicles: under UK GAAP, such gains are not recognised and, accordingly, no corresponding deferred tax liability is recognised.
338 The impact of these items is offset by a higher value placed on HSBC shares issued as part of the purchase consideration under US GAAP.
The HSBC share price fell between the time of announcement in November 2002 and completion of the acquisition on 28 March 2003.
The following table provides pro-forma information in respect of HSBC including Household, prepared on the basis that Household was acquired at the beginning of each of the years disclosed: UK GAAP US GAAP 2003 2002 2003 2002 US$m US$m US$m US$m Total operating income......................................................... 44,302 39,117 Profit attributable to shareholders......................................... 9,177 7,717 7,701 6,613 US$ US$ US$ US$ Basic earnings per ordinary share......................................... 0.86 0.73 0.72 0.62 Diluted earnings per ordinary share...................................... 0.85 0.72 0.71 0.62 The pro-forma profit attributable to shareholders for 2002 under both UK GAAP and US GAAP above reflect: a post-tax charge of US$333 million associated with Households settlement reached on 11 October 2002 with a multi-state working group of state Attorneys General and regulatory agencies to effect a resolution of alleged violations of US Federal and state consumer protection, consumer finance and banking laws and regulations: and a post-tax charge of US$240 million on the sale of the assets and deposits of Household Bank, f. s. b.
Under US GAAP, intangible assets with a total value of US$3,003 million were recognised on acquisition.
Of these intangible assets, US$715 million have an indefinite useful life and are not amortised but are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.
The remaining intangible assets have finite useful lives generally ranging from 5 to 10 years over which their value less any terminal value is amortised to the profit and loss account.
The value of intangible assets recognised under US GAAP is greater than that recognised under UK GAAP, reflecting the different recognition criteria under US GAAP.
The higher value of intangible assets recognised under US GAAP results in a lower value of goodwill arising.
Intangible assets: Weighted average amortisation period UK GAAP US GAAP UK GAAP US GAAP months months US$m US$m Intangible assets subject to amortisation Purchased credit card relationships and related agreements................ 84 74 47 1,404 Retail Services merchant relationships................................................ 60 277 Other loan related relationships........................................................... 84 110 3 326 Technology, customer lists and other contracts................................... 61 281 84 73 50 2,288 Intangible assets not subject to amortisation Trade name.......................................................................................... 715 50 3,003 339 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued No goodwill on the acquisition of Household was deductible for tax purposes.
The net present value of such profits is not recognised under US GAAP.
US GAAP requires the application of different accounting treatments in a number of areas of accounting for the long-term assurance fund.
In particular, the definition and amortisation of deferred acquisition costs and the methodology for determining actuarial reserves vary between US and UK GAAP.
Net pre-tax income under US GAAP would have been US$394 million lower than under UK GAAP, as a result of differences in accounting for the shareholders interest in the log term assurance fund.
The reduction in income is greater than in previous years, because of an increase in the net present value of in force policies in the UK, due in part to a reduction in the risk discount rate, new business in Hong Kong profits on new business are recognised sooner under UK GAAP and certain refinements to the models underlying the US GAAP calculation.
c Pension and post-retirement costs Pensions For the purpose of the above reconciliations, the provisions of SFAS 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions have been applied to HSBCs main pension plans, which make up approximately 95 per cent of all HSBCs schemes by plan assets.
For non-US schemes, HSBC has applied SFAS 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions with effect from 30 June 1992 as it was not feasible to apply it as at 1 January 1989, the date specified in the standard.
The projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets at 30 June 1992 for the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme has been recognised as a liability under the purchase accounting requirements of APB 16 Business Combinations.
For other pension plans, the excess of the projected benefit obligation over plan assets at 30 June 1992 is recognised as a charge to pension expense over 15 years.
The projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets at 28 July 2000 for CCF was recognised as a liability under the purchase accounting adjustments of APB 16 Business combinations.
When the accumulated benefit obligation on a pension plan the value of the benefits accrued based on employee service up to the balance sheet date exceeds the fair value of plan assets, the employer recognises an additional minimum pension liability equal to this excess, so long as the excess is greater than any accrual which has already been established for unfunded pension costs.
At the same time, an intangible asset is established equal to the lower of the liability recognised for the unfunded benefit obligation or the amount of any unrecognised prior service cost.
At 31 December 2003, HSBC recognised an additional minimum pension liability of US$2,789 million 2002: US$1,175 million in respect of its unfunded accumulated benefit obligations.
This liability is partially offset by an intangible asset of US$14 million.
The net impact of these items, after taking account 340 of relevant tax assets of US$824 million 2002: US$335 million, would be to reduce the Groups shareholders equity under US GAAP by US$1,951 million 2002: US$824 million.
In 2003, plans with an aggregate accumulated benefit obligation of US$17,332 million 2002: US$12,776 million and assets with an aggregate fair value of US$13,739 2002: US$9,743 million had an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets.
Plans with an aggregate projected benefit obligation of US$17,841 million 2002: US$14,752 million and assets with an aggregate fair value of US$13,739 million 2002: US$10,989 million had a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets.
Plan assets are invested primarily in equities, fixed interest securities and property.
Included within plan assets at 31 December 2003 are direct holdings of 760,690 shares in HSBC Holdings with a market value of US$12 million 2002: 689,485 shares: US$7 million.
The Trustee considers that the investment policy is consistent with meeting its overall long-term investment objectives.
In pursuit of its long-term objectives, the Trustee establishes an overall benchmark for the allocation of the Defined Benefit Scheme assets between asset categories.
In addition each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as stock market or property valuation indices and desired levels of out performance where relevant.
This is intended to be reviewed at least triennially within 18 months of the date at which the actual valuation is made, or more frequently if circumstances require it.
The process involves an extensive asset and liability review.
The assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation of the UK domestic defined benefit plans at 31 December are as follows: HSBC Bank UK HSBC International Staff Pension Scheme Retirement Benefit Scheme 2003 2002 2003 2002 % % % % Discount rate......................................................................... 5.5 5.6 5.5 5.6 Rate of compensation increase.............................................. 3.0 2.75 4.25 4.0 Inflation................................................................................. 2.5 2.25 2.5 2.25 HSBC determines discount rates in consultation with its actuary, based upon the current average yield of high quality AA rated debt instruments.
The accumulated benefit obligation in respect of the above UK domestic schemes was US$16,165 million 2002: US$11,774 million for the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme and US$709 million 2002: US$611 million for the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme.
The weighted average assumptions used in determining the net periodic cost for the year ended December 31 are as follows: HSBC Bank UK HSBC International Staff Pension Scheme Retirement Benefit Scheme 2003 2002 2003 2002 % % % % Discount rate......................................................................... 5.6 5.9 5.6 5.9 Rate of compensation increase.............................................. 2.75 3.75 4.0 4.25 Expected return on plan assets.............................................. 6.8 6.3 7.3 6.9 HSBC determines the expected return on plan assets, in consultation with its actuary based upon historical market returns, adjusted for additional factors such as the current rate of inflation and interest rates.
For the fiscal year 2004, HSBC expects to contribute US$254 million for the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme and US$24 million for the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme.
The measurement date for the UK domestic plans described above is 31 December 2003.
The measurement date for the plans is 31 December.
A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would increase decrease service and interest costs and the post-retirement benefit obligation as follows: One per cent One per cent increase decrease US$m US$m Effect on total of service and interest cost components................................... 2.1 2.0 Effect on post-retirement benefit obligation.................................................... 37.9 35.5 In accordance with US GAAP, the accounting for the post-retirement benefit charge assumed a discount rate of 5.3 per cent 2002: 5.6 per cent for UK benefits and 6.09 per cent 2002: 6.58 per cent for US benefits, on a weighted average basis.
HSBC intends to contribute US$ 9.2 million to its principal UK post-retirement health care scheme in 2004.
Further details of the UK post-retirement health care expenses under UK GAAP are given in Note 5.
In December 2003, the US Government enacted into law a new Medicare bill that provides prescription drug coverage to Medicare-eligible retirees.
In its present form, HSBCs US retiree medical plans provide prescription drugs to certain Medicare-eligible retirees.
The results contained in these financial statements do not anticipate any changes to HSBCs retiree medical plans in light of the Medicare legislation.
HSBC is currently studying the impact of the new legislation and the resulting impact, if any, on its financial statements.
Specific authoritative guidance on the accounting for the federal subsidy is pending and that guidance, when issued, may require HSBC to change previously reported information.
344 d Stock-based compensation HSBC has adopted SFAS 123 and accounts for share compensation schemes based on their estimated fair values at date of grant.
The disclosure requirements are only applicable to options and other awards granted from 1 January 1995 onwards and, in the initial phase-in period, the amounts reported will not be representative of the effect on reported net income for future years.
The SFAS 123 charge for the fair value of options granted since 1 January 1997 is US$190 million 2002: US$240 million: 2001: US$316 million.
The Executive Share Option Scheme, Group Share Option Plan, Savings-Related Share Option Plan and Restricted Share Plan fall within the scope of SFAS 123.
The disclosures of options outstanding only relate to those granted from 1995 onwards.
An analysis of the movement in the number and weighted average exercise price of options is set out below.
Executive Share Option Scheme The Executive Share Option Scheme is a long-term incentive scheme available to certain HSBC employees with grants usually made each year.
The aim of the plan is to align the interest of those employees assessed as higher performing to the creation of shareholder value.
This is achieved by setting certain Total Shareholder Return targets which must normally be attained in order for the awards to vest.
Options are granted at market value and are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant, subject to vesting conditions.
No further grants will be made under the Scheme following the adoption of the Group Share Option Plan in 2000.
9.64 Savings-Related Share Option Plans The Savings-Related Share Option Plans invite eligible employees to enter into savings contracts to save up to 250 per month, with the option to use the savings to acquire shares.
The aim of the plan is to align the interests of all employees to the creation of shareholder value.
The options are exercisable within six months following either the third or the fifth anniversary of the commencement of the savings contract depending on conditions set at grant.
The exercise price is at a 20 per cent 2002: 20 per cent: 2001: 20 per cent discount to the market value at the date of grant.
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year as at the date of grant was US$3.09 2002: US$3.58: 2001: US$3.68.
346 The number of options, weighted average exercise price, and the weighted average remaining contractual life for options outstanding at the balance sheet date, analysed by exercise price range, are as follows: 2003 2002 2001 Exercise price range....................... 1.81 4.00 4.01 6.75 1.81 4.00 4.01 6.75 1.81 4.00 4.01 6.52 Number 000s.................................... 891 122,425 2,382 119,138 3,411 127,039 Weighted average exercise price.... 3.78 5.76 3.78 6.02 3.62 5.81 Weighted average remaining contractual life years..................... 0.16 1.91 0.65 2.02 1.16 2.47 Of which exercisable: Number 000s................................ 891 264 312 999 Weighted average exercise price 4.52 3.23 3.78 5.22 Calculation of fair values Fair values of share options, measured at the date of grant of the option, are calculated using a model that is based on the underlying assumptions of the Black-Scholes model.
The fair values calculated are inherently subjective and uncertain due to the assumptions made and the limitations of the model used.
The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2003 are as follows: 3 year Savings- 5 year SavingsGroup Share Related Share Related Share Option Plan Option Schemes Option Schemes Risk-free interest rate %....................................................... 4.7 4.1 4.3 Expected life years............................................................... 535 Expected volatility %........................................................... 30 30 30 CCF CCF granted share purchase and subscription offers to certain executives of CCF, directors and officers, as well as to certain senior executives of subsidiaries.
Options granted between 1994 and 1999 vested upon announcement of HSBCs intent to acquire CCF and were therefore included in the valuation of CCF.
CCF granted 909,000 options in 2000 after the public announcement of the acquisition and these options did not vest as a result of the change in control.
The options were subject to continued employment and vested on 1 January 2002.
The CCF shares obtained on exercise of the options are exchangeable for HSBCs ordinary shares of US$0.50 each in the same ratio as the Exchange Offer for Crdit Commercial fide France shares 13 ordinary shares of US$0.50 for each CCF share.
Options are granted at market value and are exercisable within 10 years of the vesting date.
347 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Household Options granted under Households own share option schemes prior to the announcement of the acquisition by HSBC in November 2002 vested upon acquisition by HSBC.
Options granted after the announcement of the acquisition in November 2002 but prior to 28 March 2003, generally vest equally over 4 years and expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Upon acquisition, Household share options previously granted were converted to share options over HSBC ordinary shares of US$0.50 each at a rate of 2.675 HSBC share options the same ratio as the Exchange Offer for Household for each Household share option.
The aim of the plan is to align the interests of executives to the creation of shareholder value.
The weighted average remaining vesting period as at 31 December 2003 was 2.82 years 2002: 2.98 years: 2001: 3.29 years.
The 2004 conditional awards made to Executive Directors and certain other senior employees from the Restricted Share Plan in respect of 2003, will have an aggregate value at the date of award of US$31.6 million 2003 awards in respect of 2002: US$18.4 million.
Other awards made under the Restricted Share Plan Other awards are made under the Restricted Share Plan as part deferral of annual bonus.
Awards are also made for recruitment and retention purposes.
The awards generally vest from one to three years from the date of award.
The weighted average remaining vesting period as at 31 December 2003 was 1.23 years 2002: 1.41 years: 2001: 1.25 years.
e Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiary or associated undertakings when the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair value of HSBCs share of separable net assets acquired.
Under UK GAAP, for acquisitions made on or after 1 January 1998, goodwill is included in the balance sheet in Intangible assets in respect of subsidiary undertakings, in Interests in associates in respect of associates and in Interests in joint ventures in respect of joint ventures.
Capitalised goodwill is amortised over its estimated life on a straight-line basis.
Under US GAAP, goodwill on acquisitions made before 1 July 2001, including those made before 1 January 1998, would have been capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life.
Goodwill on acquisitions made after 1 July 2001 is capitalised but not amortised, and is subject to annual impairment testing.
Goodwill on 349 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued acquisitions made before 1 July 2001 ceased to be amortised on 1 January 2002 and is subject to annual impairment testing.
At 31 December 2003, the cost of goodwill acquired on subsidiary undertakings on a US GAAP basis was US$33,581 million 2002: US$23,613 million: 2001: US$19,972 million and accumulated amortisation of goodwill was US$4,016 million 2002: US$3,630 million: 2001: US$3,305 million.
The main reason for the increase of US GAAP goodwill was due to the acquisition of Household.
The US GAAP fair value table on this acquisition is presented in Note 50 a.
The remaining intangibles not recognised under UK GAAP were acquired as part of business combinations and the US GAAP amortisation charge is included in Purchase accounting adjustments see h below.
g Internal software costs Under UK GAAP, costs of software developed for internal use are generally expensed as they are incurred.
Under US GAAP, costs incurred in the application development stage of internal software must be capitalised as part of intangible assets and amortised over their estimated useful life.
HSBC recognises an adjustment in calculating its US GAAP net income, reflecting the impact of current year software development costs capitalised under US GAAP, offset by the US GAAP amortisation of these and previous years costs and by any provisions for impairment of these capitalised costs.
com, Inc. has been engaged in development activities to provide a global website and web hosting services to HSBC companies.
A provision of US$43 million was made in 2003 2002: US$35 million: 2001: US$50 million for impairment against the US GAAP capitalised amount of development costs.
At 31 December 2003, capitalised amounts in respect of hsbc.
com, Inc. totalled US$150 million 2002: US$144 million: 2001: nil.
h Purchase accounting adjustments The reconciling Purchase accounting adjustments predominantly reflect: the measurement of equity consideration at the date the terms of acquisition are agreed and announced under US GAAP: under UK GAAP equity consideration is measured at the date of acquisition: the recognition of a greater number of intangibles under US GAAP on acquisitions, and, consequently, higher amortisation charge: recognition of deferred tax on all fair value adjustment under US GAAP, and corresponding amortisation post-acquisition: 351 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued non-recognition of residual interests in securitisation vehicles existing at acquisition under UK GAAP.
Instead, the assets and liabilities of the securitisation vehicles are recognised on the UK GAAP balance sheet, and credit provisions are established against the loans and advances.
This GAAP adjustment existing at acquisition unwinds over the life of the securitisation vehicles: and certain costs which under UK GAAP, relate to either post-acquisition management decisions or certain decisions made prior to the acquisition are required to be expensed to the post acquisition profit and loss account and cannot be capitalised as goodwill, or included within the fair value of the liabilities of the acquired entity.
i Accruals accounted derivatives Under UK GAAP, internal derivatives used to hedge banking book transactions may be accruals accounted but, under US GAAP, all derivatives are held at fair value.
With the exception of certain subsidiaries in North America, HSBC has not elected to satisfy the more prescriptive hedge documentation requirements of SFAS 133 in respect of external derivative contracts.
Internal derivative contracts are not recognised for hedge accounting purposes under US GAAP.
Fair value hedges At 1 January 2001 contracts which had previously qualified as fair value hedges under US GAAP were marked to market with a corresponding revaluation of the hedged item.
There was no material ineffectiveness of these hedges and therefore no adjustment was required to US GAAP reported income.
HSBCs North American operating subsidiaries designate certain derivative financial instruments as qualifying SFAS 133 fair value hedges of certain fixed rate assets and liabilities.
Where the critical terms of the hedge instrument are identical at the hedge inception date, the short-cut method of accounting is utilised for these hedging relationships.
As a result, no retrospective or prospective assessment of effectiveness is required and no hedge ineffectiveness is recognised.
For a small number of fair value hedges of fixed rate liabilities, the short-cut method of accounting cannot be utilised.
Ineffectiveness of such fair value hedges recognised in US GAAP reported net income was a loss of US$0.4 million 2002: nil: 2001: nil.
Additionally, since 2002, HSBCs US mortgage bank has hedged fixed rate closed residential mortgage loans held for sale with forward sale commitments.
In order to satisfy the retrospective and prospective assessment of effectiveness for SFAS 133, the cumulative dollar offset method is utilised.
Ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement on a monthly basis.
Ineffectiveness on these hedging activities recognised in US GAAP reported net income was a gain of US$0.2 million 2002: gain of US$7.6 million: 2001: nil.
Cash flow hedges There were no significant contracts at 1 January 2001 which had previously qualified as cash flow hedges under US GAAP.
HSBCs North American operating subsidiaries designate certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and future contracts, as qualifying FAS 133 cash flow hedges of the forecast repricing of certain deposit liabilities, issues of debt and variable rate commercial loans.
In order to initially qualify, assessment of hedge effectiveness is demonstrated on a prospective basis utilising both statistical regression analysis and the cumulative dollar offset method.
In order to satisfy the retrospective assessment of effectiveness for FAS 133, the cumulative dollar offset method is utilised and ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement on a monthly basis.
The time value component of the derivative contracts is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
Ineffectiveness of cash flow hedging activities recognised in US GAAP reported net income was a gain of US$3.6 million 2002: gain of US$12.7 million: 2001: gain of US$8.5 million.
The adjustment to US GAAP reported equity of such hedges at 31 December 2003 was to increase equity by US$409 million 2002: increase in equity US$42 million.
352 Trading derivatives All other UK GAAP hedging derivatives have been marked to market for US GAAP purposes with the gain or loss recognised in net income for the period.
This has given rise to the increase in US reported net income of US$613 million 2002: US$221 million: 2001: US$280 million.
The principal impact of applying SFAS 133 is to reduce other assets by US$6,545 million 2002: US$3,114 million and reduce other liabilities by US$7,491 million 2002: US$3,896 million.
Under UK GAAP, internal derivatives used to hedge banking book transactions may be accruals accounted but, under US GAAP, all derivatives are held at fair value.
j Foreign exchange gains on available-for-sale securities Within individual legal entities HSBC holds securities in a number of different currencies which are classified as available-for-sale.
For example, within the private bank in Switzerland, which has the US dollar as its reporting currency, the Group holds euro-denominated bonds which are funded in euros and Swiss franc securities funded in Swiss francs.
No foreign exchange exposure arises from this because, although the value of the assets in US dollar terms changes according to the exchange rate, there is an identical offsetting change in the US dollar value of the related funding.
Under UK GAAP both the assets and the liabilities are translated at closing exchange rates and the differences between historical book value and current value are reflected in foreign exchange dealing profits.
This reflects the economic substance of holding currency assets financed by currency liabilities.
However, under US accounting rules, the change in value of the investments classified as available-for-sale is taken directly to reserves whereas the offsetting change in US dollar terms of the borrowing is taken to earnings.
This leads to an accounting result which does not reflect either the underlying risk position or the economics of the transactions.
It is also a situation that will reverse on maturity of the asset or earlier sale.
A similar difference arises where foreign currency exposure on foreign currency assets is covered using forward contracts, but where HSBC does not manage these hedges to conform with the detailed US hedge designation requirements.
The result of this is that for 2003, US GAAP profits were reduced by US$2,283 million 2002: reduced by US$2,197 million compared to UK GAAP profits.
However, this adjustment will reverse in future periods.
There is no difference in shareholders equity between UK GAAP and US GAAP as a result of this item.
The 2003 adjustment is similar to 2002, reflecting a weakening of the US dollar against the principal currencies in which HSBC holds available-for-sale securities.
These principal currencies appreciated by a further 10 to 17 per cent during 2003, in addition to a similar increase during 2002. k Investment securities Under UK GAAP, debt securities and equity shares intended to be held on a continuing basis are classified as investment securities and are included in the balance sheet at cost less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
Where dated investment securities have been purchased at a premium or discount, these premiums and discounts are amortised through the profit and loss account over the period from the date of purchase to the date of maturity and included in interest income.
These securities are included in the balance sheet at cost adjusted for the amortisation of premium and discounts arising on acquisition.
Any gain or loss on realisation of these securities is recognised in the profit and loss account as it arises and included in Gains on disposal of investments.
Other debt securities and equity shares are included in the balance sheet at market value.
Changes in the market value of such assets are recognised in the profit and loss account as Dealing profits as they arise.
Debt securities and listed equity shares acquired in exchange for advances in order to achieve an orderly realisation, continue to be reported as advances under UK GAAP.
Under SFAS 115 Accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities, all the above debt securities and equity shares, with the exception of equity investments without a readily determinable market value, are classified and disclosed within one of the following three categories: held-to-maturity: available-for-sale: or 353 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued trading.
Held-to-maturity securities are measured at amortised cost less provision for any other-than-temporary declines in value.
Provisions for other-than-temporary declines in value of available-for-sale securities are recognised in earnings.
Under US GAAP, HSBCs investment securities, other participating interests and debt securities and equity shares with a readily determinable market value acquired in exchange for advances are classified as availablefor-sale securities, except for certain securities held by Republic New York Corporation at acquisition, which were classified as held-to-maturity.
All other debt and equity shares are categorised as trading securities.
During the year, excluding the effects of foreign exchange, US$376 million 2002: US$1,229 million: 2001: US$442 million of net unrealised gains on available-for-sale securities were included in Other Comprehensive Income OCI.
US$401 million 2002: US$393 million: 2001: US$442 million of net gains were reclassified out of OCI and recognised as part of income for the year.
Upon adoption of SFAS 133 in 2001, HSBC transferred US$190 million of securities previously classified as held-to-maturity to securities available-for-sale.
The reclassification resulted in a net of tax cumulative effect adjustment loss of US$11 million.
Under the provisions of SFAS 133, such a reclassification does not call into question HSBCs interest to hold current or future debt securities to their maturity.
At the same date, HSBC transferred US$1,042 million of securities from available-for-sale to held-to-maturity.
During 2003, HSBC recorded net losses under US GAAP of US$24 million 2002: US$308 million: 2001 US$104 million in respect of impairments of available-for-sale securities which were considered to be other than temporary.
These losses were treated as realised items and included in net income.
Available-for-sale The following table provides an analysis of available-for-sale securities under US GAAP.
The principal impact of the adjustment described below is to increase the carrying value of investment securities under US GAAP by US$2,053 million in 2003 2002: US$2,047 million : Gross Tax and Net Book Market SFAS 115 minority SFAS 115 value Valuation adjustment interests adjustment US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2003 Investment securities excluding investments with no readily determinable market value......... 143,929 145,956 2,027 621 1,406 Other participating interests............ 690 764 74 17 57 Brady bonds.................................... 180 178 2 1 1 Other debt securities and equity shares acquired in exchange for advances..................................... 836 28 8 20 Securities available-for-sale at 31 December 2003..................... 144,807 146,934 2,127 645 1,482 Securities available-for-sale at 31 December 2002...................... 118,325 120,468 2,143 618 1,525 Movement in the year ended 31 December 2003..................... 16 27 43 The book value above includes securities denominated in foreign currencies which have been translated at closing rates.
Foreign exchange movements between historic rates and closing rates are reflected in Other Comprehensive Income Unrealised losses on investment securities The following investment securities, that have unrealised losses at 31 December 2003, are not considered Other-than-temporary impaired under US GAAP: Period investment has been in an unrealised loss position Greater than or equal to Less than one year one year Total Unrealised Unrealised Unrealised Fair value losses Fair value losses Fair value losses US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US Treasury and Government agencies.
Under US GAAP, HSBC recognises an Other-than-temporary impairment in the income statement for any investment security whose market value has been significantly below its carrying value for a period exceeding 355 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued six months.
The only exception to this policy is in respect of debt securities where their decline in market value is due solely to an increase in underlying rates of interest and where HSBC has the ability to hold these securities until maturity.
None of the securities disclosed in the table above are considered  impaired at 31 December 2003. l Foreign exchange losses on Argentine funding The mandatory and asymmetrical conversion of onshore US dollar denominated assets and liabilities in Argentina pesification caused significant erosion of the capital base of HSBC Argentina, in part because of the asymmetry of the conversion and in part through the creation of a structural foreign exchange mismatch to the extent of residual external US dollar liabilities which were no longer matched with US dollar assets.
HSBC recognised these losses through its income statement in 2001: these amounted to US$520 million.
Following pesification, HSBC Argentinas balance sheet primarily reflected Argentine peso assets more than fully funded by Argentine peso liabilities and this represents HSBCs ongoing business in Argentina.
On top of this HSBC Argentina had residual external US dollar liabilities which essentially represented a portion of the loss recognised in 2001.
Under UK GAAP these US dollar liabilities, as they were no longer funding the ongoing business, were treated as a separate operation with the US dollar as the unit of account.
These liabilities were settled as they fell due by the Group outside Argentina.
As HSBC prepares its accounts in US dollars no further translation effect arose.
Under US GAAP this accounting treatment was not possible and the US dollar liabilities were treated as part of the Argentine operation which accounts in Argentine pesos.
As a result, when the Argentine peso weakened the US dollar denominated liabilities generated a substantial loss in Argentine pesos which was reflected in US GAAP income.
However, as HSBC accounts in US dollars and economically there was no change in the amount of US dollars owing, an exactly offsetting gain was reflected in the US GAAP accounts in shareholders equity.
A valuation allowance is 356 established to reduce deferred tax assets if, based on available evidence, it is considered more likely than not that any of the deferred tax assets will not be realised.
At 31 December 2003, HSBC has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses net of valuation allowances totalling US$231 million 2002: US$179 million, of which, US$49 million 2002: US$63 million expire within two to five years and US$182 million 2002: US$116 million expire in 5 years or more.
n Loans and advances SFAS 114 Accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan as amended by SFAS 118 Accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan income recognition and disclosures is effective for accounting periods beginning after 15 December 1994.
SFAS 114 addresses accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan by specifying how allowances for credit losses for certain loans should be determined.
A loan is impaired when it is probable that the creditor will be unable to collect all amounts in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan agreement.
Impairment is measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective rate or, as an expedient, at the fair value of the loans collateral.
Leases, smaller-balance homogeneous loans and debt securities are excluded from the scope of SFAS 114.
At 31 December 2003, HSBC estimated that the difference between the carrying value of its loan portfolio on the basis of SFAS 114 and its value in HSBCs UK GAAP financial statements was such that no adjustment to net income or shareholders equity was required.
Impaired loans are those reported by HSBC as non-performing.
The value of such loans at 31 December 2003 was US$15,074 million 2002: US$10,520 million.
Of this total, loans which were included within the scope of SFAS 114 and for which a provision has been established amounted to US$8,810 million 2002: US$8,294 million.
The impairment reserve in respect of these loans estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 114 was US$4,709 million 2002: US$4,868 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2003, impaired loans, including those excluded from SFAS 114, averaged US$12,215 million 2002: US$9,153 million and interest income recognised on these loans was US$230 million 2002: US$258 million: 2001: US$261 million.
o Fair value of financial instruments SFAS 107 Disclosures about fair value of financial instruments requires disclosure of the estimated fair values of certain financial instruments, both on-balance-sheet and off-balance-sheet, where it is practicable to do so.
Where possible, fair values have been estimated using market prices for the financial instruments.
Where market prices are not available, fair values have been estimated using quoted prices for financial instruments with similar characteristics, or otherwise using a suitable valuation technique where practicable to do so.
The fair value information presented represents HSBCs best estimate of these values and may be subject to certain assumptions and limitations.
The fair values presented in the table on page 359 are at a specific date and may be significantly different from the amounts which will actually be paid or received on the maturity or settlement dates.
In many cases, the estimated fair values could not be realised immediately and accordingly do not represent the value of these financial instruments to HSBC as a going concern.
HSBC has excluded the fair value of intangible assets, such as values placed on its portfolio of core deposits, credit card relationships and customer goodwill, as these are not considered to constitute financial instruments for the purposes of SFAS 107.
HSBC believes such items to be significant and essential to the overall evaluation of HSBCs worth.
In view of the above, comparisons of fair values between financial institutions may not be meaningful and users are advised to exercise caution when using this data.
Financial instruments for which fair value is equal to carrying value The following table lists those financial instruments, within the scope of SFAS 107, where carrying value is an 357 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued approximation of fair value because they are either i carried at market value or ii short term in nature or reprice frequently.
By definition, the fair value of trading account assets and liabilities, including derivative instruments, equals carrying value.
Carrying values of these instruments are presented on the balance sheets and related notes on pages 234 to 366.
Assets Liabilities Cash and balances at central banks Deposits by banks repayable on demand or that mature reprice within six months Items in the course of collection Customer accounts repayable on demand or that mature reprice within six months Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness Hong Kong Government currency notes in circulation Trading debt securities and equity shares Short positions in treasury bills, debt securities and equity shares Treasury bills and other eligible bills Items in the course of transmission Other assets Other liabilities Prepayments and accrued income Accruals and deferred income Off-balance-sheet trading instruments Provisions for liabilities and charges Off-balance-sheet trading instruments In addition, the fair value of non-derivative off balance sheet financial instruments is the same as their carrying value under US GAAP.
Other financial instruments The fair value of other financial instruments within the scope of SFAS 107 is set out in the table below.
The valuation technique adopted for each major category is discussed below: i Loans and advances to banks and customers For personal and commercial loans and advances which mature or reprice after six months, fair value is principally estimated by discounting anticipated cash flows including interest at contractual rates.
Performing loans are grouped, to the extent possible, into homogenous pools segregated by maturity and the coupon rates of the loans within each pool.
In general, cash flows are discounted using current market rates for instruments with similar maturity, repricing and credit risk characteristics.
The fair value for conforming residential mortgages may be treated differently where there is an established market value for asset-backed securities, such as in the United States.
In such situations, the fair value is estimated by reference to quoted market prices for loans with similar characteristics and maturities.
For non-performing uncollateralised commercial loans, an estimate is made of the time period to realise these cash flows and the fair value is estimated by discounting these cash flows at a risk-free rate of interest.
For nonperforming commercial loans where collateral exists, the fair value is the lesser of the carrying value of the loans, net of specific provisions, or the fair value of the collateral, discounted where appropriate.
General provisions are deducted from the fair values of these non-performing loans.
ii Debt securities and equity shares held for investment purposes, and other participating interests Listed investment securities are valued at middle market prices and unlisted investment securities at managements valuation which takes into consideration future earnings streams, valuations of equivalent quoted securities and other relevant techniques.
iii Deposits by banks and customer accounts Deposits by banks and customer accounts which mature or reprice after six months are grouped by residual maturity.
Fair value is estimated using discounted cash flows, applying either market rates, where applicable, or current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
iv Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities Fair value is estimated using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
p Earnings per share Basic earnings per share under US GAAP, SFAS 128 Earnings per share, is calculated by dividing net income of US$7,231 million 2002: US$4,900 million: 2001: US$4,911 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue in 2003 of 10,429 million 2002: 9,339 million: 2001: 9,237 million.
Diluted earnings per share under US GAAP is calculated by dividing net income, which requires no adjustment for the effects of dilutive ordinary potential shares, by the weighted average number of shares outstanding plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares in 2003 of 10,547 million 2002: 9,436 million: 2001: 9,336 million.
q Variable interest entities Application of FIN 46 In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46.
FIN 46R, a modified version of FIN 46, was issued in December 2003.
FIN 46R addresses certain implementation issues that arose under FIN 46 and changes some of the criteria used to determine whether HSBC is the primary beneficiary of an entity.
However, HSBC is still assessing the impact of FIN 46R on other entities, and will fully adopt FIN 46R in 2004.
FIN 46 requires consolidation of VIEs in which HSBC is the primary beneficiary and disclosures in respect of all other VIEs in which HSBC has a significant variable interest.
HSBC fully implemented FIN 46 or FIN 46R for VIEs created or acquired after 31 January 2003 but implemented the transitional provisions of FIN 46 and FIN 46R for VIEs existing at that date.
To comply with the transitional provisions of FIN 46 and FIN 46R, HSBC has evaluated its structures existing at 31 December 2003 to determine whether it is reasonably likely that HSBC would be required to consolidate or disclose information about each VIEs nature, purpose, size and activities, together with HSBCs maximum exposure to loss.
HSBC is also required to disclose the anticipated effect of full adoption of FIN 46R on its financial statements.
Nature, purpose and activities of VIEs with which HSBC is involved HSBC makes limited use of VIE structures in its business and principally engages in these transactions to facilitate client needs.
HSBC also uses VIE structures in some instances to obtain funding for its operations, or for investment purposes.
The use by HSBC of a VIE structure in a business transaction is thus commercially driven.
Utilisation of a VIE occurs after careful consideration has been given to the most appropriate structure 359 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued needed to achieve HSBCs control and risk allocation objectives and to ensure the most efficient structure from a taxation and regulatory perspective.
Business activities within HSBC where VIEs are utilised primarily include asset-backed commercial paper conduit activity, securitisation, public and private sector infrastructure related projects and funds, investment funds, and capital funding transactions.
Under UK GAAP, HSBC consolidates entities in which it has a controlling financial interest.
As UK GAAP normally requires a risks and rewards approach to consolidation, HSBCs interests in entities deemed to be VIEs may result in differences in accounting and disclosure treatment under US GAAP.
VIEs existing on 31 January 2003 where HSBC is the primary beneficiary Under US GAAP, HSBC will be required to consolidate VIEs existing at 31 January 2003, where it is the primary beneficiary, with effect from 1 January 2004.
The total liabilities of these entities are not significantly different from their total assets.
Under UK GAAP, HSBC currently consolidates certain of the commercial paper conduits with total assets and liabilities of US$3,375 million at 31 December 2003 and the securitisation vehicles.
HSBC, as pension fund administrator, is required to invest within certain guidelines and the likelihood of HSBC being in a position where it is required to make up any such shortfall is considered remote.
It is not possible to quantify meaningfully the maximum loss for such products with any degree of certainty since any payout is dependent on the performance of other pension funds in the market.
In addition to the above, HSBC also holds interests or is involved as a manager, trustee, or sponsor of investment funds that are considered VIEs.
In such funds, HSBC provides similar services and receives similar, market-based remuneration as it does for investment funds that are not considered VIEs.
HSBC maintains a 360 nominal equity stake in some of these funds, but the majority of the expected losses and expected residual returns of these funds are absorbed or received by the funds other investors.
In certain other instances, HSBCs involvement in the funds is limited to that of an equity investor with a minority stake that does not cause HSBC to absorb or receive the majority of the funds expected losses or expected residual returns.
In respect of commercial paper conduits and securitisation vehicles, HSBCs exposure to loss generally arises through back-up liquidity facility commitments.
In respect of infrastructure projects, HSBCs exposure to loss generally arises through on-balance sheet financing of these projects.
In respect of investment funds, HSBCs exposure to loss primarily reflects seed capital investments in these funds.
In respect of low income housing tax credit partnerships, HSBCs exposure to loss arises from the amount it is committed to invest in the limited partnerships.
In respect of the capital funding vehicles, HSBCs exposure to loss represents its equity investment in the trust vehicles.
In respect of government debt restructuring programs, HSBCs exposure to loss represents its net investment in the program.
Under UK GAAP, HSBC does not consolidate the above VIEs, except for the capital funding vehicles including trust preferred securities.
Under US GAAP, HSBC will be required to deconsolidate these vehicles with effect from 1 January 2004 which will result in non-equity minority interests being reclassified as subordinated liabilities.
Under UK GAAP, HSBC does not consolidate the above VIEs.
Investment funds have been consolidated for US GAAP where it is known HSBC is the primary beneficiary.
Under UK GAAP, HSBC does not consolidate the above VIEs, except for capital funding vehicles including trust preferred securities.
HSBC revised the structure of one existing commercial paper conduit, which continues not to be consolidated under UK and US GAAP, as HSBC will not absorb the majority of expected losses for this entity.
361 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued r Consolidated cash flow statement HSBC prepares its cash flow statement in accordance with the UK Financial Reporting Standard 1 Revised 1996 Cash flow statements.
Its objectives and principles are similar to those set out in SFAS 95 Statement of cash flows, as amended by SFAS 104 Statement of cash flows Net reporting of certain cash receipts and cash payments and classification of cash flows from hedging transactions.
FRS 1 Revised defines Cash as Cash and balances at central banks and Advances to banks payable on demand.
Under US GAAP, Cash equivalents are defined as Short-term highly liquid investments that are both: convertible to known amounts of cash: and so near their maturity that they present insignificant risk of changes in value because of fluctuations in interest rates.
The other principal differences between US and UK GAAP are in respect of classification.
Under UK GAAP, HSBC presents its cash flows by: a Operating activities: b Dividends received from associates: c Returns on investments and servicing of finance: d Taxation: e Capital expenditure and financial investments: f Acquisitions and disposals: g Equity dividends paid: and h Financing.
Under US GAAP, only three categories are required, a Operating: b Investing: and c Financing.
Classification under Classification under Cash Flow FRS 1 Revised SFAS 95 104 Taxation Taxation Operating activities Dividends received from associates Dividends received from associates Operating activities Equity dividends paid Equity dividends paid Financing activities Non-equity dividends paid and dividends Returns on investments and servicing of Financing activities to minority interests finance Capital expenditure and financial Capital expenditure and financial Investing activities investments investments Transfers of subsidiary undertakings, Acquisitions and disposals Investing activities joint ventures and associates Net changes in loans and advances Operating activities Investing activities including finance lease payables Net changes in deposits Operating activities Financing activities Under FRS 1 Revised, hedges are reported under the same heading as the related assets or liabilities.
s Securitisations As a consequence of the acquisition of Household in March 2003, HSBC has increased its securitisation activity.
The following discussion relates only to Households securitisation activities.
In other HSBC entities such activities do not represent a significant part of HSBCs business and retained interests in securitisations are not significant.
HSBC has sold MasterCard and Visa, private label, personal non-credit card and auto finance loans in various securitisation transactions during 2003.
HSBC continues to service and receive servicing fees on the outstanding balance of these securitised loans and retains rights to future cash flows arising from the loans after the investors receive their contractual return.
HSBC has also, in certain cases, retained other subordinated interests in these securitisations.
These transactions result in the recording of an interest-only strip receivable under US GAAP which represents the value of the future residual cash flows from securitised loans.
The investors and the securitisation trusts have only limited recourse to HSBC assets for failure of debtors to pay.
That recourse is limited to HSBCs rights to future cash flow and any subordinated interest retained.
Servicing assets and liabilities are not recognised in conjunction with securitisations since HSBC receives adequate compensation relative to current market rates to service the loans sold.
Securitisation revenue includes income associated with the current and prior period securitisation of loans with limited recourse structured as sales under US GAAP.
Such income includes gains on sales, net of the estimate of probable credit losses under the recourse provisions, servicing income and excess spread relating to those loans.
363 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Net initial gains, which represent gross initial gains net of managements estimate of probable credit losses under the recourse provisions, and the key economic assumptions used in measuring the net initial gains from securitisations were as follows: Personal Auto MasterCard Private Non-Credit Finance Visa Label Card Total Net initial gains US$millions................................. 40 13 44 38 135 1 Key economic assumptions Weighted average life in years........................... 2.1 0.4 0.7 1.7 Payment speed...................................................... 35.4% 3.3% 74.5% 43.3% Expected credit losses annual rate...................... 6.1% 5.1% 5.7% 12.0% Discount rate on cash flows.................................. 10.0% 9.0% 10.0% 11.0% Cost of funds........................................................ 2.2% 1.8% 1.8% 2.1% 1 Weighted-average rates for securitisations entered into during 2003 for securitisations of loans with similar characteristics.
Certain revolving securitisation trusts, such as credit cards, are established at fixed levels and require frequent sales of new loan balances into the trust to replace loans as they run-off.
These replenishments totalled US$25.0 billion in 2003.
Net gains gross gains less estimated credit losses under the recourse provisions related to these replenishments were calculated using weighted-average assumptions consistent with those used for calculating gains on initial securitisations and totalled US$412 million in 2003.
Cash flows received during 2003 from securitisation trusts were as follows: Personal Real Estate Auto MasterCard Private Non-Credit Secured Finance Visa Label Card Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Proceeds from initial securitisations............ 1,158 350 1,050 2,810 5,368 Servicing fees received................................ 2 86 149 65 100 402 Other cash flow received on retained 1 interests.................................................. 8 50 635 193 132 1,018 1 Other cash flows included all cash flows from interest-only strip receivables, excluding servicing fees.
364 At 31 December 2003, the sensitivity of the current fair value of the interest-only strip receivables to an immediate 10 per cent and 20 per cent unfavourable change in assumptions are presented in the table below.
These sensitivities are based on assumptions used to value interest-only strip receivables at 31 December 2003.
As the figures indicate, the change in fair value based on a 10 per cent variation in assumptions cannot necessarily be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear.
Also, in this table, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the residual cash flow is calculated independently from any change in another assumption.
In reality, changes in one factor may contribute to changes in another for example, increases in market interest rates may result in lower prepayments which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.
Furthermore, the estimated fair values as disclosed should not be considered indicative of future earnings on these assets.
Static pool credit losses are calculated by summing actual and projected future credit losses and dividing them by the original balance of each pool of asset.
Due to the short term revolving nature of MasterCard and Visa, and private label loan balances, the weighted-average percentage of static pool credit losses is not considered to be materially different from the weighted-average charge-off assumptions used in determining the fair value of interest-only strip receivables in the table above.
At 31 December 2003, static pool credit losses for auto finance loans securitised in 2003 were estimated to be 11.5 per cent.
365 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued 51 Subsequent events On 18 February 2004, HSBC Asia Holdings BV, a wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC, acquired 100 per cent of the issued share capital of The Bank of Bermuda Limited for a cash consideration of US$1.3 billion.
The acquisition will provide HSBC with a strong position in the local banking market in Bermuda.
It will also add significant scale and geographical spread to HSBCs existing international fund administration, private banking, trustee and payments and cash management businesses.
The fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired, and the goodwill arising on the acquisition, is in the process of being determined and it is not practicable to estimate the future financial impact of the acquisition on HSBC.
52 Approval of accounts These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2004.
