Definitions In this Annual Report the following words shall have the meanings set out below: the acquisition from Nittan Capital of its voice broking interests in Asia Acquired Asian Nittan Capital Hong Kong Ltd, Nittan AP Singapore Pte Ltd, Noranda businesses Investments Pte Ltd, Nextgen Holding Co Ltd and certain subsidiaries including ICAP-AP Thailand Co. Ltd APB APB Financial LLC and APB Energy Europe A S BrokerTec BrokerTec Global LLC excluding the businesses of BrokerTec Futures Exchange LLC and BrokerTec Clearing Company LLC Combined Code the Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Code of Best Practice published by the Committee on Corporate Governance in June 1998 Companies Act Companies Act 1985 as amended Company ICAP plc formerly named Garban-Intercapital plc and Garban plc Demerger the demerger of Garban from United on 17 November 1998 $ or Dollars unless otherwise specified all references to Dollars or $ sign are to the currency of the US A down spread bet and short contract for differences are each Down Spread arrangements whereby on closure the participant will be entitled to bet and short receive a payment calculated as the amount of the bet multiplied by the contract for number of pence by which the price of an ICAP share is less than the differences price stipulated in the bet.
Equally the participant will be obliged to pay the amount of the bet for every 1p by which the price of ICAP shares is above the price stipulated in the bet.
ETC means the Electronic Trading Community, the Companys interactive trading platform EPS Earnings per share EU European Union Exco Exco plc, which changed its name to Intercapital plc on 26 October 1998 Exco Intercapital merger the acquisition of the Intercapital companies by Exco on 26 October 1998 First Brokers First Brokers Securities, Inc. FRS Financial Reporting Standard FSA the Financial Services Authority FTSE 100 The 100 most highly capitalised blue chip companies, representing approximately 80% of the UK market FTSE 250 comprised of mid-capitalised companies, not covered by the FTSE 100, representing approximately 18% of the UK market FTSE 350 The FTSE 350 is calculated by FTSE International Limited and is an index which combines both FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 companies that constitute the largest 350 UK companies by full market capitalisation Group the Company and its subsidiary undertakings ICAP shares ICAP plc ordinary shares INHBV INCAP Netherlands Holdings B. V. Intercapital Intercapital plc Intercapital companies those companies acquired from IPGL at the time of their merger with Exco in October 1998 IPGL Intercapital Private Group Limited MAI MAI plc Merger the merger of Garban and Intercapital on 9 September 1999 MoneyLine MoneyLine Telerate Nittan Capital Nittan Capital Holdings Co. Ltd OTC Over the counter TFS Tradition Financial Services United United Business Media plc formerly United News & Media plc Zions Zions Bancorporation of Salt Lake City, Utah, USA References to the Groups businesses in Europe should be construed so as to include the Groups business in South Africa.
Designed and produced by Glazer, London.
Printed by Park Communications Limited.
This Annual Report is printed on Zanders Mega Matt.
This paper is sourced from sustainable forests, is totally chlorine free TCF, has recycled fibre 50%, is suitable for archival storage and qualifies for the Nordic Swan environmental label.
