ER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLO MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION RATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVEN MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCRE DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREAS ENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER T INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MIL FIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERA OW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE INCREASE IN LION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREAS G CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVEN REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENU LION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% I INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PR REASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PR 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLO ER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLO ASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET O MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION FTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVEN RATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVEN 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCR 4 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW ATING CASHFLOW building financial str building financial strength ength 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INC 15% INCREASE IN R R EVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVEN LLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% 1% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX H REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION P REASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PR 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLO ER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLO ASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET O MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION FTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVEN RATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVEN 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCR MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCRE ATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN RE DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREAS 4 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER T ENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER T INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MIL Financial Statements 22 Directors Biographies 23 Directors Report FIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERA 24 Corporate Governance 26 Report on Directors Remuneration 31 Directors Responsibilities HFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE Auditors Report 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and Consolidated Statement of Total LION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREAS Recognised Gains and Losses 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 34 Company Balance Sheet REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15% INCREASE IN REVENU 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36 Notes to Financial Statements 61 Five Year Summary INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PROFIT AFTER TAX 15 62 Shareholders Service 63 Corporate Shareholder Information REASE IN REVENUES 21% INCREASE IN DTH REVENUE 664 MILLION NET OPERATING CASHFLOW 190 MILLION PR Directors Biographies Tony Ball age 47 Executive Director Jacques Nasser age 55 Independent Non-Executive Director Tony Ball was appointed as Chief Executive officer and Managing Director in June 1999.
Jacques Nasser was appointed as a Director of the Company on 8 November 2002 and He was previously President and CEO of Fox Liberty Networks.
He also spent three is a Senior Partner of One Equity Partners, the private equity business of Bank One years of his career with BSkyB as General Manager Broadcasting.
In addition, he is Chairman of Polaroid Corporation, and he serves on the Executive Director of Marks and Spencer plc and resigned this position in International Advisory Board of Allianz A. G. He served as a Member of the Board of September 2002.
Directors, and as President and Chief Executive officer of Ford Motor Company from 1998 to 2001.
He has received an honourary Doctorate of Technology and graduated in Martin Stewart age 39 Executive Director Business from the Royal Institute of Melbourne.
Because of his significant contributions Martin Stewart was appointed as Chief Financial officer and a Director of the Company to the well being of humanity and to the country of Lebanon, he has received the Order in May 1998.
He previously served the Company as Head of Commercial Finance from of the Cedar.
In recognition of his work for Australian industry, as an adviser to March 1996.
Prior to joining the Company, Mr Stewart was employed at Polygram for government, and for education in the area of technology, he was awarded an Order of five years, latterly at Polygram Filmed Entertainment, where he was Finance Director for Australia and a Centenary Medal.
In February 2001, Mr Stewart was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Michael Page International plc.
Gail Rebuck age 51 Independent Non-Executive Director Gail Rebuck was appointed as a Director of the Company on 8 November 2002.
She is Philip Bowman age 50 Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman and Chief Executive of The Random House Group Ltd, the UKs largest trade Philip Bowman has been a Director of the Company since December 1994.
He is Chief publishing company.
In 1982 she became a founder Director of Century Publishing.
Executive of Allied Domecq plc, a director of Burberry Group plc and a member of the Century merged with Hutchinson in 1985 and in 1989 Century Hutchinson was acquired UK Industrial Advisory Board of Alchemy Partners.
He was previously Chairman of by Random House Inc.
In 1991, Ms Rebuck was appointed Chairman and Chief Liberty plc, a Director of Coles Myer Ltd in Australia, an Executive Director of Bass plc Executive of Random House UK.
Ms Rebuck has been a Trustee of the Institute for Public and Chairman and Chief Executive of Bass Taverns Ltd. Policy Research since 1993 and was for three years a member of the Governments Creative Industries Task Force.
She is on the Board of The Work Foundation, a member Chase Carey age 49 Non-Executive Director of the Court of the University of Sussex and a member of the Council of the Royal College Chase Carey was appointed a Director of the Company on 13 February 2003.
Ms Rebuck was awarded a CBE in the 2000 New Years Honours List.
been a Non-Executive Director of News Corporation since 2002 and was an Executive Director from 1996 until 2002.
He has been named President and Chief Executive Arthur Siskind age 64 Non-Executive Director officer of Hughes Electronics Corporation pending the completion of News Corporations Arthur Siskind has been a Director of the Company since June 1992.
Mr Siskind has acquisition of a 34% interest in Hughes and serves on the Boards of Gateway, Inc. and been a Senior Executive Vice President of News Corporation since January 1996 and an Colgate University.
Mr. Carey previously served as Co-Chief Operating officer of News Executive and Group General Counsel of News Corporation since 1991.
He was an Corporation and as a Director and Co-Chief Operating officer of Fox Entertainment Group Executive Vice President of News Corporation from February 1991 until January 1996.
Mr. Carey has also held the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive officer of Mr Siskind has been a Director of NAI since 1991, a Director of STAR since 1993, a Fox Television, Director of Star Group Limited STAR, Director of NDS Group plc Director of NDS since 1996 and Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and NDS and Director of Gemstar-TV Guide International, Inc. Gemstar.
a Director of FEG since August 1998.
Mr Siskind has been a member of the Bar of the State of New York since 1962.
David DeVoe age 56 Non-Executive Director David DeVoe has been a Director of the Company since December 1994.
Mr DeVoe has Lord St John of Fawsley age 74 Independent Non-Executive Director been an Executive Director of News Corporation since October 1990: Senior Executive Lord St John of Fawsley has been a Director of the Company since 1991.
He is a nonVice President of News Corporation since January 1996: Chief Financial officer and executive Director of Blackfriars Investments, of which he was previously Chairman and a Finance Director of News Corporation since October 1990 and Deputy Finance Director Director of Blue Lion Limited.
He was a Director of the N. M. Rothschild Trust from 1990 from May 1985 to September 1990: Director of News America International NAI since to 1998.
Lord St John is Chairman of the Royal Fine Art Commission Trust and was January 1991: and a Director of STAR since July 1993.
He has also been a Director of Chairman of the Royal Fine Art Commission from 1985 to 2000.
He is a member of the FEG since 1991 and a Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial officer since Privy Council and holds the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic.
Lord St John has held August 1998.
Mr DeVoe has been a Director of NDS since 1996 and a Director of the ofces of Minister of State for Education, Minister of State for the Arts, Leader of the Gemstar since June 2001.
House of Commons and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.
He has also been Master of Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
He is a regular commentator on television and radio.
David Evans age 63 Independent Non-Executive Director David Evans was appointed as a Director of the Company on 21 September 2001.
John Thornton age 49 Independent Non-Executive Director He is President and Chief Executive officer of Crown Media Holdings, Inc.
He was John Thornton has been a Director of the Company since 1994.
He is Professor and previously President and Chief Executive officer of Crowns predecessor, Hallmark Director of Global Leadership at Tsinghua University in Beijing and a Director of the Ford Entertainment Networks, from 1 March 1999.
Prior to that he was President and Chief Motor Company, Intel Corporation and the Pacic Century Group, Inc. Mr Thornton is Executive officer of Tele-Communications International, Inc. TINTA from January Chairman of the Brookings Institution and a Director or Trustee of several educational 1998.
He joined TINTA in September 1997 as its President and Chief Operating officer, and philanthropic organisations.
With effect from 1 July 2003, Mr Thornton retired as overseeing the day-to-day operations of the company.
Prior to joining TINTA, from July President and Co-Chief Operating officer of the Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and as a 1996, Mr Evans was Executive Vice President, News Corporation.
member of its Board of Directors.
Mr Thornton attended Harvard College, Oxford University and the Yale School of Management.
Allan Leighton age 50 Independent Non-Executive Director Allan Leighton was appointed as a Director of the Company on 15 October 1999.
In March Lord Wilson of Dinton age 60 Independent Non-Executive Director 1992, he joined ASDA Stores Limited as Group Marketing Director, in September 1996 he Lord Wilson was appointed as a Director of the Company on 13 February 2003. was appointed Chief Executive and in November 1999 he was appointed President and He entered the Civil Service as an assistant principal in the Board of Trade in 1966.
He resigned all of these positions in September 2000. subsequently served in a number of departments including 12 years in the Department Mr Leighton is Chairman of Wilson Connolly Holdings plc, B. H. S. Ltd, Lastminute.
com plc, of Energy where his responsibilities included nuclear power policy, the privatisation of Royal Mail Group and Cannons Group Ltd.
He is Deputy Chairman of Leeds United plc Britoil, personnel and finance.
He headed the Economic Secretariat in the Cabinet Ofce and a Non-Executive Director of Dyson Ltd and George Weston Limited.
under Mrs Thatcher from 1987 to 1990 and after two years in the Treasury was appointed Permanent Secretary of the Department of the Environment in 1992.
He James Murdoch age 30 Non-Executive Director became Permanent Under Secretary of the Home Ofce in 1994 and Secretary of the James Murdoch was appointed as a Director of the Company on 13 February 2003.
He Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service in January 1998.
Since his retirement in has been Chairman and Chief Executive officer of STAR since May 2000.
He is also September 2002, he has been Master of Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
He was made Executive Vice President of News Corporation and a member of News Corporations a peer in November 2002.
Board of Directors and Executive Committee.
Mr Murdoch serves on the Boards of NDS and YankeeNets and the Board of Trustees of the Harvard Lampoon.
Mr Murdoch attended Harvard University.
Martin Pompadur and Leslie Hinton, both Non-Executive Directors, resigned from the Rupert Murdoch age 72 Non-Executive Director Board on 13 February 2003, and were replaced by Chase Carey and James Murdoch.
Rupert Murdoch has been a Director of the Company since 1990, when he founded British Sky Broadcasting, and was appointed Chairman in June 1999.
Mr Murdoch has Alternate Directors been a Director of News Limited in Australia since 1953: a Director of News International Rupert Murdoch, James Murdoch, David DeVoe, Arthur Siskind and Chase Carey have plc in the UK since 1969: a Director of NAI in the US since 1973: and Executive Director, appointed each of the others to act as their alternate Director and in addition have Managing Director and Chief Executive of News Corporation since 1979.
Mr Murdoch appointed Leslie Hinton as their alternate Director.
has also served as a Director of FEG and its predecessor companies since 1985, Chairman since 1992 and Chief Executive officer since 1995.
In addition, he has been Philip Bowman has appointed Allan Leighton and David Evans as his alternate Directors.
a Director of STAR since 1993 and Gemstar since 2001.
David Evans has appointed Philip Bowman and Allan Leighton as his alternate Directors.
22 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of British Sky Broadcasting Employment policies Group plc BSkyB, the Company and its subsidiary undertakings together, the The Directors interests in the Ordinary Shares and options of the Company are disclosed Group, together with the Accounts and Auditors Report for the year ended 30 within the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 26 to 31.
Equality of opportunity Activities The Group believes everyone should be given equal access to the same choices and The Chairmans Statement on page 1 and the combined Chief Executives Statement opportunities in recruitment and employment, irrespective of their differences and needs.
and Operating Financial Review on pages 4 to 12 report on the principal activities of the Group, its financial and operating performance during the year and the future The Group has a range of policies designed to ensure that it can meet this commitment.
These include respect for family and religious needs and reasonable adjustment and communication support for disabled people.
Applications are welcomed from a diverse Results and dividends talent pool and the recruitment process is accessible to disabled people.
In addition the The profit on ordinary activities after taxation for the year ended 30 June 2003 was Group is working in partnership with Sabre employment a specialist disability 190.3 million 2002: loss of 1,382.6 million.
On 5 May 1999 it was announced that employment group to ensure appropriate support for the continuing employment of the Board had decided to suspend dividend payments to shareholders.
The Group is committed to promoting awareness of diversity through no dividend is proposed.
Payment policy The Group is a gold card member of the Employers Forum on Disability and supports The policy of the Group is to agree terms of payment with suppliers prior to entering into both the Broadcasting and Creative Industries Network and the Cultural Diversity a contractual relationship.
In the absence of a specic agreement it is the policy of the Network.
Group to pay suppliers on a monthly basis.
The Group had 20 days purchases outstanding at 30 June 2003 2002: 19 days based on the total amount invoiced by Health and safety non-programme trade suppliers during the year ended 30 June 2003.
Programme The health and safety of the Groups employees is a matter of major importance.
creditors include significant balances which are not yet contractually due.
In respect of Accordingly, it is the Groups policy to manage its activities so as to avoid causing any amounts both contractually due and invoiced, the outstanding number of days unnecessary or unacceptable risk to the health and safety of its employees.
purchases is below 30 days 2002: below 30 days.
The Groups goal is to work towards continuous improvement in the management of our Share capital health and safety risks.
To this end, a review was undertaken in the first quarter of 2003 Details of changes in the share capital during the year are disclosed in note 23 to the to ensure that the Group not only meets all applicable statutory requirements but also accounts.
On 11 August 2003 the following companies, or their subsidiary undertakings, demonstrates its commitment to employee well-being.
The measures required to resolve held more than 3% of the Companys share capital: the action points highlighted in the review are currently underway.
BSkyB Holdco Inc a subsidiary of News Corporation...................................... 35.40% Employee involvement and communication It is the policy of the Group to develop employee involvement throughout the organisation Corporate governance and to ensure that employees are aware of the financial and economic factors affecting Details concerning the Groups arrangements relating to corporate governance and its the Group.
Communication meetings between management and employees representatives compliance with the Combined Code of Best Practice and the Best Practice Provisions are typically held on a quarterly basis where matters of specic interest are discussed.
annexed to the Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange are given on pages 24 and On-going consultation occurs covering a broad range of areas such as pension provision 25.
The Report on Directors Remuneration is on pages 26 to 31. and health and safety, and employees views are taken into consideration when making decisions.
The Group publishes two employee magazines covering a wide range of Charitable and political contributions and community activities employee issues, runs a comprehensive intranet system and regularly hosts roadshows, In 2003, the Group realised further developments to its corporate responsibility strategy.
conferences and forums for two-way communications.
The Groups electronic mail This included understanding more fully the expectations of its stakeholders, including local system ensures that staff are kept updated on relevant information and initiatives.
schools and national voluntary organisations.
These discussions enabled the Group to draw up its first shared vision statement, setting objectives for the business and dening Training and development stakeholder expectations.
Employees have the opportunity to participate in a range of training programmes in the elds of technology, the broadcast industry, professional skills and management and The Groups shared vision statement personal development.
The Company is represented at Board level within the Broadcast BSkyB takes its commitment to the community seriously, with the aim of achieving value for Industry Sector Skills Council, Skillset, which promotes training and development both our business and the wider community by helping young people understand and realise opportunities across the industry.
We aim to provide clear information on our community involvement and to establish partnerships with the voluntary and public sector organisations we work with.
Financial participation The Group operates a Sharesave discounted share purchase scheme, a Company The Groups second Corporate Responsibility Review details the business activity pension scheme, and also a stakeholder pension scheme for the benefit of all eligible supporting its shared visions and provides further information on our community employees.
Environmental responsibility The Groups community activity has continued to focus on utilising our strengths as a The Group recognises the importance of environmental responsibility and the complete business to deliver a measurable and sustainable impact on the community, both at a BSkyB Environmental Report can be found in the corporate section on the Companys local and national level.
This is achieved via the Groups main community involvement website.
This report does not form part of the Annual Report.
initiative, Reach for the Sky see www.
There are three initiatives within Reach for the Sky, each consisting of a three-way partnership between the Group, Annual General Meeting voluntary organisations and government departments.
The notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 November 2003 at 11.30am can be found in a separate notice accompanying the Annual Report.
In 2003, the Group in the UK donated a total value of 2,145,000 2002: 1,634,000 to charities, of which 678,000 was in the form of cash 2002: 948,000, and the Auditors remainder was in the form of services in kind.
On 1 August 2003, Deloitte & Touche, the Companys auditors transferred their business In 2003, 3,875 young people attended Reach for the Sky events at 16 locations within to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited the UK.
The Companys consent has been given to treating the In 2003, Reach for the Sky was a nalist in Business in the Communitys Awards for appointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from Excellence Cause-Related Marketing Award.
1 August 2003 under the provisions of section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditors will be Political contributions of the Group in the UK during 2003 amounted to nil 2002: nil.
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors By order of the Board, The Directors who served during the year are listed on page 22.
David Evans, Lord St John of Fawsley and Martin Stewart retire from the Board by rotation, and being eligible, David Gormley offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Stewarts contract of employment is subject to one Company Secretary years notice.
Philip Bowman also retires from the Board by rotation but will not offer 11 August 2003 himself for re-election.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 23 Corporate Governance BSkyB is committed to high standards of corporate governance and, except as noted Remuneration Committee below, has complied throughout the year with the best practice provisions of Section 1 The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for recommending of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code appended to the Listing to the Board the framework and policy for Executive Directors remuneration and Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
remuneration for any Executive of the Company earning a basic salary in excess of 250,000 per annum.
The Remuneration Committee has clearly dened terms of The Board reference, meets not less than once a year and takes advice from the Chief Executive The Board currently comprises fifteen Directors, made up of two Executive Directors and Officer and independent consultants as appropriate in carrying out its work.
The thirteen Non-Executive Directors, eight of whom are Independent Non-Executive Remuneration Committee currently comprises five Non-Executive Directors, three of Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company bring a wide range of whom are independent.
experience and expertise to the Companys affairs and they carry significant weight in the Boards decisions.
Short biographies of each of the Directors are set out on page 22, The Remuneration Committee is chaired by John Thornton, and its members are David which also clearly identify those Directors who are, in the view of the Board, independent Evans, Jacques Nasser, Rupert Murdoch and David DeVoe.
The Company notes that the within the meaning of the Code.
In the previous years Annual Report, the Board noted composition of the Remuneration Committee does not comply with the Code.
The Board that there was not a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors, as required by the considers that Messrs Murdoch and DeVoe, along with the other members of the Code, and expressed its intention to remedy this situation.
Following the appointments Committee, have provided a valuable contribution to the Remuneration Committee, and of Gail Rebuck and Jacques Nasser at the Annual General Meeting on 8 November 2002 believes that they will continue to do so in the future.
Accordingly, the Company does not the Company has been compliant with the Code.
propose to alter the current membership of the Remuneration Committee.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive officer are separate and have been so The Board also notes that the terms of the Executive Directors service contracts do since the Company obtained its listing in 1994.
In prior years the Board did not deem it not comply with the Code and this is more specically discussed within the Report on necessary to appoint a Senior Non-Executive Director and as such was not compliant Directors Remuneration which can be found on pages 26 to 31.
In accordance with with the Code.
However, in last years Annual Report the Board confirmed its commitment the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Report on Directors to make an appointment and on 7 November 2002, Lord St John of Fawsley was appointed Remuneration will be put forward for an advisory shareholder vote.
as the Senior Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Audit Committee The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times a year to review appropriate strategic, The Audit Committee, which consists exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, has clearly operational and financial matters as required.
A schedule of items reserved for the full dened terms of reference as laid out by the Board.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Boards approval is in place, which includes, inter alia, the approval of annual and interim Philip Bowman and its members are Allan Leighton, Gail Rebuck, David DeVoe and results, significant transactions, agreements or arrangements between the Group and Arthur Siskind.
It meets not fewer than four times a year to review all significant members of The News Corporation Limited group News Corporation and other judgements made in the preparation of the quarterly, half yearly and annual financial related parties, major capital expenditure and the yearly budget and business plan.
results before they are submitted to the Board.
It reviews with the external auditors the nature, scope and cost of their work, discusses with them the results thereof, reviews The Board has also delegated specic responsibilities to Board committees, notably the the audit plans and findings of the Groups internal audit function and any related party Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Directors receive Board and transactions entered into by the Group.
The Audit Committee has the power to seek Committee papers several days in advance of Board and Committee meetings and also external advice as and when required.
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
In addition, the Board members have access to external professional advice at the Companys expense.
Nomination Committee On 17 September 2002, the Company established a Nomination Committee of the Appointments of Independent Non-Executive Directors are for an initial term of three Board following the Boards conrmation in the previous years Annual Report that it years, subject to election by shareholders following appointment, subsequent re-election intended to establish a Nomination Committee.
On 17 September 2003, the Company by shareholders, and Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of Directors.
appointed Lord St John of Fawsley and John Thornton as the Committee members.
In addition, re-appointment for a further term is not automatic but may be made by Since there are only two members there is no Chairman.
During the year Jacques mutual agreement.
Nasser, Gail Rebuck, Lord Wilson of Dinton, James Murdoch and Chase Carey were all nominated by the Nomination Committee for appointment to the Board.
In previous years the Articles of Association of the Company permitted News Corporation or a subsidiary of News Corporation to appoint a number of Directors dependent on its The Company has from time to time engaged executive search consultants to assist with shareholding in the Company.
BSkyB Holdco, Inc. Holdco, a subsidiary of News the recruitment of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Corporation, had the right to appoint five Directors to the Board.
The Directors so appointed were not subject to election by shareholders, nor were they required to retire Appointment of Directors by rotation as required by the Code.
Jacques Nasser and Gail Rebuck were appointed to the Board on 8 November 2002.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 8 November 2002, resolutions were Lord Wilson of Dinton was appointed to the Board on 13 February 2003. put to the shareholders of the Company whereby new Articles of Association would be adopted, cancelling News Corporations special right to appoint Directors to the Board Martin Pompadur and Leslie Hinton resigned from the Board on 13 February 2003 and and the five Directors so appointed by News Corporation would be put forward for were replaced by Chase Carey and James Murdoch.
These Directors would then be subject to the normal retirement by rotation provisions that are applicable to all other Directors.
These Communication with Shareholders resolutions were also conditional on another three Independent Non-Executive Directors The Company is keen to maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders in order to being appointed to the Board.
The resolutions were passed by the shareholders of the ensure that the objectives of both the Company and the shareholders are understood.
Company and became effective on 13 February 2003, when Lord Wilson of Dinton was A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts appointed as the eighth Independent Non-Executive Director of the Board.
The Company also makes presentations to analysts and fund managers following the half year and full year results of the Company.
All the Directors of the Company now comply with the requirement for Directors to retire and offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board views the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with private investors and sets aside time at these meetings for shareholders to ask The Group Executive Committee generally meets on a weekly basis to allow prompt questions of the Board.
All members of the Board are encouraged to attend the meeting.
decision making and discussion of relevant business issues.
It is chaired by the Chief The Chairman provides a brief resume of the Companys activities for the previous year Executive officer and comprises the Chief Financial officer and other senior executives to the shareholders.
The Company, in accordance with the Code, announces the number of proxy votes cast Board Committees on resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Articles of Association formerly contained certain rights for Holdco, dependent on its shareholding in the Company, to appoint and remove members of any standing Committee established by the Board.
Holdco had the right to appoint two members to any such Committee.
These rights were also cancelled upon the adoption of the new Articles of Association by a Special Resolution of the Company at the Annual General Meeting, which was effective from 13 February 2003.
24 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Corporate Governance continued Directors responsibilities The responsibilities of the Directors are set out on page 31.
Internal control The Directors have overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage, and where possible eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been established, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control issued in September 1999.
This process has been in place for the whole of the year ended 30 June 2003 and up to the date the financial statements were approved.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the operation of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during the year and this review has been carried out for the year ended 30 June 2003 and up to the date the financial statements were approved.
This review relates to the Company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to joint ventures.
The Audit Committee meets on at least a quarterly basis with the Groups internal audit team and the external auditors.
There is a comprehensive budgeting process and the annual budget, which is regularly reviewed and updated, is approved by the Board.
Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of this process.
Performance is monitored against budget through weekly and monthly reporting cycles.
Monthly reports on performance are provided to the Board and the Group reports to shareholders each quarter.
Each area of the business carries out risk assessments of its operations and ensures that the key risks are addressed.
A Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial officer and comprising senior executives, reviews the management of risks in all areas of the business on a cyclical basis.
The results of the Risk Management Committees review are integral to the budgeting and forecasting process and are integrated into the internal audit planning.
The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management to the Groups operating management and to the Audit Committee.
Use of external auditors The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditors of audit and non-audit services, which categorises such services between: those services which the auditors are prohibited from providing: those services which are acceptable for the auditors to provide and the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Audit Committee: and those services for which the specic approval of the Audit Committee is required before the auditors are permitted to provide the service.
The policy defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal approval mechanisms required to be completed prior to any engagement.
An analysis of all services provided by the external auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee at each meeting.
For the year ended 30 June 2003, the Audit Committee has discussed the matter of audit independence with Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Groups external auditors, and has received and reviewed conrmation in writing that, in Deloitte & Touche LLPs professional judgement, Deloitte & Touche LLP is independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 25 Report on Directors Remuneration Remuneration Committee variable performance-related incentive arrangements.
This policy ensures that a John Thornton Chairman, David Evans, Jacques Nasser, Rupert Murdoch and significant proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Senior David DeVoe.
Executives is aligned with corporate performance, generating a strong alignment of managements interests with those of shareholders.
The Remuneration Committees the Committees terms of reference are principally concerned with the remuneration in all its forms of main Board Directors and other senior For both Executive Directors, the performance element of total remuneration is currently executives of the Group with a basic salary of at least 250,000 per annum Senior targeted at over 70%.
It is intended that this balance should continue.
Executives, other than key production personnel or on-air talent.
The Committee meets not less than once a year, has access to information and advice provided from external 3.
Basic salary sources and from sources within the Group, and ensures that: The basic salary for each Executive Director and Senior Executive is determined by the Committee taking account of the recommendation of the Chief Executive officer a the salary, benets and pension arrangements of the Executive Directors and Senior other than in respect of his own salary, and information provided from external sources Executives are competitive, but fair: relative to the industry sector in which the Company operates.
b awards under the Companys Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option 4.
Senior management bonus scheme Schemes the Executive Schemes, Additional Executive Bonus Scheme, LongExecutive Directors and Senior Executives participate in a bonus scheme under which Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Equity Bonus Plan EBP are consistent with the awards are made to participants at the discretion of the Committee.
The level of Groups overall performance and provide an additional incentive to management: and award is dependent on both personal performance during the relevant financial year and the performance of the Group through the achievement of commercial and strategic objectives.
c there is an objective and independent assessment of benets granted to Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
Pension benefits The Group provides pensions to eligible employees through the BSkyB Pension Plan Advisors to the Committee which is a dened contribution plan.
Employees may contribute up to 4% of basic salary The Group uses the services of Deloitte & Touche LLP Executive Compensation Consulting, into the scheme each year and the Group matches this up to a maximum of 8% of basic who replaced Arthur Andersen on 1 August 2002, in providing advice on remuneration salary.
Contributions into the approved plan are subject to Inland Revenue limits.
The matters of the Committee.
Deloitte & Touche LLP has been appointed by the Group and Group does not currently operate a Supplementary Pension Scheme in excess of the provide advice as required by the Committee.
The Committee also consults with the Chief Inland Revenue earnings cap.
Executive officer and Chief Financial officer.
They are invited to attend meetings of the Committee, although no Director participates in discussions concerning his own During the year the Company reviewed the operation of its pension arrangements for remuneration.
Deloitte & Touche LLP also acts as the Groups auditors, and provide other Executive Directors and Senior Executives whose Pension Plan contributions are services to the Group as detailed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
restricted due to Inland Revenue limits.
For these Executives, in the first instance, employee contributions are reduced and where employer contributions need to be Compliance restricted, a cash supplement is paid to the individual equal to the shortfall in the 8% The Auditors Report set out on page 31 confirms that the scope of their work covers employer contribution rate.
the amounts disclosed relating to the emoluments, share options, LTIP and EBP interests and pension benets of the Directors contained in sections 13 to 18 of During the year, a one-off payment was made to Tony Ball in recognition of the historical this report in accordance with the Companies Act.
These sections are identied as shortfall in his pension arrangements.
This sum was equal to the difference between the audited below.
contributions as limited by the Inland Revenue cap and the 8% of pensionable salary since he joined the BSkyB Pension Plan.
Remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and Senior Executives 6.
Performance graph The Committee operates a policy of competitive remuneration packages to attract, The following graph shows the Companys performance measured by total shareholder retain and motivate Executive Directors and Senior Executives of the highest calibre.
return TSR for the five years to 30 June 2003, compared with the TSR of the The Committee keeps its remuneration policies under review in the light of Company FTSE 100 companies over the same period.
Total Shareholder Return is dened as and market developments.
share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
The FTSE 100 has been selected for this comparison because this is the principal index in which the Companys shares are listed.
Since otation, remuneration has played an important part in motivating management The performance of the FTSE 350 Media and Entertainment index over the same period in the delivery of outstanding performance for shareholders.
At the outset there was a is also shown for comparative purposes.
clear commitment to provide outstanding rewards to Executive Directors and Senior Total shareholder return for the period 1 July 1998 to 30 June 2003 Executives only if shareholders had also benefited.
Incentives have therefore been tailored to support the delivery of key corporate objectives.
The LTIP was introduced in conjunction with the launch of the digital platform and was designed to reward % executives only if tough business targets were exceeded and this resulted in superior 500 returns for shareholders.
Historically, therefore, there has been a strong link between 450 corporate performance and individual reward, and this continues to be a key focus 400 through the operation of the LTIP and the EBP, which was introduced in 2002.
350 300 A key part of this policy has been to structure rewards such that a high proportion 250 of Executive Directors and Senior Executives total compensation is paid in BSkyB shares.
Awards under incentive plans continue to be subject to the achievement of 200 tough targets based on out-performance of comparator groups, as well as commercial 150 targets such as build-up, yield and retention of the subscriber base, profitability and 100 cash ow generation.
50 0 The emphasis continues to be on rewards linked to performance and BSkyB shares, Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 rather than the provision of long-term security through pensions, and therefore pension 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 opportunities of Executive Directors and Senior Executives comprise only a dened BSkyB FTSE 100 Index FTSE 350 Media and Entertainment Index contribution scheme, in which the Groups contributions are limited to 8% of basic salary.
No other elements of remuneration are pensionable.
Long-Term Incentive Plan The Groups remuneration policy also reects the dynamic, competitive and entrepreneurial The Company operates a Long-Term Incentive Plan for Executive Directors and Senior markets in which the Group operates, and recognises and rewards key talent throughout Executives.
An award under the existing LTIP comprised a retention element Core the organisation using BSkyB shares.
In addition to rewarding Executive Directors and Award which makes up 5% of the award and a Performance Award which makes up Senior Executives, the Groups policy is to extend share ownership opportunities to all 95% of the award.
The Core Award vests dependent on continued service with the employees by the widespread grant of share options under the Executive Schemes, through Group for a specified period and is not subject to the performance conditions.
It is the Millennium Grant, and the operation of the Sharesave scheme see section 10. intended that no future Core Awards will be made under the LTIP.
The Performance Award vests, in full or in part, dependent on the satisfaction of specified performance Executive Directors are allowed to take up external appointments as non-executive targets.
Awards are not transferable or pensionable and are made over a number of directors and the Directors retain any payments in respect of these appointments.
shares in the Company, determined by the Committee.
Awards may be in a variety of forms, including grants of shares, nil-priced options or market-value options with a cash 2.
Total remuneration fixed versus variable pay bonus, all of which would have the same value to the participant.
Remuneration for Executive Directors and Senior Executives consists of basic salary, performance-related bonuses, share incentive schemes and benets including dened Measurements of the extent to which performance targets have been met are reviewed contribution pensions, life assurance, medical insurance and company cars, or by the Committee at the date of vesting of each award, taking account of independent company car allowances.
The remuneration package is signicantly weighted towards advice as necessary.
26 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc TSR Index at 1 July 1998 100 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Awards may be made to any employee or full time Director of the Group at the The table below sets out the proportion of the award that could potentially vest discretion of the Committee.
During the year, awards under the plan were made to Tony according to performance against the international media and telecommunications Ball and Martin Stewart and other key Senior Executives.
Further information on the sector comparator group.
However, this level of vesting is only achievable if the awards to the Executive Directors can be found in Section 16 of this report.
Company also meets the stretching commercial targets in full.
Outstanding awards under the LTIP take the form of a market value option with a cash Company position against international Maximum percentage of award bonus equal to the lower of exercise price and the share price at the date of exercise media and telecommunications that may vest if commercial with the exception of shares awarded as part of an agreement to meet the employers sector comparator group measures targets are met in full National Insurance obligations, which do not attract a cash bonus.
Where the market 1st or 2nd out of 9 100% price of a share at the date of vesting is below the exercise price, awards in this form 3rd or 4th out of 9 95% have been treated as having lapsed and participants have been eligible to receive 5th or 6th out of 9 75% shares for no consideration, equal to the value of their vested award.
7th or lower out of 9 Core Award 60% 2002 awards If threshold commercial targets are not met then vesting for the first or second highest Performance measures for the 2002 LTIP focus on rewarding performance which results TSR would reduce to below 25%.
The vesting at other positions against the comparator in maximised returns to shareholders.
For the award made in 2002 the Committee group 3rd or 4th highest TSR, 5th or 6th highest TSR, 7th highest or lower would also determined that the performance targets should be based on a comparison of the reduce, to 12%, 9% and 5% Core Award respectively.
Companys relative total shareholder return performance against both the FTSE 100 and the international media and telecommunications sector.
The awards only vest in full The commercial targets are based on stretch measures in the following areas: DTH for outstanding performance against both of these comparator groups.
Total shareholder churn rate, average revenue per user, operating cash ow margin, gross margin, profit return has been selected as the target as it is a clear indicator of the value created for before tax and total DTH subscribers.
Performance at less than 85% of these stretching shareholders, and is a widely accepted measure of performance.
targets results in the threshold level, which would result in no vesting in respect of the commercial measures.
The selected comparator companies from the international media and telecommunications sector were as follows: Carlton Communications: EMAP: Granada: 2000 Award MediaSet: ntl: RTL: SMG: Telewest Communications: Viacom: Vivendi Universal: 50% of the awards granted in November 2000 vested in full on 3 November 2002 as Walt Disney.
to 400,000 shares Tony Ball and 200,000 shares Martin Stewart.
The additional options which were granted in respect of the National Insurance enhancement, 54,000 The table below sets out the proportion of the award that vests according to Tony Ball and 27,000 Martin Stewart, fall away if exercised when the market price is performance against the international media and telecommunications sector below the exercise price.
This is as a result of the Company being placed first against comparator group and the FTSE 100. the media comparator group in terms of total shareholder return for the period November 2000 to November 2002, and for the achievement of the commercial targets Percentage of award that vests at 3 November 2002 using a number of key business performance measures based on Company position DTH churn rate, average revenue per user, operating cash ow margin, gross margin, against the FTSE 100 profit before tax and total DTH subscribers.
The media comparator companies for the total shareholder return performance measure were: Carlton Communications: Company position against international Upper Upper Granada: MediaSet: ntl: RTL: SMG: Telewest Communications: and Vivendi Universal.
media and telecommunications Median quartile decile or The Companys share price on 3 November 2002 was 5.75, and the total market value sector comparator group or above or above or above of the award which vested was 3.5 million.
At 30 June 2003, Tony Ball and Martin 1st out of 12 70% 80% 100% 100% Stewart had not exercised their rights to receive these shares.
The additional 5th out of 12 40% 50% 60% 70% options which were granted in respect of the National Insurance enhancement, 54,000 6th out of 12 30% 40% 50% 60% Tony Ball and 27,000 Martin Stewart, fall away if exercised when the market price is 7th or lower out of 12 Core Award 5% 5% 5% 5% below the exercise price.
This is as a result of the Company being placed first against the media comparator group in terms of total shareholder return for the period Up to half of the award may vest two years after grant, subject to the achievement of the November 2000 to June 2003, and for the achievement of the commercial targets at 30 June 2003 using a number of key business performance measures based on DTH performance conditions at that date, with the remaining 50% and any unvested portion becoming eligible for vesting after three years, subject to the achievement of the churn rate, average revenue per user, operating cash ow margin, gross margin, profit before tax and total DTH subscribers.
The media comparator companies for the total performance conditions at that date.
shareholder return performance measure were: Carlton Communications: Granada: MediaSet: ntl: RTL: SMG: Telewest Communications: and Vivendi Universal.
The 2001 awards 50% of the award granted in November 2001 vested in full on 30 June 2003 as to 400,000 Companys share price on 30 June 2003 was 6.72, and the total market value of the shares Tony Ball and 200,000 shares Martin Stewart.
The additional options which were award which vested was 4.0 million.
At 30 June 2003, Tony Ball and Martin Stewart granted in respect of the National Insurance enhancement, 54,000 Tony Ball and had not exercised their rights to receive these shares.
The vesting date for this award 27,000 Martin Stewart, fall away if exercised when the market price is below the was amended during the year from an original vesting date of 3 November 2003 to 30 exercise price.
This is as a result of the Company being placed second against the media June 2003, in order to align the vesting date with the Companys financial year.
Based comparator group in terms of total shareholder return for the period November 2001 to on current information, the amendment to the vesting date is not expected to have June 2003, and for the achievement of the commercial targets at 30 June 2003 using a affected the proportion of the award that vested during the year.
number of key business performance measures based on DTH churn rate, average revenue per user, operating cash ow margin, gross margin, profit before tax and total DTH Other broadly similar arrangements are operated for certain senior management not subscribers.
The media comparator companies for the total shareholder return participating in the LTIP under the terms of a Key Contributor Plan KCP.
Shares used performance measure were: Carlton Communications: Granada: MediaSet: ntl: RTL: SMG: to satisfy KCP awards are acquired by the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Telewest Communications: and Vivendi Universal.
The Companys share price on this date in the market.
was 6.72, and the total market value of the award which vested was 4.0 million.
At 30 June 2003, Tony Ball and Martin Stewart had not exercised their rights to receive these 8.
The vesting date for this award was amended during the year from an original vesting date of 31 July 2003 to 30 June 2003, in order to align the vesting date with the 2002 Awards Companys financial year.
The amendment to the vesting date did not affect the proportion During the year the Company introduced an Equity Bonus Plan for Executive Directors of the award that vested during the year.
This plan rewards performance against key commercial measures over the financial year, with stretching targets derived from the Groups business plan.
The unvested portion of the award made in 2001 will vest on 30 June 2004 subject to the Awards under the plan are made in the form of BSkyB shares, subject to performance achievement of performance conditions at that date based on a combination of the achieved in the financial year.
The awards of these shares are deferred in equal amounts Companys performance against stretching targets established for a range of commercial for a further one and two years, subject to continuing employment.
measures together with a comparison of the Companys relative total shareholder return performance against the international media and telecommunications sector.
The awards At 30 June 2003, the commercial measures for the awards made in August 2002 only vest in full for outstanding performance against both performance measures.
The were achieved in full.
The awards granted to Tony Ball and Martin Stewart will vest in equal selected comparator companies from the international media and telecommunications amounts subject to their remaining in continued employment with the Group at 31 July sector are as follows: Carlton Communications: Granada: MediaSet: ntl: RTL: SMG: 2004 and 31 July 2005.
EBP awards may be made to any employee or full time Director of the Group at the discretion of the Committee.
Shares used to satisfy these awards are acquired by the ESOP in the market.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 27 Report on Directors Remuneration continued In accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule A to the Combined Code, the options that 9.
Additional Executive Bonus Scheme The Company has operated an Additional Executive Bonus Scheme in which were granted to the Chief Executive officer in June 2002 will normally be capable of exercise three years from the date of grant.
beneciaries who participate have the right to receive the growth in value on a number of notional shares.
No awards have been made under this scheme since 1999 when In accordance with an agreement with the Inland Revenue, the Group can, with the awards were made to Tony Ball on his commencement of employment as CEO.
The vesting of these awards was subject to one of the following targets: consent of the employee, pass on to the employee the cost of employers National Insurance Contributions on the exercise of share options granted to UK employees a Performance Target: Earnings per share EPS growth over three years greater than the percentage increase in RPI over the period: or the under the Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme.
In order to compensate employees for this extra cost, additional options have been granted under the b Alternative Performance Target: Increase in operating income over three years greater than the percentage increase in RPI plus 5% over the period.
Under this Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme to ensure that the employees, as far as possible, are no worse off than if the National Insurance cost was not passed to them.
target the costs of digital investment may be added back to the operating income gure.
Millennium award These rights were deemed to vest on 12 August 2002, following the achievement of the In addition to the awards set out above, in December 2000 the Company made an Alternative Performance Target.
These awards must be exercised by 12 August 2006. award over 500 shares to all employees who had not been granted options or awards under the LTIP or the Executive Schemes in that year.
These awards were made under On exercise, the Group will pay a cash sum equal to accrued gains on the notional the Approved Executive Share Option Scheme and become exercisable three years shares, subject to deduction of any tax.
Accrued gains will be calculated by reference from the date of grant.
There are no performance conditions attached to this award.
to the difference between the middle market price of the shares at the date of exercise and the price at which the notional shares were granted.
Alternatively, the Company Sharesave Scheme may elect to transfer to the holders shares of equal value to the accrued gains, in The Sharesave Scheme is open to all employees, including Executive Directors.
Options satisfaction of the Groups obligation to pay any accrued gains.
are normally exercisable after either three, five or seven years from the date of grant.
The price at which options are offered is not less than 80% of the middle-market price 10.
Share Option Schemes on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of invitation.
It is the policy of the The Company operates the Executive Schemes and a Sharesave Scheme.
Group to make an invitation for the employees to participate in the scheme following the announcement of the end of year results.
Executive Schemes With the exception of ad hoc awards made to certain individuals on hiring, grants under 11.
Service contracts the Executive Schemes have been made, and continue to be made, on an annual basis.
Tony Ball has an employment contract with the Company which was deemed to Executive Directors who participate in the LTIP and EBP do not participate in the commence on 2 June 1999 and which expires on 31 May 2004.
The contract can be Executive Schemes annual options award.
No options were granted to any of the terminated by the Company subject to the payment of two years salary, bonus and Executive Directors under the Executive Schemes during the year.
benets or, if the contract is not extended at expiry, of one years salary, bonus and benets.
The Committee is aware that this notice period is not consistent with the provisions of the The Company follows a policy of granting options to eligible employees linked to salary.
Combined Code and, for this reason, the Committee considered very carefully what was This is then subject to approval by the department heads who may recommend that the in the Companys interest.
Taking into account the very competitive nature of the media individual receives an additional allocation for exceptional performance.
There is no limit industry for top executives and the need for the Group to have access to the most able on the number of share options that may be granted to an individual other than for the management, the Committee concluded that this contract was in the interests of the purposes of granting Inland Revenue approved options, however, any proposal to shareholders.
Tony Balls remuneration consists of a base salary of 762,134, plus an make a one-off grant of share options over four times salary would require the prior annual cost of living provision and an annual bonus based on performance criteria to be approval of the Remuneration Committee irrespective of the employees level of salary.
agreed by the Committee but to be no less than 500,000 annually.
Tony Ball is also No such grant has been made to date.
entitled to other benets, namely pension benets, company car, life assurance equal to four times base salary and medical insurance.
He also participates in the LTIP, EBP, The performance conditions for option awards granted before August 2002 were based Additional Executive Bonus Scheme and Executive Schemes.
on key strategic measures for the Group, including subscriber growth measures, profit before tax and EPS targets.
Martin Stewart has an employment contract with the Company which was deemed to commence on 1 December 1998 and shall continue unless, or until, terminated by For awards made during the year ended 30 June 2003, the performance target was either party giving to the other not less than 12 months notice in writing.
The use of EPS as a performance measure for the awards aligns the Stewarts remuneration consists of a base salary of 400,000 per annum and an annual interests of employees with shareholders.
Growth in EPS will have to exceed RPI plus discretionary bonus to be agreed by the Committee.
He is also entitled to other 3% per annum in order for awards to vest.
Given that EPS was negative at the date of benets, namely pension benets, company car, life assurance equal to four times base grant, growth is to be measured from the actual EPS achieved for the year to salary and medical insurance.
He also participates in the LTIP and EBP.
Non-Executive Directors Measurements of the extent to which performance targets have been met are The basic fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board of Directors and reviewed by the Committee at the date of vesting of each award, taking are currently 36,750 each per annum.
It is intended that in future these will be increased account of independent advice as necessary.
on an annual basis by 5% or RPI, whichever is the greater, unless the Board determines otherwise.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid an additional 5,000 per annum each, for In August 1999, options over 600,000 shares were granted to Tony Ball.
These became membership of each of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the exercisable during the year.
The vesting of these options was subject to the following Nomination Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the performance targets: Remuneration Committee each receive an additional 5,000 per annum.
Each Independent a Performance Target: EPS growth over three years greater than the percentage Non-Executive Director is engaged by the Company for an initial term of three years, at increase in RPI over the period: or the which time the individual and the Board will both review whether or not the Independent b Alternative Performance Target: Increase in operating income over three years Non-Executive Director should continue in that position.
Prior to the November 2002 AGM, greater than the percentage increase in RPI plus 5% over the period.
Under this target only Independent Directors received fees.
the costs of digital investment may be added back to the operating income gure.
These rights were deemed to vest on 12 August 2002, following the satisfaction of the Alternative Performance Target.
The share price on this date was below the exercise price of 5.83.
In June 2002 options over 600,000 shares were granted to Tony Ball at an exercise price of 7.35 as part of the arrangements agreed on the renewal of his service contract.
The performance target attaching to these options is based on the achievement of commercial measures relating to DTH subscriber number targets.
This aligns the performance measure for this award with current business strategy.
Following approval by shareholders at the 2000 AGM, options granted after November 2000 may be exercised over a phased period of years, provided that, in normal circumstances, no part of an option will be capable of exercise earlier than one year from the date of grant.
Awards made during the year ended 30 June 2003 become capable of vesting over a period of four years, with one third of the award capable of vesting annually in each of years two, three and four, subject to the achievement of the performance target.
28 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Report on Directors Remuneration continued 13.
Directors emoluments audited The emoluments of the Directors for the year are shown below: Total Total Total emoluments Total emoluments emoluments including emoluments including Salary Bonus before pensions before pensions and fees scheme Benets pensions Pensions 2003 pensions Pensions 2002 Executive Tony Ball 762,134 1,500,000 41,436 2,303,570 156,167 2,459,737 2,020,723 28,620 2,049,343 Martin Stewart 400,000 500,000 24,750 924,750 31,686 956,436 687,169 26,348 713,517 Non-Executive Rupert Murdoch 17,741 17,741 17,741 Philip Bowman 46,750 46,750 46,750 45,000 45,000 Chase Carey i 13,946 13,946 13,946 David DeVoe 17,741 17,741 17,741 David Evans 39,994 39,994 39,994 27,057 27,057 Allan Leighton 41,750 41,750 41,750 39,698 39,698 James Murdoch ii 13,946 13,946 13,946 Jacques Nasser iii 26,923 26,923 26,923 Gail Rebuck iv 25,596 25,596 25,596 Arthur Siskind 15,843 15,843 15,843 Lord St. John of Fawsley 40,673 40,673 40,673 35,000 35,000 John Thornton 53,744 53,744 53,744 49,522 49,522 Lord Wilson of Dinton v 13,946 13,946 13,946 Les Hinton vi Martin Pompadur vii Total emoluments 1,530,727 2,000,000 66,186 3,596,913 187,853 3,784,766 2,904,169 54,968 2,959,137 i Chase Carey was appointed a Director of the Company on 13 February 2003. ii James Murdoch was appointed a Director of the Company on 13 February 2003. iii Jacques Nasser was appointed a Director of the Company on 8 November 2002. iv Gail Rebuck was appointed a Director of the Company on 8 November 2002. v Lord Wilson of Dinton was appointed a Director of the Company on 13 February 2003. vi Les Hinton resigned as a Director of the Company on 13 February 2003. vii Martin Pompadur resigned as a Director of the Company on 13 February 2003.
Executive bonuses audited The amounts received by the Directors under bonus schemes for the year are shown below: Additional Senior executive management bonus bonus scheme i scheme ii Total Executive Tony Ball 1,500,000 1,500,000 Martin Stewart 500,000 500,000 i Additional Executive Bonus Scheme Tony Ball has rights over 600,000 notional shares which became exercisable during the year.
The notional shares have an exercise price of 5.35 but the gain on exercise is limited to a maximum of 48 pence per notional share.
These rights have not been exercised.
The performance measures in relation to this award are set out in Section 9.
During the year ended 30 June 2003 no shares notional or actual have been awarded or exercised under this scheme.
ii Senior Management Bonus Scheme The amounts shown above are those which have been approved by the Committee for the year ended 30 June 2003.
Pension audited The amounts received by the Directors under pension arrangements are detailed below.
Tony Ball received a one-off payment of 113,883 see section 5 and a further payment of 10,421 in relation to the shortfall in his pension arrangements.
Employer contributions of 31,863 were paid into the BSkyB Pension Plan.
Martin Stewart received a further payment of 4,213 see section 5 in relation to the shortfall in his pension arrangements.
Employer contributions of 27,473 were paid into the BSkyB Pension Plan.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 29 Report on Directors Remuneration continued 16.
Notes: i These awards vested during the year.
The performance conditions in relation to these awards are set out in Section 7. ii These awards will vest subject to meeting performance conditions on 30 June 2004.
The vesting date for this award was amended during the year from an original vesting date of 31 July 2004, in order to align the vesting date with the Companys financial year.
iii In August 2002 awards were granted over performance periods ending in July 2004 and July 2005.
The performance conditions in relation to these awards are set out in Section 7.
Equity Bonus Plan audited Number of shares under award At Granted Exercised At Market price Date 30 June during the during the 30 June Exercise at date from which Expiry 2002 Year Year 2003 price i of exercise exercisable date Name of Directors Tony Ball 52,000 52,000 n a n a 31.07.04 31.07.12 52,000 52,000 n a n a 31.07.05 31.07.12 Martin Stewart 26,000 26,000 n a n a 31.07.04 31.07.12 26,000 26,000 n a n a 31.07.05 31.07.12 Note: i Awards under the Equity Bonus Plan EBP take the form of a contingent right to acquire existing BSkyB shares at the vesting date, for nil consideration.
The performance conditions applicable to the awards under the EBP were measured at 30 June 2003.
The plan will deliver the shares in equal measures at 31 July 2004 and 31 July 2005.
Executive share options audited Details of all outstanding options held under the Executive Schemes and Sharesave Scheme are shown below: Number of options At Granted Exercised At Market price Date 30 June during the during the 30 June Exercise at date from which Expiry 2002 Year Year 2003 price of exercise exercisable date Name of Directors Tony Ball 5,145 i 5,145 5.83 n a 12.08.02 12.08.09 594,855 i 594,855 5.83 n a 12.08.02 12.08.06 600,000 ii 600,000 7.35 n a 05.06.05 05.06.12 Martin Stewart 2,096 iii 2,096 4.62 6.62 Notes: i The options granted to Tony Ball on 12 August 1999 became exercisable during the year.
The performance conditions for these options are set out in Section 10. ii The performance conditions for these awards are as set out in section 10. iii Options granted under the Companys Sharesave Scheme.
These options were exercised on 22 May 2003 following their maturity, however the shares are still held by Martin Stewart.
The gain on exercise of the Sharesave options was 4,192.
Options under the Companys Sharesave scheme are not subject to performance conditions.
During the year ended 30 June 2003 the share price traded within the range of 4.58 to 7.06 per share.
The middle-market closing price on the last working day of the financial year was 6.72.
30 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Report on Directors Remuneration continued 19.
Share interests The interests of the Directors in the Ordinary Share capital of the Company during the Approximately 30% of the Ordinary Shares of News Corporation Limited News Corp are owned by either i Mr. Murdoch ii Cruden Investments Pty.
Limited, a private year were: Australian investment company owned by Mr. Murdoch, members of his family, including James Murdoch, his son and a director of the Company and various corporations and trusts, the beneciaries of which include Mr. Murdoch, members of his family and certain At 30 June 2003 At 30 June 2002 charities, or iii corporations, which are controlled by trustees of settlements and trusts set up for the benefit of the Murdoch family, certain charities and other persons.
Lord St John of Fawsley 2,000 2,000 Lord Wilson of Dinton 486 Holdco, a significant shareholder in the Group, is a subsidiary of News Corp. Martin Stewart 2,096 News Corporation Group has significant transactions with the Group as set out in of the Except as disclosed in this report, no other Director held any interest in the share financial statements.
capital, including options, of the Company, or of any subsidiary of the Company, during the year.
All interests at the date shown are beneficial and there have been no changes Signed on behalf of the Board between 1 July 2003 and 11 August 2003.
The ESOP is interested in 5,457,012 Ordinary Shares in which the Directors who are David Gormley Company Secretary employees are deemed to be interested by virtue of Section 324 of the Companies Act 11 August 2003 1985 see note 15 of the financial statements.
Directors Responsibilities United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: and the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and that period.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking financial statements.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of British Sky Broadcasting the Report on Directors Remuneration and consider the implications for our report if we Group plc become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the We have audited the financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc for the financial statements.
year ended 30 June 2003 which comprise the profit and Loss Account, the Balance Sheets, the Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Basis of audit opinion and the related notes 1 to 31.
These financial statements have been prepared under the We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of the Report on Directors Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration described as having been audited.
It also This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations we have formed.
which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Report on Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Directors Remuneration described as having been audited are free from material As described in the statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Companys Directors are misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration described as preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the Report having been audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration described as having been audited in Opinion accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion: auditing standards.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 30 June 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair and view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors the financial statements and part of the Report on Directors Remuneration described Remuneration described as having been audited have been properly prepared in as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Companies Act 1985.
Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Deloitte & Touche LLP explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the London Group is not disclosed.
11 August 2003 We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by Notes the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are i The maintenance and integrity of the British Sky Broadcasting Group plc website is the not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
ii Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the annual report statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 31 Consolidated profit and Loss Account for the year ended 30 June 2003 Before Before goodwill and Goodwill and goodwill and Goodwill and exceptional exceptional 2003 exceptional exceptional 2002 items items Total items items Total NOTES m m m m m m Turnover: Group turnover and share of joint ventures turnover 3,262.5 3,262.5 2,915.3 2,915.3 Less: share of joint ventures turnover 76.5 76.5 139.2 139.2 Group turnover 2 3,186.0 3,186.0 2,776.1 2,776.1 Operating expenses, net 3 2,815.3 116.7 2,932.0 2,584.6 136.5 2,721.1 EBITDA 1 468.6 4.8 473.4 272.7 18.2 254.5 Depreciation 97.9 97.9 81.1 81.1 Amortisation 121.5 121.5 0.1 118.3 118.4 Operating profit loss 370.7 116.7 254.0 191.5 136.5 55.0 Share of operating results of joint ventures 5 3.4 3.4 76.7 76.7 Joint ventures goodwill amortisation, net 14 1,069.9 1,069.9 profit on sale of xed asset investments 4 2.3 2.3 Amounts written off xed asset investments, net 4 15.1 15.1 60.0 60.0 Release of provision for loss on disposal of subsidiary 4 10.0 10.0 profit loss on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 374.1 131.8 242.3 114.8 1,254.1 1,139.3 Interest receivable and similar income 6 3.7 3.7 11.1 11.1 Interest payable and similar charges 6 118.2 118.2 148.0 148.0 profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation 7 259.6 131.8 127.8 22.1 1,254.1 1,276.2 Tax on profit loss on ordinary activities 9 58.7 121.2 62.5 28.6 77.8 106.4 profit loss on ordinary activities after taxation 200.9 10.6 190.3 50.7 1,331.9 1,382.6 Equity dividends paid and proposed 10 Retained profit loss for the financial year 24 190.3 1,382.6 Basic earnings loss per share 11 10.5p 0.6p 9.9p 2.7p 70.6p 73.3p Diluted earnings loss per share 11 10.3p 0.5p 9.8p 2.7p 70.6p 73.3p Details of movements on reserves are shown in note 24.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated profit and loss account.
All results relate to continuing operations.
Included within last years joint ventures goodwill amortisation of 1,069.9 million is 971.4 million in respect of an impairment of KirchPayTV GmbH & Co KGaA KirchPayTV goodwill see notes 4 and 14 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses for the year ended 30 June 2003 2003 2002 NOTES m m profit loss for the financial year 24 190.3 1,382.6 Translation differences on foreign currency net investment 24 1.4 Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year 190.3 1,381.2 Included within the profit loss for the year is a 1.5 million profit 2002: 80.9 million loss in respect of the Groups share of the results of joint ventures.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses.
32 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Consolidated Balance Sheet at 30 June 2003 2003 2002 NOTES m m Fixed assets Intangible assets 12 535.9 657.4 Tangible assets 13 346.2 343.0 Investments: Investments in joint ventures: Share of gross assets 86.8 88.7 : Share of gross liabilities 59.0 68.5 : Transfer to creditors 2.6 1.6 Total investments in joint ventures 14 30.4 21.8 Other xed asset investments 15 78.5 107.1 Total investments 108.9 128.9 991.0 1,129.3 Current assets Stocks 16 370.4 414.2 Debtors: Amounts falling due within one year deferred tax assets 18 30.8 13.9 other 363.3 387.0 17 394.1 400.9 Debtors: Amounts falling due after more than one year deferred tax assets 18 159.0 24.9 other 63.9 182.1 17 222.9 207.0 Cash at bank and in hand 46.4 50.3 1,033.8 1,072.4 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year short-term borrowings 19 0.2 1.5 other creditors 19 955.0 903.9 955.2 905.4 Net current assets 78.6 167.0 Total assets less current liabilities 1,069.6 1,296.3 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year long-term borrowings 20 1,151.6 1,576.9 other creditors 20 20.5 16.0 1,172.1 1,592.9 Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 3.2 4.1 105.7 300.7 Capital and reserves equity Called-up share capital 23 968.9 946.7 Share premium 24 2,535.5 2,409.8 Shares to be issued 24 2.7 255.8 Merger reserve 24 299.0 266.7 profit and loss account 24 3,911.8 4,179.7 24 105.7 300.7 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated balance sheet.
Signed on behalf of the Board Tony Ball Chief Executive officer Martin Stewart Chief Financial officer 11 August 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 33 Company Balance Sheet at 30 June 2003 2003 2002 NOTES m m Fixed assets Tangible assets 13 1.7 1.9 Investments 15 4,905.1 5,033.4 4,906.8 5,035.3 Current assets Debtors: Amounts falling due within one year deferred tax assets 18 14.8 other 529.2 956.0 17 544.0 956.0 Debtors: Amounts falling due after more than one year deferred tax assets 18 107.8 other 4.2 60.3 17 112.0 60.3 Cash at bank and in hand 0.1 656.0 1,016.4 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 19 452.2 466.5 Net current assets 203.8 549.9 Total assets less current liabilities 5,110.6 5,585.2 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 20 1,880.0 2,305.0 3,230.6 3,280.2 Capital and reserves equity Called-up share capital 23 968.9 946.7 Share premium 24 2,535.5 2,409.8 Shares to be issued 24 2.7 255.8 Capital reserve 24 843.9 843.9 profit and loss account 24 1,120.4 1,176.0 24 3,230.6 3,280.2 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
Signed on behalf of the Board Tony Ball Chief Executive officer Martin Stewart Chief Financial officer 11 August 2003 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June 2003 2003 2002 NOTES m m Net cash inow from operating activities 28a 663.6 249.7 Dividends received from joint ventures 4.0 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Interest received and similar income 3.2 8.8 Interest paid and similar charges on external nancing 127.3 141.0 Interest element of finance lease payments 0.5 0.6 Net cash outow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 124.6 132.8 Taxation UK corporation tax paid 17.6 Consortium relief paid received 0.3 22.5 Net cash outow inow from taxation 17.9 22.5 Capital expenditure and financial investment Payments to acquire tangible xed assets 98.4 100.8 Receipts from sales of tangible xed assets 0.6 Receipts from sales of xed asset investments 0.8 0.4 Receipts from sales of intangible xed assets 0.6 Purchase of own shares for Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP 26.9 Net cash outow from capital expenditure and financial investment 97.0 126.7 Acquisitions and disposals Funding to joint ventures 14.6 11.6 Repayments of funding from joint ventures 4.5 4.8 Net cash outow from acquisitions and disposals 10.1 6.8 Net cash inow before management of liquid resources and nancing 418.0 5.9 Management of liquid resources Decrease in short-term deposits 28c 0.5 69.5 Financing Proceeds from issue of Ordinary Shares 4.8 14.3 Payments made on the issue of Ordinary Shares 0.1 1.8 Capital element of finance lease payments 28b 1.6 1.7 Net decrease in total debt 28b 425.0 190.0 Net cash outow from nancing 421.9 179.2 Decrease in cash 28c 3.4 103.8 Decrease in net debt 28c 422.7 18.4 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated cash ow statement.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 35 Notes to Financial Statements g Tangible xed assets 01 Accounting policies Tangible xed assets are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Land and assets in the course of construction are not The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
All of these have been applied depreciated.
consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each a Basis of accounting asset on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.
Principal annual rates used The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, for this purpose are: modied to include the revaluation of certain investments, and in accordance with applicable financial reporting and accounting standards.
Freehold buildings 4% Leasehold improvements Lower of lease period or life of the asset b Basis of consolidation Equipment, xtures and ttings: The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company Fixtures and ttings 10% 20% and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
All companies are consolidated using acquisition 1 Computer equipment 20% 33 3% accounting and all inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated on Technical equipment 10% 20% consolidation.
Motor vehicles 25% The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week scal year ending on the Sunday nearest to 30 June in each year.
In scal year 2003 this date was 29 June 2003, this being a h Impairment of xed assets and goodwill 52 week year 2002: 30 June 2002, 52 week year.
Intangible xed assets, goodwill and tangible xed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 230 of the Companies Goodwill and intangible xed assets are also reviewed for impairment at the end of the Act 1985 not to present its own profit and loss account.
The Companys result for the first full financial year after acquisition.
Should an impairment review be required, this is financial year determined in accordance with the Act is disclosed in note 24. performed in accordance with FRS 11 Impairment of xed assets and goodwill.
c Acquisitions i Stocks On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the Groups share of Television programme rights separable net assets acquired.
Adjustments are also made to bring the accounting Programme rights are stated at cost including, where applicable, estimated escalation policies into line with those of the Group.
Where statutory merger relief is applicable, the payments less accumulated amortisation.
Provisions are made for any programme difference between the fair value of the shares issued as purchase consideration and rights which are surplus to Group requirements or which will not be shown for any the nominal value of the shares issued as purchase consideration is treated as a merger other reason.
reserve in the consolidated accounts.
The results and cash ows relating to an acquired business are included in the consolidated profit and loss account and the consolidated Contractual obligations for programme rights not yet available for transmission are not cash ow statement from the date of acquisition.
included in the cost of programme rights, but are disclosed as contractual commitments see note 25.
Payments made upon receipt of commissioned and On disposal or closure of a previously acquired business, any goodwill previously written acquired programming, but in advance of the legal right to broadcast the programmes, off to reserves will be included in calculating the profit or loss on disposal.
d Goodwill and other intangible assets Acquired and commissioned programme rights are recorded in stock at cost when the Where the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to the net assets programmes are available for transmission.
acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill and capitalised on the Group Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of acquired and commissioned programme balance sheet in the year of acquisition.
Purchased goodwill arising on acquisitions rights as follows: from 1 July 1998 is capitalised.
Prior to 1 July 1998, goodwill arising on acquisitions was eliminated against reserves.
As permitted by FRS 10, this goodwill has not been restated Sports 100% on first showing, or where contracts provide for sports rights for multiple on the balance sheet.
seasons or competitions, the amortisation of each contract is based on anticipated revenue.
Other intangible assets, all of which have been acquired, which are controlled through Current affairs 100% on first showing.
custody or legal rights and could be sold separately from the rest of the business, are General entertainment straight-line basis on each transmission at the following rates: capitalised where fair value can be reliably measured.
One showing planned 100% Where capitalised goodwill and intangible assets are regarded as having a limited useful Two showings planned 60%: 40% economic life, the cost is amortised on a straight-line basis over that life of up to 20 Three showings planned 50%: 30%: 20% years.
Impairment reviews are carried out to ensure that goodwill and intangible assets Four showings planned 40%: 30%: 20%: 10% are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
Any amortisation or impairment Movies Acquired movies are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of write-downs are charged to the profit and loss account.
Where acquired movie rights provide for a second availability window, 10% of the cost is allocated to that window.
Own movie productions are e Interests in joint ventures amortised in line with anticipated revenue over a maximum of five years.
Joint ventures are entities in which the Group holds a long-term interest and shares control under a contractual arrangement.
These investments are dealt with by the gross Set-top boxes and related equipment equity method of accounting.
Provision is made within creditors where the Groups Set-top boxes and related equipment include digital set-top boxes, Low Noise share of a joint ventures loss exceeds the Groups funding to date.
These stocks are valued at the lower of cost and Net Realisable Value NRV which reects the value to the business of the set-top f Fixed asset investments box and the related equipment in the hands of the customer.
Any subsidy is expensed In the Companys financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are on enablement, which is the process of activating the viewing card once inserted in the stated at cost, with the exception of the investment in Sky Television Limited Sky set-top box upon installation, so as to enable a viewer to view encrypted broadcast which is stated at valuation.
Provision is made for any impairment.
services, and effectively represents the completion of the installation process for new subscribers.
In the Companys balance sheet, where statutory merger relief is applicable, the cost is measured by reference to the nominal value only of the shares issued.
Any premium Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale is not recognised.
Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale are valued at the lower of cost The Companys shares held by the ESOP are included in the consolidated balance and NRV.
sheet as xed asset investments until such time as the interest in the shares is transferred unconditionally to the employees.
Provision is made for any permanent j Transponder rentals diminution in the value of shares held by the ESOP.
Payments made in advance to secure satellite capacity have been recorded as prepaid transponder rentals.
These payments are amortised on a straight-line basis to the profit A charge is made in the profit and loss account in relation to the shares held by the and loss account from commencement of broadcasting to the end of the rental period, ESOP for awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the Key Contributor Plan normally 10 years.
KCP and the Equity Bonus Plan EBP based on an assessment of the probability of the performance criteria under the LTIP, KCP and EBP being met.
The charge is k Taxation allocated on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods of the LTIP, KCP and EBP.
Corporation tax payable is provided at current rates on all taxable profits.
The Groups other xed asset investments are stated at cost, less any provision for permanent diminution in value.
36 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Notes to Financial Statements continued p Pension costs 01 Accounting policies continued The Group provides pensions to eligible employees through the BSkyB Pension Plan which is a dened contribution scheme.
The amount charged to the profit and loss l Deferred taxation account in the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group to the Deferred tax is recognised in respect of timing differences that have originated but not scheme in that year.
The assets of the BSkyB Pension Plan are held independently of reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an the Group.
obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
q Leases A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only Assets held under finance leases are treated as tangible xed assets.
Depreciation is when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not provided over the shorter of the lease term and the assets useful economic life, and the that there will be suitable taxable profits against which carried forward tax losses deemed capital element of future rentals is included within creditors.
Deemed interest can be offset and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can is charged as interest payable over the period of the lease.
The rental costs arising from operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the in the year in which they are incurred.
periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
r EBITDA Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
EBITDA earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation is calculated as operating profit before depreciation and amortisation or impairment of goodwill and m Foreign currency intangible xed assets.
Trading activities denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in sterling at actual exchange rates as of the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered by a forward foreign exchange contract or other hedging instrument.
Monetary assets, liabilities and commitments denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end or, if hedged, at the appropriate hedged rate.
The results of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures are translated at the average rates of exchange during the period and the balance sheet is translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and results of the overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures and on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in these operations, are dealt with through reserves.
n Derivatives and other financial instruments The Group uses a limited number of derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposures to uctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
Instruments accounted for as hedges are structured so as to reduce the market risk associated with the underlying transaction being hedged and are designated as a hedge at the inception of the contract.
Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments are recognised on an accruals basis, over the life of the instrument.
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the hedged position is recognised.
Cash ows associated with derivative financial instruments are classied in the cash ow statement in a manner consistent with those of the underlying transactions being hedged.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example, by the underlying hedged position being eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the profit and loss account.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
o Turnover Turnover, which excludes value added tax and sales between Group companies, represents the value of products and services sold.
The Groups main sources of turnover are recognised as follows: Revenues from the provision of direct-to-home DTH subscription services are recognised as the services are provided.
Pay-per-view revenue is recognised when the event, movie or football match is viewed.
Cable revenue is recognised as the services are provided to the cable wholesalers and is based on the number of subscribers taking the Sky channels as reported to the Group by the cable companies and the applicable rate card.
Advertising sales revenues are recognised when the advertising is broadcast.
Interactive turnover includes income from betting and gaming, on-line advertising, internet, e-commerce, interconnect, text services and set-top box subsidy recovery revenues from conditional access and access control customers on the Sky digital platform.
Betting and gaming revenues represent: a amounts receivable in respect of bets placed on events which occur in the year: and b net customer losses in the year in respect of the on-line casino operations.
All other Interactive revenues are recognised when the goods or services are delivered.
Other revenue principally includes income from installations net of any discount, service call revenue, warranty revenue, marketing contributions from third party channels, conditional access fees and access control fees.
Other revenues are recognised, net of any discount given, when the relevant service has been provided.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 37 Notes to Financial Statements continued 02 Turnover 2003 2002 m m DTH subscribers 2,341.2 1,929.2 Cable and digital terrestrial television DTT subscribers 202.2 279.4 Advertising 283.6 250.7 Interactive 218.3 186.0 Other 140.7 130.8 3,186.0 2,776.1 All Group turnover is derived from the Groups sole class of business, being television broadcasting together with certain ancillary functions, and arises principally within the United Kingdom from activities conducted from the United Kingdom, with the exception of 0.4 million of turnover 2002: 23.0 million which relates to activities conducted from the Channel Islands.
In order to provide shareholders with additional information, the Groups turnover has been analysed as shown above.
All turnover arises from services provided to the United Kingdom, with the exception of 92.9 million 2002: 62.4 million which arises from services provided to Ireland and 9.0 million 2002: 7.7 million which arises from services provided to the Channel Islands.
The Groups profit before tax and its net liabilities relate to activities conducted in the United Kingdom, with the exception of 0.8 million loss 2002: 0.3 million loss and 0.9 million of net assets 2002: 0.3 million net assets which relate to activities conducted in the Channel Islands.
The Groups loss before tax and its net liabilities in the prior year also included a 1,143.5 million loss and nil assets which related to activities conducted in Germany.
03 Operating expenses, net Before Before goodwill and Goodwill and goodwill and Goodwill and exceptional exceptional 2003 exceptional exceptional 2002 items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Programming i 1,603.9 1,603.9 1,439.3 1,439.3 Transmission and related functions i 142.8 142.8 146.6 4.1 142.5 Marketing 400.5 400.5 416.6 416.6 Subscriber management 324.4 324.4 291.1 291.1 Administration 236.1 116.7 352.8 203.2 140.6 343.8 Betting 107.6 107.6 87.8 87.8 2,815.3 116.7 2,932.0 2,584.6 136.5 2,721.1 i The amounts shown are net of 12.0 million 2002: 15.3 million receivable from the disposal of programming rights not acquired for use by the Group, and 25.5 million 2002: 23.7 million in respect of the provision to third party broadcasters of spare transponder capacity.
04 Exceptional items Charge Charge credit Taxation credit Taxation before charge 2003 before charge 2002 taxation credit Total taxation credit Total m m m m m m Release of provision provision against ITV Digital programming debtors i iv 4.8 1.4 3.4 22.3 6.7 15.6 Release of analogue termination provision v 4.1 1.2 2.9 Exceptional operating items 4.8 1.4 3.4 18.2 5.5 12.7 Joint ventures goodwill amortisation, net vi 971.4 971.4 profit on sale of xed asset investment vii 2.3 2.3 Amounts written off xed asset investments, net see note 15 ii viii 15.1 15.1 60.0 60.0 Release of provision for loss on disposal of subsidiary ix 10.0 10.0 Recognition write-down of deferred tax asset iii x 122.6 122.6 83.3 83.3 Total exceptional items 10.3 121.2 110.9 1,037.3 77.8 1,115.1 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Notes to Financial Statements continued 04 Exceptional items continued 2003 Exceptional operating items i ITV Digital The Group provided in full against all unprovided balances owed by ITV Digital, following the announcement made on 30 April 2002 see note iv below.
During the year, the Group received 4.8m from ITV Digitals administrators and released 4.8 million of its exceptional operating provision accordingly.
Other exceptional items ii Amounts written off xed asset investments, net At 31 December 2002, the Group made a further provision against its minority investments in football clubs, leading to a non-cash exceptional charge of 21.0 million.
Subsequently, the Group reduced its provision against its investment in Chelsea Village plc at 30 June 2003 by 3.2 million, following the agreement to sell its minority investment in July 2003.
At 31 December 2002, the Group reduced its deferred revenue balance relating to minority investments in new media companies by 5.1 million, and reduced both its investment and its provision against the investment in these companies accordingly.
At 31 December 2002, the Group made a provision against its investment in Open TV shares, leading to a non-cash exceptional charge of 2.9 million, bringing the carrying value of the Groups investment in Open TV to 0.3 million.
During February and March 2003, the Group disposed of its entire investment in Open TV shares, leading to a loss on disposal of 0.1 million.
iii Recognition of deferred tax asset Following a review of the forecast utilisation of tax losses within the Group, and as a consequence of a planned reorganisation of certain assets within the Group, there is now sufficient evidence to support the recognition of a deferred tax asset arising on losses incurred in the Company.
Accordingly, a deferred tax credit of 122.6 million has been recognised as an exceptional item.
2002 Exceptional operating items iv ITV Digital At 27 March 2002, the date on which the ITV Digital DTT platform was put into administration, the Group had balances owed to it and unprovided for, in respect of programming licensed to ITV Digital, of 22.3 million.
On 30 April 2002, the joint administrators of ITV Digital announced the closure of pay television services on the platform and their intention to close the administration.
Accordingly, the Group made an exceptional operating provision against the whole of this balance see note i above.
v Release of analogue termination provision On 27 September 2001, the Group terminated its analogue operation.
From the original exceptional operating provision of 41.0 million, taken at 30 June 2000, 4.1 million of provision had not been utilised at 30 June 2002, and was therefore released to the profit and loss account as an exceptional credit.
Other exceptional items vi Joint ventures goodwill amortisation, net The exceptional item of 971.4 million of joint ventures goodwill amortisation, net, relates to the impairment charge taken against the carrying value of the Groups interest in KirchPayTV of 984.9 million at 31 December 2001, net of an amount of 13.5 million released from the provision matching the Groups share of losses for the period from 1 January 2002 to 8 February 2002, at which date the Group ceased to gross equity account for KirchPayTVs results see notes 5 and 14. vii profit on sale of xed asset investment On 2 July 2001, the Group disposed of its unlisted investment in Static 2358 Limited, realising a profit on disposal of 2.3 million see note 15. viii Amounts written off xed asset investments At 31 December 2001, the Group made a provision against its minority investments in football clubs, leading to a non-cash exceptional charge of 60.0 million.
ix Release of provision for loss on disposal of subsidiary On 16 October 2001, the Group and Ladbrokes, the betting and gaming division of Hilton Group plc, announced that they had agreed not to pursue the proposed joint venture to offer a xed odds betting service on Sky Sports channels and other media.
As a result, the provision for loss on disposal of subsidiary, taken at 30 June 2001, was written back, resulting in a non-cash exceptional profit of 10.0 million.
The Group continues to operate and develop interactive TV betting services through its wholly-owned bookmaker, Sky Bet formerly known as Surrey Sports.
x Write-down of deferred tax asset Following the impairment charge made in respect of the Groups investment in KirchPayTV at 31 December 2001 see note 14 there was insufficient evidence to support the recognition of a deferred tax asset arising on losses incurred by certain UK companies.
Accordingly, the deferred tax asset of 95.6 million was written off in full at 31 December 2001, although by 30 June 2002, 12.3 million of this amount had been written back due to the utilisation of tax losses.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 39 Notes to Financial Statements continued 05 Share of operating results of joint ventures 2003 2002 m m KirchPayTV operating loss 70.0 Programming joint ventures operating profit loss, net 3.4 6.7 3.4 76.7 This relates to the Groups equity share of the operating results of the Groups joint ventures.
KirchPayTV By 8 February 2002, the Group considered that its relationship with KirchPayTV had irrevocably changed and that the Group had not exercised significant inuence since that date.
Therefore, the Group believed that, from 8 February 2002, it was no longer appropriate to account for its interest in KirchPayTV as a joint venture, and ceased accounting for KirchPayTVs losses using the gross equity method from that date.
As the Group has no intention of providing any future funding to KirchPayTV and the Group, on a consolidated basis, has no financial commitments, outstanding financial liabilities or contingent liabilities in respect of KirchPayTV, an amount of 13.5 million was released from the impairment provision made at 31 December 2001, in order to match the Groups share of KirchPayTVs losses for the period from 1 January 2002 to 8 February 2002.
06 Interest a Interest receivable and similar income 2003 2002 m m Group Interest receivable on short-term deposits 2.6 8.2 Interest receivable on funding to joint ventures 0.1 0.3 Other interest receivable and similar income 0.5 0.6 3.2 9.1 Joint ventures Share of joint ventures interest receivable 0.5 2.0 Total interest receivable and similar income 3.7 11.1 b Interest payable and similar charges 2003 2002 m m Group On bank loans, overdrafts and other loans repayable within five years, not by instalments: 200 million revolving credit facility RCF previously 300 million RCF 2.5 10.8 750 million RCF 27.0 46.3 600 million RCF 3.7 US$650 million of 8.200% Guaranteed Notes, repayable in 2009 31.1 31.6 100 million of 7.750% Guaranteed Notes, repayable in 2009 7.8 7.8 US$600 million of 6.875% Guaranteed Notes, repayable in 2009 30.1 30.1 US$300 million of 7.300% Guaranteed Notes, repayable in 2006 13.8 15.1 Finance lease interest 1.0 1.0 Other interest payable and similar charges 0.9 0.4 117.9 143.1 Joint ventures Share of joint ventures interest payable 0.3 4.9 Total interest payable and similar charges 118.2 148.0 In March 2003, the Group voluntarily cancelled 100 million of its 300 million RCF.
The maturity date of the resultant 200 million RCF is still June 2004.
In addition, in March 2003 the Group entered into a new 600 million RCF.
This facility was used to cancel the 750 million RCF, which was entered into in July 1999, and will be used for general corporate purposes.
The new 600 million RCF has a maturity date of March 2008.
40 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Notes to Financial Statements continued 07 Profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation 2003 2002 m m The profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging crediting : depreciation see note 13 owned assets 96.2 79.5 assets held under finance leases 1.7 1.6 amortisation and impairment of intangible xed assets see note 12 121.5 118.4 joint ventures goodwill amortisation, net see note 14 1,069.9 amounts written off xed asset investments, net see note 15 15.1 60.0 profit on disposals of xed assets and xed asset investments 0.2 2.3 rentals on operating leases and similar arrangements: land and buildings 9.0 8.2 plant and machinery 80.0 76.4 staff costs see note 8 299.1 276.9 Amounts payable to the auditors are analysed below: 2003 2002 m m Statutory audit services 0.8 0.7 Audit related fees 0.6 0.8 Audit and audit related services 1.4 1.5 Tax advisory services 0.6 0.4 Customer relationship management centre development 5.1 4.8 Website development 0.5 Other services 0.7 1.0 Non-audit related services 5.8 6.3 During the year, the auditors received 5.1 million 2002: 4.8 million in respect of on-going contact centre development services.
Due to the complex and long-term nature of the infrastructure development work, the Group is satisfied that Deloitte & Touche should continue to provide these services.
In addition to the amounts above, the Group understands that, during the previous year, its auditors indirectly received 4.0 million from the Group, through the performance of sub-contracted services for one of the Groups customer relationship management centre consultants.
The Group understands that no such payments were made during 2003.
The Company did not pay any amounts to the auditors in respect of audit services during either year, as the cost was borne by another Group undertaking in both years.
08 Staff costs a Employee costs Employee costs for permanent and temporary employees, and Executive Directors during the year amounted to: 2003 2002 m m Wages and salaries 234.3 227.1 Costs of LTIP, KCP, EBP and other share-related bonus schemes 27.4 17.2 Social security costs 25.9 22.0 Other pension costs 11.5 10.6 299.1 276.9 The Group operates a dened contribution pension scheme through the BSkyB Pension Plan.
The pension charge for the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group to the Plan during the year and amounted to 11.5 million 2002: 10.6 million.
The Groups contributions owing to the Plan at 30 June 2003 were 0.8 million 30 June 2002: 0.7 million.
The average monthly number of full time equivalent people including temporary employees employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2003 2002 Number Number Programming 1,106 1,131 Transmission and related functions 1,383 1,274 Marketing 199 193 Subscriber management 5,381 5,432 Administration 954 965 Betting 109 88 9,132 9,083 b Directors emoluments A detailed breakdown of remuneration by Director, the terms of their employment contracts and their rights under the Groups incentive schemes are given within the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 26 to 31, of which sections 13 to 18 are audited.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 41 Notes to Financial Statements continued 09 Taxation a Analysis of charge credit in year Tax charge credit on Tax charge on profit before Exceptional profit before exceptional tax charge 2003 exceptional Exceptional 2002 items credit Total items tax charge ii Total m m m m m m Current tax 85.0 1.4 86.4 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of timing differences 26.6 122.6 149.2 27.3 77.8 105.1 Increase in estimate of recoverable deferred tax asset in respect of prior years 1.8 1.8 --- Total deferred tax i 28.4 122.6 151.0 27.3 77.8 105.1 Share of joint ventures tax charge 2.1 2.1 1.3 - 1.3 58.7 121.2 62.5 28.6 77.8 106.4 i During the year the Group recorded a deferred tax credit of 163.3 million relating to deferred tax assets not previously recognised.
The Directors consider that there is now sufficient evidence to support the recognition of these deferred tax assets on the basis that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which these assets can be utilised.
122.6 million of the deferred tax credit has been treated as an exceptional item.
ii An exceptional deferred tax charge of 95.6 million was made at 31 December 2001, against which 12.3 million was written back at 30 June 2002 as a result of the utilisation of tax losses.
This was offset by a 5.5 million tax credit on a provision against ITV Digitals programming debtor and the release of the analogue termination provision, treated as exceptional operating items.
b Factors affecting the current tax charge for the year The current tax charge for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 30%.
The differences are explained below: 2003 2002 m m profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 127.8 1,276.2 Less: Share of joint ventures profit loss before tax 3.6 79.6 Group profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 124.2 1,196.6 Group profit loss on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 2002: 30% 37.3 359.0 Effects of: Write-down of KirchPayTV not deductible for tax purposes 291.4 Other expenses not deductible for tax purposes primarily goodwill amortisation 42.5 77.8 Other timing differences 11.8 19.2 Utilisation of tax losses 7.3 30.6 Consortium relief 2.1 1.2 Current tax charge for the year 86.4 c Factors that may affect future tax charges At 30 June 2003, a deferred tax asset of 12.5 million 2002: 149.6 million arising from UK losses in the Group, has not been recognised.
These losses can be offset only against taxable profits generated in the entities concerned.
Although the Directors ultimately expect sufficient profits to arise, there is currently insufficient evidence to support recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to these losses.
The losses are available to be carried forward indefinitely under current law.
Deferred tax assets of 63.7 million 2002: 63.7 million have not been recognised in respect of trading losses in the Groups German holding companies of KirchPayTV, and 450.0 million 2002: 450.0 million have not been recognised in respect of potential capital losses related to the Groups holding of KirchPayTV.
A deferred tax asset of 4.6 million 2002: 18.0 million arising principally on other timing differences has not been recognised on the basis that these timing differences are not more likely than not to reverse.
10 Dividends The Directors do not propose an interim or final dividend for the financial year 2002: nil.
At 30 June 2003, the Company has a deficit on the profit and loss account reserve of 1,120.4 million see note 24.
The Company is currently not in a position to pay a dividend.
The ESOP has waived its rights to dividends.
42 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Notes to Financial Statements continued 11 Earnings loss per share Basic earnings loss per share represents the profit loss on ordinary activities after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year, less the weighted average number of shares held in the Groups ESOP trust during the year.
Diluted earnings loss per share represents the profit loss on ordinary activities after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year, less the weighted average number of shares held in the Groups ESOP trust during the year plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting from share options and other potential shares outstanding during the year see below.
The weighted average number of shares in the year was: 2003 2002 Millions of shares Millions of shares Ordinary Shares 1,921.2 1,891.2 ESOP trust shares 6.2 3.8 Basic shares 1,915.0 1,887.4 Dilutive Ordinary Shares from share options and other potential Ordinary Shares outstanding 27.2 Diluted shares 1,942.2 1,887.4 As the Group made a loss on ordinary activities after taxation in 2002, no share options or other potential Ordinary Shares outstanding were considered to be dilutive.
2003 2002 Before After Before After goodwill and goodwill and goodwill and goodwill and exceptional Exceptional exceptional exceptional Exceptional exceptional items Goodwill items items items Goodwill items items profit loss on ordinary activities after taxation 200.9m 121.5m 110.9m 190.3m 50.7m 216.8m 1,115.1m 1,382.6m Basic earnings loss per share 10.5p 6.4p 5.8p 9.9p 2.7p 11.5p 59.1p 73.3p Diluted earnings loss per share 10.3p 6.2p 5.7p 9.8p 2.7p 11.5p 59.1p 73.3p Earnings loss per share is shown calculated by reference to losses both before and after goodwill and exceptional items and related tax, since the Directors consider that this gives a useful additional indication of underlying performance.
12 Intangible fixed assets The movement in the year was as follows: Other intangible Goodwill i, ii xed assets Total m m m Group Cost Beginning and end of year 819.7 0.4 820.1 Amortisation Beginning of year 162.5 0.2 162.7 Charge 116.3 116.3 Impairment losses ii 5.2 5.2 End of year 284.0 0.2 284.2 Net book value Beginning of year 657.2 0.2 657.4 End of year 535.7 0.2 535.9 Goodwill i Goodwill of 272.4 million, 542.1 million and 5.2 million, arising on the acquisitions of SIG, BiB and WAPTV respectively, is being amortised over periods of seven years on a straight-line basis.
In accordance with FRS 11, impairment reviews were performed on the carrying values of BiB and SIG goodwill balances at the end of the first full financial year after acquisition, at 30 June 2002.
These reviews showed that no impairment was identied in either case.
Consistent with the Group strategy, the business plans on which these reviews were based reected significant projected increases in betting and other interactive revenues over the subsequent five years.
Since the time of these reviews the performance of these operations has been broadly in line with the forecasts in the business plans used for these reviews, and no indications of impairment have arisen.
ii At 31 December 2002, the Group made a provision of 5.2 million, included within amortisation, against goodwill which arose on the acquisition of Opta Index Limited Opta a subsidiary of SIG, which provides statistics on the sports industry, reducing the carrying value of the goodwill to nil.
The provision was made as a result of the Groups announcement in December 2002 that it would close Opta.
The Group is currently in negotiations to sell or license some or all of Optas assets to a third party.
Other intangible xed assets Other intangible xed assets comprise internet domain names, which are being amortised over a period of seven years on a straight-line basis.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 43 Notes to Financial Statements continued 13 Tangible fixed assets The movement in the year was as follows: Freehold Short Equipment, Assets in land and leasehold xtures and course of buildings i improvements ttings ii construction Total m m m m m Group Cost Beginning of year 37.9 83.3 554.4 29.9 705.5 Additions 0.4 3.2 73.0 24.8 101.4 Disposals 10.9 10.9 Transfers 25.8 25.8 End of year 38.3 86.5 642.3 28.9 796.0 Depreciation Beginning of year 6.0 43.3 313.2 362.5 Charge 2.3 4.0 91.6 97.9 Disposals 10.6 10.6 End of year 8.3 47.3 394.2 449.8 Net book value Beginning of year 31.9 40.0 241.2 29.9 343.0 End of year 30.0 39.2 248.1 28.9 346.2 Group i The amounts shown include assets held under finance leases with a net book value of 6.3 million 2002: 6.7 million.
Depreciation charged during the year on such assets was 0.4 million 2002: 0.3 million.
Depreciation was not charged on 9.4 million of land 2002: 9.4 million.
ii The amounts shown include assets held under finance leases with a net book value of 2.3 million 2002: 3.6 million.
Depreciation charged during the year on these assets was 1.3 million 2002: 1.3 million.
Company The Companys only tangible xed assets relate to leasehold improvements at the Groups head ofce, the cost and net book value of which amounted to 3.2 million 2002: 3.2 million and 1.7 million 2002: 1.9 million respectively.
The depreciation charged during the year on the Companys tangible xed assets was 0.2 million 2002: 0.2 million.
14 Investments in joint ventures The movement in the year was as follows: 2003 2002 m m Group Cost and funding, excluding goodwill Beginning of year 224.7 217.9 Loans advanced to joint ventures 14.6 11.6 Loans repaid by joint ventures 4.5 4.8 End of year 234.8 224.7 Transfer to creditors i 2.6 1.6 Movement in share of underlying net assets Beginning of year 204.5 195.7 Share of operating results of joint ventures see note 5 3.4 76.7 Share of joint ventures interest receivable see note 6 0.5 2.0 Share of joint ventures interest payable see note 6 0.3 4.9 Share of joint ventures tax charges see note 9 2.1 1.3 Dividends received from joint venture 4.0 Exchange adjustments 1.4 Transferred to other xed asset investments 70.7 End of year 207.0 204.5 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Notes to Financial Statements continued 14 Investments in joint ventures continued Group Group 2003 2002 m m Goodwill Beginning of year 1,140.6 Amortisation 98.5 Amounts provided, net see note 4 971.4 Transferred to other xed asset investments 70.7 End of year Net book value ii Beginning of year 21.8 1,163.7 End of year 30.4 21.8 i The investment in joint ventures excludes cumulative losses of 2.6 million 2002: 1.6 million, which represent losses in excess of the funding provided.
The related obligation is recorded within creditors.
ii The net book value above includes listed investments with a net book value of 5.0 million at 30 June 2003 2002: 6.2 million.
The aggregate market value of these investments at 30 June 2003 was 4.8 million 2002: 3.5 million.
2002 KirchPayTV At 31 December 2001, the carrying value of the Groups investment in its KirchPayTV joint venture was written down to nil, following an exceptional charge to joint ventures goodwill amortisation of 984.9 million.
Joint ventures goodwill amortisation also included goodwill amortisation of 98.5 million for the six months ended 31 December 2001.
The Groups investment in KirchPayTV was treated as a joint venture until 8 February 2002, after which date the Group considered that it was no longer able to exercise significant inuence over KirchPayTV.
Accordingly on 8 February 2002, the investment was transferred within Fixed Asset Investments to Other investments at a net book value of nil.
On 1 August 2002, formal insolvency proceedings were opened for KirchPayTV.
The Group does not expect to receive any funds from these proceedings.
On 13 May 2002, the Group exercised a put option to transfer its interest in KirchPayTV to Taurus Holding GmbH & Co KG, a company which became the subject of formal insolvency proceedings on 13 September 2002.
The Group does not expect to receive a significant amount, if any, from the exercise of its put option.
The following information is given in respect of the Groups share of all joint ventures: Group Group i 2003 2002 m m Turnover 76.5 139.2 Fixed assets 4.1 3.6 Current assets 82.7 85.1 Liabilities due within one year 47.6 66.0 Liabilities due after more than one year 11.4 2.5 i This includes the Groups 22% share of KirchPayTVs turnover up until it ceased to be treated as a joint venture on 8 February 2002.
Groups share of KirchPayTV as adjusted 1 April to 8 November 2001 m Turnover 66.5 Operating loss 70.0 Net interest payable 3.6 Loss before taxation 73.6 Taxation Loss after taxation 73.6 As KirchPayTV ceased to be treated as a joint venture from 8 February 2002, no joint venture balance sheet disclosure has been provided for either 2003 or 2002.
In the absence of KirchPayTV results for the period from 1 July 2001 to 8 February 2002, the results for a similar period, the period from 1 April 2001 to 8 November 2001, have been used.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 45 Notes to Financial Statements continued 15 Other fixed asset investments The following are included in the net book value of other xed asset investments: Group Group Company Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m Investments in subsidiary undertakings a 4,861.7 4,972.2 Investment in own shares b 34.6 42.2 Other investments c 43.9 64.9 43.4 61.2 78.5 107.1 4,905.1 5,033.4 a Investment in subsidiary undertakings The movement in the year was as follows: Company 2003 2002 Cost or valuation m m Beginning of year 7,490.9 7,490.9 Additions 1.0 Merger relief i 111.5 End of year 7,380.4 7,490.9 Provision Beginning of year 2,518.7 1,372.4 Provision against investment in KirchPayTV ii 1,146.3 End of year 2,518.7 2,518.7 Net book value Beginning of year 4,972.2 6,118.5 End of year 4,861.7 4,972.2 Since 30 June 1994, the Companys cost of investment in Sky has been carried at Directors valuation of 994.6 million an increase of 930 million being Skys net asset value at that date.
The net book value is nil 2002: nil.
2003 i The Company has taken advantage of merger relief available under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 and has reduced its investment in BiB following the issue of shares on 11 November 2002 to BT in respect of the deferred consideration for the acquisition of 19.9% of BiB in June 2001.
2002 ii The provision against the investment in KirchPayTV aligned the value of the indirect investment in KirchPayTV in the Companys balance sheet with the carrying value of KirchPayTV in the Groups balance sheet of nil.
b Investment in own shares The movement in the year was as follows: Number of Group Ordinary Shares m Beginning of year 6,599,637 42.2 Share options exercised during the year 1,142,625 7.6 End of year 5,457,012 34.6 At 30 June 2003, the Groups ESOP held 5.5 million Ordinary Shares in the Company 2002: 6.6 million at an average value of 6.34 per share 2002: 6.39 per share.
These shares were designated to hedge a portion of the Groups obligations outstanding under share schemes: the LTIP 4.0 million shares, the EBP 0.4 million shares and the KCP 1.1 million shares.
The 1.1 million Ordinary Shares utilised during the year relate to the exercise of LTIP and KCP awards.
The cost to the Group of the LTIP, EBP and KCP awards hedged by the ESOP is accrued over the relevant vesting periods of these schemes.
An amount of 28.3 million is included within accruals 2002: 19.3 million.
The market value of shares held by the ESOP at 30 June 2003 was 36.6 million 2002: 41.5 million, and the nominal value was 2.7 million 2002: 3.3 million.
46 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Notes to Financial Statements continued 15 Other fixed asset investments continued c Other investments Group Group Company Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m Cost Beginning of year 1,119.9 161.2 121.2 121.2 Additions vi 3.2 Transfer from joint ventures x 971.4 Transfer to joint ventures ii 1.0 Disposals iii, iv, v, vi, viii, ix 14.0 15.9 End of year 1,104.9 1,119.9 121.2 121.2 Provision Beginning of year 1,055.0 38.1 60.0 Disposals iii, iv, v, vi, viii, ix 13.7 14.5 Transfer from joint ventures x 971.4 Transfer to joint ventures ii 1.0 Provided during the year, net i, iv, vii 20.7 60.0 17.8 60.0 End of year 1,061.0 1,055.0 77.8 60.0 Net book value Beginning of year 64.9 123.1 61.2 121.2 End of year 43.9 64.9 43.4 61.2 2003 i At 31 December 2002, the Group made a further provision against its minority equity investments in football clubs, leading to a non-cash exceptional charge of 21.0 million, reduced by 3.2 million to reect the post year end disposal of its investment in Chelsea Village plc see note 30. ii In April 2003, the Groups total investment in Mykindaplace increased to 26%.
The investment was subsequently transferred to Investments in Joint Ventures from Other Investments at its net book value of nil.
iii At 31 December 2002, the Group reduced its deferred revenue balance relating to minority investments in new media companies by 5.1 million, and reduced both its investment and its provision against the investment in these companies accordingly.
iv At 31 December 2002, the Group made a provision against its investment in Open TV shares, leading to a non-cash exceptional charge of 2.9 million.
This reduced the carrying value of the Groups investment in Open TV to 0.3 million.
Between 12 February 2003 and 24 March 2003, the Group disposed of its entire investment in Open TV shares for total consideration of 0.2 million, resulting in a loss of 0.1 million.
v In March 2003, the Group disposed of its investment in Streetsonline for total consideration of 0.6 million, which had been held at a cost of 6.0 million less provision of 6.0 million.
These amounts were written back upon disposal of the Groups investment in Streetsonline.
2002 vi On 2 July 2001, the Group disposed of its unlisted investment in Static 2358 Limited for total consideration of 3.7 million, comprising a mixture of cash and shares in Open TV.
The Group made a profit on disposal of 2.3 million.
The investment in Open TV shares was included as an addition to other investments in the period.
vii At 31 December 2001, the Group made a provision against its minority equity investments in football clubs, leading to a non-cash exceptional charge of 60.0 million.
viii On 26 February 2002 the Group sold its listed investment in Gameplay plc for total consideration of 0.03 million, realising a profit on disposal of 0.03 million.
The Groups investment in Gameplay plc was held at cost of 12.3 million less provision of 12.3 million.
These amounts were written back upon disposal of the Groups investment in Gameplay plc.
ix On 7 June 2002 the Group disposed of its listed investment in Toyzone plc following its liquidation.
The Groups investment in Toyzone plc was held at cost of 2.2 million less provision of 2.2 million.
These amounts were written back upon disposal of the Groups investment in Toyzone plc.
x The Groups investment in KirchPayTV was treated as a joint venture until 8 February 2002, after which date the Group considered that it was no longer able to exercise significant inuence over KirchPayTV.
The investment is now treated as a xed asset investment and was transferred from Investments in joint ventures to Other investments on 8 February 2002 at a net book value of nil.
Further analysis of listed investments is shown below: Group Group Company Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m Carrying value of listed investments included above 37.4 49.4 37.4 46.2 Aggregate market value of listed investments at end of year 44.6 40.1 44.6 39.4 Including investments listed on OFEX.
No tax liability would arise on the sale of these listed investments at the market value shown above as no gains would arise.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 47 Notes to Financial Statements continued 16 Stocks 2003 2002 m m Group Television programme rights 337.2 367.3 Set-top boxes and related equipment 29.0 42.2 Raw materials and consumables 1.6 4.4 Goods held for resale 2.6 0.3 370.4 414.2 At least 79% 2002: 77% of the existing television programme rights at 30 June 2003 will be amortised within one year.
17 Debtors Group Group Company Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m Debtors: Amounts falling due within one year Trade debtors 170.9 177.5 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 505.7 952.2 Amounts owed by joint ventures see note 27 16.0 15.2 Amounts owed by other related parties see note 27 0.4 1.0 Other debtors 6.4 8.5 Prepaid programme rights 53.8 80.5 Prepaid transponder rentals 16.9 15.5 Advance Corporation Tax 39.7 18.2 21.3 Deferred tax assets see note 18 30.8 13.9 14.8 Prepaid media agency rights 2.6 3.7 Other prepayments and accrued income 56.6 66.9 2.2 3.8 394.1 400.9 544.0 956.0 Debtors: Amounts falling due after more than one year Prepaid programme rights 2.7 38.6 Prepaid transponder rentals 48.7 55.6 Advance Corporation Tax 67.1 55.9 Deferred tax assets see note 18 159.0 24.9 107.8 Prepaid media agency rights 5.5 12.8 Other prepayments and accrued income 7.0 8.0 4.2 4.4 222.9 207.0 112.0 60.3 18 Deferred tax assets Group Group Company Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m Included within debtors due within one year: tax losses carried forward 20.7 11.7 14.8 accelerated capital allowances 6.7 2.2 short-term timing differences 3.4 30.8 13.9 14.8 Included within debtors due after more than one year: tax losses carried forward 125.0 107.8 accelerated capital allowances 21.5 24.9 short-term timing differences 12.5 159.0 24.9 107.8 189.8 38.8 122.6 Deferred tax asset Beginning of year 38.8 143.9 63.2 Credit charge in the profit and loss account during the year 151.0 105.1 122.6 63.2 End of year 189.8 38.8 122.6 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Notes to Financial Statements continued 18 Deferred tax assets continued Group Included within the total deferred tax asset recognised at 30 June 2003 is 145.7 million 2002: 11.7 million, relating to carried forward tax losses.
Following a review of the forecast utilisation of tax losses within the Group, and as a consequence of a planned reorganisation of certain assets within the Group, the Directors consider that there is now sufficient evidence to support the recognition of these deferred tax assets on the basis that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which these assets can be utilised.
The amount of unrecognised deferred tax present within the Group is disclosed in note 9.
Company The total deferred tax asset recognised at 30 June 2003 of 122.6 million 2002: nil can be offset only against future taxable profits generated in the Company.
The Directors consider that there is now sufficient evidence to support the recognition of this deferred tax asset on the basis that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which these assets can be utilised.
The Company has no unrecognised deferred tax assets 2002: 83.3 million.
19 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year Group Group Company Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m Short-term borrowings 200 million RCF see note 20a Obligations under finance leases 0.2 1.5 0.2 1.5 Other Trade creditors 323.4 311.1 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 416.4 418.0 Amounts due to joint ventures see note 27 0.8 Amounts due to related parties see note 27 24.6 20.4 UK corporation tax 27.6 4.7 VAT 61.7 86.2 Social security and PAYE 0.4 7.0 Other creditors 43.5 42.0 Accruals and deferred income 473.0 432.5 35.8 48.5 955.0 903.9 452.2 466.5 955.2 905.4 452.2 466.5 Included within trade creditors are 226.2 million 2002: 243.6 million of US dollar-denominated programme creditors.
At least 90% 2002: 90% of these were covered by forward rate currency contracts see note 25.
20 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year Group Group Company Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m Long-term borrowings 750 million RCF a 500.0 500.0 600 million RCF a 75.0 75.0 US$650 million of 8.200% Guaranteed Notes, repayable in 2009 b 412.5 412.5 412.5 412.5 100 million of 7.750% Guaranteed Notes, repayable in 2009 b 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 US$600 million of 6.875% Guaranteed Notes, repayable in 2009 b 367.2 367.2 367.2 367.2 US$300 million of 7.300% Guaranteed Notes, repayable in 2006 b 189.2 189.2 189.2 189.2 Obligations under finance leases c 7.5 7.8 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings d 736.1 736.1 Other borrowings 0.2 0.2 1,151.6 1,576.9 1,880.0 2,305.0 Other Accruals and deferred income 20.5 16.0 1,172.1 1,592.9 1,880.0 2,305.0 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 49 Notes to Financial Statements continued 20 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year a RCFs In March 2003 the Group entered into a new 600 million RCF.
The new 600 million RCF has a maturity date of March 2008 and interest accrues at a margin of between 0.600% and 1.125% above the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate LIBOR, dependent on the Groups Net debt:EBITDA leverage ratio as dened in the loan agreement.
Until June 2004, the margin is xed at 1.125% and shall not fall below 0.700% per annum above LIBOR prior to March 2006.
Also in March 2003, the Group voluntarily cancelled 100 million of the 300 million March 2001 RCF.
The maturity date of the resultant 200 million RCF is still June 2004 and should it be drawn upon, accrues interest at a rate presently 1.250% above LIBOR dependent on the Groups credit rating.
This facility reduction, together with the replacement of the Groups 750 million RCF as described above, reduced the Groups aggregate available facilities from 1,050 million to 800 million.
In June 2004, when the 200 million RCF matures, the aggregate facilities available to the Group will be reduced to 600 million.
These reductions in committed bank facilities are consistent with the Groups anticipated liquidity requirements.
b Guaranteed notes At 30 June 2003 the Group also had in issue the following publicly-traded guaranteed notes: US$650 million of 8.200% Guaranteed Notes, repayable in July 2009.
At the time of issuing these notes, the US dollar proceeds were swapped into pounds sterling at an average xed rate of 7.653% payable semi-annually.
In December 2002 and March 2003, the Group amended the terms relating to 63.5 million of these swap arrangements, the effect of which was to x the interest rate on 63.5 million at 5.990% until January 2004, after which time it will revert to a oating rate equal to six months LIBOR plus a margin of 3.390%.
100 million of 7.750% Guaranteed Notes, repayable in July 2009.
The xed coupon is payable annually.
US$600 million of 6.875% Guaranteed Notes, repayable in February 2009.
At the time of issuing these notes, the US dollar proceeds were swapped into pounds sterling at an average xed rate of 8.200%, payable semi-annually.
US$300 million of 7.300% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2006.
At the time of issuing these notes, the Group entered into swap transactions to convert the dollar proceeds to pounds sterling, half of which carries a xed rate of interest of 8.384% until maturity, payable semi-annually.
The remainder was xed at 7.940% until 15 April 2002, thereafter oating at 0.620% over six months LIBOR, again payable semi-annually.
In respect of this remaining oating exposure, on 16 January 2002, the Group entered into a further interest rate hedging arrangement to x the rate at 6.130% from 15 April 2002, payable semi-annually for the remainder of the life of the Notes.
Both the bank facilities and the publicly-traded guaranteed notes have been guaranteed by British Sky Broadcasting Limited and Sky Subscribers Services Limited see note 25.
Borrowings outstanding, which exclude finance leases, are repayable as follows: Group Group Company Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m Amounts repayable: between one and two years 500.0 500.0 between two and five years 264.3 189.2 1,000.3 925.3 after five years 879.8 879.9 879.7 879.7 1,144.1 1,569.1 1,880.0 2,305.0 c Finance leases Obligations under finance leases are repayable as follows: Group Group Company Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m Amounts repayable: within one year 0.2 1.5 between one and two years 0.3 0.4 between two and five years 0.9 0.8 after five years 6.3 6.6 7.7 9.3 At 30 June 2003, all obligations under finance leases represent amounts drawn down in connection with the Customer Relationship Management Centre in Dunfermline.
Repayments of 0.7 million 2002: 0.8 million were made against the Customer Relationship Management Centre lease and repayments of 1.5 million 2002: 2.4 million were made against the IT asset leases, which were fully repaid in the current year.
A proportion of these payments has been allocated to any capital amount outstanding.
The Customer Relationship Management Centre lease bears interest at a rate of 8.5% and expires in September 2020. d Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings represent an interest free loan which is repayable in full on 30 June 2007.
50 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Notes to Financial Statements continued 21 Derivatives and other financial instruments On page 11, the Operating and Financial Review provides an explanation of the role that financial instruments have had in the management of the Groups funding, liquidity and foreign exchange rate risks, during the year.
As permitted by FRS 13, short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from the FRS 13 disclosures, other than the currency risks disclosures.
Interest rate risks After taking into account interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts entered into by the Group, the interest rate prole of the Groups financial liabilities was: 2003 2002 Fixed Floating Total Fixed Floating Total m 1,076.6 75.2 1,151.8 1,378.2 200.2 1,578.4 Weighted average interest rate 7.7% 4.8% 7.5% 7.7% 5.4% 7.4% Weighted average period for which the rate is xed years 5.2 n a n a 5.1 n a n a Weighted average term years 5.4 4.8 5.4 5.5 2.0 5.0 Further details of interest rates on long-term borrowings are given in note 20.
In addition, cash at bank and in hand of 46.4 million 2002: 50.3 million consists of sterling deposits, in bank accounts or on money markets, at overnight rates or on time deposits.
At 30 June 2003, there were no time deposit balances 2002: 0.5 million, expiring within 14 days of year end, at an average interest rate of 3.75%.
Currency risks The table below shows the Groups currency exposures after hedging that give rise to the net currency gains and losses recognised in the profit and loss account.
Such exposures comprise the net monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating unit involved and principally consist of cash deposits, trade debtors and trade creditors.
Net foreign currency monetary assets m 2003 2002 USD Euros Total USD Euros Total Functional currency of Group operating unit Sterling 13.9 29.8 43.7 1.5 7.4 8.9 At 30 June 2003 and 30 June 2002, the Group also held open various currency forward contracts that the Group had taken out to hedge expected future foreign currency commitments see note 25 a.
Liquidity risks The prole of the Groups financial liabilities, other than short-term creditors, is shown in note 20.
The expected prole of provisions is discussed in note 22.
The Groups undrawn committed bank facilities, subject to covenants, were as follows: 2003 2002 m m Expiring within one year 200.0 Expiring between one and two years 550.0 Expiring between two and five years 525.0 Total 725.0 550.0 Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of the book values and the estimated fair values of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities, and associated derivative financial instruments at 30 June 2003 and 30 June 2002: 2003 2002 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value m m m m Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations Bank borrowings 75.2 75.2 500.2 500.2 Quoted bond debt 1,068.9 1,185.2 1,068.9 1,067.8 Finance leases 7.7 7.7 9.3 9.3 Cash deposits 46.4 46.4 50.3 50.3 Derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate and currency prole Combined interest and exchange rate swaps 7.0 60.2 Forward foreign currency contracts 51.4 50.3 The fair values of quoted bond debt are based on period-end mid-market quoted prices.
The fair values of other borrowings are estimated by discounting the future cash ows to net present value.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments are estimated by calculating the difference between the contracted rates and the appropriate market rates prevailing at the period ends.
In addition to the financial instruments in the above fair value table, the Group had holdings in the equity share capital of other listed investments at 30 June 2003 and 30 June 2002.
See notes 14 and 15 for disclosure of their book and fair values.
The difference between book value and fair value reects unrealised gains or losses inherent in the instrument, based on valuations at 30 June 2003 and 30 June 2002.
The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any subsequent date could be signicantly different from the values reported above.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 51 Notes to Financial Statements continued 21 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued Hedges The Groups policy is to hedge the following exposures: interest rate risk, using interest rate and cross currency swaps transactional currency exposures, using forward foreign currency contracts exposures on long-term foreign currency debt, using cross currency swaps Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the hedged position is recognised.
Unrecognised gains and losses on instruments used for hedging, and the movements therein, are as follows: 2003 2002 Total net Total net gains gains Gains Losses losses Gains Losses losses m m m m m m Unrecognised gains and losses at the beginning of the year 73.8 63.9 9.9 113.7 23.7 90.0 Gains and losses arising in previous years that were recognised in the year 0.1 45.5 45.4 13.1 4.0 9.1 Gains and losses arising before the beginning of the year that were not recognised in the year 73.7 18.4 55.3 100.6 19.7 80.9 Gains and losses arising in the year that were not recognised in the year 34.9 64.8 99.7 26.8 44.2 71.0 Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at the end of the year 38.8 83.2 44.4 73.8 63.9 9.9 Of which: Gains and losses expected to be recognised in the next year 0.1 46.4 46.3 0.1 37.7 37.6 Gains and losses expected to be recognised after the next year 38.7 36.8 1.9 73.7 26.2 47.5 22 Provisions for liabilities and charges Sky In-Home Analogue Service Limited Sky Interactive Provision for termination Transition reorganisation reorganisation closure of provision provision provision a provision b Sky Pictures Total m m m m m m Group At 1 July 2001 8.2 18.6 0.4 15.5 0.3 43.0 Utilised in year 4.1 18.6 0.2 7.1 0.3 30.3 Released in year 4.1 4.1 Transferred to xed assets 4.5 4.5 At 30 June 2002 0.2 3.9 4.1 Utilised in year 0.1 0.8 0.9 At 30 June 2003 0.1 3.1 3.2 a The remaining Sky In-Home Service Limited reorganisation provision principally comprises the costs of onerous lease contracts and is expected to be utilised by June 2005. b The remaining Sky Interactive reorganisation provision principally comprises the cost of onerous contracts associated with the reorganisation and consolidation of all interactive and on-line activities within the division Sky Interactive, and is expected to be utilised by June 2009.
23 Called-up share capital 2003 2002 m m Authorised 3,000,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 50p 1,500.0 1,500.0 Allotted, called-up and fully paid equity Ordinary Shares 1,937,754,876 2002: 1,893,428,580 of 50p 968.9 946.7 Allotted and fully paid during the year Number of ordinary shares Beginning of year 1,893,428,580 Options exercised under the Executive Share Option Scheme at between 0.500 and 6.385 666,838 Options exercised under the Sharesave Scheme at between 2.050 and 6.110 423,822 Shares issued in respect of deferred consideration for the acquisition of BiB 43,235,636 End of year 1,937,754,876 Movements in share capital in the year ended 30 June 2003 are described in note 24.
54 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Notes to Financial Statements continued 23 Called up share capital continued e EBP Awards Awards in existence at 30 June 2003 under the EBP are shown in the table below: Number of Option price i Exercisable Ordinary Shares from Date of grant 2 August 2002 178,500 n a 31 July 2004 2 August 2002 178,500 n a 31 July 2005 2 January 2003 20,000 n a 31 July 2004 2 January 2003 20,000 n a 31 July 2005 397,000 i Awards under the EBP take the form of a contingent right to acquire existing BSkyB shares at the vesting date.
Further details regarding the EBP can be found in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 26 to 31.
24 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders funds Movement in shareholders funds for both Group and Company include all movements in reserves.
Total equity Share Share Shares to Merger profit and loss shareholders capital premium be issued reserve account funds deficit m m m m m m a Group At 1 July 2001 944.4 2,377.6 256.9 340.8 2,859.1 1,060.6 Issue of share capital 2.3 34.0 1.1 13.5 21.7 Share issue costs 1.8 1.8 Loss for the financial year 1,382.6 1,382.6 Transfer from merger reserve 74.1 74.1 Translation differences on foreign currency net investment 1.4 1.4 At 1 July 2002 946.7 2,409.8 255.8 266.7 4,179.7 300.7 Issue of share capital 22.2 125.8 253.1 111.5 1.6 4.8 Share issue costs 0.1 0.1 profit for the financial year 190.3 190.3 Transfer from merger reserve 79.2 79.2 At 30 June 2003 968.9 2,535.5 2.7 299.0 3,911.8 105.7 At 30 June 2003, the cumulative goodwill written off directly to reserves by the Group amounted to 523.8 million 2002: 523.8 million.
During the year, 35.6 million 2002: 35.6 million relating to the amortisation of BiB goodwill and 43.6 million 2002: 38.5 million relating to the amortisation of SIG goodwill was transferred from the Group merger reserve to the Group profit and loss reserve.
During the year the Company issued shares with a market value of 6.4 million 2002: 35.2 million in respect of the exercise of options awarded under various share option schemes with 4.8 million 2002: 14.3 million received from employees.
"On 11 November 2002, the Company issued 43.2 million shares with a fair value of 253.1 million to HSBC, Matsushita and BT ""the selling shareholders"" in respect of deferred consideration for the acquisition of the remaining 67.5% of BiB in May and June 2001."
The Group also agreed with the selling shareholders certain other terms relating to the agreement reached on 15 July 2000 for the acquisition by the Group of the interest of the selling shareholders in BiB.
These included the waiver of the selling shareholders' rights under the earn out provisions.
The earn out provisions provided that if the valuation of BiB was 3 billion or more in January or July 2003, further contingent consideration would have been payable to the selling shareholders.
No liability had been recorded in the prior year in respect of this earn out.
Additional Group merger reserve of 111.5 million was created in relation to 20.8 million shares issued to BT in respect of deferred consideration for the acquisition of 19.9% of BiB.
In June 2002 the Company issued 169,375 new shares, which were used to satisfy part of the contingent consideration in respect of the acquisition of the remaining 5% minority interest in WAPTV Limited in May 2001.
A further 338,755 new shares are expected to be issued in September 2003 to satisfy the remaining contingent consideration.
Share Share Shares to Capital profit and loss Shareholders capital premium be issued reserve account funds m m m m m m b Company At 1 July 2001 944.4 2,377.6 256.9 843.9 164.0 4,586.8 Issue of share capital 2.3 34.0 1.1 35.2 Share issue costs 1.8 1.8 Loss for the financial year 1,340.0 1,340.0 At 30 June 2002 946.7 2,409.8 255.8 843.9 1,176.0 3,280.2 Issue of share capital 22.2 125.8 253.1 105.1 Share issue costs 0.1 0.1 profit for the financial year 55.6 55.6 At 30 June 2003 968.9 2,535.5 2.7 843.9 1,120.4 3,230.6 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 55 Notes to Financial Statements continued 25 Guarantees, contingencies and other financial commitments a Future expenditure Group Group 2003 2002 m m Contracted for, but not provided for in the accounts television programme rights i 1,617.8 2,165.6 set-top boxes and related equipment 106.0 126.9 third party payments ii 46.1 58.3 capital expenditure 2.5 5.9 other purchase obligations 7.5 1,779.9 2,356.7 i Of the commitments for television programme rights, 692 million 2002: 1,005 million related to commitments payable in US dollars for periods of up to ten years 2002: seven years and 136 million 2002: nil related to commitments payable in Swiss francs for periods of up to three years.
At 30 June 2003, the US dollar commitments have been translated at the year end rate of US$1.6497:1 2002: US$1.5347:1, except for US$566 million 2002: US$585 million covered by forward rate contracts where the average forward rate of US$1.4925:1 2002: US$1.3856:1 has been used.
The Swiss franc commitments have been translated at the year end rate of CHF2.2288:1, except for CHF99 million covered by forward rate contracts where the average forward rate of CHF2.1068:1 has been used.
The US dollar commitment disclosed above is subject to price escalation clauses in accordance with the terms of certain of the movie programme rights contracts.
The extent of the escalation, and hence of the commitments, is dependent both upon the number of subscribers to the relevant movie channel in certain cases and upon inationary increases.
If subscriber numbers were to remain at 30 June 2003 levels, the additional commitment in respect of subscriber escalation would be 213 million US$351 million 2002: 251 million US$ 386 million.
ii The third party payment commitments in respect of distribution agreements for the Sky Distributed channels disclosed above are subject to price escalation clauses in accordance with the terms of certain of the distribution agreements.
The extent of the escalation, and the levels of the commitments, are dependent upon the number of DTH subscribers to the relevant Sky Distributed channels and in certain cases upon inationary increases.
If both the DTH subscriber levels to these channels and the rate payable for each Sky Distributed channel were to remain at 30 June 2003 levels, the additional commitment in respect of subscriber escalation would be 799 million 2002: 885 million, for periods of up to six years 2002: six years.
At 30 June 2003, the Group had outstanding forward rate contract commitments to purchase in aggregate US$903 million 2002: US$920 million at an average rate of US$1.4925: 1 2002: US$1.3856:1.
The Group also has outstanding forward rate contract commitments to purchase in aggregate CHF99 million 2002: nil at average rates of CHF2.0834:1 and CHF1.4844: Euro 1. b Contingent liabilities The Group has contingent liabilities by virtue of its investments in unlimited companies, or partnerships, which include Nickelodeon UK, The History Channel UK, Paramount UK, QVC and National Geographic Channel UK.
The Directors do not expect any material loss to arise from the above contingent liabilities.
c Guarantees Two of the Groups subsidiary undertakings, British Sky Broadcasting Limited and Sky Subscribers Services Limited, have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the Companys 200 million and 600 million RCFs and the US$650 million, US$600 million, US$300 million and 100 million Guaranteed Notes see note 20.
The Group has agreed to provide additional funding to several of its investments in limited and unlimited companies and partnerships in accordance with funding agreements.
d Contingent consideration On 29 May 2001, the Group acquired the 5% minority interest in WAPTV Limited for a total consideration of 5.0 million.
The consideration comprised 169,375 new BSkyB Ordinary Shares issued on 29 May 2001, contingent consideration which was satisfied by the issue of a further 169,375 new BSkyB Ordinary Shares on 30 June 2002, and contingent consideration which will be satisfied by the issue of 338,755 new BSkyB Ordinary Shares on 30 September 2003.
The contingent consideration is contingent upon the vendors remaining continuously in the employment of a member of the Group from completion until the date the deferred consideration is due.
The remaining contingent consideration has been recognised and recorded within shares to be issued as it is considered probable that these criteria will be fullled.
e Lease and similar commitments The minimum annual rentals under these arrangements are as follows: Plant and Property machinery Total m m m Group 30 June 2003 Operating leases and similar arrangements which expire: within one year 0.5 3.4 3.9 between two and five years 2.4 26.2 28.6 after five years 7.9 35.1 43.0 10.8 64.7 75.5 30 June 2002 Operating leases and similar arrangements which expire: within one year 0.8 0.5 1.3 between two and five years 0.9 14.6 15.5 after five years 9.2 43.1 52.3 10.9 58.2 69.1 Group The Group leases certain land and buildings on short-term and long-term operating leases.
The rents payable under these leases are subject to renegotiation at the various intervals specified in the leases.
Company At 30 June 2003, the Company had minimum annual rentals for property under operating leases and similar arrangements which expire between two and five years of 0.4 million 2002: nil.
56 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Notes to Financial Statements continued 26 Regulatory update Ofce of Fair Trading OFT On 5 December 2000 the OFT announced that it was to conduct an inquiry into the affairs of British Sky Broadcasting Limited BSkyB Limited, under the UK Competition Act 1998 Competition Act, in particular the wholesale supply by BSkyB Limited of certain of its channels to third party distributors in the UK i. BSkyB Limited maintained that it had not infringed the Competition Act and, on 17 December 2002, following submission by BSkyB Limited of written and oral representations, the OFT announced that BSkyB Limited had not been found in breach of competition law in respect of its investigation.
Such findings by the OFT may be appealed by third parties who have a sufficient interest in accordance with the provisions of the Competition Act.
EC Investigation FAPL The EC Commission has commenced investigations into a number of agreements, decisions or practices leading to the acquisition of broadcast rights to football events within the European Union, including the sale of exclusive broadcast rights to Premier League football by the Football Association Premier League Limited FAPL.
On 21 June 2002, BSkyB Limited and the FAPL notied BSkyB Limiteds current agreements for FAPL rights to the EC Commission seeking either a clearance or an exemption from Article 81 of the EC Treaty.
The FAPL has also notied the rules of the FAPL to the EC Commission.
On 20 December 2002, the EC Commission issued a Statement of Objections to the FAPL outlining certain concerns in respect of the FAPLs joint selling of broadcast rights to Premier League football.
On 30 July 2003, the Group received a request for information from the EC Commission concerning the current bidding process being undertaken by the FAPL.
The Group is currently unable to assess whether this EC investigation will have a material effect on the Group.
EC Investigation Movie Contracts The EC Commission is investigating the terms on which movies produced by major US movie studios are supplied to distributors, including pay TV operators, throughout the European Union.
The Group has co-operated with this investigation.
At this stage, the Group is unable to determine whether it will have a material effect on the Group.
27 Transactions with related parties and major shareholders a Transactions with major shareholders The Company and Group conduct business transactions on an arms length basis with companies who are part of The News Corporation Group, a major shareholder: Twentieth Century Fox supplied programming with a total value of 63.2 million in the year 2002: 55.9 million, the majority of which is supplied under arrangements extending to December 2004, with a variable annual value dependent on the number of lms supplied.
The Group also earned 0.5 million 2002: nil from Twentieth Century Fox in respect of programming-related fees.
NDS Limited supplied smart cards and encryption services with a value of 49.7 million in the year 2002: 44.5 million under a contract extending to September 2010.
The Group also has a number of contracts with NDS for the supply of digital equipment, of which 3.7 million 2002: 5.1 million was paid during the year.
Broadsystem Ventures Limited BVL supplied telephony services with a value of 3.0 million during the year 2002: 2.0 million.
The Group also earned 4.2 million 2002: 1.0 million from BVL in respect of telephony services.
News International plc and News America Publishing provided media-based advertising services worth 5.2 million in the year 2002: 4.9 million and News International plc provided rental premises at a cost to the Group of 0.4 million in the year 2002: 0.4 million.
The Group also earned 1.7 million 2002: 1.1 million from News International plc for the provision of airtime.
Orbis Technology Limited and Visonik supplied interactive and internet-based services of 2.3 million in the year 2002: 0.9 million.
National Rugby League Limited and News Interactive sold sports rights to the Group during the year worth 4.0 million 2002: 3.4 million.
STAR Television Group STAR, Fox News Channel and Phoenix Chinese News and Entertainment paid the Group 1.4 million during the year 2002: 1.3 million for the provision of transponder capacity.
The Group paid STAR 1.5 million 2002: 1.2 million in respect of carriage fees for the supply of programming.
JSkySports Corporation, ESPN STAR Sports and Fancy A Flutter Limited paid the Group 0.9 million 2002: 0.5 million of fees related to programming.
Balances payable to the above companies which form part of The News Corporation Group, analysed by activity: 2003 2002 m m Programming 22.6 18.2 Encryption services 0.7 2.2 Telephony services 0.9 Advertising 0.4 24.6 20.4 Balances receivable from members of The News Corporation Group, analysed by activity: 2003 2002 m m Transponders 0.1 0.4 Other 0.3 0.6 0.4 1.0 Notes i Where an undertaking has intentionally or negligently infringed the Competition Act, it may be ned up to a maximum of 10% of its total UK turnover for each year it is found to be in breach, up to a maximum of three years.
In addition, third parties, such as customers and competitors, may be entitled to recover damages where they have suffered loss as a result of conduct in breach of the Competition Act.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 57 Notes to Financial Statements continued 27 Transactions with related parties and major shareholders continued b Transactions with joint ventures All transactions with joint ventures are conducted on an arms length basis.
2003 2002 m m Revenue 19.4 23.0 Operating costs 63.8 53.9 Revenues are primarily generated from the provision of transponder capacity, marketing and support services, together with commissions receivable.
Operating costs represent fees payable for channel carriage.
2003 2002 m m Funding to joint ventures see note 14 234.8 224.7 Amounts owed by joint ventures see note 17 16.0 15.2 Amounts owed to joint ventures see note 19 0.8 c Other transactions with related parties Elisabeth Murdoch is the daughter of Rupert Murdoch, and sister to James Murdoch, both Directors of the Company, and owns 60% of the ordinary share capital of Shine Entertainment Limited, in which the Group has a 3.5% equity shareholding.
During the year, the Group incurred development and production costs for television of 2.0 million 2002: 1.3 million from Shine Entertainment Limited.
At 30 June 2003, there were no outstanding amounts due to or from Shine Entertainment Limited 2002: nil.
28 Notes to consolidated cash flow statement a Reconciliation of operating profit to operating cash ows Before Before goodwill and Goodwill and goodwill and Goodwill and exceptional exceptional 2003 exceptional exceptional 2002 items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Operating profit loss 370.7 116.7 254.0 191.5 136.5 55.0 Depreciation 97.9 97.9 81.1 81.1 Amortisation of goodwill and other intangible xed assets 121.5 121.5 0.1 118.3 118.4 profit on sale of xed assets 0.3 0.3 Decrease in stock 43.8 43.8 9.9 9.9 Decrease in debtors 88.0 88.0 77.9 22.3 100.2 Increase decrease in creditors 59.6 59.6 80.5 80.5 Provision utilised, net 0.9 0.9 0.3 34.1 34.4 Net cash inow outow from operating activities 658.8 4.8 663.6 279.7 30.0 249.7 b Analysis of changes in net debt At 1 July 2002 Cash ow At 30 June 2003 m m m Overnight deposits 38.7 6.0 32.7 Other cash 11.1 2.6 13.7 49.8 3.4 46.4 Short-term deposits 0.5 0.5 Cash at bank and in hand 50.3 3.9 46.4 Debt due after more than one year 1,569.1 425.0 1,144.1 Finance leases 9.3 1.6 7.7 Total debt 1,578.4 426.6 1,151.8 Total net debt 1,528.1 422.7 1,105.4 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Notes to Financial Statements continued 28 Notes to consolidated cash ow statement continued c Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt 2003 2002 NOTE m m Decrease in cash 3.4 103.8 Decrease in short-term deposits 0.5 69.5 Cash outow resulting from decrease in debt and lease nancing 426.6 191.7 Decrease in net debt 422.7 18.4 Net debt at beginning of year 1,528.1 1,546.5 Net debt at end of year 28b 1,105.4 1,528.1 d Major non-cash transactions 2003 Issue of shares deferred consideration for BiB On 11 November 2002, the Company issued 43.2 million shares with a fair value of 253.1 million to HSBC, Matsushita and BT in respect of deferred consideration for the acquisition of the remaining 67.5% of BiB in May and June 2001.
2002 Impairment of investment in KirchPayTV Effective 31 December 2001, the Group wrote down the carrying value of its investment in KirchPayTV to nil see note 14.
The write-down resulted in a net non-cash exceptional charge to the profit and loss account of 971.4 million.
29 Financing arrangements At 30 June 2003, the Groups balance sheet showed net liabilities of 105.7 million.
The Directors consider that the operating cash ows of the Group, together with its own bank facilities, will be sufficient to cover the Groups projected operating requirements and to settle or renance the Groups other liabilities as they fall due, for a minimum period of 12 months from the date of signing these financial statements.
Accordingly the financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
30 Post balance sheet events On 22 July 2003, the Group entered into a binding agreement for the sale of its 9.9% equity investment in Chelsea Village plc for consideration in cash of 5.9 million.
On 8 August 2003, it was announced that the Group had successfully bid for all four packages of exclusive live UK rights to FA Premier League football from the beginning of the 2004 05 season to the end of the 2006 07 season.
The total cost of the new agreement for the four UK live packages is 1,024 million over three years.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 59 Notes to Financial Statements continued 31 Principal Group investments The investments of the Company and the Group which principally affect the consolidated results and net assets of the Group are as follows: Country of incorporation Description and proportion Name operation of shares held % Principal activity Subsidiaries: Direct holdings British Sky Broadcasting Limited England and Wales 10,000,002 Ordinary Shares The transmission of the Groups English language satellite television of 1 each 100% broadcasting services Sky Television Limited England and Wales 13,376,982 Ordinary Shares Holding company of 1 each 100% Sky In-Home Service Limited England and Wales 1,576,000 Ordinary Shares The supply, installation and maintenance of satellite television of 1 each 100% receiving equipment Sports Internet Group Limited England and Wales 38,247,184 Ordinary Shares The provision of sports content, betting and e-commerce services of 5p each 100% British Interactive Broadcasting England and Wales 651,960 Ordinary Shares The transmission of interactive services Holdings Limited a of 1 each 100% Subsidiaries: Indirect holdings Sky Subscribers Services Limited England and Wales 2 Ordinary Shares The provision of ancillary functions supporting the satellite television of 1 each 100% broadcasting operations of the Group Hestview Limited England and Wales 108 Ordinary Shares Licensed bookmakers of 1 each 100% Sky Interactive Limited England and Wales 2 Ordinary Shares The provision of interactive television services of 1 each 100% Sky Ventures Limited England and Wales 912 Ordinary Shares Holding company for joint ventures of 1 each 100% British Sky Broadcasting SA Luxembourg 12,500 Ordinary Shares Digital satellite transponder leasing company of 12 each 100% Sky New Media Ventures plc England and Wales 12,500 Ordinary Shares Holding company for new media investments of 1 each 100% Joint ventures Nickelodeon UK England and Wales 104 B Shares of The transmission of childrens television services 0.01 each 50% The History Channel UK England and Wales 50,000 A Shares of The transmission of history and biography television services 1 each 50% Paramount UK b England and Wales Partnership interest 25% The transmission of a general entertainment comedy channel Australian News Channel Pty Limited Australia 1 Ordinary Share of The transmission of a 24-hour news channel AUS$1 33.33% Granada Sky Broadcasting Limited c England and Wales 800 B Shares of The transmission of general entertainment channels 1 each 80% MUTV England and Wales 100 B Shares of The transmission of the Manchester United football channel 1 each 33.33% National Geographic Channel d England and Wales Partnership interest 50% The transmission of natural history and adventure channels Music Choice Europe Limited England and Wales 44,001,120 A Shares of The transmission of audio music channels 1 each 36.4% Attheraces plc England and Wales 1,000 Ordinary Shares of The transmission of a horse racing service and related 1 each 33.33% on-line activities Chelsea Digital Media Limited England and Wales 19,800 B Shares of 0.01 The production and marketing of the Chelsea Football Club each 20% and 3,860,174 football channel redeemable preference shares of 1 each Notes a 80.1% directly held by British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and 19.9% held by British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
b The registered address of Paramount UK is 1518 Rathbone Place, London W1P 1DF.
c The economic interest held in Granada Sky Broadcasting Limited is 49.5%.
d The registered address of National Geographic Channel is Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex TW7 5QD.
60 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Five Year Summary Consolidated results 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 m m m m m DTH subscribers 2,341 1,929 1,537 1,189 979 Cable and DTT subscribers 202 279 299 303 253 Advertising 284 251 271 242 217 Interactive 218 186 93 5 Other 141 131 106 108 96 Turnover 3,186 2,776 2,306 1,847 1,545 Operating expenses, net 2,815 2,584 2,146 1,762 1,360 Goodwill amortisation 122 119 44 Exceptional operating costs 5 18 23 105 456 Operating profit loss 254 55 93 20 271 Share of operating results of joint ventures 3 76 256 122 58 Joint ventures goodwill amortisation, net 1,070 101 14 Share of joint ventures loss on sale of xed asset investment 70 14 profit loss on sale of xed asset investments 2 1 Amounts written off xed asset investments, net 15 60 39 Release of provision provision for loss on disposal of subsidiary 10 10 Net interest payable and similar charges 114 137 132 92 60 profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation 128 1,276 515 263 389 Taxation credit charge i 62 107 24 65 103 profit loss on ordinary activities after taxation 190 1,383 539 198 286 Statistics Basic earnings loss per share 9.9p 73.3p 29.2p 11.3p 16.6p Diluted earnings loss per share 9.8p 73.3p 29.2p 11.3p 16.6p Dividend per share interim 2.75p final Payments to acquire tangible xed assets million 98 101 133 58 76 Direct-to-home subscribers 000 6,845 6,101 5,453 4,513 3,460 Cable subscribers 000 ii 3,871 4,091 3,486 3,735 3,778 DTT subscribers 000 iii 1,510 1,105 740 204 Total subscribers 000 12,226 10,192 10,044 8,988 7,442 Average number of full-time equivalent employees 9,132 9,083 9,948 10,730 8,271 Capital employed m m m m m Fixed assets 991 1,129 2,411 1,886 343 Working capital 191 17 15 32 2 Provisions, tax and dividends i 199 115 182 24 228 Net debt 1,105 1,528 1,547 1,145 665 Net liabilities assets 106 301 1,061 797 548 Notes i The taxation credit for 2000 and 1999 was restated following the adoption by the Group of FRS 19, Deferred tax in the year ended 30 June 2001.
Adoption of FRS 19 resulted in the recalculation of loss per share for 2000 and 1999. ii The cable subscribers disclosure for 2000 and 1999 was restated in the year ended 30 June 2001 to include Eire subscribers.
iii From 2003, the DTT subscriber number consists of BARBs estimate of the number of homes with access to Freeview.
Up until 2001, this subscriber number included all those subscribing to ITV Digitals previously On Digital DTT service.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 61 Shareholders Service Share price information The Companys share price is broadcast on SkyText on the Sky News channel on page 145, BBC Ceefax page 221 and on Channel 4 Teletext page 520, all under the prex BSkyB.
It also appears in the financial columns of the national press.
The latest BSkyB share price is available from the Financial Times Cityline Service, on 0906 843 4816.
Shares on-line You can also access your shareholding on-line and nd a range of other services at the Lloyds TSB Registrars Shareholder website, www.
ShareGift Shareholders who only have a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, the independent charity share donation scheme registered charity no.
Further information about ShareGift may be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars or from ShareGift on 020 7337 0501 or at www.
There are no implications for capital gains tax purposes no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to claim income tax relief.
Shareholder enquiries All administrative enquiries relating to shareholders, such as notication of change of address or the loss of a share certicate, should be made to the Companys registrars whose address is given on the next page.
Breakdown of shareholders at June 2003 By Type BSkyB Holdco Inc. 35% Fund Management Groups 34% Other 13% Insurance Companies 11% Pension Funds 4% Miscellaneous Banks 3% Breakdown of shareholders at June 2003 By Location BSkyB Holdco Inc. 35% London 34% USA & Canada 10% Continental Europe 7% Other 7% Scotland 5% Rest of UK and Eire 2% 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Corporate Shareholder Information Board of Directors Rupert Murdoch Chairman Tony Ball Chief Executive officer and Managing Director Philip Bowman Audit Committee Chairman Chase Carey David DeVoe David Evans Allan Leighton James Murdoch Jacques Nasser Gail Rebuck Arthur Siskind Lord St John of Fawsley Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Martin Stewart Chief Financial officer John Thornton Remuneration Committee Chairman Lord Wilson of Dinton Company Secretary David Gormley Financial Calendar Results for the financial year ending 30 June 2004 Q1 November 2003 Q2 February 2004 Q3 May 2004 Q4 August 2004 AGM November 2004 Company information Registered ofce: Grant Way Isleworth Middlesex TW7 5QD Telephone 0870 240 3000 Internet address http: www.
com Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone 0870 600 3970 ADR Depository The Bank of New York Investor Relations P. O.
Box 11258 Church Street Station New York, NY 10286-1258 Telephone US 1-888-BNY-ADRS Telephone International 1 601 312 5315 www.
com Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP 180 Strand London WC2R 1BL Principal Bankers Barclays Bank plc 27 Soho Square London W1A 4WA Solicitors Herbert Smith Exchange House Primrose Street London EC2A 2HS Company Registration Number 2247735 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 63 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Designed and produced by salterbaxter Portrait photography by Nikki English Printed by CTD Capita British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex TW7 5QD, England Telephone 44 0 870 240 3000 Facsimile 44 0 870 240 3060 www.
com Registered in England No.
