Operating and Financial Review Sky delivered strong growth in profitability in the year to June 2003, building on the excellent operational performance of the business.
Sky is now looking forward to delivering increasing financial returns on the considerable investment it has made in digital television.
Tony Ball Chief Executive Martin Stewart Chief Financial Officer The business, its objectives and its strategy British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and its Consistent reductions in SAC means that it DTH subscribers million subsidiaries Sky, the Group operate the has become increasingly profitable for Sky to leading pay TV broadcasting service in the acquire new subscribers.
Reductions in SAC 01 5.5 United Kingdom UK and the Republic of have principally been driven by the combination of Ireland Ireland, deriving revenues from lower costs of set-top boxes and other installation- 02 6.1 television broadcasting services and certain related hardware, together with increases in the 03 6.8 ancillary functions which are provided to both contribution made by the customer towards the retail and wholesale customers.
installation cost, particularly for those customers on lower-tier packages.
There has also been a Sky is an established and widely recognised brand, favourable impact on the costs of marketing for DTH revenue million with a reputation for quality and innovation.
Sky acquisition purposes due to a change in the mix operates and distributes 26 wholly-owned channels of customer acquisition routes towards lower-cost Skys Channels and retails a further 96 third party direct sales.
01 1,537 channels to direct-to-home DTH viewers via its 02 1,929 digital service.
In addition to this, Sky operates Growing the popularity of Skys channels 03 2,341 the Sky Box Office service SBO, which provides Skys Channels generate significant advertising pay-per-view services covering films, sporting revenues for the Group and contribute to the events and concerts.
appeal of the Sky digital platform.
Sky One remains the UKs most watched non-terrestrial Operating margin before goodwill and Skys main objective is to build upon its position channel: together with Sky One Mix, which was exceptional items as the leading provider of multichannel television launched in December 2002, it had an average services in the UK and Ireland in order to deliver multichannel viewing share of 3.5% for the financial long-term growth in shareholder value.
Sky News has a reputation for impartial, 01 6.9% established a series of key operational and financial authoritative and up to the minute coverage of 02 6.9% targets, which ensure focus on certain priorities that breaking news.
During 2003, Sky launched three 03 11.6% will drive the business to achieve its main objective.
new music channels, featuring an innovative These are as follows: interactive scheduling system.
As the universe of multichannel homes has grown, Skys Channels Continued expansion of the total DTH have been able to grow their share of the UK subscriber base advertising market and Sky currently expects Sky seeks to achieve this expansion in two this trend to continue.
main ways: firstly, through the acquisition of new DTH subscribers and secondly, through the Quality programming maintenance of a low churn rate.
Skys current Investment in attractive programming is a key target is to reach 7 million subscribers by the end factor in generating the subscription revenues that of calendar 2003.
Maintaining a low churn rate make up 80% 2002: 80% of Skys total revenue.
is currently a key component of maximising the Skys strategy is to acquire exclusive pay TV rights return Sky makes on its investment in customer for films, live sporting events and for other general acquisition.
At the same time, Skys priority is to control the costs of all of these Skys customer relationship management CRM types of programming in order to help deliver centres, principally based in Scotland, play a key improved operating margins.
role in addressing this priority.
The CRM centres deal with the handling of orders from subscribers, Innovation in products and services, and the establishment and maintenance of subscriber investment in the future accounts, the invoicing and collection of revenue Sky has a strong track record of innovation, and telemarketing and customer services.
These operating in a highly competitive environment, activities, together with a high level of customer which is reliant on technology that is subject to service and familiarity with customer needs, allow rapid change and development.
Sky therefore the centres to play a key role, both in customer seeks to invest and adapt in order to remain 12.2m acquisition and customer retention.
competitive and keeps under review emerging technologies for the distribution of entertainment The record number Maintenance of subscriber quality content or for the provision of new services to Sky evaluates the financial return on its subscribers Skys subscriber base.
of households in by, amongst other things, measuring Average the UK and Ireland Revenue per User ARPU and Subscriber Sky has successfully introduced new products Acquisition Cost SAC.
Skys current strategy and services such as Sky, Sky Talk and the receiving one or more is to increase the revenues earned from its Extra Digibox and these continue to increase of Skys channels subscribers to achieve its ARPU target of 400 in popularity.
Skys DTH customers also have by the end of the calendar year 2005.
Growth access to Skys digital interactive services, in ARPU is expected to be derived from a Sky Active, and a range of other digital interactive combination of growth in revenues from core services, accessible either through stand-alone subscription products, new services such as Sky portals such as Sky Active, or in conjunction and the Extra Digibox, as well as revenues from with certain broadcast channels.
These services Interactive and other services.
include betting, games-playing, shopping, interactive programming, interactive advertising and telephony-based services such as voting.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 5 Operating and Financial Review continued Performance in the year Operating profit before goodwill and Total revenue for the twelve months ending At 30 June 2003, there were 105,000 subscribers exceptional items million 30 June 2003 the year exceeded 3 billion to Sky, representing an increase of 77,000 in for the first time, an increase of 15% over the the year, successfully achieving Skys target of year to 30 June 2002 the comparable period having 100,000 subscribers by 30 June 2003.
Total operating costs before Sky enhances Skys reputation for innovation 02 192 goodwill and exceptional items increased by and continues to lead the growing personal video 03 371 9% to 2,815 million, generating an operating recorder PVR category in the UK.
The early profit margin before goodwill and exceptional evidence is that Sky customers demonstrate items of 12% 2002: 7%.
Sky continues to encouraging levels of customer loyalty and a high benefit from strong operational gearing: propensity to subscribe to top-tier packages.
In ARPU Quarterly annualised operating profit before goodwill and exceptional addition, at 30 June 2003, there were 165,000 items increased by 94% over the comparable subscribers to the Extra Digibox, representing period to 371 million.
Profit after tax was 111,000 net additions during the year.
57% of Sky 01 313 190 million, the Groups first full year of subscribers are also Extra Digibox subscribers.
02 347 positive earnings since the launch of Sky digital.
Since net debt peaked at 31 December Sky digital continues to offer the widest choice 03 366 2001 at around 1,833 million, the Group has in multichannel television in the UK and Ireland.
reduced its net debt by 728 million, to end At 30 June 2003, there were over 395 channels the period at 1,105 million.
available via digital satellite, including over 120 Churn rates channels retailed by Sky, around 160 free TV and Year to date radio channels, and over 85 pay-per-view channels.
Operating review 01 10.0% Skys own channels have recently increased their At 30 June 2003, the number of DTH satellite potential reach.
Under the terms of an arrangement 02 10.5% subscribers in the UK and Ireland was 6,845,000 recently agreed with ntl, Sky One, Sky News and 03 9.4% representing a net increase of 744,000 in the year.
Sky Sports News will continue to be carried on ntls Sky remains highly confident of achieving its target digital cable network, until the end of 2006.
An of 7 million subscribers by the end of calendar additional six Sky channels, including Sky One Mix, year 2003.
Sky Travel, Sky Travel Extra and the recently launched channels from Sky Music The Amp, As a result of the continued growth in the number Flaunt and Scuzz, will be distributed on ntls cable of DTH subscribers and the launch of the digital network for the first time.
terrestrial free-to-air service, Freeview, in October 2002, the total number of UK and Ireland households Sky concluded a new 5-year agreement with the receiving one or more of Skys channels increased BBC in June 2003, ensuring that all of the BBCs by 2.0 million to a record 12.2 million in the year.
channels, including all regional variations, will be listed on Skys Electronic Programme Guide DTH churn for the year stands at 9.4%, a EPG.
The BBC channels are unencrypted but reduction of over one percentage point on the the BBC has secured a regionalisation service using comparable period.
Skys conditional access technology, to ensure that Sky subscribers will continue to receive their The annualised average revenue per DTH appropriate national and regional variation of subscriber ARPU at 30 June 2003 was 366.
Sky also announced The increase of 5% over the comparable period the renewal for five years of its conditional access reflected the change in Skys UK retail prices which agreement with Channel Five, commencing was effective from 1 January 2003, along with October 2003. increased contributions from products such as Sky and the Extra Digibox and higher usage of interactive services.
01 02 03 Programming Skys highest audience for five years with an inhome peak of 3.8 million viewers.
On the final day 7,000,000 As multichannel penetration continued to rise, of the Premiership season, Sky Sports three DTH subscribers target the viewing share of Sky channels across all UK live matches attracted the highest ever final day television homes grew to 6.4% for the year audience and, over the entire FA Premier League compared to 6.1% in the previous year.
season, average audiences were up 17% on the prior year.
Sky News continues to be the leading 24-hour news channel within multichannel homes, beating Over the past twelve months Sky has secured the viewing share of BBC News 24 and the ITV three significant football rights agreements.
Industry recognition has September 2002, Sky won the rights to cover live continued with a second British Academy award and UEFA Champions League football for the first time, the Royal Television Society News Channel of the and from September 2003 will have exclusive live Year award for the second year running, underlining coverage of all Wednesday matches in the UK and SKY REMAINS HIGHLY CONFIDENT Sky News reputation as the home of breaking news.
up to six live ties on Tuesday nights.
Sky has also OF ACHIEVING ITS TARGET OF recently announced that it will share the rights with 7 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS BY THE Sky One continues to lead audience delivery amongst the BBC to broadcast the Football Associations END OF CALENDAR YEAR 2003. the key 16-34 year old demographic.
Sky One key properties in a new four-year agreement combines a commitment to commissioning and commencing at the start of the 2004 05 season.
developing factual entertainment programmes The new contract has yielded a significant cost with a growing reputation for fast turn-around saving compared to the existing contract.
Finally, documentaries such as Michael Jackson: The on 8 August 2003, it was announced that Sky had Untold Story.
successfully bid for all four packages of exclusive live UK rights to FA Premier League football from Sky Sports had another strong year.
Its viewing the beginning of the 2004 05 season to the end of share across UK homes grew by 13% on the the 2006 07 season.
This new agreement offers comparable period and programming was increased our subscribers unparalleled coverage of Premier across its five dedicated channels.
Memorable League football with more games available for live moments during the year included Europes dramatic broadcast than ever before.
The total cost of the Ryder Cup victory at The Belfry, the England Rugby new agreement for the four UK live packages is Union teams record-breaking run of victories against 1,024 million over three years.
the Southern Hemisphere sides in both the Autumn Internationals and Summer Tour, and the Cricket Sky Movies share of viewing for the year within World Cup.
The live Premiership match between multichannel homes was 3.6%, with Saturday Arsenal and Manchester United in April attracted Premieres continuing to perform strongly.
From June 2003 there has been a shift in emphasis in movie scheduling away from weekday slots and towards the weekend line-ups.
A record number of Megahits were broadcast this year, almost triple the number shown five years ago.
Skys innovative use of multiplexes to allow a film to be shown at multiple start times on the same day has proven to be very popular, generating 1.8 million viewers for Jurassic Park III and 1.3 million viewers for Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone.
01 SKY IS CHANGING THE WAY OUR CUSTOMERS EXPERIENCE TV 02 SKYS WIDE RANGE OF INTERACTIVE SERVICES OFFERS SOMETHING FOR ALL THE FAMILY 03 WITH SKY, KIDS CAN GET THEIR OWN EXTRA DIGIBOX TO CATCH THE SHOWS THEY WANT TO WATCH 400 our ARPU target British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 7 Operating and Financial Review continued 3,186m Total revenue increased by 15% in the year to 3,186m Financial Review Turnover Total revenue for the year grew by 15% increase was principally due to the success of Analysis of turnover 2002 03 to 3,186 million, driven by further strong DTH interactive advertising and Sky Buy.
Interactive revenue growth and continued growth in advertising advertising is demonstrating strong potential, with Direct-to-home 74% subscribers and interactive revenues.
revenue increasing 54% on the comparable period.
Cable 6% subscribers DTH revenue, which now accounts for 74% of total Other revenue for the year increased by 8% to Advertising 9% turnover 2002: 69%, grew by 21% to 2,341 million 141 million, primarily due to hardware-related Interactive 7% for the year.
This growth reflects the 14% increase revenue on the sale of Sky and Extra Digiboxes.
Other 4% in the average number of DTH subscribers and an increase in the non-interactive component of ARPU, Programming costs Programming costs largely driven by the change to Skys UK retail prices increased by 11% to 1,604 million, principally as a in January 2003, but also by the introduction of new result of contractual increases in sports costs and products such as Sky and the Extra Digibox.
volume-related increases in movie and third party Analysis of operating costs 2002 03 Before goodwill and exceptional items channel costs.
Cable revenues, which account for 6% of total Programming 57% revenue 2002: 8%, fell by 11% on the comparable Sports costs, which represent 45% of total Transmission & 5% period, with the number of UK cable homes and the programming spend 2002: 46%, increased by related functions average number of premium channels taken by each 60 million to 723 million.
This was principally Marketing 14% cable subscriber falling.
Sky announced, on 23 June driven by contractual increases in rights costs and Subscriber 2003, that it had concluded an agreement for the the costs of non-annual events such as the Ryder management 12% supply of nine basic Sky channels to ntl, effective Cup and the Cricket World Cup.
Contractual Administration 8% until the end of 2006. increases were partly offset by savings achieved Betting 4% by the decisions made not to renew agreements The termination of ITV Digitals digital terrestrial to broadcast UEFA Cup and Scottish Premier TV DTT operation on 30 April 2002 has resulted League football, and Six Nations Rugby.
in a one-off reduction in total wholesale revenue of around 19%.
An increase in movie costs of 37 million to 397 million reflected the increase in the average number Skys advertising revenue continued to outperform of movie subscribers, around a 30% increase in the the market with a 13% increase on the comparable number of output titles qualifying as Megahits over period to 284 million, principally reflecting the benefit the comparable period, and contractual increases.
from strong share deals negotiated with advertising The increase was offset by savings resulting from agencies for calendar year 2003, and strong growth in the continued weakness of the US dollar.
Sky currently expects this above-market growth to continue for at least the DTH distribution fees paid to third party channels remainder of the calendar year.
rose by 54 million to 351 million, due to the increased number of subscribers, contractual per Interactive applications continue to contribute to subscriber fee increases and small changes to the Skys revenue growth, with total interactive revenue channel line-up.
These increases were partly offset increasing by 17% to 218 million, of which by savings generated by the renewal, on improved 117 million related to Sky Bet, Skys wholly-owned terms, of contracts with Flextech and UKTV five-year bookmaker.
The increase in betting revenue was agreements from January 2002, Sci-Fi a two-year driven by a threefold increase over the comparable extendable agreement from November 2002 and period in the total volume of bets placed to over 15 Cartoon Network a five-year agreement from million, of which 12 million were interactive television January 2003.
In all cases, savings of at least bets.
Sky Active revenue amounted to 101 million, 15% on the pence per subscriber cost of channel increasing by 11% on the comparable period.
8 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Entertainment programming costs increased by Exceptional items During the comparable period, 9 million to 94 million, principally due to the the Group made an exceptional operating provision scheduling of new acquired programming and the of 22 million against the wholesale revenues that EPS before goodwill launch of four new Sky channels during the year it was owed by ITV Digital.
During the year, the and exceptional items Sky One Mix, Flaunt, The Amp and Scuzz.
Group received a payment amounting to 5 million increases to Operating costs of Sky News rose by 5 million to of this debt, generating a credit to the profit and 39 million, driven predominantly by the additional loss account.
This operating exceptional item has costs of coverage of the conflict in Iraq.
been included within operating profit.
Other operating costs Transmission and related The Group has also made a provision against some costs before exceptional items decreased by of its minority equity investments.
This has led to a 10.5pence 4 million to 143 million, mainly due to reductions net non-cash exceptional charge of 15 million, in technical operations costs through transponder which is accounted for below operating profit.
The Group recognised an exceptional deferred tax Marketing costs at 401 million declined by credit of 123 million during the year see Taxation 16 million on the comparable period despite section below.
broadly the same number of digital installations.
SAC was 207, representing a reduction of 27 Joint Ventures The Groups share of net operating on the comparable period.
The reduction was due profits in joint ventures increased to 3 million in the to the combination of reduced hardware costs, an period, an increase of 80 million on the comparable increase in install revenues and a greater proportion period, principally reflecting the cessation of equity of direct acquisitions.
accounting for the Groups share of losses incurred by KirchPayTV from 8 February 2002.
Subscriber management costs increased by 33 million to 324 million.
Subscriber management Taxation The net tax credit for the period includes costs comprise two main activities: customer a current pre-exceptional tax charge of 85 million relationship management CRM costs associated and a deferred tax credit of 3 million which is with managing the existing subscriber base: and included within the total 28 million non-exceptional supply chain costs relating to systems and deferred tax credit due to the Group generating infrastructure and the hardware costs of new profits chargeable to corporation tax in this fiscal products purchased by subscribers, such as Sky year.
Before the effect of goodwill, joint ventures and Extra Digiboxes.
As a result of customer and exceptional items, this results in an underlying contact centre efficiencies and lower incoming call effective tax rate of 31%, slightly higher than the volumes, CRM costs per subscriber have fallen by UK statutory rate due to a number of standard 15%, leading to an absolute cost reduction of 3% disallowable items.
over the comparable period to 148 million.
Supply chain costs increased by 28% over the comparable As a result of the significant investment made period to 176 million, reflecting the growth in the in digital, and the resultant losses incurred, the number of Sky and Extra Digiboxes and costs Group has accumulated significant tax losses within associated with the smartcard swap-out as part of different Group companies.
Under the UK Accounting Standard FRS19, a Administration costs before goodwill and exceptional deferred tax asset in respect of these tax losses items increased by 33 million to 236 million, may only be recognised in the Groups balance 01 including increases in insurance costs and disaster sheet at the point when it is more likely than not 02 recovery planning costs.
that there will be sufficient future taxable profits to offset the tax losses thereby being capitalised.
Betting costs increased by 20 million to 108 million, directly as a result of the continued As the Groups and individual entities profitability strong growth in betting revenues.
has continued to rise it has become increasingly possible to satisfy the requirements of FRS19.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and During the six months ended 31 December 2002, amortisation before exceptional items EBITDA for the Group recognised a 40 million deferred tax the year increased by 72% to 469 million.
asset, principally as a result of the forecast future profitability of one of the Groups trading subsidiaries.
Goodwill Goodwill amortisation increased by 01 Sky continues to enhance its games portal, Sky Gamestar.
Increased usage of pay-to-play games contributed to an 3 million on the comparable period to 122 million.
Subsequently, following a review of the forecast 11% increase in Sky Active revenues in 2003.
This increase was largely due to a 5 million utilisation of tax losses within the Group, and as a provision against goodwill which originally arose consequence of a planned reorganisation of certain 02 Interactive advertising is demonstrating strong potential.
Sky has run more than 300 interactive campaigns for 120 on the acquisition of Opta Index Limited Opta.
assets within the Group, the Directors have been different clients, helping advertisers to connect with their This provision was made as a result of the Groups able to conclude that the required FRS19 conditions core target audiences via the Sky platform.
announcement in December 2002 that it would have also now been satisfied in respect of other close Opta and the carrying value of this goodwill tax losses in the Group, permitting the Group to has been reduced to nil.
The Group is currently in recognise a further deferred tax asset of 123 million, negotiations to sell or license some or all of Optas which has been treated as an exceptional tax credit assets to a third party.
This brings the total deferred tax British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 9 Operating and Financial Review continued asset recognised within the year to 151 million, net Net interest costs of 115 million decreased by This year Sky of utilisation and an adjustment arising from the prior 22 million on the comparable period due to period.
Following this recognition, the Group has lower levels of indebtedness and lower average generated a no further significant unrecognised UK losses, and interest rates.
therefore, over the long-term, the Groups ongoing net operating UK tax charge in the profit and loss account is Returns to shareholders On 5 May 1999, expected to continue at a rate of around 31%.
it was announced that the Board had decided cash inflow of to suspend dividend payments to shareholders.
After the 85 million current pre-exceptional tax Accordingly, no dividends have been paid or charge for the period, the 151 million deferred tax proposed since that date.
credit, the tax charge on exceptional items 1 million and Skys share of joint ventures tax 2 million, the 664m net tax credit for the period was 63 million.
Balance sheet During the period, 45 million of Advanced Financing Corporation Tax ACT brought forward was utilised The Groups principal sources of liquidity are to reduce the Groups cash tax liability.
operating cash flow, combined with access to the aggregate 800 million 2002: 1,050 million Earnings The Group has recorded the first full year revolving credit facilities, described in more detail of positive earnings since the launch of Sky digital below.
Long-term funding comes primarily from US after generating a profit after tax of 190 million.
dollar and sterling-denominated public bond debt, With the weighted average number of ordinary which are described in more detail below.
shares outstanding during the year excluding those shares held by the ESOP Trust at 1,915 million, Revolving Credit Facilities RCFs earnings per share before goodwill and exceptional On 20 March 2003 the Group signed a new, items of 10.5 pence per share was achieved, five-year 600 million RCF.
The new facility was compared to a loss per share of 2.7 pence for used to cancel the Groups 750 million facility, the comparable period.
originally due to mature in June 2004, and will be used for general corporate purposes.
In addition, Cash flow and interest With EBITDA of the Groups existing 300 million facility was 469 million, exceptional items of 5 million and voluntarily reduced to 200 million and will cash generated from the movement in working mature, as before, in June 2004.
Available capital of 191 million, the Group generated facilities, therefore, now total 800 million, and 664 million of net operating cash inflow.
This will reduce to 600 million from June 2004, in line represents the conversion of 179% of operating with the anticipated reduced capital requirements profit before goodwill and exceptional items to of the Group, which has been cash flow positive cash inflow.
After taking into account cash since January 2002. outflows principally comprising net cash interest payments of 125 million, capital expenditure of Under the terms of the 200 million facility, interest 98 million and tax paid of 18 million, net debt accrues at between 0.500% and 1.750% per decreased by 423 million in the period, from annum above the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate 1,528 million to 1,105 million.
At 30 June 2003, LIBOR, depending on the Groups credit rating.
leverage the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 2.4 Under the terms of the 600 million facility, interest times, and interest cover the ratio of EBITDA to is fixed at 1.125% per annum above LIBOR net interest payable was 4.1 times.
until June 2004, and thereafter accrues at rates between 0.600% and 1.125% per annum above Despite the continued growth of the business, Sky LIBOR, depending on the Groups ratio of net debt generated cash from the movement in working to EBITDA, provided that the rate does not fall capital this year due to a combination of one-off below 0.700% per annum prior to 20 March 2006. factors for example the unwinding of prepayments At 30 June 2003, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA of certain sports rights and factors which will was 2.4 2002: 5.6.
Interest cover the ratio of continue to apply as the business continues to grow.
EBITDA to net interest payable was 4.1 2002: The latter includes Skys subscription collection 2.0.
The Group currently expects these ratios to cycle, and the payment in arrears for certain continue to improve.
programming costs, such as those incurred in respect of the carriage of third party channels.
Guaranteed notes During the current and prior year the Group Other recurring components of the positive working also had in issue the following publicly traded capital movement include the reversal, over time, guaranteed notes: of prepayments made for Skys long-term satellite transponder leases, and the accounting treatment US$300 million, 7.300% Guaranteed Notes, for certain share-based employee remuneration repayable in October 2006.
The Group entered schemes which, under UK GAAP, result in charges into swap transactions to convert the US dollar to the profit and loss account, despite being nonproceeds to pounds sterling, of which half carries cash in nature.
a fixed rate of interest of 8.384% until maturity.
The remainder was fixed at 7.940% until 15 April 2002, and at 6.130% for the remaining life of the Notes.
10 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 100 million, 7.750% Guaranteed Notes and Treasury policy and risk management The US$650 million, 8.200% Guaranteed Notes, both Groups treasury function is responsible for raising repayable in July 2009.
The proceeds of the finance for the Groups operations, together with US dollar Notes were swapped at inception into managing foreign exchange, interest rate and pounds sterling at a fixed rate of 7.653% per counterparty risks.
In December 2002 and March 2003, conducted within a framework of policies and the Group amended the terms relating to 63.5 guidelines authorised and reviewed by both the million of these swap arrangements, the effect of Audit Committee and the Board, who receive which was to fix the interest rate on 63.5 million regular updates of treasury activity.
Derivative at 5.990% until January 2004, after which time it instruments are transacted for risk management will revert to floating six months LIBOR plus a purposes only.
It is the Groups policy that all margin of 3.390%.
hedging is to cover known risks and that no trading in financial instruments is undertaken.
Regular and US$600 million, 6.875% Guaranteed Notes, frequent reporting to management is required for all repayable in February 2009.
The US dollar transactions and exposures and the internal control proceeds have been swapped into pounds environment is subject to periodic review by the sterling at a fixed rate of 8.200% per annum.
The amount of cash Skys state of the art facilities at its headquarters in Osterley, West London, help our journalists to be first placed with any one institution is restricted to with breaking news.
Fixed and current assets ensure counterparty risks are minimised.
Intangible assets decreased by 121 million, from 657 million to 536 million, due to the amortisation The Groups principal market risks are its exposures of goodwill and the provision against Opta goodwill.
to changes in interest rates and currency exchange Intangible assets mainly comprise the goodwill that rates, which arise both from the Groups sources of arose on the acquisitions of British Interactive finance and from its operations.
Following evaluation Broadcasting Holdings Limited BiB, Sports of those positions, the Group selectively enters into Internet Group plc SIG and WAPTV.
derivative financial instruments to manage these exposures.
Interest rate swaps are used to hedge Tangible fixed assets increased in the period interest rate risks, forward rate agreements to by 3 million, mainly due to 101 million of hedge transactional currency exposures and crossadditions, including investment in customercurrency interest rate swaps to hedge exposures facing technology, improvement in web-based on long term foreign currency debt.
technology and improved back-up facilities, partly offset by depreciation of 98 million.
Fixed asset Interest rate management The Group has investments decreased by 20 million, mainly financial exposures to both sterling and US dollar due to the further provision against our minority interest rates, arising primarily from bank borrowings investments in football clubs of 21 million and long-term bonds.
These exposures are managed made at 31 December 2002.
Subsequently, by borrowing at fixed and variable rates of interest the Group reduced its provision against its and by using interest rate swaps to manage investment in Chelsea Village plc at 30 June 2003 exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
The principal by 3 million, following the agreement to sell method of hedging interest rate risk is to enter into its minority investment in July 2003. cross-currency swap arrangements, the effects of which are to fix the Groups sterling interest costs Net current assets decreased by 88 million, at certain rates.
The majority of these arrangements principally caused by an increase in creditor relate to the Groups US dollar-denominated debt balances, mainly due to the increase in deferred and provide for the exchange, at specified intervals, subscription revenues resulting from an increased of fixed-rate amounts of dollars in return for fixedsubscriber base: a decrease in debtors due to the rate amounts of sterling.
All of the Groups debt amortisation of the FAPL prepayment: and a exposure is denominated in sterling after crossdecrease in non-programming stock due to currency swaps are taken into account: however the utilisation of set-top box stocks outweighing at 30 June 2003, the split of aggregate borrowings purchases in the period.
into its core currencies was US dollar 84% and sterling 16%.
Reserves British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the The Group also enters into sterling interest rate Company had a deficit of 1,120 million swap arrangements which provide for the exchange, on its company-only profit and loss reserve at at specified intervals, of the difference between fixed 30 June 2003.
In order to improve the presentation rates and variable rates, calculated by reference to of the Companys balance sheet, and give the an agreed notional sterling amount.
The fair value of Company greater flexibility in any future distribution interest rate and cross currency swaps held as of policy, the Directors intend to propose a resolution 30 June 2003 was approximately 7 million in the at the Annual General Meeting to eliminate the Groups favour.
30 June 2002: 60 million in the deficit by reducing the Companys share premium Groups favour.
In order for this to take effect, the reduction will require the subsequent approval of the High Court.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 11 Operating and Financial Review continued The Groups exposure to floating interest rates During the year, surplus euros were exchanged for is currently limited to drawings upon its revolving sterling on currency spot markets.
In the twelve credit bank facilities.
At 30 June 2003 bank facility months to 30 June 2003, euro 59 million 2002: drawings represented 7% of the Groups total debt euro 55 million was exchanged at spot rates for 30 June 2002: 32%.
93% of the Groups total debt sterling.
A further euro 30 million has been retained to at 30 June 2003 is fixed-rate after taking account of meet obligations under forward foreign exchange interest rate swaps 30 June 2002: 87%.
contracts for the puchase of Swiss francs.
see below To ensure continuity of funding, the Groups policy During the period, the Group acquired the pay is to ensure that available funding matures over a TV rights to certain UEFA Champions League period of years.
At 30 June 2003, 47% of the football matches from the 2003 04 season to the Groups available funding was due to mature in end of the 2005 06 season.
Payments in respect of more than five years 30 June 2002: 42%.
these rights will be made pursuant to the contract in Swiss francs, which means that the Group will be Currency exchange rates The Groups revenues exposed to the Swiss franc pound sterling exchange are substantially denominated in pounds sterling, rate.
In line with the Groups policy of limiting foreign Reach for the Sky Live is a series of two-day residential although a significant proportion of operating costs exchange transactions to fixed price instruments, all courses held across the UK, focusing on careers in sport, is denominated in US dollars.
In the year to 30 June of this exposure for 2003 04 CHF 99 million has entertainment and journalism.
15 and 16 year-olds have the 2003, 15% of operating costs 424 million were been hedged via the use of forward contracts for the opportunity to meet and talk to people in the business, gain hands-on experience of relevant activities and find out denominated in US dollars 30 June 2002: 15%: exchange of euros and Swiss francs.
These costs relate mainly to the Groups long term programming contracts with Corporate responsibility The centrepiece of the US suppliers.
Groups community activities, Reach for the Sky, attracted 3,875 young people at events where they The Group currently manages its US dollar pound were able to build their confidence and learn new sterling exchange risk exposure by the purchase of skills in motivating surroundings.
The programme forward foreign exchange agreements for up to was a finalist in Business in the Community Awards 18 months ahead.
All forward rate agreements are for Excellence.
A major new disablility strategy has in respect of firm commitments only, and represent been launched to ensure that disabled people can approximately 90% of dollar-denominated costs access all areas of the Group, including its services, over the relevant 18 month period.
At 30 June 2003, the Group had outstanding Sky is a member of the FTSE4Good Index and the commitments to purchase in aggregate Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
These indices are US$903 million at average rates of US$1.493 limited to companies that can prove they are respectively to 1.00.
Although these financial working towards goals such as positive stakeholder instruments can mitigate the effect of short-term relationships and environmental sustainability.
fluctuations in exchange rates, there can be no effective or complete hedge against long-term Employee share option schemes The Group currency fluctuations.
manages its risk in respect of certain employee share option schemes through a dedicated Our primary euro exposure arises as a result of Employee Share Option Plan, which purchases revenues generated from our subscribers in the the Companys shares in the open market from Republic of Ireland.
These euro-denominated time to time.
revenues are offset to a certain extent by eurodenominated costs, relating mainly to certain The accounting policies in respect of market risk transponder rentals, which results in a euro surplus.
sensitive instruments are disclosed in the financial statements in Notes 1, 21 and 25.
Going concern The Directors consider that the operating cash flows of the Group, together with its own bank facilities, will be sufficient to cover the Groups projected operating requirements and to settle or refinance the Groups other liabilities as they fall due.
Accordingly, the accounts are prepared on a going concern basis.
ID LIKE TO PAY TRIBUTE TO ALL THE DIGITAL PLATFORMS WHO HAVE 11 August 2003 NOW FOUND SPACE FOR THE COMMUNITY CHANNEL ON THEIR PLATFORMS.
I KNOW SKY WAS THERE FIRST AND THE CHANNEL IS ENORMOUSLY GRATEFUL FOR THE START THAT SKY GAVE.
Tessa Jowell MP, Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport.
12 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
