16 OPERATIONAL REVIEW RISK & INSURANCE OUR FOCUS IS ON QUALITY IN EVERY ASPECT OF OUR BUSINESS Risk & Insurance provides specialist insurance broking and risk management services to a wide range of companies, including some of the largest corporations in the world.
For our clients, we design, structure and implement risk-transfer programmes.
Our expertise helps make insurance an integral element of their corporate strategy.
Risk & Insurance Risk Solutions USA Asia 31.2m Accident and health JLT USA Australia & New Zealand 48.8m Aviation insurance Capital Risk Brazil 1.4m Aviation reinsurance JLT Re Solutions Canada 13.2m Captive management Intermediary Insurance Services Risk Solutions 217.3m Cargo UK Ireland 40.9m Claims Asia Turnover 352.8m Energy Hong Kong China Financial risks Indonesia Global liability & risk finance Japan Industry risks Korea Marine insurance Malaysia Marine P&I Philippines Marine reinsurance Singapore Non-marine reinsurance Taiwan Property Thailand US casualty & healthcare Vietnam Agnew Higgins Pickering Australia & New Zealand Bermuda & Cayman Affinity Risk services Europe Corporate risks Corporate risks UK Ireland Natural resources & construction Associate SIACI Group France Americas Canada Brazil Operational review 17 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Risk & Insurance In 2003, JLT Risk Solutions acquired US The Risk & Insurance Group encompasses high quality teams in property and aviation Our goal is to build Capital Risk, our US JLTs worldwide insurance and reinsurance insurance, significantly strengthening our based specialty retail insurance broking broking and risk management services.
position in these important sectors.
Both of operation, so it can successfully compete These businesses continued to make good these London based teams were acquired in against the giant global broking firms.
progress in 2003. the last quarter of the year and consequently Substantial progress was made in 2003 had little impact on revenue for 2003, but towards achieving this aim.
Revenue from continuing operations position us well for 2004. increased by 12% to 352.8 million for the In the first quarter Capital Risk acquired year 12% at constant rates of exchange.
JLT Risk Solutions Bermuda operation Texas Specialty and, at the end of the Trading profit was 94.4 million, 8% ahead achieved excellent growth in 2003 and year, acquired HCCs specialty life, accident of 2002, giving a trading margin of 27% continues to be a strong performer in and health insurance broking business.
compared to 28% in the prior year.
a vibrant market, with all business areas Capital Risk now covers nine specialist Profit before tax for the Risk & Insurance moving forward significantly.
disciplines and is headed up by a team of Group was 110.3 million, up from 105.9 highly respected practitioners with a proven million, an increase of 4%.
The business model of JLT Risk Solutions track record of success.
At the end of the is evolving as we see the opportunity to year we also took the opportunity to buy out JLT Risk Solutions build a more broadly based business the minority interest in this business.
Our largest business, JLT Risk Solutions, going forward.
achieved 10% revenue growth in 2003 at To continue this momentum and to constant rates of exchange.
The trading To underpin our strategic focus within maximise synergies between our US margin was 28%, as opposed to 31% in JLT Risk Solutions, from 1st January, 2004 insurance and reinsurance businesses, 2002, largely due to the significant investment John Lloyd has assumed the role of we announced in January this year the made in new teams and acquisitions.
Chairman, whilst Dominic Collins continues formation of JLT USA.
This is the holding as Chief Executive.
John and Dominic have company for our US risk and insurance In London, accident & health, casualty, worked together for over twenty years and businesses under the leadership of energy, industry risks and non-marine make an effective and influential team.
John Molbeck as Chief Executive.
Our relatively new financial & professional UK Ireland retail Australia and New Zealand risks business grew substantially whilst Our mid-market retail broking activities in Australia and New Zealand had another Agnew Higgins Pickering again achieved the UK and Ireland had a strong year with an excellent year in 2003, with revenue up excellent results.
18% increase in revenue 17% at constant 27% 16% at constant rates of exchange rates of exchange and a continued to 48.8 million and a trading margin By comparison, our high margin aviation and improvement in trading margin from 21% to of 28% 25% in 2002. marine reinsurance broking businesses in 22%.
During 2003, we strengthened our UK London and our reinsurance business in the mid-market business with the acquisition JLT has over 20 offices, through which US underperformed.
This was mainly as a of Thomas Winter Insurance Brokers, it provides core services of affinity, consequence of the hard market and its further demonstrating our commitment corporate risks, natural resources & impact on reinsurance buying as key to this sector.
construction, and risk services, all of which insurance groups restructured their achieved very good growth.
programmes and, in many cases, spent less Our mid-market retail broking activities on reinsurance and substantially increased currently operate out of 11 key locations Risk Services once again performed strongly, retentions.
This trend, which impacted us across the UK and Ireland.
particularly in the areas of liability mutuals in 2003, was even more pronounced at reinsurance programmes and administration the 1st January, 2004 renewal season and, of workers compensation claims.
together with the weakness of the US dollar, will have a negative effect on the results, Strategic Claims Solutions achieved good particularly in the first half of 2004. penetration through the acquisition of major contracts and this is a key growth area for 2004.
Professional & Executive Risk Services had its first full year of operation in 2003 and achieved excellent growth.
18 Asia Brazil Latin America In Asia JLT's revenue grew 4% to Whilst our Brazilian operation contracted 31.2 million 13% at constant rates of marginally in 2003, we remain committed exchange with a trading margin of 24% to the business and believe Latin America up from 22% in 2002.
These results as a region provides many opportunities for represent an extremely robust performance, the Group.
particularly given the difficult economic conditions that affected so much of the region In this regard, JLT is currently in exclusive in 2003 due to the impact of the SARS virus.
discussions with Heath Lambert Holdings Across the specialist businesses, natural regarding the possible acquisition of its resources, financial solutions and construction majority shareholdings in certain of its performed strongly.
Geographically, insurance and reinsurance broking companies Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia and the in Latin America.
These discussions are still Philippines all enjoyed significant levels of at a relatively early stage and remain subject new business success.
to contract and due diligence.
Should this proceed, the consideration would be Successful initiatives include the development satisfied in cash.
of risk management software tools in Singapore and our claims management SIACI business in Hong Kong.
Our French associate SIACI continued to achieve good results in 2003.
For the third consecutive year JLT was voted Their contribution to Group operating profit Asia's Broker of the Year by an independent increased by 21% to 5.9 million 11% at panel of judges at the Asia Insurance Awards.
After the effect of interest payable, their contribution to Group Canada pre-tax profit increased by 30% to 5.0 million Canada had a successful year, increasing 19% at constant rates of exchange.
The reduction in trading margins to 18% from 20% in 2002 reflects the investment we are making to build the business for the future.
This included the strengthening of the senior management team and the acquisition of a forestry insurance specialist in September 2003.
Strong growth was achieved through our public sector accounts and in the areas of oil & gas, mining and utilities.
