122 Local exchange concentrator Local exchange processor Main exchange switching Remote - local transmission link Remote - local transmission length Local - tandem transmission link Local - tandem transmission length Inter - tandem transmission link Inter - tandem transmission length Total call conveyance unit cost - floor Total call conveyance unit cost - CCA FAC Total call conveyance unit cost - ceiling National operator assistance International operator assistance Emergency operator assistance 999 Public payphones line Public payphones operation Inland private circuits BT only other Multifunction Total component cost - floor Total component cost - CCA FAC Total component cost - ceiling Recovery volume Floor unit cost CCA FAC unit cost Ceiling unit cost Notes to the Statements of costs and charges for Standard Services Notes to the Statements of costs and charges for Standard Services The footnotes to the Standard Services Statements are given on page The footnotes to the Standard Services Statements are given on page 127 127 BT is required by Condition 78 of the Licence to prepare Statements of costs same as those for services within the baskets to which the BT to BT and charges for Standard Services.
It is also required by Condition 78.7A to service is associated.
Details of the costs and amounts applied to have each of these statements audited.
Condition 83 of the Licence requires sticks are shown on pages 111 and 121.
BT to treat Access Network Facilities as Standard Services.
Other than as disclosed in note 1 below, Statements of costs and charges for Standard 3.
The Statements of costs and charges of Standard Services show the Services have been presented for all standard services except where the consent of the Director General of Telecommunications for non-disclosure average charges for Standard Services, their usage of the Network components, the distributed long run incremental cost D LRIC has been received.
floor of those components and the distributed stand alone cost D SAC ceiling of those components.
The cost floor and cost ceiling 1.
Charges by the Network Business to the BT Retail Systems and BT of the Standard Services are derived by applying usage factors to the Retail Narrowband Access Businesses and Other Licenced Operators component D LRIC and D SAC.
The actual floors and ceilings of are made on the basis of their usage of the network.
This usage is Standard Services would, if calculated, be lower and higher respectively defined in terms of Standard Services, which, except where dispensation than the values shown in these Statements.
has been received from Oftel, are reported on pages 103 to 122.
The charges for these Standard Services, which vary by time of day, are 4.
The average charges are calculated using charges and volumes by time independent of the identity of the purchaser of that service.
The charges of day, where applicable.
The floors and ceilings are calculated by for Standard Services are based on Oftels P0 charges as subsequently dividing the total incremental or stand alone cost by the total volume amended in accordance with the requirements of the Network Charge without taking into account any time of day weighting.
The basis for calculating usage is identical for the Retail Systems and Retail Narrowband Access Businesses and Other Licenced Operators.
The usage factors used to calculate the cost floor and ceiling of the Standard Services are the actual usage factors for the year, which are not necessarily the same as those used in the calculation of the average 2.
Conveyance Standard Services charges or in the P0s.
i Where a component is used by more than one service in a basket the amount applied for that component is the same for all services in that 6.
Components are only shown where relevant to the Standard Services or basket for the time period to which the charge is relevant.
Retail Sticks disclosed in the Statement.
ii If the average amounts applied by component within a basket are combined and usage factors applied for a service the result is not 7.
The costs of 999 and operator assistance non-chargeable inland are equal to the average charge for that service due to timing and recovered within certain Standard Services, having been calculated as weighting differences.
The cost of the PPSCCC is derived in a similar iii Where a transmission component is used only by a BT to BT service manner.
The use of the network by the Retail Systems Business as part a stick the amount applied by time of day and route factors are the 123
