Definitions of the Businesses continued Definitions of the Businesses continued Mobile Business Mobile Business The Mobile Business relates to the provision of Mobile telecommunications services.
On 19 November 2001, BT demerged mmO2, which comprised what were then BTs mobile assets in Europe.
The results of the Mobile Business shown in the Current Cost Financial Statements for the Businesses and activities 2002 are therefore of a discontinued activity.
However, during the year ended 31 March 2003, BT returned to the mobile market with activities such as mobility service provision and mobility agency re-seller services.
These new mobile activities are shown in the Mobile Business in the Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Apparatus Supply Business Apparatus Supply Business Comprises the rental and sale of customer premises equipment in the UK.
Supplemental Services Business Supplemental Services Business The Business relating to the supply of certain data and value added services.
Residual Business Residual Business The Business includes all of British Telecommunications plcs income, costs, assets and liabilities not included in the Retail Narrowband Access, Retail Systems, Mobile, Apparatus Supply and Supplemental Services Businesses.
This revenue relates primarily to specialist units, where the activities of these units fall outside the scope of BTs main licence.
This includes activities such as Syntegra, Teleconsult, overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures.
It also includes activities regulated under other licences, such as CBP Ltd and the ex-Concert activities still operating under the separate CNS licence.
126 Glossary of footnotes Glossary of footnotes Footnotes to the Network Statement of Costs Footnotes to the Network Statement of Costs d Usage factor for ST FRIACO Virtual Path assumed to be consistent with pricing methodology Virtual Path LECO circuit excl.
a These components include a number of different elements which are outgoing port ST LECO adjustment ratio outgoing port @ DLE used in different proportions for the delivery of services within this LTC adjustment ratio LTC circuit excl.
As a result, no single volume of usage can be applied and so adjustment ratio FRIACO port ppp.
Adjustment ratio taken as per no unit cost is derived.
pricing assumptions since volumes are too low to permit reliable measurement.
b mm million minutes: ms million seconds: L lines: trans transactions: cust customers: r rooms: ca cables: cct circuits: e Part of Core IN & Cambridge IN as shown in the Network Statement km kilometres.
See also note9 on page 124. c Unit of length is 10km.
f Costs and charges associated with PSTN, ISDN, PRS, Freefone, local call fee & national call fee are all the same.
d This component is directly allocated to a single activity within the BT Retail Businesses.
No apportionment is required and volumes are not g Zero volumes are attributed therefore an average price is shown.
h Includes revenue and costs for DQ118 with effect from December e This component has been discontinued for the year ending 31 March 2002.
2003. i This is the standard service charge applied to those services using f For those components included in core, the floors are distributed the Pathfinder system, on a non-discriminatory basis.
For other network components, the j System set-up of 25.34 is included in the connection charge.
floors are long run incremental costs.
k The services disclosed represent bundles of PPC standard services g The ceilings are distributed stand alone costs.
which do not correspond directly to the basis of charging for standard service hence a comparable average charge cannot be derived.
l See note 10 to the Statements of costs and charges for Standard Footnotes to the Notes to the Current Cost Financial Statements and the Footnotes to the Notes to the Current Cost Financial Statements and the Services.
Statements of costs and charges for Standard Services Statements of costs and charges for Standard Services m See note 8 to the Statements of costs and charges for Standard Services.
a Zero volumes are attributed therefore an average price is shown.
b Cost per DLE port independent of direction concentrator or network facing.
o These units are the per annum average charge for 2mb circuits.
c Usage factor for DLE FRIACO Virtual Path assumed to be consistent p mm million minutes: ms million seconds: L lines: trans with pricing methodology Virtual Path LECO circuit excl.
FRIACO transactions: cust customers: r rooms: ca cables: cct circuits: port DLE LECO adjustment ratio FRIACO port ppp.
km kilometres: ct2 2mb circuits: lk links: le local ends.
Adjustment ratio taken to be average outturn value for year.
127 Glossary of footnotes continued Glossary of footnotes continued q Not used.
r British Telecommunications plc is no longer required to publish the Group Current Cost Financial Statements.
s BT's definition of mean capital employed includes short term investments calculated on a daily average basis rather than a simple mean of opening and closing balances.
t The opening and closing capital employed has been adjusted to reflect the demerger of mm02, the sale of Yell and the sale of property to Telereal, to derive the mean capital employed see note 2.
The total adjustment constitutes both the HCA closing capital employed adjustment of 9,910m as previously reported and the CCA effect of these adjustments of 140m previously reported within the CCA adjustment.
128 Glossary of terms Glossary of terms Access Network Access Network Services purchased by other operators under 131.
This sets out the detailed processes by which Facilities ANF Facilities ANF Condition 83 of BTs Licence.
revenues and costs are attributed to the Businesses and activities.
Accounting Accounting Set out the framework within which the Current Documents Documents Cost Financial Statements are prepared see also DQ DQ Directory Enquiries.
DVM DVM The Detailed Valuation Methodology see also page Annual Report Annual Report The BTs Group Financial Statements for the year 131.
This sets out the methodology by which ended 31 March.
These are available on the BT current cost valuations are obtained.
FRIACO FRIACO Flat Rate Internet Access Call Origination.
Applicable rate of Applicable rate of Rate of return on capital which is included in the Goodwill Goodwill The excess of purchase consideration over the fair return return calculation of costs of the Network Business.
value of the net assets acquired.
ASB ASB BT Apparatus Supply Business.
Hybrid Adjustment Hybrid Adjustment Oftel has required BT exclude redundancy costs Baskets Baskets Baskets are collections of services not considered from the results of the Network Business.
This to be competitive and for which the rates are adjustment is known as a Hybrid Adjustment.
subject to specific charge controls.
LLU LLU Local Loop Unbundling.
Long Run Incremental Long Run Incremental Defined as the cost caused by the provision of a Corporate costs Corporate costs Where there is some corporate overhead Cost LRIC Cost LRIC defined increment of output given that costs can, if expenditure for which no specific apportionment necessary, be varied and that some level of output base can be readily derived, the costs are is already produced see also page 131. apportioned to Businesses or activities so as to Mean capital Mean capital Mean capital employed is defined as total assets reflect the value added by management effort, as employed employed less current liabilities, excluding corporate taxes reflected in the pay, tangible fixed asset and and dividends payable, and provisions other than investment costs within the Businesses or activities.
The mean is computed Current cost CCA Current cost CCA The change to historical costs arising from the from the start and end values for the period, except adjustments adjustments revaluation of assets on a current cost basis.
In the in the case of short-term investments and statements for individual Businesses and activities borrowings, where daily averages are used in their the adjustments comprise the holding gains or place.
losses arising from changes in asset values, n a n a Not applicable.
together with the effect on asset values and depreciation of the appropriate allocation of current Network Charge Network Charge The basis on which interconnect charges have been cost asset values between Businesses and activties.
Control regime Control regime set with effect from 1 October 1997.
NCC NCC DAM DAM The Detailed Attribution Methods see also page 129 Glossary of terms continued Glossary of terms continued Network components Network components Within these statements, the term network RSB RSB BT Retail Systems Business.
components includes both network components and network parts.
Safeguard Caps Safeguard Caps Safeguard Caps are a collection of services considered prospectively competitive and for which Oftel Oftel Office of Telecommunications.
the rates are subject to specific charge controls.
Other operators Other operators Other telecommunication companies licensed to SSB SSB BT Supplemental Services Business.
operate in the UK, which purchase telecommunication services from BT under the Standard Services Standard Services Services purchased by other operators under the terms of Condition 69 of BTs Licence.
terms of Condition 69 of BTs Licence.
POLO POLO Payments to Other Licenced Operators.
Stand Alone Cost Stand Alone Cost The stand-alone cost of an activity or subset of SAC SAC activities is the cost incurred in providing that ppc ppc Pence per call.
activity or activities of services by itself.
Stand alone cost will include all direct variable, activity specific ppm ppm Pence per minute.
fixed costs, common fixed costs and joint costs PPP PPP Product management, policy and planning.
associated with the activity or subset of activities in question.
ppsec ppsec Pence per second.
Usage Factors Usage Factors Usage Factors refer to the usage of any network PPSCCC PPSCCC Public Payphone Supplementary Call Conveyance component, including conveyance components.
A numerical value of between 0.5m and 0.5 m. Relationships and Relationships and The BT publication Long Run Incremental Cost - - Parameters R&P Parameters R&P Model: Relationships and Parameters describes in detail how BT has applied the principles contained within the LRIC Methodology section of the Accounting Documents to construct cost volume relationships and to calculate LRIC.
The R&P also contains appendices which detail the relationships and parameters used within the model.
Return on mean Return on mean The returns on mean capital employed for the capital employed capital employed periods are calculated on an annualised basis.
Route Factors Route Factors Route Factors are expressions of network usage for the main network conveyance components.
RNAB RNAB BT Retail Narrowband Access Business.
130 Accounting Documents and other documentation Accounting Documents and other documentation Hard copies and CD Rom versions of the published Financial Statements for the Businesses and Activities, Accounting Documents and Detailed Attribution Methods, Detailed Valuation Methodology and Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters can be obtained from: BT Group Shareholder Helpline Tel Freefone 0808 100 4141 Fax 01903 833371 From outside the UK: Tel 44 121 433 4404 Fax 44 1903 833371 E-mail bt@lloydstsb-registrars.
co. uk The Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars 2450 The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom Website: http: www.
co. uk Copies of the above documents are also available from the following website: http: www.
com Corporateinformation Regulatory Financialstatements index.
htm 131 BT Group plc Registered office: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ Registered in England and Wales No.
4190816 Produced by BT Group in conjunction with Xansa plc www.
