Notes to the Current Cost Financial Statements Notes to the Current Cost Financial Statements The separate licence under which Concert operated in the UK still exists 1 1 Statutory accounts Statutory accounts and is held in the name of Communications Networking Service CNS, a These Current Cost Financial Statements, which are not statutory 100% owned subsidiary undertaking of BT Group plc.
From a regulatory accounts within the meaning of the Companies Act 1985, have been perspective, the transactions between BT plc and CNS continue to be prepared in accordance with the Accounting Documents, Detailed reported on an arms length basis consistent with the year ended 31 March Attribution Methodology, Detailed Valuation Methodology and Long Run 2002.
As such, the elements of the Concert network that have been Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters, all dated 19 returned to BT are shown in the Residual Business for the year ended 31 September 2003.
The comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2003.
March 2002 was prepared in accordance with the Accounting Documents, Detailed Attribution Methodology, Detailed Valuation Methodology and b b Sale of fixed asset investments and group undertakings Sale of fixed asset investments and group undertakings In January 2003, BT completed the sale of its 26% stake in Cegetel Groupe Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters, all SA to Vivendi Universal for 2.6 billion in cash.
After accounting for dated 6 December 2002 and in respect of the Residual Business to reflect goodwill written back from reserves, BT realised an HCA profit of the matter set out in note 3 f below.
The policies set out in the approximately 1.5 billion.
Accounting Documents dated 6 December 2002 used for the comparatives are consistent with those of the current period and appropriate In the 2003 financial year, BT also disposed of a number of non-core adjustments and disclosures have been made where this is not the case.
investments, including stakes in BskyB, Mediaset, Blu and SmarTone.
The Annual Report prepared for the Group headed by BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2003, on which the auditors made an unqualified In the Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March report, which did not contain a statement under Section 237 2 or 3 of 2003, the profit on the sale of fixed asset investments and Group the Companies Act 1985, has been delivered to the Registrar of undertakings is shown as an adjustment in the Reconciliation statement in Companies.
note 10. c c Property Property matters matters 2 2 Significant items within the 2003 Financial Statements: Significant items within the 2003 Financial Statements: In the third quarter of the 2003 financial year, BT provided 198 million against the costs of vacating and disposing of surplus London office space.
a Concert a Concert unwind and reintegration into BT unwind and reintegration into BT On 1 April 2002, the Concert global venture between BT and AT&T was This provision has been attributed in these Current Cost Financial unwound.
The results of the Residual Business for the year ended 31 Statements on the same basis as other BT Group accommodation costs.
March 2002 reflect a charge of 253m for the estimated Concert unwind costs including the impairment of Concert fixed assets and redundancy d Mobile Business d Mobile Business charges.
Following the demerger of its mobile assets and activities in the year ended 31 March 2002 BT returned to the mobile market during the year As a result of the unwind, BT has largely taken back into ownership those ended 31 March 2003.
The revenues and costs for these new activities are parts of Concert originally contributed to the joint venture.
BT has reported in the Mobile Business in the Current Cost Financial Statements acquired substantially all of Concerts managed services network for the year ended 31 March 2003. infrastructure in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Americas.
