Report of the Auditors Report of the Auditors whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial consent in writing.
Statements or the Standard Service Statements.
We report our opinion as to whether each of the Financial Statements is Basis of audit opinion fairly presented in accordance with the Accounting Documents and complies with the requirements of paragraph 78.6 of the Licence.
As explained in the Basis of preparation on pages 3 and 4, the Company also report whether, in forming that opinion, having reviewed the has, by agreement with BT Group plc, its ultimate parent company, Accounting Documents, DAM, DVM and R&P the DAM, DVM and R&P prepared the Financial Statements and the Standard Service Statements are appropriate to implement the principles contained in the Accounting by disaggregating balances recorded in the general ledgers and other Documents.
accounting records of BT Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group maintained in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and used, in 8.
We report our opinion as to whether each of the Standard Service accordance with that Act, for the preparation of the Companys statutory Statements is properly prepared in accordance with the relevant consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 March 2003 and procedures, defined in the Accounting Documents, DAM, DVM and 31 March 2002 the Statutory Financial Statements.
R&P and complies with the requirements of paragraph 78.6 c i of the Licence.
We also report whether, in forming our opinion, having 12.
We audited the Statutory Financial Statements on which we expressed reviewed the Accounting Documents, DAM, DVM and R&P, anything unqualified audit opinions.
In performing our audit of the Statutory has come to our attention that would lead us to conclude that the Financial Statements we carried out such tests of the transactions and principles and procedures contained in the Accounting Documents, balances recorded in the general ledgers and other accounting records DAM, DVM and R&P have not been properly applied in the preparation of the Group as we considered necessary to express those opinions.
This of the costs and charges disclosed in the Standard Service Statements.
included examination and evaluation of the Companys principal accounting and control systems in conjunction with the Companys 9.
In addition, we report if, in our opinion, the Introduction by the Internal Audit Department IAD, analytical review of key balances in Company, setting out the basis upon which the Financial Statements and conjunction with the Companys Finance Departments, assessment of the the Standard Service Statements have been prepared, is not consistent accuracy of the coding of transactions and balances, inquiries of with the Financial Statements or the Standard Service Statements, if the directors and managers of the Company, substantive tests of balances, Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not and transactions recorded in the Groups general ledgers and review and received all the information and explanations we require for our assessment of the work of IAD.
Our statutory audit work was performed examination, or if information specified by the Licence is not disclosed.
throughout the respective years and concluded upon signature of our opinions on the Statutory Financial Statements.
We read the Definitions of the Businesses and the Glossary of Terms subsequent examination of the Financial Statements and the Standard and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Service Statements, and in providing the opinions in paragraphs 19 and 9
