Report of the Auditors Report of the Auditors Report of the Auditors to British Telecommunications plc issued in accordance with the Continuation Notice issued to British Telecommunications Report of the Auditors to British Telecommunications plc issued in accordance with the Continuation Notice issued to British Telecommunications plc by the Director General of Telecommunications dated 23 July 2003. plc by the Director General of Telecommunications dated 23 July 2003.
Statements for the Network Business include the Statement of costs on a 1.
We have examined the financial statements for the Businesses and current cost basis, the Statements of costs on an incremental cost basis Activities the Financial Statements on pages 13 to 102 and the with and without Hybrid Adjustments and the Statement of Detailed Standard Service Statements on pages 103 to 124, which have been LRIC by Bands.
prepared under the current cost convention in accordance with: 3.
The Financial Statements include comparative information for the year the Continuation Notice issued to British Telecommunications plc ended 31 March 2002 first published on 6 December 2002, which in the Company by the Director General of Telecommunications respect of the Residual Business, has been restated to reflect the item dated 23 July 2003 the Continuation Notice.
The Continuation disclosed in note 3 f. Notice confirms that Condition 78.5 of the Licence dated 22 June 1984 as amended granted by the Secretary of State for Trade and 4.
The Standard Service Statements comprise separate statements of costs Industry to British Telecommunications plc continues to have effect and charges for the year ended 31 March 2003 for each of the Standard from 25 July 2003 and as set out in Schedule 1 to the Continuation Services disclosed on pages 103 to 122 and the related notes on pages Notice the Licence : 123 to 124.
Oftels Direction under the provisions of licence condition 78.14, Respective responsibilities of the Company and auditors regarding the regulatory Financial Statements of British Telecommunications plc dated 27 November 2002 the Direction : 5.
The Company is responsible for preparing and approving, as described on page 6, the Financial Statements and the Standard Service the Accounting Documents agreed the Company and the Director Statements.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are General of Telecommunications the Accounting Documents : established in the United Kingdom by the Licence, the Auditing and Practices Board and our professions ethical guidance.
the Detailed Attribution Methods DAM the Detailed Valuation 6.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the Standard Methodology DVM and the Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Service Statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Relationships and Parameters R&P.
requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been 2.
The Financial Statements comprise separate current cost financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2003 for each of the Businesses prepared for and only for the Company and for no other purpose.
We do listed on page 2 the Businesses and, insofar as each Business has not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into been disaggregated in terms of activities of the Business, each of the disaggregated activities listed on page 2 the Activities.
