Report of the Auditors Report of the Auditors principles of attribution.
The DAM, DVM and R&P contain only the Documents.
The Company has informed Oftel that attribution methods procedures describing how these high level principles are applied.
In and non-financial data sources will be subject to ongoing review and, forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the where deemed appropriate, improvement.
presentation of information in the Standard Service Statements.
As explained in Written Statement by the Director General of Telecommunications on page 5 the Company is required to file the 15.
In forming our opinion on the Financial Statements we also reviewed the Companys DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 19 September 2003 which Financial Statements and the Standard Service Statements with Oftel describe how the principles contained in the Accounting Documents prior to publication on 23 September 2003.
The Company is also required dated 19 September 2003 have been implemented.
Our review consisted to publish with the Financial Statements and Standard Service of reading the DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 19 September 2003 and Statements any written statement provided to the Company prior to considering whether each of the significant attribution and valuation publication made by the Director General of Telecommunications methodologies described in these documents are consistent with the commenting on the data in, the notes to, or the presentation of the principles described on pages 1 and 2 of the Accounting Documents Financial Statements and the Standard Service Statements.
Our dated 19 September 2003. examination was completed on 19 September 2003 on signature of this report.
Accordingly, our examination did not take account of the matters 16.
In forming our opinion on the Standard Service Statements we also which are the subject of ongoing discussion or any other matters which reviewed the Companys Accounting Documents, DAM, DVM and R&P may arise from Oftels review of the Financial Statements and which may all dated 19 September 2003.
Our review consisted of reading the be included in the Written Statement by the Director General of Accounting Documents, DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 19 September Telecommunications.
2003 and considering whether any of the principles and procedures described in these documents have not been properly applied in preparing the Standard Service Statements.
Opinion in respect of Businesses and Activities 17.
Many of the Groups revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are not 19.
In our opinion: directly identifiable with individual activities, and the preparation of the Financial Statements requires a significant number of apportionments.
a Each of the Financial Statements of each of the Businesses and each of As explained on pages 3 and 4 the Basis of preparation, in selecting the Activities complies with the requirements of paragraph 78.6 of the appropriate attribution methods and appropriate non-financial data for Licence: use within the attribution models employed in the production of the Financial Statements, the Company has had to make certain estimates b Each of the Financial Statements of each of the Businesses and each of and exercise its judgement, having regard to the regulatory principles the Activities for the year ended 31 March 2003 which have been specified in the Accounting Documents, including cost causality and prepared in accordance with the Accounting Documents dated 19 objectivity, in order to comply with the requirements of the Accounting 11
