Notes to the Statements of costs and charges for Standard Services continued Notes to the Statements of costs and charges for Standard Services continued of its own operations is charged to its disaggregated activities on the basis of the costs calculated on page 112.
The statements of costs for Retail Sticks and Intermediate Services shown on pages 111 and 112, and 121 and 122 do not form part of the Statements of Standard Services but are included here to assist in the understanding of these Statements.
Flat Rate Internet Access Call Origination FRIACO, for which a Standard Service Statement is shown on pages 104 and 114, is processed as part of the call origination standard service on a pence per minute basis, but is presented on a per circuit basis for comparability with the pricing structure.
The prior year FRIACO IN costs have been represented in the current year Financial Statements on a per circuit basis, by translating the pence per call cost into a per circuit cost on the basis of the average utilisation of IN per circuit.
In a Decision made subsequent to 31 March 2003, Oftel removed the charge for FRIACO IN retrospectively to 1 June 2002.
The average charge for the year ended 31 March 2003 is calculated prior to the effect of this Decision.
Partial Private Circuit PPC charges were established to recover through a separate up-front charge, the full capital cost of certain equipment.
As a result the rental charge for certain PPC services includes no element for the recovery of these equipment costs.
However, for costing purposes, this equipment is capitalised and depreciated within the overall PPC rental service costs.
As a result, the PPC Standard Service charges are not strictly comparable with the underlying cost of the service being provided.
124 Definitions of the Businesses Definitions of the Businesses The full definition of the Businesses and their activities are set out on pages UK, including non-geographic calls from BTs network to other fixed vii to xvi of the introduction to the Accounting Documents.
They are networks in the UK charged at Lo-call rates i. e. 0845. summarised as follows: 2 2 National Calls National Calls Dialled calls charged at national tariff rate originating from ordinary, Network Business Network Business ISDN and private payphone telephone exchange lines, excluding BT The Business containing the costs, assets and liabilities of that part of the to BT non-geographic calls.
Non-geographic call charges are Systems Business relating to standard services and access network facilities determined by the number called rather than by the distance or provided to other operators or similar services provided to the BT Retail geographic destination of the call.
National calls include dialled calls Narrowband Access and the BT Retail Systems Businesses.
The Business charged at national tariff rates from BTs network to other fixed includes services such as Carrier Pre-Selection CPS, Flat Rate Internet networks in the UK.
It also includes non-geographic calls charged at Access Call Origination FRIACO and Access Network Facilities ANFs.
Nationalcall and premium rate service tariff rates e. g. 0870, 090X Income therefore comprises revenues from operators and transfer charges to from BTs network to other fixed networks in the UK.
the BT Retail Narrowband Access Business and the BT Retail Systems 3 3 International Calls International Calls Business for their respective use of the network.
Network charges to other Continental, Intercontinental and Irish Republic calls originating from operators and BT Retail Systems Business are based on their consumption of ordinary, ISDN and private payphone telephone exchange lines.
bundles of network elements known as components into standard network services.
From 1st October 1997, BT has been able to set charges 4 4 Calls to Mobile Calls to Mobile for Standard Services that do not correspond exactly to the fully allocated Dialled calls originating on ordinary, ISDN and private payphone lines cost of these services.
Many of the charges are subject to a series of price that terminate on a mobile, not fixed, network.
5 5 Public Payphones Public Payphones Local, national and international dialled calls, originating from public Retail Narrowband Access Business Retail Narrowband Access Business payphones, using cash, phonecards or credit cards.
The Business providing connection, takeover and rental of Switched Narrowband Lines purchased from the Network Business.
6 6 Private Circuits Private Circuits Rental, maintenance, connection, shift and change of inland and Retail Systems Business Retail Systems Business international private circuits extending beyond customers curtilages The Business sells network services purchased from the Network Business.
and which have access to the public switched network PSTN.
The disaggregated activities within the Retail Systems Business are as 7 7 Other Retail Systems Other Retail Systems follows: All other telecommunication services, such as non-geographic calls terminating on BTs networks, that are within the Systems Business.
1 1 Local Calls Local Calls Local dialled calls charged at local tariff rates originating from ordinary, ISDN and private payphone telephone exchange lines, excluding BT to BT non-geographic calls.
Non-geographic call charges are determined by the number called rather than by the distance or geographic destination of the call.
Local Calls also include local dialled calls from BTs network to other fixed networks in the 125
