Notice of Annual General Meeting PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Notice is hereby given that the one hundred i the maximum number of shares hereby and sixteenth Annual General Meeting of authorised to be purchased shall be JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Investment Trust 10,632,716 or if less, that number of plc will be held at 10 Aldermanbury, London shares which is equal to 14.99 per cent EC2V 7RF at 12.00 noon on Thursday 27th of the Companys issued share capital as November 2003 for the following purposes: at the date of the passing of this Resolution: 1 To receive the Directors Report and Accounts ii the minimum price which may be paid and the Auditors Report for the year ended for a share will be 25 pence: 30th June 2003. iii the maximum price which may be paid 2 To receive the Directors Remuneration Report for a share shall be an amount equal to for the year ended 30th June 2003.
105 per cent of the average of the 3 To re-elect Mr George Paul as a Director of the middle market quotations for a share Company.
taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily 4 To re-elect Mr Simon Davies as a Director of the Official List for the five business days Company.
immediately preceding the day on which 5 To declare a final dividend.
the share is purchased: 6 To consider the following resolution, special iv any purchase of shares will be made in notice having been received of the intention to the market for cash at prices below the propose the resolution as an ordinary prevailing estimated net asset value per resolution: share as determined by the Directors : THAT  LLP be v the authority hereby conferred shall reappointed auditors of the Company having expire on the earliest of 26th May 2005, previously been appointed by the Board to fill the conclusion of the Companys Annual the casual vacancy arising by reason of the General Meeting in 2004 or when 14.99 resignation of , to per cent of the Companys issued share hold office until the conclusion of the next capital has been acquired unless the general meeting at which accounts are laid authority is renewed prior to such time: before the Company and to agree that their and remuneration be fixed by the Directors.
vi the Company may make a contract to Special Business purchase shares under the authority To consider the following resolution which will hereby conferred prior to the expiry of be proposed as special resolution: such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such AUTHORITY TO REPURCHASE THE COMPANYS contract notwithstanding such expiry.
SHARES 7 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as By order of the Board hereinafter appears, unconditionally J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, authorised in accordance with Section 166 of Secretary the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Philip Jones Section 163 of the Act of its issued ordinary 9th October 2003 shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company JPMorgan Fleming Overseas 27 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes a time not more than 48 hours after the 1 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at specified time applicable to the original the above meeting is entitled to appoint one or meeting, that time will also apply for the more proxies to attend and on a poll vote on purpose of determining the entitlement of his behalf.
A proxy need not be a shareholder members to attend and vote and for the of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy purpose of determining the number of votes does not prevent a shareholder from attending they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If and voting if he so wishes.
however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must 2 Proxy forms must be lodged not less than 48 be entered on the Companys register of hours before the time of the meeting at the members at the time which is 48 hours before office of the Registrar.
the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if 3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting and for the purpose of the meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
determination by the Company of the number 4 Admittance to the above meeting will be of votes they may cast, members must be restricted to shareholders, guests will only be entered on the Companys register of members admitted by prior arrangement.
48 hours before the time of the meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to 28 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas
