Information about the Company FINANCIAL CALENDAR Financial year end 31st December Interim results announced July August Final results announced March Dividend on ordinary shares paid May Annual General Meeting April History Share Transactions JPMorgan Fleming American Investment Trust plc The shares may be dealt in directly through a has its origins in the Alabama, New Orleans, Texas stockbroker or through a professional adviser and Pacific Junction Railways Company, Limited acting on an investors behalf.
They may also be which was formed in 1881 to acquire interests in, purchased and held through the Investment Trust and to undertake the completion of, three Share Plan, Individual Savings Account, Personal American railroads the Vicksburg and Meridian: Equity Plan.
the Vicksburg, Shreveport and Pacific: and the New Manager and Secretary Orleans and North Eastern.
In 1917 the Company J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited was reorganised, a proportion of the railroad interests were sold, and the investment powers Companys Registered Office were widened enabling its assets to be invested in Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, several countries including the United Kingdom.
To London EC2Y 9AQ reflect the new objectives the name was changed Please contact Hilary Lowe regarding company secretarial to The Sterling Trust.
The Companys investment and administrative matters at the above address or policy reverted to North American securities in telephone 020 7742 6000.
1982 when the name was changed to The Fleming Auditors American Investment Trust plc.
The name was  LLP, Southwark Towers, changed to its present form in April 2002.
32 London Bridge Street, London SE1 9SY JPMorgan Fleming has been the Companys manager and secretary since 1966.
Brokers Cazenove Securities, 20 Moorgate, London Company Numbers EC2R 6DA Company registration number: 15543 Stock Exchange Sedol Number: 0846505 Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars, Reference 1077, Market Information The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA The Companys net asset value NAV is published Telephone number: 01903 502 541 daily, via the London Stock Exchange.
Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding The Companys shares are listed on the London share certificates or dividend cheques should be made in Stock Exchange.
The market price of the ordinary writing to the Registrar quoting reference 1077. shares is shown daily in the Financial Times, The Registered shareholders can obtain further details on their Guardian, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, and The holdings on the internet by visiting www.
Scotsman and on the JPMorgan Fleming Internet site.
The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Trust Companies JPMorgan Fleming American 51
