Notice of Annual General Meeting PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Notice is hereby given that the eighty-eighth i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares Annual General Meeting of JPMorgan Fleming hereby authorised to be purchased shall American Investment Trust plc will be held at 10 be 7,914,015 or if less, that number of Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF at 2.30 p. m. shares which is equal to 14.99% of the on Friday 23rd April 2004 for the following Companys issued share capital as at the purposes: date of the passing of this resolution: 1 To receive the Directors report, the Annual ii the minimum price which may be paid for Accounts and the Auditors report for the year an Ordinary Share shall be 25p: ended 31st December 2003. iii the maximum price which may be paid for 2 To approve the Remuneration report for the an Ordinary Share shall be an amount year ended 31st December 2003. equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of 3 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary the middle market quotations for an shares of 6.80 pence per share.
Ordinary Share taken from and calculated 4 To re-elect Mr Iain Saunders a Director of the by reference to the London Stock Company.
Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the 5 To re-elect Mr James Fox a Director of the day on which the Ordinary Share is Company.
purchased: 6 To re-elect Mr James Williams a Director of the iv any purchase of Ordinary Shares will be Company.
made in the market for cash at prices 7 To re-appoint  LLP as below the prevailing net asset value per auditors to the Company and to authorise the Ordinary Share as determined by the Directors to agree their remuneration.
Directors : Special Business: v the authority hereby conferred shall To consider the following resolutions which will be expire at the earlier of 22nd October 2005 proposed as Special Resolutions: or at the conclusion of the Companys 8 THAT the Company be generally and subject as Annual General Meeting in 2005 unless hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised the authority is renewed prior to such in accordance with Section 166 of the time: and Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market vi the Company may make a contract to purchases within the meaning of Section 163 purchase Ordinary Shares under the of the Act of its issued Ordinary Shares of 25p authority hereby conferred prior to the each in the capital of the Company Ordinary expiry of such authority and may make a Shares.
purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
JPMorgan Fleming American 33 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 9 THAT the Companys Articles of Association be Notes 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the above amended to incorporate the following in place meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to of the existing Articles 86 and 87: attend and on a poll vote on their behalf.
At each Annual General Meeting: need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy does not prevent a member from a any Director who was originally elected a attending and voting if they so wish.
Director at or before the Annual General Meeting held in the ninth calendar year 2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must before the current year shall retire by be lodged at the office of the Companys Registrar rotation: not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
b any Director who was elected or last re- 3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and elected a Director at or before the Annual for the purpose of the determination by the Company General Meeting held in the third of the number of votes they may cast, members calendar year before the current year must be entered on the Companys register of shall retire by rotation: and members 48 hours before the meeting the specified c such further Directors if any shall retire time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to by rotation as would bring the number the original meeting, that time will also apply for the retiring by rotation to at least one-third of purpose of determining the entitlement of members the number of Directors in office at the to attend and vote and for the purpose of date of the notice of the meeting.
determining the number of votes they may cast at 87.
Selection of Directors to retire by rotation the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, The Directors to retire by rotation shall include members must be entered on the Companys register those Directors referred to in Article 86 a and of members at the time which is 48 hours before the 86 b and any Director who wishes to retire and time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the not to offer himself for re-election.
Any further Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at Directors to retire shall be those of the other the time specified in that notice.
Directors who have been longest in office since 4 Entry to the above meeting will be restricted to their last re-election or appointment and so that shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior as between persons who became or were last arrangement.
re-elected Directors on the same day those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
A retiring Director shall be eligible for re-election.
To consider the following resolution which will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution: 10 THAT in accordance with Companys Article 78 of the Articles of Association, the maximum aggregate Directors fees payable be increased from 100,000 to 175,000 per annum with immediate effect.
By order of the Board J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary.
