Accounting policies a Basis of preparation amortisation, is transferred to the tangible fixed assets are periodically m Stocks The financial statements have profit and loss reserve through the reviewed for impairment when Stocks are valued at the lower been prepared under the historical profit and loss account.
events or changes in circumstances of cost on a first in, first out basis cost convention as modified by indicate that the carrying values and net realisable value.
For the revaluation of certain fixed e Investments in subsidiary may not be recoverable.
work-in-progress and finished assets and certain forward foreign undertakings goods, cost includes an exchange contracts and have been Investments in subsidiary i Depreciation appropriate proportion of labour prepared in accordance with the undertakings are held at cost Tangible fixed assets are and overheads.
Companies Act 1985 and applicable less any provision for impairment.
depreciated over their estimated UK accounting standards.
The remaining useful lives at the following n Pension benefits following accounting policies have f Investment in own shares annual rates applied to book value In accordance with FRS17, been applied consistently in dealing Investment in own shares is to less estimated residual value: for defined contribution schemes, with items which are considered fulfil obligations of certain Group contributions are charged to the material in relation to the Groups employee share plans.
Where 2% or life of profit and loss account in the financial statements, except as applicable the cost of these shares Buildings lease if shorter period in which they arise.
is amortised over three years.
Plant and machinery 10 20% For defined benefit schemes the Fixtures, fittings b Basis of consolidation g Foreign currencies amounts charged to operating profit and equipment 10 25% The consolidated financial The results of overseas subsidiary are the current service cost, past Freehold land 0% statements incorporate the assets undertakings have been translated service cost and gains and losses and liabilities of the Company into sterling at average exchange on settlements and curtailments.
and its subsidiary undertakings rates.
Assets and liabilities j Leases An amount which represents the at 31 December 2003 and their denominated in foreign currencies Where the Group has expected increase in the present results for the periods during 2003 have been translated at year end substantially all the risks and value of scheme liabilities net of in which they were part of the exchange rates, except where a rewards of ownership of an asset the expected return on scheme Group.
The acquisition method forward foreign exchange contract subject to a lease, the lease is assets is included within net of accounting has been adopted.
has been arranged when the treated as a finance lease.
instalments payable under c Change of accounting policy finance leases, net of finance Actuarial gains and losses are On 1 January 2003 the Group Exchange differences on the charges, are included in creditors recognised immediately in the fully adopted FRS17 Retirement retranslation of opening net worth with the corresponding asset statement of total recognised Benefits.
As a result, comparative in overseas subsidiary undertakings, value treated as a tangible fixed gains and losses.
These consist figures have been restated.
The net of related foreign currency asset.
All other leases are treated of differences between actual impact on the consolidated profit borrowings and foreign currency as operating leases and the and expected returns on scheme for the year to 31 December 2003 hedging contracts together with rentals are charged to the profit assets during the year, experience was an increase of 0.3m 2002: differences arising from the use and loss account on a straight losses on scheme liabilities and 0.4 m and the impact on the of average and year end exchange line basis.
the impact of any changes in consolidated shareholders funds rates, have been taken to reserves.
Pension liabilities are as at 31 December 2002 was a Other exchange differences are k Deferred taxation recognised on the consolidated reduction of 68.8m.
The impact taken to the profit and loss account.
The Group provides for deferred balance sheet and represent the on shareholders funds of the taxation assets and liabilities arising difference between the market Company as at 31 December Forward foreign exchange from timing differences between value of scheme assets and the 2002 was a reduction of 20.5m.
contracts hedging transaction the recognition of gains and losses present value of scheme liabilities exposures are revalued at year end in the financial statements and at the balance sheet date, net of d Goodwill exchange rates with net unrealised their recognition for tax purposes.
Scheme liabilities Goodwill arising on acquisitions gains and losses being taken to Deferred taxation assets are only are determined on an actuarial made after 31 December 1997 the profit and loss reserve.
recognised where it is more likely basis using the projected unit is capitalised and is amortised on than not that they will be recovered.
method and discounted at a straight line basis through the h Tangible fixed assets a rate equivalent to the current profit and loss account over its Until 31 December 1999 land and l Sales rate of return on AA rated estimated useful life, a period buildings were revalued periodically.
Sales are net sales invoiced to corporate bonds.
Goodwill arising As permitted under FRS15, the third parties for services provided on acquisitions made prior to valuations of land and buildings and goods sold, excluding 1 January 1998 remains eliminated have not been and will not be intercompany transactions and against reserves.
All other assets are sales taxes.
Income from the sale the profit or loss on disposal included at historical cost, less of goods and services is recognised of a business, any goodwill accumulated depreciation.
The when delivery has occurred on acquisition, net of goodwill profit or loss on sale of tangible and where the price is fixed eliminated through the profit fixed assets is calculated by or determinable and reflects and loss account as a result reference to the carrying values of the commercial substance of any impairment in value or by the assets.
The carrying values of of the transaction.
