40 Bunzl plc The Annual Review and Summary This document contains the Directors Financial Statement together with Report and Accounts which includes the Directors Report and Accounts the Directors Remuneration Report comprise the full Annual Report and the Independent Auditors Report and Accounts for Bunzl plc for 2003 for the year ended 31 December 2003. in accordance with the Companies The Chairmans Statement, the Act 1985.
Operating Review and the Financial Review are contained in a separate document the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
1 Directors report 2 Corporate governance 4 Corporate social responsibility 6 Consolidated profit and loss account 7 Consolidated balance sheet 8 Consolidated cash flow statement 9 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 9 Consolidated reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 10 Company balance sheet 11 Accounting policies 12 Notes to the financial statements 31 Statement of directors responsibilities 31 Independent auditors report 32 Directors remuneration report 38 US GAAP information 40 Five year review Designed and produced by Sheppard Day Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2003 Directors Report and Accounts 2003 Bunzl plc 110 Park Street London W1K 6NX T 020 7495 4950 F 020 7495 4953 W www.
com Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 The Annual Review and Summary 110 Park Street, London W1K 6NX Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement does not contain or from the Companys website sufficient information to allow a full www.
Shareholders understanding of the results of the may elect in writing to receive Financial Statement 2003 Group and state of affairs of the the Directors Report and Accounts Company or the Group.
For further in addition to the Annual Review information the Directors Report and Summary Financial Statement and Accounts which includes the for all future years.
The full accounts full Directors Remuneration Report for 2002 have been filed at Companies should be consulted.
Copies of House and the full accounts for the Directors Report and Accounts 2003 will be filed after they have may be obtained, free of charge, been approved at the Annual from the Secretary, Bunzl plc, General Meeting.
Bunzl plc Bunzl 110 Park Street London W1K 6NX Bunzl operates in two business areas: Outsourcing T 020 7495 4950 F 020 7495 4953 Services and Filtrona.
com 25 countries our 12,000 employees provide an efficient service to our business customers.
As an international company Bunzl has developed sound partnerships with both suppliers and customers by providing outsourcing solutions and customer service oriented distribution and light manufacture, primarily of plastic and paper based products.
Adjusted earnings per share p Profit margin % 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 01 Financial highlights 02 Management 04 Chairmans statement 08 Operating review 08 Outsourcing Services 14 Filtrona 18 Directors 20 Financial review 22 Summary financial statement 26 Statement of the independent auditors 27 Summary five year review 28 Shareholder information 12.5 16.1 16.5 18.0 19.9 21.0 26.0 28.6 29.7 31.3 5.6 6.3 6.5 7.4 7.4 7.5 7.7 7.5 7.5 7.8 Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 The Annual Review and Summary 110 Park Street, London W1K 6NX Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement does not contain or from the Companys website sufficient information to allow a full www.
Adjusted earnings per share p Profit margin % 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 01 Financial highlights 02 Management 04 Chairmans statement 08 Operating review 08 Outsourcing Services 14 Filtrona 18 Directors 20 Financial review 22 Summary financial statement 26 Statement of the independent auditors 27 Summary five year review 28 Shareholder information 12.5 16.1 16.5 18.0 19.9 21.0 26.0 28.6 29.7 31.3 5.6 6.3 6.5 7.4 7.4 7.5 7.7 7.5 7.5 7.8 Financial highlights Sales of continuing operations 6% at constant exchange rates Operating profit of continuing operations 10% at constant exchange rates Adjusted earnings per share 11% at constant exchange rates Growth 2002 Actual Constant 2003 Restated exchange rates exchange rates Sales m 2,728.2 2,835.3 -4% 0% Sales of continuing operations m 2,728.2 2,673.6 2% 6% Operating profit m 214.1 212.5 1% 6% Operating profit of continuing operations m 214.1 204.8 5% 10% Profit before tax m 194.6 195.3 0% 5% Profit before tax and 2002 exceptionals m 212.3 207.3 2% 8% Basic earnings per share p 27.4 27.1 1% 7% Adjusted earnings per share p 31.3 29.7 5% 11% Dividends per share p 12.1 11.2 8% Gearing % 21.0 22.3 Before goodwill amortisation.
Restated on adoption of FRS17 Retirement Benefits.
In this Annual Review, profits for each of the business areas have been stated before total goodwill amortisation of 17.7m 2002: 16.1m and references to changes in the level of sales and profits at constant exchange rates have been calculated by retranslating the relevant results for the year ended 31 December 2002 at the average exchange rates used for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Sales by business area The markets we serve Grocery foodservice 61% Outsourcing Services 83% Health & hygiene 12% Filtrona 17% FMCG 9% Retail non-food 5% Other 13% Sales by geography Raw material of products we supply North America 62% Plastic resins 43% Europe 33% Pulp 30% Rest of the world 5% Chemicals 5% Other 22% Bunzl plc 1 Group at a glance Outsourcing services Filtrona Operating across North America, Europe and Filtrona is a world leading supplier of Australasia, Bunzl is the leading supplier of outsourced cigarette filters, ink reservoirs a range of products including outsourced food and other bonded fibre products, protection Triple granular filters packaging, disposable supplies and cleaning and and finishing products, self-adhesive tear tapes We continue to develop innovative low tar special safety products for supermarkets, redistributors, and certain security products.
It is also a leading filters, such as these made in Switzerland, caterers, food processors, hotels, contract cleaners, extruder of custom plastic profiles.
to respond to the challenging requirements non-food retail and other users.
Sales 2,275.6mSales 452.6m Operating profit 174.8m Operating profit 56.1m Profit margin 7.7% Profit margin 12.4% Key events in 2003 Key events in 2003 Acquisition of Enterprise in the US Establishment of worldwide fibres business MultiLine in Denmark acquired Protection and finishing organisation integrated Pat Larmon appointed President of North American organisation Acquisition of Fibertec in Switzerland 76% of Group operating profit 24% of Group operating profit 7,100 employees 4,800 employees Designed and produced by Sheppard Day 2,275.6 174.8 452.6 56.1 Group at a glance Outsourcing services Filtrona Operating across North America, Europe and Filtrona is a world leading supplier of Australasia, Bunzl is the leading supplier of outsourced cigarette filters, ink reservoirs a range of products including outsourced food and other bonded fibre products, protection Triple granular filters packaging, disposable supplies and cleaning and and finishing products, self-adhesive tear tapes We continue to develop innovative low tar special safety products for supermarkets, redistributors, and certain security products.
Sales 2,275.6mSales 452.6m Operating profit 174.8m Operating profit 56.1m Profit margin 7.7% Profit margin 12.4% Key events in 2003 Key events in 2003 Acquisition of Enterprise in the US Establishment of worldwide fibres business MultiLine in Denmark acquired Protection and finishing organisation integrated Pat Larmon appointed President of North American organisation Acquisition of Fibertec in Switzerland 76% of Group operating profit 24% of Group operating profit 7,100 employees 4,800 employees Designed and produced by Sheppard Day 2,275.6 174.8 452.6 56.1 Management 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 David Williams 3 Christoph Sander 6 Mark Harper Finance Director Managing Director, Managing Director, Outsourcing Services Filtrona 2 Celia Baxter Europe and Australasia Director of Group 7 Anthony Habgood Human Resources 4 Paul Lorenzini Chairman Chief Executive, Outsourcing Services 8 Pat Larmon North America President, Outsourcing Services 5 Nancy Lester North America Director of Corporate Development 2 Bunzl plc Key managers from around the world meet regularly to review performance, discuss trends affecting our businesses and seek further opportunities for growth and competitive advantage.
During 2003 Arnold Wagner left Bunzl after nine years.
We thank him for his valuable contribution and wish him all the very best in his new career as Director of Human Resources, Smiths Group PLC.
Bunzl plc 3 Chairmans statement Strengthening our position and broadening our geographic coverage Share price range p Return on average capital % 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 4 Bunzl plc 141 185 161 217 245 191 189 273 199 343 361 219 278 438 408 488 547 368 482 345 23.8 28.3 29.3 32.2 32.9 36.2 38.2 38.0 39.5 43.0 Once again the Group has produced good results despite mixed economic conditions, unfavourable currency movements and price deflation.
Results 5% ahead at constant exchange operations in Europe and brings Paul Lorenzinis successor as Against the backdrop of mixed rates.
Earnings per share were great experience of distribution, Chief Executive of Outsourcing economic conditions around 27.4p 2002: 27.1p, up 7% at retail and manufacturing Services in North America will be the world, the Group again constant exchange rates, while throughout Europe, Asia and Patrick Larmon.
A CPA and an produced good results due to adjusted earnings per share, after Latin America.
We welcome MBA, Pat is currently President strong operating performance and eliminating goodwill amortisation him to the Board.
and Chief Operating Officer of underlying organic volume growth and 2002 exceptionals, were Outsourcing Services in North combined with acquisition activity.
31.3p 2002: 29.7p, a rise of 11% Paul Lorenzini will be retiring as America.
Over the past 14 years The movement in the dollar was at constant exchange rates.
Chief Executive of Outsourcing Pat has served with great success unfavourable and, although the Services in North America and in many senior management euro strengthened, overall currency After a cash outflow for from the Board in July 2004. positions including regional Vice movements reduced the reported acquisitions of 36 million, a cash Paul was one of the founders President of the South West growth rate of sales by about 4% inflow from disposals of 10 million of PCI Mac-Pak in 1970 Region, Vice President of Finance and that of profits and earnings and a spend of 92 million which Bunzl acquired in 1983. and Administration, Executive by 5 6%.
Price deflation also on buying back shares on the Vice President of Procurement had a negative impact on the market, net debt was reduced Since 1986 Paul has served as and President of the Western growth of both sales and profits.
President and then CEO of Bunzl Division.
We are extremely This was the result of the underlying Distribution USA along with being fortunate to have someone Sales of continuing operations businesses continuing to generate President of Bunzl USA.
During of Pats ability and experience were 2,728.2 million 2002: cash from operations and dollar his stewardship, the business to take over in this important 2,673.6 million, up 6% at denominated debt having a lower has grown from 17 to 73 locations executive position.
constant exchange rates, and sterling value.
Gearing fell to in North America and sales have operating profit of continuing 21.0% from 22.3%.
increased from $400 million Strategy and structure operations was 196.4 million to approximately $2.5 billion in Following the disposal of the 2002: 189.0 million, a rise of Dividend 2003.
Profits during this same last of Bunzls paper interests 10% at constant exchange rates.
The Board has decided to period increased over tenfold.
in July 2002, the Company was Including discontinued operations, increase the final dividend to 8.25p We are now the largest and reorganised into two business total sales were 2,728.2 million 2002: 7.55p.
This brings the most successful supplier areas, Outsourcing Services 2002: 2,835.3 million, flat at total dividend for the year to 12.1p of supermarket and food and Filtrona, both of which are constant exchange rates, while 2002: 11.2p, an increase of 8%.
service packaging materials focused on areas where we have total operating profit was 196.4 Shareholders will again have the in North America.
or can develop real competitive million 2002: 196.4 million, opportunity to participate in our advantage on an international up 5% at constant exchange dividend reinvestment plan.
Paul will have completed 21 years scale and which have some rates.
Profit before tax, goodwill of outstanding service with Bunzl organic and acquisition growth amortisation and 2002 exceptional Board and management and will continue to be involved as opportunities.
Both areas also items was 212.3 million 2002: Bunzl further strengthened its Chairman Emeritus of Bunzl USA fit with our focus on providing 207.3 million, an increase of independent Board with the in recognition of his extraordinary business to business consumables, 8% at constant exchange rates.
appointment of Michael Roney contribution to the development often on an outsourced basis, Profit before tax was 194.6 as a non-executive director in June.
and success of Bunzl and his and are becoming increasingly million 2002: 195.3 million, Michael is President of Goodyears invaluable service over many years.
Total shareholder return Total shareholder return From 1994 to 1998 we greatly outperformed the Paper and Bunzl relative to FTSE Paper, Packaging Bunzl relative to FTSE Support Services Sector Packaging Sector.
In December & Printing Sector 1998, we were moved to Support Services and from 1999 to 2003 400 400 we also greatly outperformed 350 350 that Sector.
300 300 Source: Thomson Datastream 250 250 200 200 150 150 100 100 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 Bunzl plc 5 Chairmans statement continued Filtrona constitutes a small number and OMahony, based in Cork, from us, often on a totally strives to promote from within of international niche businesses in had sales in 2002 3 of 11 million.
New supply and light manufacture with In February 2004 we entered into were negatively affected by graduates continue to be recruited a number of technical and market an agreement to purchase Skiffy, deflation, particularly in North into the business and, in the US overlaps.
Outsourcing Services a Dutch based company with America, but we continued to win and UK, participate in a successful is a more uniform business with particular expertise in the supply new customers and expand our structured training programme international overlaps of customers, of small nylon parts for protection offering to existing customers.
and finishing applications with As the Outsourcing Services sales in 2002 3 of 12 million.
Filtrona also produced excellent Appropriate and well timed business in Europe and Australasia results with operating profit up communication to and from has grown from virtually nothing Share buy back 6%, or 11% at constant exchange employees is essential in ensuring ten years ago to about a third of In late February the Board rates, on sales up 2%, or 6% at the effectiveness of the business.
our total Outsourcing Services instituted a share buy back constant exchange rates.
While Set up in 1996, the European business, we have decided that programme.
Shares have been the acquisition of Fibertec Information and Consultation from our interim results in 2004 bought on the market and have contributed to this growth, the Forums continue to meet to we will treat this business as a then been cancelled thus reducing majority was organic as demand provide information to, and to separate business segment.
the overall number of shares in generally for our specialised consult with, elected employee issue.
The cost of the buy back products and services continued representatives on Group and Acquisitions was 91.7 million resulting in the to increase around the world.
business area policies, strategy We spent 36 million on cancellation of 21.3 million shares and performance.
In at an average price of 4.31 Investment a number of UK businesses have February we strengthened our per share.
These purchases We continued to invest substantial been developing and implementing position supplying the North were consistent with the Boards amounts in the capital base of the more formalised information and American food processor industry continuing overall capital Group.
New equipment has been consultation arrangements to with the acquisition of Enterprise management strategy.
This purchased to maintain the quality supplement the European Forums from ConAgra Foods.
Based in strategy seeks to maintain an of our assets and warehouses and to ensure better employee Dallas, Enterprise had sales in the appropriate balance sheet have been expanded and upgraded involvement and feedback locally.
It structure taking into account as volumes have continued to grow.
For many years a company broadens the geographic coverage completed and prospective Once again we have invested in magazine, Bunzl World, has been of our expanding food processor acquisitions and disposals.
computer systems both to improve produced and distributed around supplies business in North America them and to install them in newly the Group, notifying employees and strengthens our position with Operating performance acquired companies.
These systems of major business successes, major customers.
In October we Margin on continuing operations remain critical to our ability to serve acquisitions and appointments.
acquired the Fibertec business before goodwill amortisation rose our customers in the most efficient This is supplemented locally by of Baumgartner.
Fibertec, located from 7.7% to 7.8% while Group and appropriate way.
We believe a variety of newsletters, briefings in Switzerland, is engaged in the margin rose from 7.5% to 7.8% that up-to-date assets are an and intranet communication giving development, manufacture and with the additional increase important source of our competitive more specific information related sale of cigarette filters and capillary resulting from the disposal of the advantage and maintaining them to the business or site where reservoirs.
The business had lower margin Paper Distribution remains a priority.
sales in 2002 of CHF40 million business area in July 2002.
Group and broadened our customer base return on average capital rose Providing opportunities for Worldwide, our employees while also enhancing our product to 43.0%.
employees continue to be in the forefront offering.
Also in October we We remain committed to the of providing excellent customer purchased MultiLine, a distributor Outsourcing Services produced recruitment of high quality staff service and liaison with our of a wide range of consumables another excellent result with and developing them within the suppliers.
We rely on their to the Danish hotel, restaurant sales up 2%, or 7% at constant businesses to provide excellent continuing diligence and efforts and catering industries.
With exchange rates, and operating performance and take on more to maintain Bunzls reputation with sales in 2002 of DKK386 million, profit up 4%, or 10% at constant responsibility.
This is achieved all our business contacts.
As ever, MultiLine is a logical extension of exchange rates.
In North America by a combination of structured the loyalty and hard work of both our Outsourcing Services business good underlying volume growth, Group management development individuals and their work teams in Denmark, greatly strengthening supplemented by targeted programmes, specific skills training are genuinely appreciated.
our position there, particularly in acquisition activity, more than offset within respective businesses and hotel and catering supplies.
In Europe the provision of challenging and Corporate social responsibility December we acquired Prolix the successful execution and responsible roles.
A number of our We have continued to progress Packaging in the US and OMahony integration of acquisitions in UK operations continue to enjoy our activities in the field of in Ireland, both suppliers largely particular drove the growth.
Prolix Underlying volume increases Policies with respect to business had sales in 2002 of $11 million continued to reflect our customers The Group aims to provide standards, the environment and focused on the Chicago market preference to buy their requirements opportunities to employees and health and safety have been in 6 Bunzl plc place for many years.
During within registered charities in the are good and that, at constant 2003 we reviewed our stance fields of healthcare, education, exchange rates, the Group will on corporate social responsibility disability and childrens welfare.
as a whole and developed an In 2003 Bunzl sponsored three overall policy.
This draws together projects relating to cancer research existing Group policies, which in and support.
Further support was some cases have been updated, provided to Queen Elizabeths and new Group policies based Training College in Leatherhead either on policies used by certain to enhance the Computer Aided subsidiaries or current practice.
Design training department at the Further details of the new policy College with the aim of training Anthony Habgood are given in the Corporate Social disabled people to return to or Chairman Responsibility section of the start work.
Group companies and 23 February 2004 Directors Report and Accounts individual employees worldwide and on our website.
continue to support local charitable initiatives such as the Queen of During 2003, the Group Health Peace Center in St Louis that and Safety Committee has provides treatment, education, improved data collection to daycare and housing programs facilitate the analysis of trends for women and their children.
and to identify actions which would reduce the incidence and Prospects severity of accidents across the Against a background of mixed Group.
Training courses have been economic conditions in 2003, held throughout the year both for our major businesses again showed management and employees to their strength by producing good raise safety awareness.
These underlying volume growth which have used a number of training was supplemented by incremental methods including use of external acquisition activity.
Overall Group consultants to provide management progress year-on-year was impacted training, Toolbox talks and an by the adverse movement of the in-house designed CD-rom for dollar, deflation and the disposal driver training.
Bunzl has continued its focus on Looking forward, we see volume the environmental aspects of its growth continuing.
In 2003, ISO 14001 effect of the sale of Paper accreditation was attained by more Distribution will no longer be of our locations.
75 sites are now present in 2004 and year-on-year accredited employing some 54% price deflation, which moderated of staff within the Group.
Plans are through 2003, should fall further in place for further sites to achieve if the current announced price accreditation in 2004.
The sites that increases in plastic products in are ISO 14001 accredited have, the US are fully implemented.
On as part of that process, identified the other hand the sterling dollar those areas in which they impact rate, which averaged $1.51 in 2002 upon the environment.
As a result and $1.64 in 2003, is currently of this work the following measures $1.87.
If this dollar weakness will be used to monitor environmental persists, it will negatively impact performance at Group level: the Groups sterling results as dollar energy usage, water consumption, sales and profits are translated raw material consumption and at the new rate.
A number of specific environmental initiatives The combination of volume growth are continuing which have a in our major markets, our strong positive environmental benefit.
positions in those markets and our opportunities to make acquisitions The Group maintained its support gives us confidence that the of a cross section of projects underlying prospects of the Group Bunzl plc 7 Operating across North America, Europe and Australasia, Bunzl is the leading supplier of a range of products including outsourced food packaging, disposable supplies and cleaning and safety products for supermarkets, redistributors, caterers, food processors, hotels, contract cleaners, non-food retail and other users.
Disposable supplies 10% We supply plastic and paper disposable supplies profit increase in that are ideal for ready Outsourcing Services at to eat and ready to heat meal solutions.
1 Party products 3 Home meal 1 Our extensive range of replacement disposable products are Our microwaveable, ideal for catered events.
freezer and or oven proof packaging is used to 2 Supermarket products carry ready to heat meals We provide nearly all the sold in supermarkets.
supplies a supermarket needs to operate but 4 Ready to eat does not actually sell, packaging such as packaging, Ready to eat foods such labels and signage.
as salads, cold meats, sandwiches and fruit are sold in supermarkets using our packaging.
8 Bunzl plc Outsourcing services Utilising the size and strength of our extensive network Volume growth and the successful Although the largest customer into our import initiative.
Through integration of acquisitions saw group for this business remains this program, we have been able Outsourcing Services progress supermarkets, the majority of new to source quality products from well with sales increasing by 7% business with new customers reliable manufacturers that keep at constant exchange rates was a result of sales gains in the us on the leading edge of finding despite price deflation.
Operating redistribution, processor and solutions for our customers.
In profits rose by 10% at constant janitorial sanitation jan san 2003 our imports approximately exchange rates assisted by our businesses.
Sales initiatives in the doubled.
In addition to imports, focus on greater efficiencies and foodservice category resulted in we have expanded our private control of operating costs.
expanded business at several label program, Prime Source, to Highlights national companies.
We have been many new product lines that has With trading conditions continuing able to demonstrate our ability to resulted in new sales opportunities We continued to to be challenging, our specialist provide disposable non-food items and more operational efficiencies.
increase efficiencies knowledge and experience in efficiently enabling these companies and reduce costs providing cost effective outsourced to use their space for higher dollar We remain the largest distributor solutions to our customers and items.
We have also secured of these products in North America, Additional business our ability to integrate selective additional business in non-food serving all 50 states, Canada, has been won especially acquisitions have enabled us to retail with the addition of several Mexico, and the Caribbean from with redistributors, extend the scope of our operations accounts during 2003.
Using a fleet of more jan san, food processors and continue to offer innovative to pursue more such accounts than 350 trucks, we are able to supply programmes to add value in 2004 as new opportunities deliver thousands of different and non-food retailers for new and existing customers.
items to customers located across the geographical area.
With this Increased level of imports Outsourcing Services We provide a wide range of coverage, we are able to provide has led to heightened North America disposable products to customers product and logistics solutions competitiveness The North American business in all of our businesses that include to local, regional and national grew dollar sales and profits in a plastic and paper packaging items, customers utilising a total program Expansion of Prime tough economic and competitive janitorial supplies, non-food retail concept.
Our sophisticated IT Source lines has resulted environment.
Price deflation products and operating plant platform, which is identical in in new sales opportunities continued to have an impact due supplies.
Our focus is on finding every one of our locations, allows to manufacturers overcapacity packaging solutions for our us to provide a consistent and in several major product lines.
customers that will generate controlled program that our Customer consolidation has also additional sales for the customers appreciate.
had an effect on our business redistribution and supermarket particularly in the supermarket areas and operational efficiencies As the largest distributor of these industry.
The large national for the processor and jan san products to supermarkets, we operators have penetrated the markets.
In an effort to increase service national, regional and local smaller markets, forcing the our competitiveness and to find chains.
Our experience in this area, regional and local retailers to new innovative products, we have along with the product lines and sell, consolidate or specialise.
invested substantial time and effort customer relationships, give us the 2 3 60,000 different supply items are on offer to our customers throughout North America.
4 Bunzl plc 9 Outsourcing services continued opportunity to develop true long able to provide the packaging Denmark, Australia and New term partnerships for the purpose products, plant operating supplies Zealand, as well as a number of of providing the most economical and janitorial and cleaning supplies countries that we export into, we in-store packaging program that through one order and delivery.
continued to show good progress contributes to better product This is an advantage as our despite testing economic conditions.
presentation and ultimately customers grow, due to their We provide our customers with increased sales.
During 2003 we space requirements and need for a one-stop-shop for all their were able to renew several long specialists who can provide them purchasing, distribution and store term contracts with chains and with an array of packaging solutions or outlet service needs.
We also wholesalers committed to this and safety and cleaning products provide management information concept.
We also acquired needed to run their businesses.
to help our customers better Prolix, a specialised supplier We further strengthened our control their expenditure on the in the Chicago region.
position in this market in February broad range of consumable 2003 with the purchase of Enterprise products that we typically supply.
Redistribution, including jan san in Dallas.
By outsourcing the management products, continues to grow and of this supply chain to Bunzl, present us with new opportunities.
Operating costs improved again in customers are able to reduce As the costs of transportation and 2003.
As the economic environment their internal costs of operation warehousing rise for manufacturers, has made it difficult to achieve and achieve efficiencies by our value as a redistributor continues substantial increases in sales and concentrating on their own to increase.
We provide an gross margin dollars, we have core businesses.
opportunity to the small distributor continued to improve operations to reduce their capital investment, and increase our efficiencies.
We During 2003 growth has again increase their inventory turns and have enhanced our internal IT come from acquisitions, new provide more products to their system, improved our facilities contract wins and the expansion customers while maximising their and reduced and consolidated of our product range offsetting operational efficiencies.
With the our delivery routes and further the impact of deflation, particularly acquisition of Saxton in late 2002, standardised procedures in in the retail market.
we have expanded our jan san warehousing, customer service and program across our business purchasing.
We have also worked In addition to acquisitions during with the addition of their product with our vendors and customers the period, including MultiLine in lines.
This will continue to be an to eliminate extra costs in the Denmark and OMahony in Ireland, emphasis in the years ahead.
This will continue we achieved new contract wins as we move forward into 2004. across a broad spectrum of Food processors, including customers in our target markets: customers that process and Outsourcing Services contract caterers, contract package meat, poultry, produce, Europe and Australasia cleaners, facilities management bakery and other items, continue In the seven countries that we groups, supermarket retail to be our fastest growing area.
operate in today, the UK, Ireland, chains and the healthcare sector.
We are the only national distributor Germany, the Netherlands, Moreover we have been successful 1 2 7,100 employees work across our network in 11 countries.
3 10 10 Bunzl plc Highlights The acquisition of Enterprise in Dallas has expanded our position in the food processor market Prolix, a supermarket supplies business in Chicago, was acquired in December Redistribution has continued to present new opportunities MultiLine in Denmark and OMahony in Ireland have been acquired during the year Sanitation products We supply cleaning and hygiene products to supermarkets, caterers, food processors, hotels, contract cleaners and other users.
1 Food processor 3 Disposable soup cups 4 supplies Our range of plastic Many food processor containers is ideal customers require for takeout foods such specialised personal as soup which can be protection equipment consumed immediately for their employees or taken home and as well as packaging refrigerated or for their products.
2 Takeout foods 4 Distribution We supply packaging In the US we are the ideal for the attractive largest distributor of presentation of ready store supplies serving to eat food.
grocery chains both nationally and regionally.
Bunzl plc 11 11 Outsourcing services continued Providing a one-stop-shop solution at the lowest cost in increasing our penetration As the leading independent vending resource in Australia.
In the UK with local customers in many operator in the UK, Vending Services the Darenas business, acquired at of the markets that we serve.
has also been successful in the end of 2002, is in the process Of particular note was the fact generating organic sales growth of being fully integrated with the that we were successful in gaining from winning contracts in the core business in order to reduce three new multi-year contracts, a financial services and retail sectors our cost base and establish a longer time frame than usual in our in the UK.
Nevertheless 2003 has common platform from which industry, which demonstrates our been a challenging environment to grow in 2004. customers confidence in Bunzl with consumption in the City of as a reliable partner.
The first such London specifically, and industry Our activities during 2003 have contract covers several countries in general, reduced due to been focused on integrating in Northern Europe for the supply staff cutbacks.
new acquisitions particularly in of all non-food consumables to Australia, Denmark, Ireland and an international catering group.
Adding new product categories the UK, improving performance The second covers the provision to its core range helped our and enhancing returns.
We have of all in-store consumables for a specialist healthcare supply supplemented these activities with leading UK non-food retail chain business, Shermond, to show investment in new, more efficient reflecting our expertise in tailoring strong organic growth.
It is warehouse operations and supply programmes to meet the pleasing also to report that the standardised IT systems.
During specific requirements of retail healthcare sector is a successful the last two years we have customers.
The third covers the area of development in a number opened new, state-of-the-art provision of all light catering of countries including the warehousing facilities in the equipment for a catering group Netherlands, Ireland and Australia.
Netherlands, Germany and the in the UK.
UK and in 2004 we will open Organic growth and the integration new facilities in the UK, Denmark, Focused expansion of our product of recent acquisitions also drove Ireland, Australia and New range to capture more business the successful development of Zealand.
We are also implementing with individual customers has been our cleaning and safety supplies our standard IT systems into the a feature of our development for businesses.
We secured organic acquisitions we have made and several years.
The range extension growth by winning new contracts will continue to drive this process into light catering equipment, largely and developing our product range forward in 2004.
Finally we have as a result of the acquisitions of with existing customers.
A growing established a Group Purchasing Lockhart and McLaughlin in 2002, number of products are now function to enhance our leverage has proved beneficial with several sourced internationally and across countries and better customers in the UK, especially developed under our own brand co-ordinate our international in hotel and catering supplies, and names.
A number of the key UK sourcing activities.
These provides the base for potential ranges have been successfully initiatives provide the foundations future expansion into other countries introduced into the Australian for continued expansion and where we are also strong with market following the creation development from an efficient such customers.
of a dedicated Bunzl Safety sales and effective cost base.
1 2 7 million pieces of our own brand cutlery are sold a year to customers throughout the UK.
3 12 Bunzl plc Highlights Lockhart and McLaughlin have strengthened our offering to catering and related trades The vending and healthcare supplies businesses have expanded through organic growth Cleaning and safety supplies products have been extended into Australia Investment in new warehouses and standardised IT systems is ongoing Catering supplies Our product range provides an outsourcing solution for hotels, restaurants and caterers and includes beverages, disposables and tableware.
1 Vending machines 3 Surgical face masks 4 We are a leading We are a leading supplier supplier and operator of disposable hygiene of vending machines products including face supplying businesses masks and examination throughout the UK gloves to the healthcare, with machines, food and pharmaceutical ingredients and industries.
4 Safety supplies 2 Lockhart cutlery A wide range of Our own brand cutlery protective equipment is stylish, durable and is supplied to industrial made from the highest customers throughout quality materials.
Bunzl plc 13 Filtrona Developing our operations on a worldwide basis Medical diagnostic device We manufacture bonded fibre components used in diagnostic medical devices such as home pregnancy testing kits.
Filtrona is a world leading supplier of outsourced cigarette filters, ink reservoirs and other bonded fibre products, protection and finishing products, self-adhesive tear tapes and certain security 11% products.
It is also a leading extruder of custom profit increase in Filtrona plastic profiles.
1 2 38 production facilities across Europe, the US, Latin America and Asia.
3 14 Bunzl plc At constant exchange rates, sales self-manufacture some of the components and household items.
in Filtrona rose by 6% and operating simpler carbon filters due to them The continued focus on the profits increased by 11% despite becoming standard on more development of new technologies, the continuation of a challenging popular brands, the principal applications and geographic manufacturing environment which industry players continue to favour coverage has contributed to again was most noticeable in our outsourcing for a major proportion excellent growth this year.
There is also business has been renamed a growing interest in more complex Filtrona Fibertec, recognising both Filtrona now operates from 38 and innovative filters, which can the applicability of the name to production facilities in 14 countries reduce particular constituents our fibres operations and the engaged in flexible light manufacture within cigarette smoke, and continuity from the Baumgartner and service oriented supply of low Filtrona is well placed to assist Fibertec acquisition.
unit value items to customers with our range of technologies, Highlights throughout the world.
Two Our self-adhesive tear tape occupies leadership positions in such products were launched in business continues to be the Reorganisation of the small focused international markets, November at the industrys leading worlds leading supplier and made business has resulted or niche segments of larger exhibition, Tabexpo, in Barcelona.
particularly good progress in Asia, in reduced costs markets, where the development The acquisition of Baumgartners where supply to an important new of quality, differentiated positions Fibertec business was completed customer in Japan began, and the is possible through consistent in October and this will have Americas, assisted by the start up The acquisition of Fibertec investment and dedication to a positive impact on our filters of film coating at our Richmond will have a positive effect delivering superior customer and fibres businesses during facility.
Volumes of both standard on our filters and fibres value and service.
2004 as we capitalise on the self-adhesive tear tape and tear businesses additional customers, volumes tape with value added features The underlying performance of and complementary technologies continued their strong growth Demand for more complex our outsourced filters businesses derived from this important strategic trend.
The use of tear tape as a and innovative filters has continued its robust trend, with step.
The changing dynamics medium for brand promotion and continued to grow volumes volumes ahead in all regions of the market have led to the security purposes utilising various of outsourced filters and a particularly encouraging commencement of a consultation printing techniques to produce performance in Asia, although process with the local workforce multicoloured images and text headline results were impacted regarding the future of our northern continued to develop.
The Development of new by currency translation.
application of extrusion coated technologies, applications business continues to benefit from films for security and industrial and geographic coverage increased consumer demand for Our fibres business based in uses is also showing encouraging has led to growth in the brands with low tar and special Richmond, Virginia and Reinbek, results.
We continue to invest in fibres business filters, often including charcoal, Germany sells reservoirs and this business and a new 10 station driven by changing consumer wicking devices manufactured printer at our Nottingham site is tastes and ever stricter legislative using bonded fibre technology allowing us to expand the range requirements.
While it is now for products including pens of specialist products and services possible for manufacturers to and printers, medical device we are able to offer our customers.
1 Cigarette filters 3 Nylon screws 4 The share of speciality and fixings filtered products within Our new range of nylon the global cigarette parts will be enhanced market continues by the acquisition to grow.
2 High pressure 4 Passport security hose protection We are a leading supplier Our protective parts of coated film products are used in a wide range for document security of applications including applications including caps and plugs and British passports.
Bunzl plc 15 Filtrona continued Delivering solutions through innovation Our protection and finishing saw good growth reflecting the business continued to face businesss focus on proprietary weakness in many of its core products and differentiated process industrial markets, especially in technologies.
Measures continued the US, and rising polymer prices to be taken to reduce unit costs were also a drag on performance.
and to grow our business in In spite of this, the business as Mexico where future prospects a whole was ahead of last year remain positive.
as Europe and the oil sector produced particularly strong Globalpack, our Brazilian operation results.
The policy of building the which produces packaging for distribution network, strengthening the South American toiletries and the product range further with the cosmetics industries, had another Highlights addition of many new lines and excellent year.
Sales and profits increasing the sophistication of its were again well ahead with the The use of tear tape marketing programmes continues companys rapidly developing for brand promotion and to have a positive impact on the expertise in roll-on deodorant security purposes has performance of the business.
packaging items proving led to an expansion of The addition of Skiffy in 2004 will especially beneficial.
further strengthen this business products and services with its particular expertise in the supply of nylon parts.
The protection and finishing business has The sales of our European extended its network extrusion business picked up and product range strongly in the second half of the year after a slow start which Trading conditions in reflected the continued difficulties Extrusion improved in the European manufacturing during the second half sector.
This business continues to build its position in export markets where many opportunities exist for Globalpack has had further development and growth.
another excellent year The US business also experienced improved trading conditions in the second half of the year, although certain customer segments, such as aerospace, remain depressed.
Other segments including medical, traffic control, lighting and refrigeration 1 34,000 customers supplied with protection and finishing products in Europe and the Americas.
16 Bunzl plc Medical tubing Our extruded plastic tubing is used throughout the medical industry in a wide range of devices.
1 Traffic safety products 3 Tear tapes 2 We supply highly Our printed tear tape durable products to provides easy opening help improve traffic and the ability to control and road safety incorporate branding including markers, and security features posts and barricades.
2 Ink reservoirs Writing instruments including pens, markers and highlighters, such 3 as Sharpies pens made by Sanford, rely on our reservoirs to retain ink and provide uniform release while writing.
Bunzl plc 17 Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 Michael Roney Age 49 2 Anthony Habgood# Age 57 3 Paul Lorenzini Age 64 4 Alexander Pat Dyer# Age 71 Non-executive director since Chairman since 1996, having Chief Executive, Outsourcing Deputy Chairman since 1996, June 2003.
After holding a number joined as Chief Executive in 1991, Services North America having having been Chairman from 1993. of senior general management and Chairman of the Nomination joined Bunzl in 1983 with the Previously a director of Air Products positions within Goodyear Committee.
A director of The Boston acquisition of PCI Mac-Pak.
and Chemicals Inc, he joined throughout Latin America and Consulting Group from 1977 to He was appointed President The BOC Group plc in 1989 then Asia, he became President 1986, he was then appointed of Bunzl Distribution USA in and subsequently became Chief of Goodyears Eastern European, a director of Tootal Group PLC, 1986 and joined the Board in Executive and Deputy Chairman African and Middle Eastern subsequently becoming Chief 1999 with continuing responsibility until his retirement in 1996. businesses and is presently Executive.
He is a non-executive for the Groups largest and most President of Goodyears director of Schroder Ventures successful business.
He will retire 5 Paul Heiden Age 47 European operations.
Previously with Hanson plc, he joined Rolls-Royce plc in 1992, becoming a director responsible for their Industrial Businesses in 1997 and Finance Director in 1999.
He was appointed Chief Executive of FKI plc in 2003.
18 Bunzl plc Bunzls strong independent Board has continued to focus on overseeing the implementation of a consistent strategy which has successfully built the business and created shareholder value.
Five non-executives, who control the relevant Committees, are independent as defined by the revised Combined Code.
6 Jeff Harris # Age 55 7 Stephen Williams # Age 56 8 David Williams Age 58 9 Charles Banks # Age 63 Non-executive director since 2000, Non-executive director since 1994.
Finance Director, having joined Non-executive director since senior independent director and After training as a lawyer and a the Group in 1991 in that role.
2002 and Chairman of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
period with Slaughter and May, He was previously with Tootal Remuneration Committee.
Appointed Finance Director of he joined the legal department Group PLC where he held a Previously Chief Executive of UniChem Plc in 1986 and Chief at Imperial Chemical Industries plc.
number of financial and operating Ferguson Enterprises, the largest Executive in 1992, he became In 1986 he joined Unilever as Joint positions including Group Finance North American subsidiary of Chief Executive of the enlarged Secretary and was also appointed Director.
He is a non-executive Wolseley plc, he joined the Board Alliance Unichem Plc in 1997 General Counsel in 1993. director of George Wimpey of Wolseley in 1992 and was and Chairman in 2001.
He is a PLC where he chairs the appointed Group Chief Executive non-executive director of Anzag AG Audit Committee.
in 2001. and Associated British Foods plc.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee # Member of the Nomination Committee Independent director Bunzl plc 19 Financial review Group performance increased substantially.
Profit An interim dividend of 3.85p and net disposal proceeds Sales of continuing operations before tax excluding goodwill per share and a final proposed of 10.0 million, representing increased by 2%, or 6% at amortisation and the exceptional dividend of 8.25p will deliver an deferred consideration on the sale constant exchange rates, to item in 2002 rose by 2%, or 8% increase of 8% for the year at a of Paper Distribution, resulted in 2,728.2 million with businesses at constant exchange rates, total cost of 54.4 million, with a net cash outflow of 26.1 million acquired during the year to 212.3 million.
dividend cover, based on adjusted on acquisitions and disposals.
earnings per share, at 2.6 times.
Net cash inflow before financing of This reflected good operating Continuing operations margin 70.2 million is to be transferred 79.9 million, combined with a cash performance and underlying excluding goodwill amortisation to reserves.
inflow from share issues relating organic growth largely offset by increased to 7.8% from 7.7% to the exercise of share options price deflation and unfavourable in 2002.
Outsourcing Services Balance sheet of 7.0 million, a cash outflow currency translation movements.
margin increased to 7.7% from Total assets less current liabilities of 92.2 million for the share buy Group sales, which included 7.5% and Filtronas margin decreased by 65.0 million to back including expenses and discontinued operations in 2002, improved to 12.4% from 11.9%.
This was largely a favourable exchange movement decreased by 4% to 2,728.2 Group margin rose to 7.8% accounted for by decreased of 14.8 million, resulted in a million, but rose marginally at from 7.5%, principally due to the short term deposits and lower 9.5 million reduction in net debt.
disposal of Paper Distribution working capital.
Group return on in 2002. average capital before goodwill Pensions Operating profit of continuing amortisation increased to 43.0% On 1 January 2003, the Group operations before goodwill Currency had a net adverse from 39.5% principally due to the fully adopted FRS17.
As a result, amortisation increased by 5%, impact in the year through disposal of Paper Distribution in comparative figures have been or 10% at constant exchange translation primarily due to the 2002.
Net debt decreased by restated.
The impact on the rates, to 214.1 million.
A strong weakening of the US dollar against 9.5 million to 96.5 million due consolidated profit for the year performance by both Outsourcing sterling.
This translation effect to strong operating cash flow to 31 December 2002 was a Services and Filtrona was partly is the major way that currency more than offsetting an acquisition reduction of 0.4 million and offset by unfavourable exchange impacts the Group although there spend of 36.1 million and the the impact on the consolidated rates.
Group operating profit before is also a small transaction effect share buy back of 91.7 million.
shareholders funds as at goodwill amortisation increased on certain parts of the business.
Shareholders funds decreased 31 December 2002 was a marginally to 214.1 million by 16.0 million to 459.2 million reduction of 68.8 million.
but rose by 6% at constant Tax due to the impact of the share exchange rates.
The tax charge of 69.0 million buy back more than offsetting the At 31 December 2003, the represents an effective rate of retained profit for the year.
Gearing Groups FRS17 pension liability There were no exceptional items 32.5% 2002: 33.6% on the profit fell from 22.3% to 21.0%.
The exceptional item on underlying operations.
Including improvement compared to in 2002 of 4.1 million represents the impact of goodwill amortisation Goodwill 2002 due to a stronger market a profit on the disposal of Paper the overall rate was 35.5%.
This This increased by 1.4 million to performance more than offsetting Distribution partly offset by the compares to 35.8% in 2002 which 290.9 million reflecting goodwill increased liabilities.
costs of exiting Filtronas small included the impact of goodwill arising in the year on acquisitions machine building business.
amortisation and the exceptional largely offset by an amortisation Treasury policies and controls Including a 3.4 million lower item.
The effective rate is higher charge of 17.7 million and Bunzl has a centralised treasury interest charge, profit before tax than the nominal UK rate of 30.0% exchange movements.
department to control external fell marginally to 194.6 million principally because most of the borrowings and manage exchange but rose by 5% at constant Groups operations are in countries Cash flow rate risk and interest rate risk.
Net cash inflow from operating Treasury policies are approved by activities was 250.4 million, a the Board and cover the nature The net interest charge fell to Earnings and dividends 34.0 million increase compared of the exposure to be hedged, the 1.8 million from 5.2 million in Earnings fell marginally but to 2002, of which 17.1 million types of financial instruments that 2002.
Lower average borrowings increased 5% at constant was due to stronger working may be employed and the criteria due to strong cash generation exchange rates to 124.6 million.
In 2002 there for investing and borrowing cash.
from operations, a full year of The weighted average number was a special pension contribution The Group only uses derivatives the Paper Distribution disposal of shares in issue reduced to of 20.0 million which was not to manage its foreign currency proceeds, lower interest rates and 455.2 million from 461.4 million repeated in 2003.
Gross capital and interest rate risks arising from the full year benefit of discounting due to the share buy back.
expenditure of 37.8 million was underlying business activities.
the Paper Distribution deferred Earnings per share increased by used to expand and upgrade No transactions of a speculative payments, all reduced the charge.
1%, or 7% at constant exchange facilities and systems and enhance nature are undertaken.
The The adoption of FRS17 Retirement rates, to 27.4p.
After adjusting the quality and capacity of the department is subject to periodic Benefits resulted in a charge in for goodwill amortisation, and the asset base.
Sales of fixed assets independent reviews by the internal the year which partially offset these exceptional item in 2002, earnings generated a cash inflow of audit department.
However the 2002 FRS17 per share increased by 5%, or 11% 6.5 million resulting in a net policy assumptions and activities restatement reduced the interest at constant exchange rates, capital expenditure of 31.3 million.
are reviewed by the executive charge in that year.
An acquisition spend of 36.1 million directors.
Controls over exposure 20 Bunzl plc Exchange rates Return on average capital % Average 2003 2002 2003 2002 US$ : 1.64 1.51 Outsourcing Services 67.5 65.8 : 1.44 1.59 Filtrona 26.7 24.4 Year end US$ : 1.79 1.61 : 1.42 1.53 changes and transaction authenticity where they do occur, the Groups are in place and dealings are policy is to hedge exposures as restricted to those banks with the soon as they are committed using relevant combination of geographic forward foreign exchange contracts.
presence and suitable credit rating.
The Group continually monitors the Interest rate risk credit ratings of its counterparties The Groups strategy is to ensure and credit to each counterparty.
with a reasonable amount of certainty that the overall Group Liquidity risk interest charge is protected against The Groups objective is to maintain material adverse movements in a balance between continuity of interest rates.
The majority of the funding and flexibility.
The Group US dollar Bond was swapped to is funded by a US dollar Bond and floating rates when the Bond was multi-currency credit facilities from issued in 2001.
Interest rate the Groups bankers.
The US dollar caps are in place to reduce the Bond, issued in 2001, is in three Groups floating rate exposure to tranches: five years, seven years movements in US dollar LIBOR.
and ten years for a total of $225 million at fixed rates of interest.
Financial reporting standards The bank facilities have tenures and accounting policies ranging from one year to five FRS17 has been adopted in years and mature between 2004 the 2003 financial statements.
At 31 December 2003, With the exception of FRS17 available bank facilities totalled there have been no changes 321.2 million of which to the accounting policies of the 103.6 million was drawn down.
Group from the previous year.
In addition the Group maintains uncommitted and overdraft International Financial Reporting facilities to maintain short Standards term flexibility.
The Council of the European Union announced in June 2002 that all Foreign currency risk European listed companies will be The majority of the Groups required to adopt International net assets are in currencies other Financial Reporting Standards than sterling.
The Groups policy IFRS from 1 January 2005.
This is to limit the translation exposure will affect the Groups financial and resulting impact on statements for the six months shareholders funds by borrowing ending 30 June 2005 and the in those currencies in which the year ending 31 December 2005.
Group has significant non-sterling Assessing the differences between net assets and by using forward current accounting policies and foreign exchange contracts.
IFRS is a complex task, not At 31 December 2003 there were least as many of the IFRS are no material currency exposures themselves in the course of after accounting for the effect revision.
However it is already of the hedging transactions.
evident that certain accounting As the majority of non-sterling policies and some presentational net operating assets are aspects of the financial statements denominated in US dollars, will change.
Work has commenced borrowings are primarily held to ensure the Group will be ready in US dollars.
The Group does to meet the conversion deadline not hedge the translation effect and to present clearly the effects of exchange rate movements of convergence to IFRS.
on the profit and loss account.
The majority of the Groups transactions are carried out in the functional currency of the Groups local operations and so transaction exposures are limited.
However, Bunzl plc 21 Summary financial statement Summary directors report Principal activities and Corporate governance Annual General Meeting developments The Company complied throughout The Annual General Meeting The principal activities of the the period under review in relation will be held at the Hyatt Regency Group are set out on the inside to all provisions of the combined The Churchill Hotel, 30 Portman front cover.
The Chairmans code on corporate governance Square, London W1A 4ZX on Statement, the Operating Review applicable for the year ended Wednesday 19 May 2004 at and the Financial Review on 31 December 2003.
The notice convening pages 4 to 17 and 20 to 21 give the Meeting is set out in a separate details of the Groups activities, The Chairman, Mr A J Habgood, letter from the Chairman to developments and performance continues to act in the capacity shareholders which explains for the year and an indication of Chief Executive.
The Board the items of special business.
recognises the concerns, expressed in a general context, Auditors Directors about the possible negative A resolution is to be proposed at Mr M J Roney was appointed effects of a concentration of the Annual General Meeting for the to the Board on 1 June 2003 power through a combined re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc and, being eligible, offers himself Chairman and Chief Executive as auditors of the Company at a for re-election at the forthcoming role but believes these do not rate of remuneration to be Annual General Meeting in presently apply to the Company determined by the directors.
accordance with the Articles for a variety of reasons.
Mr L C McQuade has a majority of independent P N Hussey retired from the Board on 14 May non-executive directors who Secretary 2003.
All of the other directors, constitute the entire membership 23 February 2004 who are named on pages 18 and of the Audit and Remuneration 19, served throughout the year.
Committees and represent a majority of the Nomination Mr P G Lorenzini will retire from the Committee.
None of the Companys Board on 31 July 2004.
Mr A P Dyer non-executive directors had any and Mr J F Harris retire by rotation previous connection with the at the Annual General Meeting Company or its executive directors in accordance with the Articles on appointment to the Board.
of Association and, being eligible, In addition, the Groups operations offer themselves for re-election.
are devolved and the Group benefits from the presence of Directors interests in ordinary strong senior line management shares are shown in Note 21 to the in those operations.
The Deputy financial statements in the Directors Chairman, Mr A P Dyer, is a Report and Accounts.
None of the former non-executive Chairman directors was materially interested of the Company.
Mr J F Harris in any contract of significance has been designated as with the Company or any of its the senior independent subsidiary undertakings during non-executive director.
The Boards firm view is that Dividends the Group does not suffer from An interim dividend of 3.85p a damaging concentration was paid in respect of the year of power and is well protected and the directors recommend from such a possibility.
Furthermore, a final dividend of 8.25p, making it believes that the current a total for the year of 12.1p.
arrangements are in the best This compares with 11.2p for interests of the business and the year ended 31 December 2002. of shareholders.
22 Bunzl plc Summary remuneration policy The Companys current of overall performance achieved Committee welcomes the fact notice periods.
Mr P G Lorenzini remuneration policy for 2004 and experience in the post.
It is that each of the executive directors has a fixed term service contract and beyond is designed to help benchmarked against comparator currently has a meaningful holding which runs to 31 July 2004.
The ensure the recruitment, retention companies and the actual pay of Bunzl shares.
non-executive directors do and motivation of the executive level is set after taking account not have service contracts.
directors by providing fair reward of performance, relevant external The Group operates an Executive for the responsibilities they survey data and the general Share Option Scheme under which Directors emoluments for 2003 undertake and the performance movement of base pay within the executive directors and other The directors aggregate they achieve on behalf of the Group.
senior executives in the Group emoluments for 2003 were shareholders.
In this context, the may be granted options over Bunzl 3.5 million, the aggregate amount Remuneration Committees policy Annual bonus plan shares.
The grant of executive of gains made by directors on the is to set the overall remuneration The executive directors participate share options is made on a exercise of share options during package at a competitive level in an annual bonus plan intended discretionary basis, taking account the year was 0.3 million, the and in a form that permits to support the Companys overall of each executives performance aggregate market value of awards significant additional remuneration remuneration policy.
The bonus and job responsibilities.
In normal exercised by directors under long to be earned for high performance plan for each executive director circumstances options granted are term incentive schemes during over a sustained period.
This is contains meaningful targets that exercisable, subject to satisfaction the year was 1.8 million and the normally achieved by benchmarking seek to focus attention on one of a performance condition, not aggregate amount of contributions base pay against comparator or two key measures of short to earlier than three years and not paid by the Company to money companies and a range of medium term achievement.
For later than 10 years after the date purchase pension schemes in factors, including performance, the UK executive directors, half of grant.
The Committee is respect of the directors was and by providing, in addition, of this annual bonus is normally currently consulting shareholders 40,000.
Two directors participate short and long term incentives paid in cash and the balance regarding the adoption of a new in defined benefit pension schemes, geared to performance.
but with the total aggregate Executive Long Term Incentive one of whom also participates in a amount capped is deferred Plan.
Shareholders will be asked money purchase pension scheme.
In assessing the balance under the rules of the DASBS.
to approve this Plan at the 2004 A further director participates of performance related and Annual General Meeting.
in a personal money purchase non-performance related Under the DASBS, eligible pension scheme to which the elements of remuneration, base executives, including the UK Retirement benefits Company contributes.
pay and benefits are treated as executive directors, receive the The Group utilises both defined non-performance related, whereas deferred element of their annual benefit and defined contribution Total shareholder return annual bonus including awards bonus as an award of ordinary pension schemes throughout 250 under the Deferred Annual Share shares.
The ordinary shares are the world.
All principal defined Bunzl Bonus Scheme DASBS and transferred to the executive on benefit schemes are closed to 200 long term incentives are treated 1 March in the third year after the new entrants who are now offered as performance related.
For this year in which the award is made, a defined contribution arrangement.
150 purpose, share options are valued provided normally the executive The executive directors are eligible FTSE Support 100 Services Sector at one third of their face value has remained in the employment to participate in the relevant on grant.
On this basis, the of the Group throughout that pension scheme or may choose 50 Remuneration Committee sets period or until their normal to participate in a private the remuneration package retirement date.
99 00 01 02 03 such that at least half the total Source: Thompson Datastream target remuneration package Share based incentives Service contracts is derived from the performance The Remuneration Committee It is the Companys policy that The Companys total shareholder related elements.
believes that the long term executive directors are normally return over the last five years performance of the Group is employed on contracts that compared to that of the FTSE Base pay an important consideration for provide for 12 months notice Support Services Sector is shown The base pay of each executive shareholders and that share based from the Company and six above.
A fuller representation of director is set to reflect the size incentives are an important part months notice from the the Companys total shareholder and scope of that directors of helping to align the interests of executive.
Mr A J Habgood and return relative to relevant Sectors responsibilities undertaken on shareholders and those employed Mr D M Williams each have service can be found in the Chairmans behalf of the Board, the level by the Group.
The Remuneration contracts that provide for these Statement on page 5.
Bunzl plc 23 Summary financial statement continued Consolidated profit and loss account Summary consolidated balance sheet for the year ended 31 December 2003 at 31 December 2003 2002 2002 2003 Restated 2003 Restated m m m m Sales Intangible assets goodwill 290.9 289.5 Existing businesses 2,707.0 2,673.6 Tangible assets 229.8 233.9 Acquisitions 21.2 Fixed assets 520.7 523.4 Continuing operations 2,728.2 2,673.6 Current assets 743.0 777.6 Discontinued operations 161.7 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 499.1 471.4 Total sales 2,728.2 2,835.3 Net current assets 243.9 306.2 Total assets less current liabilities 764.6 829.6 Operating profit Creditors: amounts falling due Existing businesses 195.7 189.0 after more than one year 220.2 265.3 Acquisitions 0.7 Provisions for liabilities and charges 41.6 43.1 Continuing operations 196.4 189.0 Net assets excluding pension liabilities 502.8 521.2 Discontinued operations 7.4 Pension liabilities 40.8 43.7 Total operating profit 196.4 196.4 Net assets including pension liabilities 462.0 477.5 Profit on sale of discontinued operations 4.1 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 196.4 200.5 Capital and reserves Net interest payable 1.8 5.2 Called up share capital 112.1 116.8 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 194.6 195.3 Share premium and other reserves 347.1 358.4 Profit before taxation, goodwill amortisation Shareholders funds: equity interests 459.2 475.2 and exceptional items 212.3 207.3 Minority equity interests 2.8 2.3 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 69.0 70.0 462.0 477.5 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 125.6 125.3 Profit attributable to minorities 1.0 0.5 Approved by the Board of Directors of Bunzl plc on 23 February 2004 Profit for the financial year 124.6 124.8 and signed on its behalf by Mr A J Habgood, Chairman and Dividends paid and proposed 54.4 52.3 Mr D M Williams, Finance Director.
Retained profit for the financial year 70.2 72.5 Basic earnings per share 27.4p 27.1p Adjusted earnings per share 31.3p 29.7p Dividends per share 12.1p 11.2p Restated on adoption of FRS17 Retirement Benefits.
24 Bunzl plc Consolidated statement of total Analysis of sales and operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2003 recognised gains and losses for the year ended 31 December 2003 2002 Sales Operating profit 2003 Restated 2002 m m 2003 2002 2003 Restated Profit for the financial year 124.6 124.8 m m m m Actuarial gain loss on pensions 0.9 64.3 Continuing operations Deferred taxation on gain loss on pensions 0.4 20.0 Outsourcing Services 2,275.6 2,231.2 174.8 168.1 Currency translation differences Filtrona 452.6 442.4 56.1 52.7 on foreign currency net investments 1.5 10.9 Corporate activities 16.8 16.0 Total recognised gains and losses for the year 123.6 69.6 Goodwill 17.7 15.8 Prior year adjustment adoption of FRS17 68.8 2,728.2 2,673.6 196.4 189.0 Discontinued operations 161.7 7.7 Total recognised gains and losses since Goodwill 0.3 last directors report and accounts 54.8 Total 2,728.2 2,835.3 196.4 196.4 Summary consolidated Summary US GAAP information cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2003 for the year ended 31 December 2003 2003 2002 2002 Net income for the financial year m 2003 Restated Continuing operations 131.7 126.5 m m Discontinued operations 21.3 Operating profit 196.4 196.4 131.7 147.8 Adjustment for non-cash items 51.2 48.1 Earnings per share p Working capital movements 17.9 0.8 Continuing operations 28.9 27.4 Special pension contribution 20.0 Discontinued operations 4.6 Employee benefit trust shares 8.8 6.3 28.9 32.0 Other cash movements 6.3 2.6 Net cash inflow from operating activities 250.4 216.4 Equity shareholders funds m 712.2 741.8 Net cash outflow for returns on investments and servicing of finance 4.7 9.0 Tax paid 56.6 64.3 Net cash outflow for capital expenditure 31.3 31.0 Net cash outflow inflow for acquisitions and disposals 26.1 33.6 Equity dividends paid 51.8 48.0 Net cash inflow before use of liquid resources and financing 79.9 97.7 Net cash inflow outflow from management of liquid resources 57.4 128.7 Net cash outflow inflow from financing 98.1 8.0 Increase decrease in cash in the financial year 39.2 23.0 Restated on adoption of FRS17 Retirement Benefits.
Bunzl plc 25 Statement of the independent auditors to the members of Bunzl plc pursuant to Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 We have examined the Summary Basis of opinion Financial Statement on pages We conducted our work in 22 to 25. accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The Auditors Statement on the This statement is made solely Summary Financial Statement to the Companys members, as issued by the Auditing Practices a body, in accordance with Section Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the Groups full Our work has been undertaken financial statements describes so that we might state to the the basis of our audit opinion Companys members those on those financial statements.
matters we are required to state to them in such a statement Opinion and for no other purpose.
To the In our opinion the Summary fullest extent permitted by the law, Financial Statement is consistent we do not accept or assume with the full financial statements, responsibility to anyone other than the Directors Report and the the Company and the Companys Directors Remuneration Report members as a body, for our work, of Bunzl plc for the year ended for this statement or for the 31 December 2003 and complies opinions we have formed.
with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Respective responsibilities Act 1985 and the regulations of directors and auditors made thereunder.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Summary KPMG Audit Plc Financial Statement in accordance Chartered Accountants with applicable United Kingdom Registered Auditor law.
Our responsibility is to report London to you our opinion on the 23 February 2004 consistency of the Summary The auditors have issued an unqualified report Financial Statement within the on the full financial statements containing no Annual Review and Summary statement under Sections 237 2 or 237 3 Financial Statement with the full of the Companies Act 1985. financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Bunzl plc 27 Shareholder information Financial calendar 2004 Registered office 110 Park Street Annual General Meeting 19 May London W1K 6NX Results for the half year to 30 June 2004 31 August Telephone 020 7495 4950 Fax 020 7495 4953 2005 Website www.
com Registered in England No 358948 Results for the year to 31 December 2004 February Annual Report circulated March Secretary P N Hussey Dividend payments are normally made on these dates: Ordinary shares final 1 July Registrar Ordinary shares interim 2 January Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 The Pavilions Analysis of ordinary shareholders Bridgwater Road As at 31 December 2003 the Company had 6,400 2002: 6,199 Bristol BS99 7NH shareholders who held 448.3 million 2002: 467.0 million ordinary Telephone 0870 702 0001 shares between them, analysed as follows: Fax 0870 703 6116 Website www.
com Size of holding Number of shareholders % of issued share capital 0 10,000 5,626 2 Auditors KPMG Audit Plc 10,001 100,000 454 3 100,001 500,000 189 10 Stockbrokers 500,001 1,000,000 55 9 Cazenove 1,000,001 and over 76 76 Citigroup Smith Barney 6,400 100 Investment bankers UBS 28 Bunzl plc Group at a glance Outsourcing services Filtrona Operating across North America, Europe and Filtrona is a world leading supplier of Australasia, Bunzl is the leading supplier of outsourced cigarette filters, ink reservoirs a range of products including outsourced food and other bonded fibre products, protection Triple granular filters packaging, disposable supplies and cleaning and and finishing products, self-adhesive tear tapes We continue to develop innovative low tar special safety products for supermarkets, redistributors, and certain security products.
Sales 2,275.6mSales 452.6m Operating profit 174.8m Operating profit 56.1m Profit margin 7.7% Profit margin 12.4% Key events in 2003 Key events in 2003 Acquisition of Enterprise in the US Establishment of worldwide fibres business MultiLine in Denmark acquired Protection and finishing organisation integrated Pat Larmon appointed President of North American organisation Acquisition of Fibertec in Switzerland 76% of Group operating profit 24% of Group operating profit 7,100 employees 4,800 employees Designed and produced by Sheppard Day 2,275.6 174.8 452.6 56.1 Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003 The Annual Review and Summary 110 Park Street, London W1K 6NX Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement does not contain or from the Companys website sufficient information to allow a full www.
Adjusted earnings per share p Profit margin % 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 01 Financial highlights 02 Management 04 Chairmans statement 08 Operating review 08 Outsourcing Services 14 Filtrona 18 Directors 20 Financial review 22 Summary financial statement 26 Statement of the independent auditors 27 Summary five year review 28 Shareholder information 12.5 16.1 16.5 18.0 19.9 21.0 26.0 28.6 29.7 31.3 5.6 6.3 6.5 7.4 7.4 7.5 7.7 7.5 7.5 7.8
