US GAAP information for the year ended 31 December 2003 The Groups financial statements Long Term Incentive Plan and the cost for only the cost of its own UK GAAP the Group presents are prepared in accordance with Deferred Annual Share Bonus shares acquired to satisfy the its cash flows from operating United Kingdom Generally Accepted Scheme and to satisfy options requirements of the Long Term activities, returns on investments Accounting Principles UK GAAP granted under the 1994 Executive Incentive Plan and the Deferred and servicing of finance, tax paid, which differ in certain significant Share Option Scheme in respect Annual Share Bonus Scheme.
capital expenditure, acquisitions respects from United States of market purchased shares.
Under Under US GAAP APB Opinion and disposals, dividends paid, Generally Accepted Accounting US GAAP this is presented as a 25 requires a compensation cost management of liquid resources Principles US GAAP.
Set out reduction of equity shareholders to be recorded for all of the Groups and financing.
US GAAP requires below is a summary of the significant funds, as these shares are treated performance based executive only three categories of cash flow differences, a reconciliation of profit as treasury shares.
share schemes and in respect activities which are operating, from UK GAAP to US GAAP, of all-employee share schemes.
Cash flows earnings per share in accordance c Ordinary dividends arising from tax paid and returns with US GAAP, a reconciliation Under UK GAAP ordinary dividends g Derivative instruments on investments and servicing of of equity shareholders funds from are accounted for in the period to Under UK GAAP changes in the finance under UK GAAP are, UK GAAP to US GAAP and a which they relate which may be fair value of interest rate derivatives with the exception of dividends consolidated cash flow statement earlier than the date of declaration.
are not recognised in the financial paid to minority shareholders, on a US GAAP basis.
Under US GAAP ordinary dividends statements but are disclosed in included as operating activities are accounted for in the period in Note 15.
Furthermore, gains and under US GAAP.
Dividend a Goodwill and other which they are declared.
losses on forward foreign exchange payments are included as a intangible assets contracts used for hedging net financing activity under US Under UK GAAP goodwill d Property revaluations investments have been taken to GAAP.
In addition capital arising on acquisitions made after Under UK GAAP until 31 December reserves.
Under US GAAP derivative expenditure and acquisitions 31 December 1997 is capitalised 1999, land and buildings were financial instruments are required and disposals under UK GAAP and is amortised through the profit revalued periodically and to be recorded in the balance are presented as investing and loss account over a period depreciation based on such sheet as either an asset or liability activities under US GAAP.
As permitted at fair value.
Changes in the fair on acquisitions made prior to under FRS15 Tangible Fixed value of these derivative instruments Under UK GAAP cash comprises 1 January 1998 remains eliminated Assets, the valuations of land are recognised in the profit and cash in hand, deposits repayable against equity reserves.
and buildings have not been and loss account unless specific hedge on demand and overdrafts.
Under US accounting criteria are met.
Certain Under US GAAP cash and cash Under US GAAP the excess of GAAP revaluations of fixed assets of the Groups derivatives qualify for equivalents include short term, the fair value of the consideration are not permitted and depreciation hedge accounting under US GAAP highly liquid investments with paid over the fair value of the net is calculated based on historic cost.
thereby reducing the effect on the original maturities of less assets acquired including identifiable profit and loss account from gains than three months and intangible assets is assigned e Pension costs and losses arising from changes excludes overdrafts.
Under SFAS 142 Under UK GAAP pension schemes in their fair values.
Goodwill and Other Intangible are accounted for in accordance k Exceptional items Assets, goodwill is capitalised with FRS17 Retirement Benefits.
h Deferred taxation Under UK GAAP profit on and is subject to an annual Under US GAAP they are The adoption of FRS19 sale of discontinued operations impairment test to identify any accounted for under SFAS 87 Deferred Tax on 1 January 2002 in 2002 is disclosed as an impairment loss.
In accordance with and SFAS 88. eliminated the significant differences exceptional item after operating SFAS 141 Business Combinations, between accounting for deferred profit.
Under US GAAP identifiable intangible assets are Under UK GAAP actuarial gains taxation under UK GAAP and this profit is not treated capitalised and amortised over and losses are recognised in full US GAAP.
As a result, the as exceptional.
in the year in which they arise.
adjustments for taxation now Under US GAAP, actuarial gains relate to the tax effect of other Under UK GAAP the profit or and losses which exceed 10% of US GAAP adjustments.
loss on disposal of a business the value of the assets or liabilities.
acquired prior to 1 January 1998 at the start of the accounting period i Discontinued operations is calculated after taking account are amortised over the remaining UK GAAP and US GAAP have of any goodwill written off to lives of scheme members.
FRS17 different criteria for determining reserves.
Under US GAAP an requires that past service costs discontinued operations.
Under adjustment to the UK GAAP profit are recognised in full in the period in US GAAP discontinued operations or loss is made in respect of which they become vested whereas would exclude the exiting of the goodwill previously amortised.
SFAS 87 requires that they be small machine building activity amortised over the remaining at Jarrow during 2002. b Own shares service lives of employees.
Under UK GAAP the Group j Cash flows recognises as an asset the cost f Share schemes The principal difference between of acquiring its own shares to Under UK GAAP the Group UK GAAP and US GAAP is in satisfy the requirements of the recognises a compensation respect of classification.
Under 38 Bunzl plc 2002 2003 Restated m m Profit for the financial year in accordance with UK GAAP 124.6 124.8 US GAAP adjustments: Amortisation of goodwill and other intangibles 14.5 13.4 Disposal of business 8.0 Pension costs 3.6 3.6 Share option expense 2.5 0.5 Capital instruments and derivatives 10.1 1.2 Taxation on above adjustments 1.6 0.3 Net income for the financial year in accordance with US GAAP 131.7 147.8 Continuing operations 131.7 126.5 Discontinued operations 21.3 Net income for the financial year in accordance with US GAAP 131.7 147.8 Earnings per share in accordance with US GAAP Continuing operations 28.9p 27.4p Discontinued operations 4.6p Earnings per share in accordance with US GAAP 28.9p 32.0p Diluted earnings per share in accordance with US GAAP 28.6p 31.6p m m Restated Equity shareholders funds in accordance with UK GAAP 459.2 475.2 US GAAP adjustments: Goodwill and other intangibles 229.3 226.1 Own shares 27.2 19.2 Ordinary dividends 37.0 35.3 Disposal of business 8.0 Property revaluations 1.3 1.5 Pensions 17.3 20.6 Deferred taxation 1.4 1.6 Taxation on above adjustments 3.5 4.3 Equity shareholders funds in accordance with US GAAP 712.2 741.8 Consolidated cash flow statement m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 189.9 153.3 Net cash outflow inflow from investing activities 57.5 2.6 Net cash outflow from financing activities 165.3 30.2 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents per US GAAP 32.9 125.7 Exchange movements 0.5 4.0 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year per US GAAP 192.2 70.5 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year per US GAAP 158.8 192.2 Restated on adoption of FRS17 Retirement Benefits.
