glossary of terms GLOSSARY OF TERMS Terms used in this Annual Report Brief description of meaning or US equivalent ACCESS SERVICES Services giving customers the ability to connect to the internet.
ACCOUNTING RATES Cost per call minute to connect international calls.
ADRs The American Depositary Receipts evidencing ADSs.
ADSL Asymmetrical Digital Subscriber Line A transmission technology that transforms existing copper wires from a subscribers premises to the local exchange into high bandwidth lines.
ADSs The American Depositary Shares, each of which represents three Ordinary shares.
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode A very high-speed transmission technology for transporting voice, data and video in digital format.
BACKBONE A high-capacity network linking networks of lower capacity, such as LANs.
BANDWIDTH The information-carrying capacity of a network.
BROADBAND A broadband network is one on which a number of independent, simultaneous data ows are transmitted on each cable.
CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid.
CAPACITY SALES Sales of transmission space on a network to business and wholesale customers.
CAPITAL ALLOWANCES Tax term equivalent to US tax depreciation allowances.
CASH AT BANK AND IN HAND Cash.
CHAPTER 11 Bankruptcy restructuring under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code.
COMPANY Cable and Wireless plc.
CONNECTIVITY Providing customers with access to the internet.
CONTENT DELIVERY DISTRIBUTION Service providing geographically diverse distribution of web pages ensuring the fastest possible delivery to the end user.
CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR Long-term debt.
CREDITORS: AMOUNT FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR Current liabilities.
DIGITAL Sound, text or video coded into binary form, a series of 1s and 0s, to enable more effective transmission.
Page 151 glossary of terms Terms used in this Annual Report Brief description of meaning or US equivalent FIBRE OPTIC The use of special glass bres to transmit laser light pulses, giving the on & off signals of digital information.
FID Foreign Income Dividend, under the provisions of the UK Finance Act 1994.
FRAME RELAY A high-speed data transmission technology.
FREEHOLD Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
GSM Global system for mobile communications, a standard for digital mobile telephone transmissions at a frequency of 900 MHz, 1800 MHz or 1900 MHz.
INTELLIGENT NETWORK A network where the transmission logic is located separately from the switching equipment, greatly simplifying the provision of value added services.
INTERCONNECT Connection arrangements between carriers.
INTERNET The system comprising all networks interconnected using the Internet Protocol IP.
The internet supports access to databases, websites, email, and le downloading world wide.
IP The data transmission standard on which the internet is based.
IP DEDICATED ACCESS Direct access to the internet.
IP TRANSIT Transmission of IP trafc across the network backbone.
IP-VPN A network using Internet Protocol to provide companies with an internal communications system linking employees in different ofces worldwide.
IP WHOLESALE DIAL Dial-up access to the internet via telephone lines.
IRU Indefeasible Rights of Use The right to use a cable bre or wavelength for a xed period of time.
ISP Internet Service Provider A business that provides internet access to users.
It may also provide additional services such as web-hosting.
LAN Local Area Network A network that covers only short distances usually less than 1 km and is normally confined to one building or site.
MANAGED HOSTING A service where customer websites are hosted, maintained and managed by Cable & Wireless.
MPLS Multi Protocol Label Switching Technology for enhancing the speed and management of network trafc.
NETWORK COSTS Network costs include bandwidth, operating and maintenance of equipment, software and cables, wayleaves, customer acquisition costs, cost of goods sold, licences.
Page 152 glossary of terms Terms used in this Annual Report Brief description of meaning or US equivalent NODES Connecting points on a network.
NOON BUYING RATE The noon buying rate in the City of New York for cable transfers in pounds sterling as certied for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the date specified.
NYNEX CABLECOMMS NYNEX CableComms UK together with NYNEX CableComms Group Inc. OFTEL The Ofce of Telecommunications in the United Kingdom.
This is the independent regulatory body set up under the Telecommunications Act which has responsibility for the enforcement and monitoring, and where appropriate initiating modication, of telecommunications licences in the United Kingdom.
ORDINARY SHARES Ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company.
OUTPAYMENTS Payments to other network operators to carry trafc on behalf of Cable & Wireless.
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network The telecommunications lines and exchanges to which the public connects to make domestic voice and facsimile calls and to access international telecommunications networks.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT Income statement.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT under Capital and reserves Retained earnings.
PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS Net income.
PROPOSED DIVIDEND Dividend declared by directors but not yet approved by shareholders.
RESELLERS Businesses that provide communication services to consumers by buying capacity off network operators and selling it on.
SHARE CAPITAL Ordinary shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT Additional paid-in capital or paid-in surplus not distributable.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Property, plant and equipment.
Page 153 glossary of terms Terms used in this Annual Report Brief description of meaning or US equivalent VPN Virtual Private Network A corporate network provided to a customer by a telecommunications operator using elements of the PSTN.
To the customer it offers all the features of a private network, such as direct dialling between ofces in different countries.
WAVELENGTHS A measurement of capacity on a network.
WEB-HOSTING Service providing facilities to hold customer websites.
Page 154 REGISTRAR The Companys share register is administered by Lloyds COMPANY SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE TSB Registrars.
All queries about your shareholding should Mr Ken Claydon is the Company Secretary.
be addressed to: The Companys Registered Ofce is: Lloyds TSB Registrars 124 Theobalds Road The Causeway London Worthing WC1X 8RX West Sussex Tel 44 0 20 7315 4000 BN99 6DA Telephone 0870 600 3975 UK shareholders AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS 44 1903 502541 Overseas shareholders Holders of American Depositary Receipts Shareholders can view up-to-date information about their Citibank N. A. is depositary for Cable and Wireless plc own shareholding by viewing Shareview American Depositary Receipts.
Shareholders registered with Shareview can elect to receive shareholder communications Details on the Companys ADR programme can be obtained in electronic form.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 111 Wall Street New York, New York 10043 Quarter 1 results update 24 July 2003 USA AGM 25 July 2003 Tel 001 800 422 2066 Announcement of interim results 12 November 2003 or from their website www.
com SHAREGIFT If you have a small number of shares whose value makes it INVESTOR RELATIONS uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider donating Enquiries may be directed to: them to charity under ShareGift, a charity share donation scheme administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
Director, Investor Relations The relevant share transfer forms may be obtained from the 124 Theobalds Road Registrars, the Company SecretarysOfce or the Investor London Relations section of the Companys website.
Further WC1X 8RX information is available from the Companys website www.
com Page 155 Cable & Wireless Annual Report 2003 CW074 20-F Cover AW 23 6 03 10:02 AM Page 1 Cable and Wireless plc 124 Theobalds Road London WC1X 8RX Telephone 020 7315 4000 International 44 20 7315 4000 Facsimile 020 7315 5000 www.
com Annual Report 2003 Our focus is to create a group of profitable national telecoms companies with strong positions 2 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT in their primary markets, closely SETTING A CLEAR VISION FOR THE FUTURE bound by a common strategy.
FRANCESCO CAIO CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW TURNING STRATEGY INTO ACTION 10 BUSINESS & FINANCIAL REVIEW 2003 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT OUR YEAR IVE HAD THREE PRIORITIES AS CHAIRMAN TO STABILISE THE Financial Summary COMPANYS FINANCES, TO APPOINT A NEW TOP TEAM AND TO SET A TIMETABLE FOR DETERMINING OUR STRATEGY.
Group revenue 4,391m EBITDA 334m ast year was a turbulent one for rigorous cash management and the Boards before exceptional operating costs decision that there will be no final dividend for Cable & Wireless.
The Company 2003 and no interim dividend for 2004: subsestarted the year believing that its Loss before tax 224m exceptional items and goodwill amortisation quent to the year end we also sold our remainfocus on data and internet services ing stake in PCCW for a further 233 million.
L and its heavy investment in Cable & Total operating loss 6,000m Taken together, these moves provide the Wireless Global would secure a prosperous necessary financial exibility so that we can future for the Company.
By November 2002 it Exceptional items and make the right long-term choices for the com- 6,149m was clear that the assumptions behind this goodwill amortisation pany.
They ensure the restructuring strategy to strategy had been overtaken by changes in the exit the United States and radically improve marketplace and following a review, the ComLoss for the financial year 6,533m performance in the United Kingdom should not pany announced a restructuring of its US and be constrained for lack of cash.
More recently, the new Net cash 1,619m Board has concluded that that restructuring New leadership was not sufciently far reaching and that much Another priority was to appoint a new top Capital expenditure 731m team.
We have been fortunate in recruiting more radical change was needed.
Francesco Caio as Chief Executive officer and When I joined the company as Chairman in Dividend for the year 1.6p Kevin Loosemore to the new position of Chief January this year, it was quickly apparent that Operating officer.
The transfer of Rob Rowley three priorities had to be addressed.
Operating loss after exceptional operating costs and including from Non-executive Director to Executive JVs and associates.
Stabilising our nances Deputy Chairman brought timely support to The first was to stabilise the Companys the finance function.
Our new Non-executive OUR BUSINESS financial position to give us a sound basis on Directors Bernard Gray, Graham Howe, Cable & Wireless is an international Tony Rice and Kasper Rorsted bring valuable which to plan our future.
Critical to this was telecoms business with an annual the removal of the uncertainty surrounding 10 skills in the key areas of finance and restrucrevenue of 4.4 billion in the year years open UK tax computations and the assoturing, telecoms and IT and government and to 31 March 2003 and customers ciated issue of monies placed in escrow to suppublic affairs.
DonReed, Graham Wallace and Robert port an indemnity given to Deutsche Telekom when it purchased One2One.
This was Lerwill left the Board in January, April and June CORE MARKETS achieved in March 2003.
David Nash, Raymond Seitz, Cable & Wireless principal operations and Sir Ralph Robins left the Board in December, has also benefited from tighter cost controls, are in the United Kingdom, the Caribbean, the United States, Japan, Continental Europe, Panama and Macau.
KEY CUSTOMERS Cable & Wireless provides voice, data, and IP services to business and residential customers and wholesale services to carriers, mobile operators and content, application and internet providers.
CLEAR PROVIDED THE CARRIER PRE-SELECTION CPS MAJOR BOARD APPOINTMENTS ANNOUNCED, TECHNOLOGY BEHIND THE LAUNCH OF TESCOS STRENGTHENING THE SENIOR MANAGEMENT NEW TELECOM SERVICE AND REACH TELECOM OF THE COMPANY.
WON NEW BUSINESS FROM UBS WARBURG, SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETED TRIALS OF NEW MM02, MARKS & SPENCER, YORKSHIRE BUILDING GSM GPRS MOBILE NETWORK IN THE CARIBBEAN IN SOCIETY AND THE NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE PREPARATION FOR FULL COMMERCIAL LAUNCH.
BROUGHT TO GUERNSEY OUR EXPERIENCE IN AWARDED BEST OVERALL RATINGS IN A 30-DAY TEST WORKING WITH REGULATORS FOR EFFECTIVE MARKET OF SEVEN IP NETWORKS BY NETWORK WORLD LIBERALISATION.
GUERNSEY IS ALREADY SEEING MAGAZINE TO MEASURE NETWORK AVAILABILITY BENEFITS SUCH AS BROADBAND PENETRATION RISING AND PERFORMANCE.
TO EQUIVALENCE WITH THE UK.
Richard Lapthorne in discussion with HH Shaikh Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, Prime Minister of Bahrain where Cable & Wireless associate company Batelco operates.
Sir Winfried Bischoff will retire after the AGM.
A new structure and strategy My third priority was to set a timetable for developing a strategy that would turn the Company around, generating sustainable and acceptable returns over time with manageable risk.
To this end, Francesco Caio and his team have re-examined the entire business, looking pragmatically at what Cable & Wireless can offer, which parts of the Company have a viable future, where the opportunities lie and how we can match our skills and assets to the demands of todays marketplace.
The result is a new, simpler organisation that does away with the Cable & Wireless Global and Cable & Wireless Regional distinctions, devolves responsibility to countrybased Chief Executives and claries the lines of accountability.
We have also announced a new strategy for restoring the Companys fortunes.
This has three parts to restructure and reenergise the business in the UK, building on its core strengths and skills: to withdraw completely from our US operations by the least-cost route, while taking account of our customers VISION interests: and to develop our national 2 3 businesses, drawing on the product and service capabilities of the UK.
We believe this new strategy will work because it concentrates on our core skills and services and on countries where Cable & Wireless has a sustainable market position.
It also recognises the realities of todays marketplace by shifting the focus from building infrastructure to serving customers be they end users or the governments of the countries in which we operate.
Although there is still a long journey ahead, we believe it provides a workable solution and clear basis for the future of the Company.
Francesco Caio describes our plans in more detail later in this Review.
2003 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Results and prospects The continuing operating loss to 31 March 2003, before exceptionals and goodwill amortisation, was 207 million on a turnover of 4.2 billion.
Thanks to our recent focus on cash controls our net cash balance at the end 1 2 of the year was 1.6 billion some 500 million better than the Company itself expected last November.
Once we have implemented our current plans, we would expect to see a business with a turnover of around 3.5 billion and an operating profit margin in double digits.
This would give us a respectable financial base on which to 7 8 build a successful future for Cable & Wireless.
I am confident that the Companys difficulties 1.
Robert O Rowley are now being resolved and that Cable & Chairman and Executive Director: Non-executive Director Executive Deputy Chairman Wireless will once again produce value for its Richard D Lapthorne was appointed Robert O Rowley was appointed shareholders.
I would not have taken on this job to the Board as a Non-executive a Non-executive Director on had I not been convinced this could be done.
Director and Chairman on 10 January 2 September 2002 and became 2003.
He is a member of the Audit, Chairman of the Audit Committee My confidence rests on Cable & Wireless many Remuneration and Nominations on 1 January 2003.
Following a strengths and the actions we are taking to Committees.
Richard Lapthorne is restructuring of the Board on exploit them.
We are, after all, a strong number Non-executive Chairman of Morse 21 January 2003, he relinquished two in the worlds fourth biggest telecoms PLC, Avecia plc, Tunstall Holdings Ltd, his Chairmanship of the Audit TI Automotive Ltd, Oasis International Committee and was appointed as market the UK.
We have customers who Leasing in Abu Dhabi, Vice Chairman Executive Deputy Chairman and, for want our services, strong national businesses in of JP Morgan Investment Bank and the an interim period, has responsibility developing markets and plenty of opportunities former Chairman of Amersham plc.
for the Groups Finance and Legal for expansion in similar situations.
We believe Richard Lapthorne joined the Board functions.
Robert Rowley is a Nonof Amersham International plc in 1988 executive Director of Prudential plc, we have sufficient nances to carry out our as a Non-executive Director and where he is Chairman of the Audit restructuring plans and a new, simplied organbecame Chairman of Amersham plc Committee, and of Taylor Nelson isation to help put these plans into action.
He was Finance Director Sofres.
He was on the Board of Our top team brings new and relevant skills of British Aerospace plc BAe from Reuters from 1990, serving as Finance July 1992 and was appointed Vice Director of Reuters Group from along with tight financial discipline, sharper Chairman in April 1998 before retiring 1990 until 2000, then as Chief focus on the customer and the knowledge of in September 1999.
During his time Executive of Reuterspace until how to build a business in a challenging marat BAe, Richard Lapthorne was a key he retired in 2001.
Age 53. member of the management team ketplace.
We also, of course, have a skilled and responsible for transforming the dedicated body of employees.
Although staff company into Europes leading cuts are always painful and more will be aerospace and defence company.
happening over the next two years, I am He was awarded the CBE for services to the British aerospace industry in impressed by and grateful for the support 1997.
He was Finance Director of and co-operation of Cable & Wireless emCourtaulds plc from 1986 to 1992, ployees across the world.
They are the key to having previously been Group success in everything we do.
Finally, my thanks to you, our shareholders, for your support through these difficult times.
We promise no quick x and it could take 18 to 24 months before the actions we are taking begin to make a difference to our published results.
Nevertheless, we now have a clear plan for restoring our profitability and can look forward to a winning Cable & Wireless.
OUR NEW NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS BRING VALUABLE SKILLS IN THE KEY AREAS OF FINANCE AND RESTRUCTURING, TELECOMS AND IT AND GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS.
RICHARD LAPTHORNE RICHARD LAPTHORNE CHAIRMAN 3 4 5 6 9 10 11 12 3.
Kevin Loosemore undertaking a variety of senior 10.
W Anthony Rice Non-executive Deputy Chairman: Executive Director: finance and commercial roles Non-executive Director: Chairman, Remuneration Committee Chief Operating officer before being appointed Finance Chairman, Audit Committee W Anthony Rice was appointed Sir Winfried F W Bischoff was Kevin Loosemore was appointed to Director of Cable & Wireless HKT a Non-executive Director and appointed a Non-executive Director the Board as Chief Operating officer in 1994.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Audit Committee in 1991 and Deputy Chairman in on 2 April 2003.
Kevin Loosemore Chief Executive and Finance on 21 January 2003.
He is also Chairman of the was appointed Corporate Vice Director of HKT in 1999 and member of the Remuneration and Remuneration Committee and a President and General Manager, became Group Chief Financial Nominations Committees.
Anthony member of the Audit and EMEA, Global Telecommunications officer of PCCW formerly Pacic Rice is Chief Executive of Tunstall Nominations Committees.
Sir Solutions Sector, Motorola in June Century CyberWorks Limited Holdings Ltd and his career has Winfried is Chairman of Citigroup, 2001, becoming President EMEA following the merger of PCCW largely been spent with British Europe, and a member of the in September 2001 and President, and HKT in 2000.
David Prince Aerospace plc, including a period Management Committee of Citigroup Motorola Professional Services stepped down from his role with as Group Treasurer during the Inc. Sir Winfried joined Schroders Group, developing wireless and PCCW in May 2002.
Anthony plc in 1966 and on completion of communications solutions for this 8.
Dr Janet P Morgan Rice was involved in the nancing the merger of Schroders investment market.
Kevin Loosemore was Non-executive Director and otation of Orange plc and banking business with that of previously CEO of IBM UK from Janet P Morgan was appointed a is a Non-executive Director of Salomon Smith Barney in May 2000, 2000 to 2001 and from 1997 to 1999 Non-executive Director in 1988.
Telewest plc and Atlantic Coast he assumed his current position.
Managing Director for fide La Rue She is a member of the Audit, Airlines.
Sir Winfried is a Non-executive Card Systems.
He began his career Remuneration, Nominations Director of Land Securities plc, with IBM in 1981, remaining with 11.
Graham E Howe and Community Investment The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. them until 1997.
Kevin Loosemore Non-executive Director Committees.
Janet Morgan is IFIL Finanziaria di Partecipazioni is a Non-executive Director of Graham E Howe was appointed also a Non-executive Director of SpA, Eli Lilly and Company and The Big Food Group plc.
Age 44. a Non-executive Director on the Scottish American Investment Siemens Holdings plc.
Adrian Chamberlain Company plc, the Nuclear of the Audit, Remuneration and 4.
Francesco Caio Executive Director: Generation Decommissioning Nominations Committees.
Graham Executive Director: Group Director, Strategy and Fund Ltd, the Scottish Oriental Howe was most recently Deputy Chief Executive officer Business Development Smaller Companies Investment Chief Executive officer and Chief Francesco Caio was appointed to Adrian Chamberlain was appointed to Trust plc, NMT Group plc, BPB Operating officer of Orange S. A. the Board as Chief Executive officer the Board on 15 May 2002 as Group plc and Stagecoach plc.
Age 57. having joined them in 1992 as on 4 April 2003.
Francesco Caio Director, Strategy and Corporate one of the founding Directors.
Bernard P Gray founded Netscalibur, the European Development having previously been Before that, his experience in the Non-executive Director business telecoms and internet on secondment to Cable & Wireless telecommunications sector included Bernard P Gray was appointed service provider in 2000.
Prior to Optus in Australia as Managing senior positions at Hutchison a Non-executive Director on that, from 1997 to 2000 he was Director Consumer & Multimedia.
Telecom, First Pacic Company 21 January 2003 and is a member Chief Executive officer of Merloni Prior to that he was Chief Executive and Touche Ross Management of the Audit, Remuneration and Elettrodomestici, one of Europes of the Consumer Division of Consultants.
Bernard leading household appliance Cable & Wireless Communications 4 5 Gray is Chief Executive of CMP 12.
On 10 December 2002 Adrian Information, the UK headquartered Non-executive Director Chief Executive officer of Olivetti, Chamberlain was appointed Chief publishing and events division of Kasper B Rorsted was appointed a having previously headed the Executive officer Global Services United Business Media UBM.
Non-executive Director on 27 May telecommunications and multimedia and Europe Asia and on 3 June 2003 Prior to taking up his current role 2003.
He is a member of the Audit, divisions.
He also led the creation he was appointed Group Director, in 2001, he was Director of Group Remuneration and Nominations and launch of Omnitel Pronto, Italys Strategy and Business Development.
Kasper Rorsted is second largest mobile company Adrian Chamberlains career prior have included a period as Special Senior Vice President and General before its acquisition by Mannesmann, to joining Cable & Wireless in 1995 Advisor to the Secretary of Manager, Europe, Middle East and and was its first CEO from 1994 included strategy and business State for Defence during the Africa for Hewlett Packard, holding to 1996.
Francesco Caio has also development roles with the Boston UKs Strategic Defence Review, this role since the merger of worked with McKinsey in London.
Age 46. and almost 10 years with the Hewlett Packard and Compaq Francesco Caio was a board member 7.
David N Prince Financial Times Group, including in May 2002.
He was previously of Motorola between November Executive Director, Finance two years on the Lex column.
with Compaq as Vice President 2000 and May 2003.
David N Prince was appointed Bernard Gray began his career and General Manager for EMEA Group Finance Director and a working in capital markets in having held various other senior member of the Board on 1 July London and New York.
He has previous experience with 2002.
David Prince originally Oracle, Digital and Ericsson.
Age 41. joined Cable & Wireless in 1981, 2003 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT ACTIONS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW IMPERATIVES BA TO CREATE AN ORGANISATION THAT IS SIMPLE, GROUND THE COMPANY IN THE REALITIES OF EFFICIENT, ACCOUNTABLE AND FOCUSED THE MARKETPLACE.
RESTRUCTURE AND RE-ENERGISE THE UK RECOGNISE OUR OWN FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS, BUILDING ON OUR CORE SKILLS MANAGERIAL CAPABILITIES.
WITHDRAW FROM THE US CONSIDERING CONSERVE THE CASH OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS.
ALL OPTIONS WHILE TAKING ACCOUNT OF THE INTERESTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS.
ACHIEVE A LONG-TERM, SUSTAINABLE AND DEVELOP NATIONAL BUSINESSES, DRAWING ON THE PROFITABLE BUSINESS.
PRODUCT AND SERVICE CAPABILITIES OF THE UK.
OUR AIM IS TO CREATE A GROUP OF PROFITABLE NATIONAL TELECOMS COMPANIES WITH STRONG POSITIONS IN THEIR PRIMARY MARKETS, CLOSELY BOUND BY A COMMON STRATEGY, SHARED SYSTEMS, AND A CULTURE OF PERFORMANCE AND CUSTOMER SERVICE.
ACK REALITY n planning and developing the future of our shareholders: and making sure, at the end Cable & Wireless, we are determined to of the process, that we achieve a long-term, ground the Company in the realities of the sustainable and profitable business.
Five years ago, our industry Restructuring in the UK was growing fast and the emphasis was on I The UK is the worlds fourth largest telecoms engineering, capital expenditure and building market and we are the second biggest operator infrastructure.
Today, the industry has matured, well ahead of numbers three, four and five.
demand in many sectors is at if not declining, We have an impressive portfolio of large corand the customer is in control.
The game has porate customers who value our skills in helping therefore changed from building networks to them make the most of new technology.
We also have the scale to develop products A new culture and organisation and processes from which the rest of the Group This shift requires a radical change of culture for can benefit.
We see enough indicators to Cable & Wireless.
It is one we are determined to believe we can turn the business around.
achieve as we seek to put our customers first We have therefore embarked on a threebe they end users of our products and services year plan to stabilise, reconstruct and eventually or governments looking for partners who can grow our UK operation.
The first step is to take offer the best telecoms services to their citizens.
cost out of the Company by reducing capital When I was appointed to Cable & Wireless, I expenditure and cutting staff numbers.
We have said I wanted to bring three things to the Comannounced that 1,500 jobs will go over the next pany customer focus, attention to cash and two years.
At the same time, we will sharpen accountability.
Our new organisation reects our focus on key customer groups notably each of these priorities.
By abandoning the divilarge corporations and the public sector and sional distinctions Global and Regional and concentrate on the products and skills we know introducing a country-based organisation are in demand.
We will also redesign our sysstructure, we have brought our whole business tems and processes to make us more efficient 6 7 closer to our customers.
This will make the and enable us to grow without adding cost.
organisation simpler and more efficient, reduce To help us put the plan into action, we have overheads and make local Chief Executives recruited Royston Hoggarth formerly Chief directly accountable for their financial performExecutive, International at LogicaCMG plc to ance and the satisfaction of their customers.
become Chief Executive of Cable & Wireless OUR NEW The strategy announced in June 2003, and UK.
We are confident that this complex ORGANISATION outlined below, recognises the strengths and restructuring will ultimately give us a profitable weaknesses of the different parts of our organUK operation.
REFLECTS THREE isation the UK which has challenges but which PRIORITIES can, we rmly believe, be restored to profitWithdrawing from the US CUSTOMER FOCUS, Our US operations continue to lose money, ability: the US where we now recognise we will ATTENTION never make a profit: and the national telecoms consume cash and take up management time.
TO CASH AND Both parts of the business hosting and netcompanies which remain profitable and continue generating cash.
works have limited interaction with the rest of ACCOUNTABILITY.
Our plans for these businesses are based the Group in that respectively they mainly serve on three imperatives recognising the realidomestic customers and are sub-scale in comties of our industry and our own financial and parison with competitors.
Nor are they central managerial capabilities: conserving the cash of to our plans.
They may be of value to a different 2003 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED ADVANCED MOBILE NETWORK As part of introducing himself to major customers, Chief Executive officer Francesco Caio is seen here JAMAICA left with Patrick Snowball, Chief Executive, Norwich Union Insurance centre, and Ian Butterworth, Managing Director, Norwich Union Central Services.
owner, but it no longer makes economic the old engineering mindset to a culture or strategic sense to run them as part of of service, innovation and customer care a Cable & Wireless.
change that is particularly important as we The previous Cable & Wireless Board seek to develop our growing mobile busiannounced a major restructuring of the US nesses in these countries.
We have continued Over time we hope to add more national that programme and made good progress with companies to our footprint on a selective the closure of five data centres and a reduction basis, thereby providing economies of scale in the number of employees from 3,807 to and further opportunities to transfer skills 2,774.
At the same time, we have minimised around the Group.
disruption to our customers and indeed Continental Europe and Japan improved the service.
In continental Europe, we will concentrate The next step is to exit altogether.
We intend our activities on providing services to other to do so as quickly as possible.
We are looking telecoms operators and to multinational corpoat all options for doing this, while taking account rations, many of whom are headquartered in of the interests of our customers, at the lowest the UK.
This greater focus will require a number cost possible.
of divestments and we have already announced Building our national companies disposals in Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, By national companies, we mean the xed and and Switzerland.
mobile telecoms operations, many previously In Japan, Cable & Wireless IDC provides interpart of Cable & Wireless Regional.
These are a national voice and data services to corporate valuable group of businesses, operating successcustomers in the region.
It is producing acceptfully in a range of regulatory environments and able results despite the dominance of NTT and producing sound profits.
Most operate in countries which have either Looking ahead liberalised their telecoms markets or are taking Our aim is to create a group of profitable, steps to do so.
With its long experience in national, telecoms companies with strong every kind of marketplace, Cable & Wireless positions in their primary markets, closely has tremendous expertise in regulation and the bound by a common strategy, shared skills, introduction of competition.
Using these skills, shared systems and a culture of performance we intend to build on our relationships with and customer service.
governments and regulators to inuence and The plans I have outlined here are based on support the liberalisation process.
Our proposia recognition of todays market realities and the tion is that Cable & Wireless can help create conviction that Cable & Wireless must capitalise whatever regulatory model the government on its core skills and focus on its key customers wishes to see, run a first-class local network and in order to become, once again, a strong and provide advanced services and global connecprofitable operator.
We tions for the benefit of the countrys citizens and know what has to be done and we have businesses.
It is for this reason that governments started doing it.
I am confident we will succeed.
now rank alongside end users as our main customers, in the way we will approach them.
Liberalised markets of course mean more competition and more demanding customers.
We are therefore working hard to make our national businesses more cash-efficient and to strengthen their sales and marketing.
We are FRANCESCO CAIO also looking for a shift in approach from CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER THOMAS PEREZ-DUCY THE OFFICE IN YOUR In July 2003 we launch a sophisticated new mobile network in Jamaica.
GSM GPRS offers voice connection, of course, but also great features like highspeed internet access, email and picture messaging, all from a mobile handset.
So POCKET our business customers can effectively carry their ofces in their pockets and not just in Jamaica but also when visiting nearly 180 other countries.
After the Jamaica launch, well extend the network to the other 11 Caribbean countries where we offer a mobile service.
Some of these are competitive markets: others are moving in that direction.
Extending our existing mobile services with the roll-out of GSM GPRS maintains our position as the Caribbeans leading mobile operator with the widest range of products and services.
Thomas Perez-Ducy Executive Vice-President, Mobile, Cable & Wireless West Indies 89 2003 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT SUPERMARKET OFFERS CHEAPER CALLS BUSINESS & FINANCIAL REVIEW he following results and commentary businesses separately throughout the year.
include commentary on continuing As announced on 4 June 2003, these businesses activities on a geographic basis.
In will now be managed separately, with individual September 2002 we announced the balance sheets, profit and loss accounts and T disposal of our US retail voice and cashows, and formal intragroup pricing.
This business, together with Cable geographical information provided should & Wireless Optus which we sold in 2002, has therefore be used as a guide to the relative perbeen classied as discontinued and excluded formance of the businesses.
It may not be from the results of our continuing operations.
directly comparable with future analysis.
In presenting such financial information The following discussion should be read in for the year ended 31 March 2003 regarding conjunction with the Group Profit and Loss the businesses that formed part of Cable & account, Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Wireless Global, we have made certain assumpStatement set out on pages 20 to 22. tions regarding revenue and cost allocation Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and based on unaudited management information.
amortisation have been adjusted to exclude This is necessary, as we have not managed the exceptional items EBITDA adjusted.
UNITED KINGDOM Exchange rate movements have had a from continuing operations at 4,247 million 5.1 billion were recognised as we revised significant impact on our results in 2003, were 456 million lower in 2003.
This decrease our assessment of the Groups future reected a decline in UK service provider and performance downwards.
especially in those geographies with US dollar business market revenues as well as exchange Interest and other income in 2003 declined denominated transactions.
During the year rate movements.
to 102 million as cash balances declined.
Net there has been an 8 per cent devaluation in Adjusted EBITDA was 55 per cent lower cash of 1.6 billion at 31 March 2003 comthe US dollar against sterling and a 14 per cent in 2003.
However, adjusted EBITDA for our pared with 2.6 billion at 31 March 2002. devaluation in the Jamaica dollar against continuing operations at 429 million was Although our businesses generated a small sterling.
At constant currency, Group continu- 45 per cent or 349 million lower.
This decrease positive operating cash ow in the year, the ing revenue decreased by 5 per cent and in continuing EBITDA before exceptional items cash costs of capital expenditure, together continuing EBITDA decreased by 38 per cent.
included a 217 million decrease in our UK with tax and dividend costs led to a 1.0 Summary business.
Exchange rate movements had a billion decline in net cash over the year.
Group revenue declined to 4.4 billion in 2003. positive effect on reported continuing EBITDA.
This includes 380 million to settle our Excluding the impact of discontinued operations Total operating loss at 6.0 billion in 2003 UK Corporation Tax affairs for the 10 years up in the United States and Australia which we included exceptional operating costs of 5.5 to 31 March 2001, following agreement with exited in 2003 and 2002 respectively, revenues billion.
Exceptional impairment charges of the Inland Revenue.
HEARING YOU LOUD&CLEAR ANDREW SANGSTER Tesco has built its success on giving shoppers what they want.
So when customers in the UK demanded a way of cutting their phone bills, the supermarket announced it was to launch a new xed line service.
And its being run with the help of Cable & Wireless.
Having listened carefully to Tescos requirements, were supplying the systems and network to make it possible.
It couldnt be simpler for Tescos customers, who dont need to plug in any special equipment or 10 11 dial any special numbers to use the service.
Once theyre signed up, they just pick up the phone and dial and save money.
Another case of Cable & Wireless helping companies to offer better value to their customers.
Andrew Sangster Senior Vice President, Service Providers, Cable & Wireless 2003 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT GLOBAL CONNECTIONS BUSINESS & FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED HONG KONG Mike Grime, Group Head of Operations, Standard Chartered Bank centre, with left Roger Milne, SCB Client Director, Cable & Wireless and Keith Shaw, Global Account Manager, Cable & Wireless.
SUMMARY Year to 31 March Year to 31 March Continuing 2003 2002 Change 2003 m m % m GROUP REVENUE 4,391 5,748 24 4,247 EBITDA ADJUSTED 334 735 55 429 TOTAL OPERATING LOSS 6,000 4,910 22 5,824 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 6,023 3,973 52 INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME 102 215 LOSS BEFORE TAX 6,373 4,549 TAX 36 311 LOSS AFTER TAX 6,409 4,860 MINORITY INTEREST 124 94 NET CASH 1,619 2,629 Results adjusted after the adoption of UITF Abstract 36, Contracts for sales of capacity.
Standard Chartered Bank is a global organisation with a strong presence in Asia.
Which is why, since the mid-1990s, it has used another global organisation with a strong Asian presence to design, build and manage its telecoms network namely Cable & Wireless.
More recently we signed two further DANIEL CHEUNG contracts with the bank one to provide an IP network connecting 50 Standard Chartered sites in 17 countries: the other to create an internet portal for customers to carry out trade finance functions such as buying insurance or processing letters of credit.
Daniel Cheung, Global Client Director, Cable & Wireless, Hong Kong THE INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS PARTNER 12 13 Divisional analysis The operating profit before exceptional items A 215 million reduction in wholesale revenues At a divisional level, our Regional businesses in Regional was more than offset by losses in reected the migration of national interconmade an operating profit before exceptional our Global division.
Global recorded an opernect business to carriers own networks, price items of 505 million on revenues of 1.4 ating loss before exceptional items of 794 competition and a change in the mix of interbillion.
The Caribbean contributed 254 million on revenues of 2.9 billion, of which national voice trafc, from mobile to xed, million, Panama 91 million, Macau 42 million 365 million was in the United Kingdom and which generates lower revenue per minute.
to operating profit before exceptional items.
316 million in the United States.
Whilst the The decision to exit low margin business, At constant exchange rates, Regional United Kingdom and Japan Asia operations announced at the end of 2002, combined revenues increased by 5 per cent in 2003, were EBITDA adjusted positive at 110 with pricing pressure led to a 25 per cent reecting the inclusion of 10 months results million and 22 million respectively, these were decline in our UK business market revenues.
of our new subsidiary in Guernsey, together more than offset by negative EBITDA There was, however, an increase in our with underlying revenue growth.
Revenue adjusted in our US operations of 211 UK Enterprise revenues which were up 14 per growth was driven by further increases in million and Europe of 41 million.
Growth was driven by mobile revenues and continued demand for Revenues in our Global operations at new customer wins and contract expansion, IP and data services, underpinned by growth 2.9 billion were 0.4 billion lower than in 2002. particularly as customers migrate more in domestic voice business.
UK revenues were 347 million lower in 2003. of their services into managed solutions.
2003 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT TRANSFERRING SKILLS BUSINESS & FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Major new contract wins that will benefit DIVISIONAL ANALYSIS 2003 GROUP revenues in future years include Yorkshire Financial summary Global Regional Other Total Building Society, NHS Information Authority continuing operations m m m m and mmO2 plc.
Marks & Spencer and CGNU REVENUE 2,867 1,411 31 4,247 also expanded contracts with Cable & COSTS before depreciation, amortisation and exceptionals 2,987 821 10 3,818 Wireless during the year.
EBITDA ADJUSTED 120 590 41 429 DEPRECIATION 547 161 3 711 Capital expenditure Capital expenditure has totalled 2.7 billion OPERATING LOSS PROFIT 794 505 44 333 over the last two years.
Capital expenditure Operating loss profit includes results of JVs & associates.
All gures are shown before exceptional items.
in 2003 at 0.8 billion was lower than 2002.
We have introduced new capital management disciplines and expect capital expenditure to decline further.
We will, however, continue to invest in customerfocused projects and mobile infrastructure GUERNSEY When we acquired Guernsey Telecom in 2002, we found much that was familiar from Cable & Wireless businesses in countries like Cayman an island community, a major financial centre and a move to competition in the telecoms market.
PAT BYNOE-CLARKE So there was lots of opportunity to transfer skills, particularly from Cable & Wireless West Indies where we know about providing services to sophisticated customers in relatively small markets, rebranding and working with regulators for effective market liberalisation.
My colleague from Cayman, Pat Bynoe-Clarke, above assisted the local marketing team last summer in rebranding Guernsey Telecom to Cable & Wireless Guernsey for the companys relaunch.
Coming from Cayman, my job in Guernsey is to help improve customer satisfaction with the company, increase sales through effective communications and improve the service portfolio including helping to launch new products such as Broadband Internet Access and Frame Relay.
Thanks to the combined resources of Cable & Wireless, Guernsey is already seeing benets such as broadband penetration rising to equivalence with the UK and high-quality global networks for local companies.
A WORLDWIDE Jim Coupe Marketing Director, Cable & Wireless Guernsey WORL in the national businesses as these are key profit following the impairment is estimated avoided by exiting leases, 235 million parts of our strategy going forward.
due to identication of break clauses and the exclusion of property rates taxes of 128 Investment and impairment Lease commitments million previously included in the UK analysis.
We have invested substantial amounts in the In November 2002, we disclosed estimated development and maintenance of a global gross property and other lease costs in the IP network and supporting infrastructure region of 2.2 billion as at 30 September.
in pursuit of the Companys previous stratSince announcing this amount, we have egy in recent years.
At the half year, an continued to review our property portfolio.
impairment charge of 3.5 billion was The outcome of that review, together with recognised.
We conducted a further review the impact of lease exits achieved and payat 31 March 2003 which led to a further ments made by 31 March 2003, has been to fixed asset impairment charge of 1,479 reduce our estimated lease commitments to million and a further goodwill impairment approximately 1.6 billion at 31 March 2003. charge of 12 million.
The reduction is due to 162 million lease The depreciation benefit to operating payments made, 102 million payments 14 15 D-CLASSNETWORK 2003 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL & ETHICAL REPORT Cable & Wireless has a long tradition of good corporate citizenship.
We seek to build sound relationships with our stakeholders and attach the highest importance to social, environmental and ethical matters.
BUILDING The role of the Board The Cable & Wireless Board takes regular Through its community involvement, Cable & gramme helps primary school pupils, teachers account of social, environmental and ethical Wireless seeks to extend the benets of the and parents to understand internet safety.
issues and any risks they may pose to the internet to communities and individuals that lack Cable & Wireless is working with the Internet Group.
It also looks for opportunities to the skills and infrastructure to access the web.
Content Rating Association ICRA to proenhance the Groups value in the way it Since 1982, Cable & Wireless has worked tect children and young people from potenresponds to such matters.
in partnership with Camden IteC to offer tially harmful internet material.
ICRA offers a For the year ended 31 March 2003, the employment-related training to  system whereby website owners Chief Executive of Cable & Wireless Regional, taged communities in the London Borough can rate their content and label their websites Robert Lerwill, had overall responsibility for of Camden, where the Company has accordingly.
It has also developed a software social, environmental and ethical matters while its headquarters.
tool that allows parents to lter out unsuitthe Groups Public Policy Council is tasked with Following the success of similar programmes able websites.
The Board in Barbados and St Lucia, Cable & Wireless receives a report on social, environmental and Jamaica recently announced a three-year Encouraging positive use of the ethical matters at least once a year.
commitment to provide free internet internet access to the islands 980 primary and seconCable & Wireless is helping to develop creative Community involvement dary schools.
and innovative internet content and encouragOur community investment programme is In Panama, a new charitable foundation ing individuals to use the web for education, designed to support the communities in which the first of its kind within Cable & Wireless communication and learning.
we operate and to respond to their needs.
provides opportunities for the countrys Run in partnership with Childnet InterReecting the nature of our business, it focuses least privileged citizens to access the national, the Cable & Wireless Childnet on three key areas: latest information and communication Awards highlight inspirational web projects Addressing the digital divide: technologies.
created by and for young people worldwide.
Using the internet safely and securely: In the UK, Cable & Wireless has teamed Cable & Wireless is working with the internaEncouraging positive use of the internet.
up with Age Concern, Microsoft and the tional humanitarian organisation, Tlcoms Projects are developed in partnership with government-sponsored UK-online to encousans Frontires TSF, to provide emergency charitable, not-for-profit and community-based rage older people to use the internet for the telephone, data and internet services.
Preference is given to those that first time.
disasters strike, TSF can set up satellite-based focus on education and training and that make telecommunications equipment in almost any a real difference to ordinary people.
Using the internet safely and securely location for the benefit of local people and In 2002 03, Cable & Wireless worldwide The internet has transformed the way many the relief agencies seeking to help them.
children and young people communicate, learn Of this, 1.3 million was spent in the UK.
But it can also hold hidden danThe environment gers.
With its partners, Cable & Wireless is Addressing the digital divide Environment Policy and Report working to protect children from unsuitable The internet has brought huge benets to In 1996, Cable & Wireless produced its first material and to help users of all ages to enjoy those able to use the web.
Recent estimates Environment Policy and published an Environthe internet safely.
suggest that it now connects over 500 million ment Review.
It also produces an annual EnvironIn partnership with the childrens charity, people.
Yet even this gure leaves over 90% of ment Report detailing its performance around the worlds population at the wrong end of the Childnet International, Cable & Wireless is the world.
The 2003 report will be available via digital divide and unable to take advantage of helping young people to stay safe on-line.
the Cable & Wireless website www.
Among other initiatives, the Kidsmart proEnvironment management Cable & Wireless has a worldwide environment management system based on the international The Cable & Wireless Panama Foundation standard, ISO 14001.
The aim is to minimise aims to reduce the digital divide by making damage to the environment, prevent pollution opportunities available to the least privileged and ensure best practice in managing environto access information and communication technologies.
Were using our training centre mental issues.
in Panama City to prepare the countrys Cable & Wireless expects all majority-owned schoolchildren and many of its poorer operations to meet Group targets relating to citizens for a technological future.
ozone-depleting gases, greenhouse gas emisFree training in computer and internet sions, pollution, waste management, the protecskills for groups like these will increase the use of technology and improve the skills tion of the landscape and biodiversity and the of the workforce with obvious benets for implementation and development of environPanamas economy and its ability to attract ment management systems.
In addition, it new business.
encourages Group businesses to set their own Mireya Moscoso opposite, President environmental targets and to report their of the Republic of Panama, during a progress each year.
It also carries out environtour of the training centre.
mental audits of its subsidiary businesses.
RELATIONSHIPS Mick Hudspeth of the charity Age Concern left demonstrates the power of the internet to 75-year-old Guy Depreux.
Cable & Wireless teamed up with the charity, Microsoft and the government-sponsored UK-online to support the Silver Surfers Festival, a month-long initiative to encourage older people to use the internet for the first time.
16 17 Industry initiatives Using the internet responsibly of risk arising from the use of mobile phones.
Cable & Wireless is working with others in As a precaution against legal action, the Groups The scientific research on mobile phones and the industry to identify best practice on ecoInternet Acceptable Use Policy helps customers health has been reviewed by a number of indenomic, ecological and social issues.
Through its to understand their legal responsibilities as pendent expert scientific panels.
None of these work with the European Telecommunications website owners and users of the web.
panels concluded that the use of mobile phones Network Operators Environment Charter is harmful to health.
The safety of mobile phones Group and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative, As a provider of mobile phone services, Cable Data protection it is also helping to develop a series of environCable & Wireless has adopted Group-wide data & Wireless has proactively monitored and manmental key performance indicators for the protection compliance policies to ensure it aged issues related to alleged mobile phone industry as a whole.
complies with data protection laws without effects for many years.
Cable & Wireless believes jeopardising its operational efficiency or the Ethics that the safety of customers, employees and the sharing of data across the Group.
In 1996, the Cable & Wireless Board adopted a general public is of paramount importance.
The Group-wide ethics policy, which is regularly Group continues to track scientific and medical reviewed and updated.
Details are available on research, media, legal, regulatory and other the Companys website www.
developments as well as the public perception 2003 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT Directors Remuneration Short term performance Salary and related annual Other Compensation fees bonus benets for loss of ofce Total 2003 Total 2002 Name of Director Executive Directors Adrian Chamberlain from 15 May 2002 309,420 7,000 316,420 Robert E Lerwill 450,000 118,800 23,760 592,560 576,532 David N Prince from 1 July 2002 300,000 16,541 316,541 Donald B Reed until 31 January 2003 394,725 1,405 453,976 850,106 440,000 Robert O Rowley from 2 September 2002 114,167 75,000 189,167 Graham M Wallace 775,000 41,417 816,417 808,103 Non-executive Directors Sir Winfried Bischoff 41,708 41,708 43,537 Bernard P Gray from 21 January 2003 9,964 9,964 Richard D Lapthorne from 10 January 2003 86,710 498 87,208 Dr Janet P Morgan 34,124 34,124 43,537 David P Nash until 31 December 2002 149,208 149,208 43,537 W Anthony Rice from 21 January 2003 14,946 14,946 Sir Ralph Robins until 28 February 2003 230,875 230,875 253,537 The Hon.
The aggregate emoluments of the Directors, which excludes compensation for loss of ofce, were 3,226,142 2002 2,634,369 which includes emoluments of 387,049 paid to Executive Directors who resigned during the year ended 31 March 2002.
Remuneration Philosophy Cable & Wireless is a global company, operating in over 80 territories around the world.
Attracting, retaining and motivating high quality people is key to the Companys success.
Remuneration arrangements are designed to enable the Company to maintain a competitive position in each country in a cost-effective way and are continually reviewed against best practice.
The Companys remuneration philosophy for Directors is based upon creating a strong link between performance and reward, underpinned by the following guiding principles: total reward levels should reect the markets in which the Company competes.
The Companys competitive position is regularly monitored by independent analysis against market peer groups of companies selected on the basis of relevant size, business and geographic focus: the majority of total direct remuneration for executives should be linked to the achievement of demanding performance targets.
Fixed salaries and benets are set at the market median: and an appropriate mix of short and long-term incentives combined with stretching performance targets provides executives with the opportunity to achieve upper quartile total remuneration for upper quartile performance.
Performance graph The graph below is included to meet the new requirement to show the change in value of a hypothetical 100 holding in Cable & Wireless Ordinary Shares over five years relative to a broad equity market index.
The FTSE 100 index was considered by the Remuneration Committee to be the most relevant index for this purpose as the Company is a constituent of the index and a five-year history is available.
Historical TSR Performance Value of a hypothetical 100 holding over 5 years FTSE 100 comparison 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 31 Mar 98 31 Mar 99 31 Mar 00 31 Mar 01 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 FTSE 100 C&W Value of hypothetical 100 holding SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT This Summary Financial Statement is a summary Statements.
For further information the full Information relating to a review of the activities of information contained in the Groups Annual Annual Financial Statements, the Auditors of the Company and its subsidiaries Report and Financial Statements on which the Report on those Financial Statements, the and future developments in the business is Groups auditors expressed an unqualied opinDirectors Report and the Directors Remungiven in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief ion.
This Summary Financial Statement does not eration Report should be consulted.
Requests to Executives Review and the Business and contain sufficient information to allow a full receive, free of charge, copies of the full Annual Financial Review on pages 2 to 4, 6 to 8 and 10 understanding of the results of the Group and Report 2003 and elections to receive the full to 15.
The Directors of Cable and Wireless plc state of affairs of the Company or of the Group Annual Report 2003 in addition to the Summary who served during the year and their respecand of their policies and arrangements concernFinancial Statement for all future years should tive remuneration for the year to 31 March ing Directors remuneration, as would be probe sent to the share registrar.
The address of the 2003 or, where relevant, part thereof are vided by the full Annual Report and Financial Companys registrar is shown below.
STATEMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR TO THE MEMBERS OF CABLE AND WIRELESS PLC Pursuant to section 251 of the Annual Review in accordance with applicable Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Companies Act 1985 United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to Kingdom.
Our report on the Groups full Annual We have examined the Summary Financial report to you our opinion on the consistency Financial Statements describes the basis of our Statement set out on pages 19 to 23. of the Summary Financial Statement within the audit opinion on those Financial Statements.
This statement is made solely to the Annual Review with the full Annual Financial Opinion Companys members, as a body, in accordance Statements, the Directors Report and the In our opinion the Summary Financial with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Directors Remuneration Report, and its comStatement is consistent with the full Annual Our work has been undertaken so that we pliance with the relevant requirements of Financial Statements, the Directors Report and might state to the Companys members those section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the Directors Remuneration Report of Cable matters we are required to state to them in the regulations made thereunder.
and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March such a statement and for no other purpose.
To We also read the other information contained 2003 and complies with the applicable requirethe fullest extent permitted by law, we do not in the Annual Review and consider the implicaments of section 251 of the Companies Act accept or assume responsibility to anyone tions for our report if we become aware of any 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
other than the Company and the Companys apparent misstatements or material inconsistenmembers as a body, for our work, for this statecies with the Summary Financial Statement.
KPMG Audit Plc ment, or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of opinion Chartered Accountants Respective responsibilities of Directors We conducted our work in accordance with Registered Auditor and auditors Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the London The Directors are responsible for preparing the summary financial statement issued by the 3 June 2003 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registrar ShareGift American Depositary Receipts If you have a small number of shares whose The Companys share register is administered Citibank N. A. is depositary for Cable and value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you Wireless plc American Depositary Receipts.
All queries about may wish to consider donating them to charDetails on the Companys ADR programme your shareholding should be addressed to ity under ShareGift, a charity share donation can be obtained from: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, 18 19 scheme administered by The Orr Mackintosh Citibank N. A. Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
The relevant share transfer forms 111 Wall Street Telephone: 0870 600 3975 UK shareholders may be obtained from the Registrars, the New York, New York 10043 44 1903 502541 overseas shareholders.
Company Secretarys Ofce or the Investor USA Shareholders can view up-to-date Relations section of the Companys website.
Tel: 001 800 422 2066 information about their own shareholding by Further information is available from the or from their website www.
com or from Shareholders registered with Shareview can ShareGift on 44 0 20 7337 0501 Investor Relations elect to receive shareholder communications www.
Enquiries may be directed to: in electronic form.
Director, Investor Relations Company Secretary and 124 Theobalds Road Financial calendar registered ofce London Quarter 1 results update Mr Ken Claydon is the Company Secretary.
WC1X 8RX 24 July 2003 The Companys registered ofce is: Or email: AGM 124 Theobalds Road Investor-Relations.
com 25 July 2003 London Announcement of interim results WC1X 8RX 12 November 2003 Tel: 44 0 20 7315 4000 2003 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT For the year ended 31 March 2003 2002 m m Turnover of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates 4,651 6,098 Share of turnover of joint ventures 195 285 associates 65 65 Group turnover 4,391 5,748 Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items 4,057 5,013 Exceptional operating costs 442 210 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 4,499 5,223 Depreciation before exceptional items 735 1,072 Exceptional depreciation 2,381 1,909 Depreciation 3,116 2,981 Amortisation of capitalised goodwill before exceptional items 126 562 Exceptional amortisation 2,725 2,007 Amortisation 2,851 2,569 Total operating costs 10,466 10,773 Group operating loss 6,075 5,025 Share of operating profits in joint ventures 53 95 Share of operating profits in associates 22 20 Total operating loss 6,000 4,910 Exceptional profits less losses on sale and termination of operations 147 1,057 profits less losses on disposal of xed assets before exceptional items 7 Exceptional items 62 profits less losses on disposal of xed assets 62 7 Exceptional write down of investments 390 904 Loss on ordinary activities before interest 6,475 4,764 Net interest and other similar income charges Group 103 227 joint ventures and associates 1 12 Total net interest and other similar income charges 102 215 Loss on ordinary activities before taxation 6,373 4,549 Tax on loss on ordinary activities 36 311 Loss on ordinary activities after taxation 6,409 4,860 Equity minority interests 124 94 Loss for the financial year 6,533 4,954 Dividends 37 427 Loss for the year retained 6,570 5,381 Basic loss per Ordinary Share 280.4 p 181.2 p Basic loss per Ordinary Share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 18.0 p 8.4 p Diluted loss per Ordinary Share 280.4 p 181.2 p Dividends per Ordinary Share 1.6p 16.5p CONSOLIDATED CONTINUING OPERATIONS PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT For the year ended 31 March 2003 2002 Continuing operations Continuing operations m m Turnover of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates 4,507 4,984 Share of turnover of joint ventures 195 216 associates 65 65 Group turnover 4,247 4,703 Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items 3,818 3,925 Exceptional operating costs 442 204 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 4,260 4,129 Depreciation before exceptional items 711 912 Exceptional depreciation 2,324 1,822 Depreciation 3,035 2,734 Amortisation of capitalised goodwill before exceptional items 126 561 Exceptional amortisation 2,725 1,794 Amortisation 2,851 2,355 Total operating costs 10,146 9,218 Group operating loss 5,899 4,515 Share of operating profits in joint ventures 53 51 Share of operating profits in associates 22 20 Total operating loss 5,824 4,444 profits less losses on disposal of xed assets before exceptional items 10 Exceptional items 62 profits less losses on disposal of xed assets 62 10 Exceptional write down of investments 390 904 Loss on ordinary activities before interest 6,152 5,358 CONSOLIDATED DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT For the year ended 31 March 2003 2002 Discontinued operations Discontinued operations m m Turnover of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates 144 1,114 Share of turnover of joint ventures 69 associates Group turnover 144 1,045 Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items 239 1,088 Exceptional operating costs 6 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 239 1,094 Depreciation before exceptional items 24 160 20 21 Exceptional depreciation 57 87 Depreciation 81 247 Amortisation of capitalised goodwill before exceptional items 1 Exceptional amortisation 213 Amortisation 214 Total operating costs 320 1,555 Group operating loss 176 510 Share of operating profits in joint ventures 44 Total operating loss 176 466 Exceptional profits less losses on sale and termination of operations 147 1,057 profits less losses on disposal of xed assets before exceptional items 3 Exceptional items profits less losses on disposal of xed assets 3 Loss profit on ordinary activities before interest 323 594 2003 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET At 31 March 2003 2002 m m Fixed Assets 2,290 8,143 Current assets 5,072 8,054 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 3,275 3,971 Net current assets 1,797 4,083 Total assets less current liabilities 4,087 12,226 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 807 2,031 Provisions for liabilities and charges 760 838 Net assets 2,520 9,357 Equity shareholders funds 2,149 8,958 Equity minority interests 371 399 Capital and reserves 2,520 9,357 The Summary Financial Statement on pages 19 to 23 was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 June 2003 and is signed on its behalf by: Richard Lapthorne Chairman David Prince Group Finance Director SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT For the year ended 31 March 2003 2002 m m Net cash inow from operating activities 95 94 Dividends from joint ventures 13 11 Dividends from associates 15 15 28 26 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 37 133 Taxation 438 139 Capital expenditure and financial investment 215 1,674 Acquisitions and disposals 110 1,845 Equity dividends paid 119 669 Management of liquid resources 1,040 2,586 Net nancing raised 578 567 Decrease increase in cash in the year 2,120 1,635 SUMMARY OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN UNITED KINGDOM AND UNITED STATES GAAP Consolidated net income reconciliation The effects of the different accounting principles are as follows: 2003 2002 m m Net loss as reported under UK GAAP 6,533 4,954 US GAAP adjustments: Capacity sales 2 13 Customer acquisition costs 5 16 Pension costs 18 15 Stock based compensation 4 26 Partial depreciation 3 Amortisation and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 53 242 Gain on sale of subsidiary 33 Restructuring costs and onerous contracts 149 69 Derivative and hedge accounting 59 64 ESOP shares 120 Capitalisation of interest 6 28 Marketable securities 4 126 Deferred tax difference in accounting for income tax standards 58 27 Other 10 10 Minority interests on reconciling items 21 21 Net loss under US GAAP before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 6,214 5,379 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle for derivatives in 2002 8 Net loss under US GAAP 6,214 5,371 Loss per share under US GAAP Basic 266.7 p 196.5 p Diluted 266.7 p 196.5 p Loss per ADR under US GAAP Basic 800.1 p 589.5 p Diluted 800.1 p 589.5 p The results for 2002 have been adjusted to reect the change in accounting policy for capacity sales in light of the adoption of UITF Abstract 36 Contracts for sales of capacity and related consequential effects.
Computed on the basis that one American Depositary Receipt ADR represents three Ordinary Shares.
Consolidated shareholders equity reconciliation 2003 2002 m m Shareholders funds as reported under UK GAAP 2,149 8,958 US GAAP adjustments: Capacity sales 27 29 Customer acquisition costs 11 8 Pension costs 454 36 Restructuring costs and onerous contracts 146 Goodwill and other intangible assets 307 284 Derivative and hedge accounting 1 60 Capitalisation of interest 16 22 Marketable securities 42 2 22 23 Deferred tax difference in accounting for income tax standards 58 Proposed final dividend 83 ESOP shares 38 123 Other 5 15 Minority interests on reconciling items 1 22 Shareholders equity under US GAAP 2,125 9,158 The shareholders equity reconciliation for 2002 has been adjusted to reect the change in accounting policy for capacity sales in light of the adoption of UITF Abstract 36 Contracts for sales of capacity and related consequential effects.
Glossary Broadband A broadband network is one on Frame Relay A high-speed data Internet The system comprising all networks which a number of independent, simultaneous transmission technology.
interconnected using the Internet Protocol IP.
The internet supports access to databases, websites, data ows are transmitted on each cable.
GSM Global system for mobile communications, a email, and le downloading worldwide.
standard for digital mobile telephone transmissions at Carrier Pre-Selection CPS Technology that abolishes the need for callers to use PIN codes a frequency of 900 MHz, 1800 MHz or 1900 MHz.
IP Internet Protocol The data transmission standard on which the internet is based.
and prefixes, or install special boxes in order to Interconnect Connection arrangements use a new telecom service.
2003 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT
