Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the tenth Annual General Meeting of hereby authorised in accordance with section 166 of the Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc will be held at Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases 33 King William Street, London EC4R 9AS on Wednesday, within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of ordinary 25 March 2004 at 2.30 p. m. to transact the following business: shares provided that: Ordinary business a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby 1.
To receive the report of the directors and the financial authorised to be purchased is 24,400,000: statements for the year ended 31 December 2003, together b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary with the report of the auditor thereon.
To approve the directors remuneration report.
c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be the lower of 5% above the average of the 3.
To declare a final dividend of 1.70p per ordinary share.
market values of the ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase and 4.
To re-elect Mr C A M Buchan as a director.
the net asset value per ordinary share on the date of the 5.
To re-elect Mr A E Buxton as a director.
purchase: and d unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall 6.
To elect Mr I C S Barby as a director.
expire on 24 September 2005 save that the Company 7.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor to the Company.
may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which will or may be completed 8.
To authorise the directors to determine the auditors or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By order of the Board Special business Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Group Services Limited To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution Secretary numbered 9 as an ordinary resolution and resolution 10 as a 18 February 2004 special resolution.
That the Company shall continue in being as an investment 33 King William Street trust.
That, in substitution for the Companys existing authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares of 5p in the Company ordinary shares, the Company be and it is Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote in his stead.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Proxy forms must reach the office of the Companys registrars in Bristol by 2.30 p. m. on 23 March 2004.
A form of proxy is provided to shareholders with the annual report.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Proxy votes can be submitted electronically at www-uk.
com proxy by using the PIN and SRN numbers printed on the form of proxy.
The latest time for the submission of proxy votes electronically is 2.30 p. m. on 23 March 2004.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at 11.00 p. m. on 23 March 2004 the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the time applicable to the original meeting, the specified time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If, however, the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
No service contracts exist between the Company and any of the directors, who hold office in accordance with letters of appointment and the Articles of Association.
