Shareholder Information Financial calendar last date for registering for this service for the forthcoming The timing of the announcement and publication of the dividends is 17 March 2004.
Companys results may normally be expected in the months shown below: Share price The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted daily February in The Financial Times under Investment Companies and in Preliminary results and final dividend for year announced.
The Daily Telegraph and The Times under Investment Trusts.
Annual report and financial statements published.
The share price is also available on the Merrill Lynch Investment Managers website at www.
co. uk its March Annual General Meeting.
ISIN SEDOL numbers The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the Companys April shares are: Dividend paid.
Ordinary Shares August ISIN GB0005774855 Interim figures announced and interim report published.
L Dividend 2003 Bloomberg code MLW N The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2003 is 1.70p per share.
Share dealing Investors wishing to purchase more shares in the Company or Ex-dividend date 25 February 2004 shares transferred without the dividend sell all or part of their existing holding may do so through a Record date 27 February 2004 stockbroker.
Most banks also offer this service.
last date for registering transfers to receive the dividend The Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, Last date for registering DRIP instructions 17 March 2004 has introduced a telephone share dealing service.
This service Dividend payment date 31 March 2004 is available on 0870 703 0084.
To use this service, you will need your shareholder reference number, which is detailed on Payment of dividends your certificate.
Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the first-named shareholder at their registered address, together with a tax Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995 CREST voucher.
Dividends may be paid direct into a shareholders bank The Companys shares have joined CREST, an electronic system account via BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Service.
This for uncertificated securities trading.
may be arranged by contacting the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, on 0870 702 0131.
Tax Private investors can continue to retain their share certificates vouchers will be sent to shareholders at their registered address, and remain outside the CREST system.
Private investors are able unless other instructions have been given, to arrive on the to buy and sell their holdings in the same way as they did prior payment date.
to the introduction of CREST, although there may be differences in dealing charges.
Dividend reinvestment scheme DRIP Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to Electronic communications purchase further shares in the Company.
Dividend reinvestment Computershare has introduced a service to enable shareholders forms may be obtained from Computershare Investor to receive correspondence electronically including annual and Services PLC on 0870 702 0131.
Shareholders who have already interim reports if they wish.
If a shareholder opts to receive opted for dividend reinvestment do not need to re-apply.
The documents in this way, paper documents will only be available Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 41 Shareholder Information continued on request unless electronic submission fails, in which case a Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future hard copy will be mailed to the investors last known address.
The value of your investment in the Company and the income from it can fluctuate as the value of the Shareholders who opt for this service would receive a Notice of underlying investments fluctuates.
Availability via e-mail from Computershare with a link to the relevant section of the Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Duration of the Company website where the documents can be viewed and printed.
Shareholders are given an opportunity at each AGM to vote on an ordinary resolution to continue the life of the Company for a For more information, to view the terms and conditions and to further twelve months.
register for this service, please visit Computershares internet site at www.
com register uk you will need your Nominee Code shareholder reference number, which is given on your share Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the certificate.
Company undertakes: Electronic proxy voting to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of Shareholders are able to submit their proxy votes electronically via shareholder communications, so long as an indication of Computershares internet site at www-uk.
com proxy quantities has been provided in advance: using a unique identification PIN which will be provided with voting instructions and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
to allow investors holding shares through a nominee company to attend general meetings, provided the correct authority Risk Factors from the nominee company is available: As the Company invests worldwide, the value of its shares is also affected by changes in rates of exchange.
that investors in the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts Savings Plan are automatically sent shareholder communications, The price at which the Companys shares trade on the London including details of general meetings, together with a form Stock Exchange is not the same as their net asset value of direction to facilitate voting and to seek authority to although they are related and therefore you may realise attend: and returns which are lower or higher than NAV performance.
that investors through the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts ISA A lack of growth in world industrial production may adversely or PEP are able to receive the annual and interim reports, affect metal prices.
including details of annual general meetings, by request.
Deteriorating economic conditions in certain countries may Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary lead to aggressive exporting of their metal and mineral authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys production potentially leading to price reductions.
There may be exposure to significant currency, political and Publication of net asset value portfolio analysis nationalisation risks due to the location of the operation of The net asset value NAV per share of the Company is companies in which the Company may invest.
calculated daily, with details of the sector analysis of the Companys investments and the ten largest holdings being Shares of companies in the mining sector can prove volatile published monthly.
and this may be reflected in the Companys share price.
The daily NAV per share and monthly information are released Any investment in the Company will involve an above average through the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service risk and is suitable only for financially sophisticated investors.
and are available on the MLIM website at www.
co. uk its and through the Reuters News Service under the code MLIMINDEX, on page 8800 on Topic 3 ICV terminals and under MLIM on Bloomberg monthly information only.
42 Shareholder Information continued Internet Shareholder enquiries Other details about the Company are also available on the The Companys registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
co. uk its and shareholders can In the event of queries regarding your holding of shares, please check details of their holdings on Computershares website at contact the registrar on 0870 702 0131.
com investor address must be notified in writing to the registrar at: The financial statements and other literature is published on the Computershare Investor Services PLC MLIM website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that PO Box 82, The Pavilions legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation Bridgwater Road and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from Bristol BS99 7NH legislation in their jurisdiction.
Certain details relating to your holding can also be checked Savings Plan through the Computershare website.
As a security check, The Company participates in the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts specific information needs to be input accurately to gain access Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly investments to an individuals account.
This includes your shareholder and occasional lump sum investments in the Companys reference number, available from either your share certificate or ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like information on tax voucher.
The address of the Computershare website is the Savings Plan should call MLIM free on 0800 445522. www-uk.
com investor Individual Savings Accounts ISA General enquiries or Savings Plan, ISA or PEP enquiries ISAs are a tax-efficient method of investment, introduced by the Enquiries about the Company, or the Savings Plan, ISA or PEP Government.
The Company is a qualifying investment for the should be directed to: purposes of investment in the stocks and shares component of either a mini or maxi ISA.
Investors may invest up to 7,000 in The Secretary the stocks and shares component of a maxi ISA, or up to 3,000 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc in the stocks and shares component of a mini ISA.
33 King William Street London EC4R 9AS The Companys shares are eligible investments within the stocks Telephone: 0800 445522. and shares component of the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts ISA, which is a maxi ISA, details of which are available from MLIM by calling free on 0800 445522.
Personal Equity Plan PEP PEPs have been superseded by ISAs as the tax-efficient method of investment, but all PEP investments already in force by 5 April 1999 retained their tax-free status in line with ISAs.
Existing PEPs with other fund managers may be transferred to MLIM for investment in the Companys ordinary shares without affecting any tax benefits.
For more information on PEP transfers, or an existing Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts PEP, call free on 0800 445522.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 43
