NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the seventy-fourth Annual General Meeting of The Monks Investment Trust PLC will be held within the offices of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL, on 6 August 2003, at 11.00 am for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To approve the Accounts of the Company for the year to 30 April 2003 with the Reports of the Directors and of the Auditors thereon.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
To re-elect Mr DCP McDougall as a Director.
To elect Mr EM Harley as a Director.
6, special notice having been received of the intention to propose the resolution as an ordinary resolution see note 4 : 6.
To reappoint  LLP as Auditors.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: 8.
That with effect from 1 May 2003, a sum not exceeding 200,000 will be set aside each year and shall be applied by the Directors in payment for their remuneration.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a Special Resolution: 9.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, the Company be authorised, in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital on the date on which this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 5p: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in respect of the year ending 30 April 2004, or 5 February 2005, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
By Order of the Board BAILLIE GIFFORD & Co Managers and Secretaries 2 July 2003 Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy for the use of members is enclosed.
An ordinary shareholder entered on the Register of Members 48 hours before the meeting is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995.
Any changes to the Register of Members after such time and date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any shareholder to attend and or vote at the Meeting.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA PEP who wish to vote and or attend the meeting must complete and return the enclosed reply-paid Form of Direction.
In accordance with sections 379 and 388 3 of the Companies Act 1985 special notice has been given to the Company of the resolution to reappoint  LLP as Auditors having previously been appointed by the Board to fill the casual vacancy arising by reason of the resignation of .
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 45
