HOW TO FIND THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the offices of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL on 6 August 2003 at 11.00 am.
If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
They can be bought by placing an order with a stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser to do so, or through the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan see inside back cover for details.
Sources of Further Information on the Company The price of shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times and can also be found on the Baillie Gifford website at www.
co. uk and on other financial websites.
Company factsheets are also available on the Baillie Gifford website and are updated monthly.
These are available from Baillie Gifford on request.
Key Dates Ordinary shareholders normally receive two dividends in respect of each financial year.
An interim dividend is paid in February and a final dividend is paid in August.
The AGM is normally held in July August.
CGT For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, the market value of an ordinary share in the Company as at 31 March 1982 was 70.5p.
This figure has not been restated for the five for one share split in July 2001.
Share Register Enquiries Computershare Investor Services PLC currently maintains the share register on behalf of the Company.
In the event of queries regarding shares registered in your own name, please contact the Registrars on 0870 702 0010.
By quoting the reference number on your share certificate, you can check your holding on the Registrars web site: www.
co. uk Telephone Share Dealing Service A telephone share dealing service has been established by Computershare Investor Services PLC, which provides a simple way of buying or selling The Monks Investment Trust PLC ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
The commission is 1%, subject to a minimum charge of 15.
In addition stamp duty, currently 0.5% is payable on purchases.
There are no forms to complete and the share price at which you deal will generally be confirmed to you whilst you are still on the telephone.
The service is available from 8.00 am to 4.30 pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 0870 703 0084.
Please ensure you have your Shareholder Reference Number SRN ready when making the call.
The SRN appears on your share certificate.
Detailed terms and conditions are available on request, please phone 0870 702 0000.
This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in Monks.
If you are unsure of what action to take contact a financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Please note that share values may go down as well as up, which may result in you receiving less than what you originally invested.
In so far as this statement constitutes a financial promotion for the share dealing service provided by Computershare Investor Services PLC, it has been approved by Computershare Investor Services PLC for the purpose of Section 21 2 b of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 only.
Computershare Investor Services PLC is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Where this has been received in a country where the provision of such a service would be contrary to local laws or regulations, this should be treated as information only.
Monks is an investment trust.
Investment trusts offer investors the following advantages: Participation in a diversified portfolio of shares.
Constant supervision at low cost by experienced professional managers.
Freedom from capital gains tax on capital profits realised within the portfolio.
The opportunity to achieve improved performance for shareholders funds in rising markets by the borrowing of additional money.
Shares in Monks are also available within an ISA or PEP Transfer wrapper or through Baillie Giffords Investment Trust Share Plan or Childrens Savings Plan as detailed on the inside back cover.
These products can also be used to invest in the five other investment trusts managed by Baillie Gifford: Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon PLC Mid Wynd International Investment Trust PLC Pacific Horizon Investment Trust PLC The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC The Scottish Mortgage and Trust PLC.
These accounts have been approved by the Directors of The Monks Investment Trust PLC.
The information about the ISA, PEP, Share Plan and Childrens Savings Plan has been approved by Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited.
Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited is the ISA Manager of the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA, the PEP Manager of the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust PEP and the Manager of the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan and Childrens Savings Plan.
Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford & Co.
Both are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Baillie Gifford only provides information about its products and does not provide investment advice.
The staff of Baillie Gifford may have positions in investment trusts managed by Baillie Gifford and may buy, sell or offer to make a purchase or sale of such securities from time to time.
The value of ISA and PEP tax advantages will depend on personal circumstances.
Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance.
The capital value of and income distributed by an investment trust can go down as well as up and an investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
The price of an investment trust share will fluctuate in accordance with supply and demand and may not reflect the underlying net asset value.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 47 Baillie Giffords Investment Trust Share Plan You can invest from 250 or from 30 per month in any of the six investment trusts managed by Baillie Gifford through the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan.
The plan is designed to be a flexible and low cost way of saving on a regular or lump sum basis for the long term.
Baillie Giffords Investment Trust ISA You can invest in any of our trusts in a tax efficient way by investing from 2,000 or 250 per month or by transferring an ISA from your existing manager.
Baillie Giffords Childrens Savings Plan An easy to use plan tailored especially to meet the requirements to save for children whether it be for educational purposes or inheritance planning.
The plan is flexible and inexpensive.
Baillie Giffords Investment Trust PEP Transfer You can transfer an existing PEP to access different markets through our investment trusts or to change your investment manager.
Further Information Retail Investments Department Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited 1 Rutland Court EDINBURGH EH3 8EY Tel: 0800 027 0133 We may record your call e-mail: its@bailliegifford.
com Fax: 0131 474 3248 Pillans&Waddies, Edinburgh.
72443 DIRECTORS MANAGERS AND SECRETARIES REGISTERED OFFICE REGISTRARS BANKERS AUDITORS Chairman Baillie Gifford & Co Computershare Investor Computershare Investor The Bank of New York  LLP CKR Nunneley 1 Rutland Court Services PLC Services PLC Mizuho Corporate Bank, Limited Chartered Accountants and Edinburgh EH3 8EY 7th Floor Owen House Registered Auditors JGD Ferguson Telephone: 0131 222 4000 Jupiter House 8 Bankhead Crossway North Erskine House EM Harley Website: www.
com Triton Court Edinburgh EH11 4BR PO Box 90 Lord Howell Finsbury Square Telephone: 0870 702 0010 68-73 Queen Street DCP McDougall London EC2A 1BR Edinburgh EH2 4NH MB Sayers CFE Shakerley Company Registration No.
