Notice of Meeting The eightieth annual general meeting of Murray Income Trust PLC will be held on Wednesday 29 October 2003 at 12.30 p. m. in the registered office of the Company at 123 St Vincent Street, Glasgow G2 5EA, to transact the following business.
To receive the Directors' Report and audited statement of accounts for the year ended 30 June 2003.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2003.
To re-elect Sir David Trippier as a Director.
To re-elect Mr A J M Coats as a Director.
To re-elect Ms M Glen as a Director.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the Auditors.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: THAT, with effect from the financial year commencing 1 July 2003, the maximum aggregate annual fees payable to the Directors be increased to 100,000 per annum, pursuant to Article 81 of the Companys articles of association.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution: THAT in substitution for any existing authority under section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 166 of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of Ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company shares : PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT: i. the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 10,523,798 shares representing 14.99 per cent of the shares in issue as at 17 September 2003: ii.
the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 25p: iii.
the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share shall be an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle-market quotations for a share taken from, and calculated by reference to, the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing Net Asset Value per share as determined by the Directors : v. the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or on 29 January 2005, whichever is the earlier, unless such authority is previously varied, revoked or renewed prior to such time: and vi.
the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such expiry above.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: THAT, in substitution for any existing authority under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise of such authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 877,568 5 per cent of the total Ordinary share capital in issue on 17 September 2003 during the period expiring on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or 29 January 2005, whichever is the earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution: THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution Number 11 set out above, in substitution for any existing power under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the Directors be and they are hereby empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of the Act, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given in accordance with Section 80 of the Act by the said Resolution Number 11 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities, 46 Murray Income Trust PLC Notice of Meeting a during the period expiring on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 29 January 2005, whichever is the earlier, but so that this power shall enable the Company to make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the expiry of this power and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such power had not expired: b up to an aggregate nominal amount of 877,568 5 per cent of the total Ordinary share capital in issue on 17 September 2003 : and c in the circumstances detailed in the section headed Issue of shares in the Directors Report on page 22 of the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2003, and at a price not less than 2.5 per cent above the Net Asset Value per share: unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
The biographies of Sir David Trippier, Mr A J M Coats and Ms M Glen are detailed on pages 5, 3 and 4.
123 St Vincent Street By order of the Board Glasgow G2 5EA Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 29 September 2003 Secretaries Notes: 1.
No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, has specified that only those Shareholders registered on the Register of Members of the Company as at 12.30 p. m. on 27 October 2003 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant Register of Members after 12.30 p. m. on 27 October 2003 shall be disregarded when determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and on a poll to vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a member.
Appointment of a proxy need not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting should he she subsequently decide to do so.
Instruments of Proxy and any power of attorney or other authority under which they are executed, should be sent to the registrar, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, so as to arrive not less than forty eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
Alternatively, if you hold your shares in uncertified form i. e. in CREST you may vote using the CREST system please see note 6 below.
The Register of Directors Interests is kept by the Company in accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 and will be open for inspection at the meeting.
Notes on CREST Voting If you submit your proxy electronically through CREST, to be valid the appropriate CREST message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must be transmitted so as to be received by our Registrars, Capita Registrars, ID RA10 by no later than 12.30pm on 27 October 2003.
The time of receipt will be taken to be the time from which the Registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages and the normal system timings and limitations apply to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 SI 2001 3755.
A reply-paid form of Proxy for your use is enclosed.
Details of Resolutions 2 and 9 are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 19 and 20.
Details of Resolutions 3 to 8 and 10 to 12 are shown in the Directors Report as follows: Resolution 3 Page 21 Dividend Resolutions 4, 5 and 6 Page 23 Directors Resolutions 7 and 8 Page 25 Auditors Resolution 10 Page 21 Share buybacks Resolutions 11 and 12 Page 22 Issue of shares Registered in Scotland - Company Number 12725 Murray Income Trust PLC 47
