156 | Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of Old Mutual plc the Company will be held in the Presentation Suite, 2nd Floor, Old Mutual Place, 2 Lambeth Hill, London EC4V 4GG on Friday 14 May 2004 at 11.00 a. m. for the following purposes: 1 To receive and adopt the directors report and audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2003.
2 To declare a final dividend of 3.1p per ordinary share.
3 i To elect Mr M J P Marks as a director of the Company: ii To re-elect Mr R Bogni as a director of the Company: iii To re-elect Mr N N Broadhurst as a director of the Company: iv To re-elect Mr J V F Roberts as a director of the Company.
4 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company.
5 To authorise the Audit Committee to settle the remuneration of the auditors.
As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, those numbered 6 and 7 as Ordinary Resolutions and those numbered 8, 9, 10 i to iv, 11 and 12 as Special Resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS 6 To approve the Remuneration Report in the Companys report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003.
7 That, pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, and in substitution for any previously existing authority under that section insofar as not already used, the directors be and they are hereby authorised generally and unconditionally to allot relevant securities as defined in the said section 80 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 127,917,000 provided that: i this authority shall expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company: and ii the Company may before such expiry make one or more offers or agreements which would or might require securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS 8 That, subject to the passing of the immediately preceding resolution, the directors be and they are hereby authorised to allot equity securities, within the meaning of section 94 of the Companies Act 1985, up to a maximum nominal aggregate amount of 19,187,000 for cash and or where such allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of that Act, as if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment.
This authority shall expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, save that the Company may before such expiry make one or more offers or agreements which would or might require securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
9 That the Company be and is hereby authorised in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to purchase Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the Company Ordinary Shares by way of market purchase as defined in section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 upon and subject to the following conditions: i the maximum number of such Ordinary Shares which may be purchased pursuant to this authority when aggregated with any purchases made pursuant to any of the contingent purchase contracts referred to in Resolutions 10 i to iv below shall be 383,752,930: ii the minimum price which may be paid for any Ordinary Share is 10p and the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for such Ordinary Share is not more than 5% above the average of the middle market values taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the date on which such Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: iii such authority shall continue for a period of 12 months from the date hereof or until the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2005, whichever is the later, provided that any contract for the purchase of any such Ordinary Shares which is concluded before the expiry of the said authority may be executed wholly or partly after the said authority expires: and Notice of Annual General Meeting | 157 iv all Ordinary Shares purchased pursuant to the said authority shall either: a be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase: or b be held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
10 That the following contingent purchase contracts, in the respective forms produced to the meeting or with any non-material amendments thereto which the directors may consider to be necessary or desirable, each be and is hereby approved in accordance with section 164 of the Companies Act 1985 and that the Company be and is hereby authorised to make off-market purchases of its shares pursuant to each such contract for a period of 12 months from the date hereof or until the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2005, whichever is the later : i contract between the Company and Merrill Lynch South Africa Pty Limited pursuant to which the Company may make off-market purchases from Merrill Lynch South Africa Pty Limited of up to a maximum of 383,752,930 Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the Company Ordinary Shares in aggregate such maximum number to be reduced by any purchases made pursuant to the authority in Resolution 9 above or any of the other contingent purchase contracts referred to in Resolutions 10 ii, iii and iv : ii contract between the Company and Investment House Namibia Pty Limited pursuant to which the Company may make off-market purchases from Investment House Namibia Pty Limited of up to a maximum of 383,752,930 Ordinary Shares in aggregate such maximum number to be reduced by any purchases made pursuant to the authority in Resolution 9 above or any of the other contingent purchase contracts referred to in Resolutions 10 i, iii and iv : iii contract between the Company and Fleming Martin Edwards Securities Private Limited pursuant to which the Company may make off-market purchases from Fleming Martin Edwards Securities Private Limited of up to a maximum of 383,752,930 Ordinary Shares in aggregate such maximum number to be reduced by any purchases made pursuant to the authority in Resolution 9 above or any of the other contingent purchase contracts referred to in Resolutions 10 i, ii and iv : iv contract between the Company and Stockbrokers Malawi Limited pursuant to which the Company may make off-market purchases from Stockbrokers Malawi Limited of up to a maximum of 383,752,930 Ordinary Shares in aggregate such maximum number to be reduced by any purchases made pursuant to the authority in Resolution 9 above or any of the other contingent purchase contracts referred to in Resolutions 10 i, ii and iii.
11 That the Articles of Association in the form now produced to this meeting and signed by the Chairman of this meeting for identification purposes be and are hereby adopted as the Articles of the Company in substitution for the existing Articles of Association.
12 That: i the scheme of arrangement the Scheme between the Company and the holders of its shares, a print of which has been produced to this meeting and which has been signed for the purposes of identification by the Chairman of this meeting, be approved: ii the directors be and are hereby authorised, if they shall see fit to do so, to implement: a the arrangements set out in the Scheme: or b the alternative arrangement described in the circular enclosed with this notice of meeting the Circular so that the new unclaimed benefits trusts as defined in the Circular will exclusively receive and hold on the terms of those trusts cash proceeds transferred to those trusts in accordance with the arrangements described in the Circular: iii the objects clause in the Memorandum of Association of the Company be amended to include the following as a new Clause 4 32, with the remaining paragraphs of Clause 4 being renumbered accordingly: To enter into any arrangement which the Company in general meeting shall have authorised the directors of the Company to approve enabling former members of Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited the Society to claim, on and subject to the terms, conditions and limitations of such arrangement, any benefit to which they would have been entitled, but for the fact that they shall have failed to claim their entitlements in accordance with the terms of, and by the end date prescribed by, the scheme for the demutualisation of the Society sanctioned by the High Court of South Africa on 29 March 1999.
By order of the Board Registered Office: 5th Floor Martin C Murray Old Mutual Place Group Company Secretary 2 Lambeth Hill 17 March 2004 London EC4V 4GG 158 | Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED NOTES: 1 A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint a proxy ies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his or her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member who holds shares through Old Mutual Nominees may instruct the nominee company to vote on his or her behalf or request such nominee company to appoint him or her as proxy to enable him or her to attend the meeting in person Old Mutual Nominees is Old Mutual South Africa Nominees Pty Limited, Old Mutual Namibia Nominees Pty Limited, Old Mutual Zimbabwe Nominees Private Limited or Old Mutual Blantyre Nominees Limited, if shares are held through the Groups nominee on the South African, Namibian, Zimbabwe or Malawi register respectively.
Beneficial shareholders who have dematerialised or immobilised their shareholdings in STRATE, other than through Old Mutual Nominees, may provide their CSDP or broker with voting instructions in accordance with the applicable custody agreement or may apply to that CSDP or broker for a letter of representation from the registered shareholder to enable them to attend the meeting in person.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies for the Meeting and any adjournment s of the Meeting may do so by utilising the procedures in the CREST manual.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
2 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives notice that only those shareholders entered on the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. UK time on 12 May 2004 will be entitled to attend and to vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries on the register after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
3 To be effective, the form of proxy or, as the case may be, the voting instruction form in favour of Old Mutual Nominees see note 1 above and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, must be received at the return address specified on the envelope enclosed with the form of proxy or voting instruction form or by the Companys Registrar, Computershare Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH by not later than 11.00 a. m. UK time on 12 May 2004.
If no return envelope is enclosed with the voting instruction form, this will be because the records available to the Company show your shareholding to have been dematerialised in the context of STRATE through a CSDP or broker other than under the Issuer-Sponsored Nominee Programme.
In that case, you should contact your CSDP or broker to ascertain the return address for it to process your voting instructions.
It is recommended that, because of the requirement for votes in relation to shares dematerialised or immobilised in the context of STRATE to be collated through CSDPs and brokers and then reconciled through PLC Nominees Pty Limited, voting instructions by beneficial owners of such shares be submitted so as to arrive at least 72 hours before the time of the meeting.
The message appointing or instructing a proxy making use of the CREST service must be transmitted so as to be received by Computershare ID R009 not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
No messages received through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available any special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
4 The completion and return of a form of proxy or voting instruction form will not preclude a member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting from doing so if he or she wishes.
Notice of Annual General Meeting | 159 DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION Copies of the directors service contracts, the register of directors interests, the contingent purchase contracts referred to in Resolutions 10 i to iv, the revised Articles of Association referred to in Resolution 11 and the scheme of arrangement referred to in Resolution 12 are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company in London: at Mutualpark, Jan Smuts Drive, Pinelands 7405, South Africa: at Management Suite, 93 Grayston Drive, Sandton, South Africa: at Old Mutual Building, Glyn Jones Road, Blantyre, Malawi: at Mutual Platz, 5th Floor, Post Street Mall, Windhoek, Namibia: at Mutual Gardens, 100 The Chase West, Emerald Hill, Harare, Zimbabwe: and at the offices of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY during normal business hours on each business day from the date of this notice until the Annual General Meeting and in the Presentation Suite, 2nd Floor, Old Mutual Place, 2 Lambeth Hill, London EC4V 4GG from at least 15 minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of that meeting.
These documents will also all be available in the AGM section of the Companys website, www.
com, until the conclusion of that meeting.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING EXPLANATORY NOTES RESOLUTION 2 DIVIDEND A final dividend of 3.1p per Ordinary Share is being recommended by the Board.
Subject to the dividend being approved at the Annual General Meeting, it is expected that the relevant subsidiaries of the Company will declare to the trustees of the Dividend Access Trusts, which have been established in each of South Africa, Zimbabwe, Namibia and Malawi, an equivalent amount of dividend in relation to the estimated number of shares on those territories respective registers in the respective local currencies of those territories by reference to the exchange rate prevailing on 1 April 2004, as determined by the Company.
Shareholders on the branch registers or, in the case of Namibia, the relevant section of the principal register in those territories will then receive their dividend, in accordance with the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, from the Dividend Access Trust concerned, rather than from the Company.
The equivalent amounts of the recommended dividend in each of the four other currencies will be notified by the Company to each of the stock exchanges on which the Companys shares are listed on 2 April 2004.
RESOLUTIONS 3 i TO iv ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Mr Marks, who has been appointed as a director since the last Annual General Meeting, automatically retires in accordance with Article 94 of the Companys Articles of Association and will seek election at the meeting.
Mr Bogni, Mr Broadhurst and Mr Roberts retire by rotation in accordance with Articles 95 and 96 of the Companys Articles of Association and will be seeking re-election at the meeting.
Details of Mr Roberts employment contract are contained in the Summary of the Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 50.
The terms of the engagement of the non-executive directors other than the Chairman, Mr Levett provide for their positions to be held at the will of the respective parties, i. e. on terms that they may be terminated by either side without notice.
However, they also state that it is envisaged that they will remain in place on a three-year cycle, in order to provide assurance to both the Company and the non-executive director concerned that the appointment is likely to endure.
The first three-year cycle applicable to Mr Broadhurst who was appointed as a director from 25 March 1999 expired during 2002 and was extended for a further three years i. e. until 24 March 2005, when it will be further reviewed.
Mr Bognis and Mr Marks appointments are each expected to last for an initial term of three years from their dates of appointment i. e. until 31 January 2005 and 31 January 2007 respectively and then be considered for renewal.
The Board has determined that, in the absence of exceptional circumstances, no non-executive directors cycle of appointment should be renewed more than twice, i. e. that non-executive directors should serve a maximum of nine years in that role, and that no non-executive director should continue beyond his seventieth birthday.
The renewal of non-executive directors terms for successive three-year cycles is not automatic and the continued suitability of each non-executive director is assessed by the Nomination Committee before renewal of his appointment takes place.
Mr Marks is one of the founding partners of New Smith Capital Partners LLP.
Until February 2003 he had held a number of senior roles with Merrill Lynch, including Executive Chairman of Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East and Africa and Executive Vice-President of Merrill Lynch & Co.
Prior to joining Merrill Lynch in 1995, he had been Chairman of Smith New Court PLC, having earlier been responsible for the international operations of that company in New York, Hong Kong, Singapore and South Africa.
He is also a non-executive director of the London Stock Exchange and was formerly Chairman of the London Investment Banking Association and Vice-President of the British Bankers Association.
160 | Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Mr Bogni is Chairman of Medivest International SCA, Luxembourg and of the International Advisory Board of Oxford Analytica.
He is also a member of the boards of the LGT Foundation, Common Purpose International Ltd, and Prospect Publishing, and of the governing council of the Centre for the Study of Financial Innovation.
He served previously as a member of the Executive Board and Chief Executive, Private Banking of UBS AG, and before that he was Group Treasurer and a member of the Executive Committee of Midland Bank plc.
Mr Broadhurst was Group Finance Director of Railtrack plc from 1994 to 2000.
He is Chairman of Freightliner Limited and of Chloride Group plc.
He is also a non-executive director of Cattles plc, Tomkins plc and United Utilities plc.
In addition to his role as Group Finance Director, Mr Roberts is also a non-executive director of Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited and of Nedcor Limited.
He was formerly Group Finance Director of Sun Life & Provincial Holdings PLC.
Before joining Sun Life & Provincial Holdings PLC, he was a director and Chief Financial Officer of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
The Nomination Committee of the Company has conducted an assessment of the performance of each of the retiring candidates and has reviewed the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity represented on the Board.
Having received the results of that assessment and review, the Board recommends to shareholders the election or re-election of each of the retiring directors.
Each of the retiring non-executive directors is considered by the Board to be independent in character and free from any business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of his objective, unfettered and independent judgement.
The election or re-election of directors is considered a significant matter and approval of the election and re-elections will be therefore carried out by separate ordinary resolutions.
RESOLUTIONS 4 AND 5 AUDITORS KPMG Audit Plc has indicated its willingness to continue in office and Resolution 4 proposes the re-appointment of that firm as the Companys auditors.
Resolution 5 proposes that the Audit Committee be authorised to determine the auditors remuneration.
RESOLUTION 6 APPROVAL OF THE REMUNERATION REPORT In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, an advisory resolution will be proposed to approve the Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 50.
A summary of the Report is set out on pages 32 to 38 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements.
The Remuneration Report includes details of the members of the Remuneration Committee and the Companys policy on directors remuneration and reports on the remuneration arrangements in place for the executive directors and non-executive directors.
The full version of the Report can be accessed on the Companys website, www.
Resolution 6 is of an advisory nature only, and failure to pass the Resolution will therefore not have any legal consequences relating to existing arrangements.
However, the Board will take into consideration the outcome of the vote when considering the Companys remuneration policy.
RESOLUTIONS 7 AND 8 AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES In accordance with section 80 of the UK Companies Act 1985 the Companies Act, it is proposed to renew the authority for the directors 1 to allot relevant securities up to an amount not exceeding 33 3% rounded down to the nearest 1,000 nominal of the current issued ordinary share capital at 1 March 2004 without having to obtain prior approval from shareholders.
In accordance with section 95 of the Companies Act, it is proposed to renew the authority of the directors to allot equity securities for cash without first being required to offer such securities pro rata to existing shareholders in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act.
This authority relates to up to 191,870,000 ordinary shares, being 5% rounded down to the nearest 1,000 nominal of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at 1 March 2004.
RESOLUTIONS 9 AND 10 i TO iv PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES Under Resolution 9, the Board is seeking to renew the standard general authority from shareholders to make market purchases of up to 10% of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
In addition, it is seeking shareholders approval under Resolutions 10 i to iv to renew for a further year four contingent purchase contracts, the effect of which would be to enable the Company to repurchase its shares on the JSE Securities Exchange South Africa and the Namibian, Zimbabwe and Malawi Stock Exchanges respectively.
These authorities, if renewed, would run in parallel with the general authority under Resolution 9 to purchase shares on the London Stock Exchange and any purchases under any such authority would be aggregated for the purposes of monitoring the overall 10% limit on purchases.
The purchase price for any shares cannot be more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding such purchase translated, for the purposes of any purchases under any of the contingent purchase contracts described in Resolutions 10 i to iv, into the applicable local currency at the then prevailing exchange rate.
Any shares purchased under the authority granted by Resolution 9 or pursuant to any of the contingent purchase contracts to be approved under Resolutions 10 i to iv will either be cancelled or may be held as treasury shares see the following paragraph.
Notice of Annual General Meeting | 161 The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 came into force on 1 December 2003 and made certain amendments to the UK Companies Act 1985 in relation to treasury shares.
The amendments allow companies to retain any of their own shares they have purchased as treasury stock with a view to possible re-issue at a future date, rather than cancelling them as had previously been required by legislation.
If the Company were to purchase any of its own shares pursuant to the authorities sought in Resolutions 9 and 10 i to iv, it would consider holding them as treasury stock, provided that the number did not at any one time exceed 10% of Old Mutual plcs issued share capital.
This would give the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost-effectively, and would provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
The authorities under Resolutions 9 and 10 i to iv, if approved, will only be exercised if market conditions make it advantageous for the Company to do so and the Board considers this to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
RESOLUTION 11 ADOPTION OF AMENDED ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION It is proposed that the Companys Articles of Association which were last updated in 2001 be amended a to take account of the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations : b to allow the Company to offer those of its shareholders who are CREST members the facility of sending the Company an electronic proxy via the CREST system: and c to authorise the Company to dispense with sending notices of general meetings to members who are untraceable and to clarify that meetings convened in reliance on this will nevertheless be valid.
The effect of the Regulations is explained in the notes to Resolutions 9 and 10 i to iv above.
Whilst the Regulations are effective whether or not the Articles of Association are formally amended, the amendments relating to treasury shares pursuant to Resolution 11 are being made in order to make the Articles of Association consistent with the Regulations.
The CREST proxy voting service is explained in notes 1 and 3 above.
To be able to offer its members this service, it is desirable to make certain amendments to the Companys Articles of Association to ensure that they take into account the relevant provisions of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The provision relating to untraceable members is designed to avoid the current requirement to continue mailing documents to a defunct address after documents have been returned undelivered on two consecutive occasions and reasonable enquiries have failed to establish any new address for the shareholder.
RESOLUTION 12 SCHEME OF ARRANGEMENT RELATING TO THE UNCLAIMED SHARES TRUSTS AND ALTERNATIVE ARRANGEMENT Under the Scheme of Demutualisation of the Group the Scheme, the Company has since 1999 been operating Unclaimed Shares Trusts USTs in South Africa, Malawi, Namibia, Zimbabwe and Bermuda.
The purpose of the USTs is to hold shares, proceeds of sale of shares and dividends on shares where the person entitled on demutualisation has not yet confirmed their details and claimed their entitlement.
Under the terms of the Scheme, remaining unclaimed entitlements under each of the USTs are to be extinguished in August 2004, shortly after the fifth anniversary of the Companys original listing date, at which point the trustees of the USTs are directed to sell any unclaimed shares and account to the Company for the proceeds of sale, together with any other unclaimed monies held by the USTs.
The directors now propose to extend each of the USTs in a modified form for a further period or periods beyond the expiry date prescribed by the Scheme.
The extension and amendment would be carried out pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under section 425 of the UK Companies Act 1985 and would be subject to approval by the UK High Court and to the directors decision to implement it.
Further details of the scheme of arrangement are set out in the enclosed explanatory circular.
Resolution 12 would also i authorise the directors to enter into an alternative arrangement as described in the explanatory circular, if the scheme of arrangement failed for any reason: and ii amend the Companys objects clause to clarify that it has the corporate power to enter into the arrangements described in the scheme of arrangement or the alternative arrangement if the scheme of arrangement failed.
