Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 25 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies a Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified to include the revaluation of investments, in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards and in accordance with The Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies issued by the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
b Valuation of investments Listed investments held at the Balance Sheet date are stated at middle market value.
Unlisted investments are stated at market prices on the balance sheet date or, where these do not exist, at the investment managers valuation which does not exceed their net realisable value.
Any gains or losses, whether realised or unrealised, arising on fixed asset investments are taken directly to capital reserves.
c Income All dividends are taken into account on the date investments are marked ex-dividend: other income from investments is taken into account on an accruals basis.
Deposit interest and underwriting commission receivable are taken into account on an accruals basis.
Special dividends representing a return of capital are credited to capital reserves.
d Expenses and finance costs All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The investment management fee and interest payable on the debenture stock and bank borrowings have been allocated 70 per cent.
to the capital reserve realised and 30 per cent.
to the revenue account, in line with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income respectively, from the investment portfolio of the Company.
The 30,000,000 6.125% debenture is stated initially at the amount of the net proceeds.
The finance costs associated with the debenture are allocated to periods over the term of the debenture at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance cost in respect of the reporting period: this finance cost is charged to the revenue account.
The Company has entered into a debenture swap at a variable rate of six months LIBOR 0.95 per cent.
The total amount receivable or payable on the swap has been allocated 30 per cent.
The investment performance management fee is calculated as detailed in note 3.
Provided the performance criteria as detailed are exceeded this fee is charged wholly to capital.
e Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the results for the year.
Deferred taxation is provided on timing differences, arising from the different treatment of items for accounting and taxation purposes, which are expected to reverse in the future, calculated at the rates at which it is expected that tax will arise.
f Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currency, whether of a revenue or a capital nature, are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates of such transactions.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies at the year end have been expressed in sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on that date.
Any gains or losses are taken to revenue or capital reserves realised as appropriate.
26 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued g Capital reserves Capital reserves realised The following are accounted for in this reserve: gains and losses on the realisation of investments realised exchange gains and losses of a capital nature expenses and finance costs, together with the related taxation effect, charged to this reserve in accordance with the above policies.
Capital reserves unrealised The following are accounted for in this reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end unrealised gains and losses on transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature.
h Forward contracts entered into for hedging purposes are valued at the appropriate forward currency rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profits or losses on the closure or revaluation of positions are included in capital reserves.
This agreement has been transferred to INVESCO Asset Management Limited IAML on the same terms under a novation agreement dated 27 December 2001.
The agreement is terminable by either party giving not less that one years notice.
Under the agreement, the Manager receives a management fee of 0.1875 per cent.
per quarter of the Companys funds under management as defined in the agreement.
Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 27 3.
Investment management fee continued A performance-related fee is payable annually in arrears to the Manager, if the Companys performance exceeds the FTSE All-Share Index.
The performance-related fee is equal to 10 per cent.
of the value of any outperformance, but may not exceed 0.75 per cent.
of the value of the Companys funds under management at the relevant performance fee calculation date which is usually the Companys Balance Sheet date.
Any such performance-related fee is based on the outperformance over the benchmark index after taking into account any previous underperformance.
No performance-related fee was payable for the year.
Theoretical tax at UK Corporation Tax rate of 30% 2002: 30% 2,651 2,649 Effects of: UK dividends which are not taxable 2,741 3,092 Revenue account expenses in excess of taxable income 90 443 Adjustment in respect of prior years 54 Irrecoverable overseas tax suffered 63 61 Tax relief attributable to management fee and interest payable, allocated to Capital reserve-realised 86............................................................................................................ 9 147 28 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6.
Taxation continued c Factors that may affect future tax changes The Company has excess management expenses of 31,674,000 2002: 28,059,000 that are available to offset future taxable revenue.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these expenses since they are recoverable only to the extent that the Company has sufficient future taxable revenue.
Return per ordinary share Basic revenue return per ordinary share is based on the net revenue on ordinary activities after taxation and on 178,407,795 2002: 176,988,061 shares being the weighted average number of shares in issue.
Basic capital return per ordinary share is based on the net capital gains on ordinary activities after taxation and on 178,407,795 2002: 176,988,061 shares being the weighted average number of shares in issue.
The diluted returns per ordinary share have been calculated by assuming 6,672,438 2002: 8,165,144 shares were issued under warrants for no consideration on 1 April 2002.
There has been no effect on profit.
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 2003 2002 000 000 30,000,000 6.125% Debenture 2014 29,578 29,540 The debenture was issued on 8 July 1999 and is secured by a floating charge over all the Companys assets.
The fixed rate of 6.125% per annum of the debenture has been swapped into a variable rate of six months LIBOR 0.95% until 8 July 2005.
Called-up share capital 2003 2002 Number 000 Number 000 Authorised: Ordinary shares of 10p each 215,689,975 21,569 215,689,975 21,569 Allotted, called-up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 10p each 179,909,480 17,991 177,351,690 17,735 Share Capital On 9 January 2003, 924,000 ordinary shares were issued at a price of 126p per share as a result of the reinvestment of the interim dividend by saving scheme, PEP and ISA investors.
Warrants Holders of warrants are entitled to subscribe for one ordinary share for every warrant held on 31 August or, if later, the 30th day after the date on which copies of the audited accounts of the Company for the immediately preceding financial year are despatched to shareholders in any of the years 2002 to 2006 inclusive at a price of 100p per share.
During the year 1,633,790 warrants 2002: 741,479 were exercised and a total of Nil 2002: 2,270,000 warrants were purchased by the Company for cancellation.
30 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14.
Reserves Share Capital Capital Revenue premium reserve reserve reserve account realised unrealised 000 000 000 000 At 1 April 2002 151,852 99,744 34,951 3,575 Net losses on disposals of investments 5,318 Increase in unrealised depreciation on investments 94,756 Costs charged to capital 3,276 Exchange differences and currency hedge gains 434 126 Issue of shares 2,542 Revenue profit retained for the year 150............................................................................................................ At 31 March 2003 154,394 91,584 59,679 3,425 15.
Net asset value per ordinary share The net asset value per ordinary share and the net assets attributable at the year end were as follows: Net asset value per share Net assets attributable 2003 2002 2003 2002 pence pence 000 000 Ordinary shares Basic 115.5 173.6 207,715 307,857 Fully diluted 113.6 163.7 233,522 335,298 16.
Contingent liabilities There were no material outstanding contingent liabilities at 31 March 2003 2002: Nil.
Risk management, financial assets and liabilities Risk management The holding of securities, investing activities and associated financing undertaken pursuant to the investment policy involves certain inherent risks.
Events may occur that would result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction of revenue returns.
Set out below are the principal risks inherent in the Companys activities and the actions taken to manage these risks.
The main risk arising from the Companys financial instruments, which includes investments, is market price risk incorporating interest rate risk.
It should be noted that the prices of warrants, options and geared equity-related derivative instruments tend to be more volatile than the prices of the underlying securities.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing these risks and these are summarised below.
These policies have remained substantially unchanged for the two years ended 31 March 2003.
Market price risk arises mainly from uncertainty about future prices of financial instruments used in the Companys business.
It represents the potential loss the Company might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements and movements in exchange rates.
This risk is monitored by the Board on a quarterly basis and on a daily basis by the Manager.
Interest rate risk is limited by the Companys financial structure with operations mainly financed through shareholders funds.
Additional financing has been provided during the year in the form of an uncommitted sterling bank overdraft facility of 30 million, which is repayable on demand, and a 30,000,000 6.125% Debenture 2014.
Liquidity risk and cash flow risk are minimised as the majority of the Companys assets comprise readily realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding commitments as necessary.
Financial assets and liabilities The Companys assets and liabilities, excluding short-term debtors and creditors, but including short-term loans, comprise financial instruments which include: investments principally comprising equity shares, which neither pay interest nor have a maturity date, together with a relatively small proportion of fixed interest securities see list of investments on pages 9 and 10.
These are held in accordance with the Companys investment policy.
bank overdraft and debenture stock.
The purpose of these are to finance the Companys investment activities see notes 11 and 12 for details of these.
The fair value of current assets and liabilities is represented by their carrying value in the balance sheet.
The carrying amounts of the debenture and interest rate swap as at 31 March 2003 are not materially different from their fair values.
32 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18.
Risk management, financial assets and liabilities continued Financial liabilities Sterling denominated Total Floating Rate Fixed Rate 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 000 000 6.125% Debenture 2014 29,578 29,540 29,578 29,540 Bank overdraft 6,392 13,482 6,392 13,482 The fixed rate financial liabilities had a weighted average interest rate of 6.125% 2002: 6.125% and a weighted average period for which the rate is fixed of 11 2002: 12 years.
The fair values of the long term financial liabilities are as follows: Sterling denominated Book Value 000 Fair Value 000 2003 2002 2003 2002 30 million 6.125% Debenture 2014 29,578 29,540 30,482 27,863 The fair values have been determined based on the mid-market values of the financial liability concerned as at the balance sheet date.
Cash balances and overdrafts are held by the principal bankers and custodians and are subject to their variable credit and debit interest rates, based on their base rates, respectively.
Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 33 Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc will be held at Phyllis Court, Marlow Road, Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire RG9 2HT at 2.00 pm on Tuesday, 22 July 2003 for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2003.
To declare a final dividend as recommended.
To re-elect Sir Patrick Sheehy a Director of the Company.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2003.
To re-appoint the Auditors and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special Business To consider the following resolutions which will be proposed as a Special Resolutions: 6.
That: the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise for the period ending on the date of the next Annual General Meeting, all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 899,547.
That: the Directors be generally and unconditionally empowered pursuant to and in accordance with Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise for the period ending on the date of the next Annual General Meeting, all powers of the Company to allot equity securities wholly for cash, i in connection with a rights issue: and ii otherwise than in accordance with a rights issue, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 899,547 as if section 89 1 of the said Act, relating to pre-emption rights, did not apply to any such allotments.
PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT for the purposes of Resolutions 6 and 7: i words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of Part IV of the said Act shall bear the same meaning: ii by such authorities and powers the Directors may during such period make offers or agreements which would or might receive the making of allotments after the expiry of such period: iii rights issue means an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the Directors to holders on the Register on a fixed record date of ordinary shares in proportion to their respective holdings but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory: and iv the nominal amount of any securities shall be taken to be, in the case of rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares of the Company, the nominal amount of such shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights.
That: the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of its issued Shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Shares PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT: i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to purchased shall be 26,968,431: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 10p: iii the maximum price which may be paid for a Share be an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: iv any purchase of Shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share as determined by the Directors : v the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2004: and vi the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
That: the maximum aggregate amount of the Directors fees for the purpose of Article 88 be increased from 50,000 to 75,000.
Dated this 17 June 2003 By order of the Board INVESCO Asset Management Limited Secretaries Notes: 1.
Any member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his stead: a proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy for the use of members is enclosed.
A shareholder entered on the Register of Members 48 hours before the Meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any changes to the Register of Members after such time and date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any shareholder to attend and or vote at the Meeting.
There are no service contracts between Directors and the Company.
The Register of Directors interests will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
34 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Glossary of Terms Gross Assets The gross worth of the Companys assets.
It is arrived at by totalling the value of the Companys listed investments at mid-market prices, unlisted investments at directors valuation and cash and other net current assets.
Net Asset Value NAV The value of the Companys assets, principally investments made in other companies and cash being held, minus any liabilities for which the Company is responsible eg money owed to other people.
The NAV is also described as shareholders funds.
The NAV is often expressed in pence per share after being divided by the number of shares which have been issued.
The NAV per share is unlikely to be the same as the share price which is the price at which the Companys shares can be bought or sold by an investor.
The share price is determined by the relationship between the demand and supply for the shares.
Discount A description of the situation when the share price is lower than the NAV per share.
The size of the discount is calculated by subtracting the share price from the NAV per share and is usually expressed as a percentage % of the NAV per share.
If the share price is higher than the NAV per share, this situation is called a premium and the percentage is commonly shown prefixed with a minus sign.
Total Return The combined effect of any dividends paid, together with the rise or fall in the share price or NAV.
Performance comparisons can then be made between trusts with different dividend policies.
Any dividends after tax received by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional shares ie share price total return or the Trusts assets ie NAV total return.
Gearing Also known as leverage, particularly in the USA.
Gearing is the process whereby capital growth and conversely any capital depreciation and income to the ordinary shareholders of the Company are boosted by borrowings, which provide some scope for additional investment but which carry a fixed liability.
The return on this extra investment minus the cost of borrowing the money gives the shareholder an enhanced or geared profit or loss.
Potential Gearing This gearing figure, which is published by the Association of Investment Trust Companies, indicates the extra amount by which shareholders funds would move if the total assets were to rise or fall.
It is calculated by dividing the aggregate of shareholders funds and all drawndown loans by shareholders funds.
A figure of 100 means that the Company has no gearing.
Actual Gearing Actual gearing is the term used to describe the amount of available loan facility that has been invested in the stock market and is not being held as cash.
Total Expense Ratio The total expenses excluding interest incurred by the Company, including those charged to capital, as a percentage of average net assets shareholders funds.
The Manager of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc is INVESCO Asset Management Limited, a Member of the AMVESCAP Group.
AMVESCAP is one of the worlds largest independent global investment management firms, with funds under management in excess of 201 billion.
We aim to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
AMVESCAP is a company listed in the UK and the US whose UK subsidiaries include INVESCO Asset Management Limited and Atlantic Wealth Management Limited.
which are both authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Funds under Management as at 31 March 2003.
Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth City Merchants High Yield Trust plc INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc Keystone Investment Trust plc Aims to provide investors with a high rate of Objective is to provide shareholders with Aims to provide shareholders with long-term income by investing in certain interest long-term growth in both income and capital growth of capital mainly from UK bearing securities including, but not from an above-average yielding portfolio investments.
The Trust is geared by way of restricted to, preference shares and consisting mainly of UK equities and equityDebenture Stocks.
redeemable or convertible loan stocks, related securites.
Seeks to achieve a total Perpetual Income and Growth Investment corporate bonds and government stocks.
return in excess of the FTSE Actuaries AllTrust plc The Trust is geared by way of bank loan.
The Trust is geared by way of a Aims to generate capital growth with a 4.75% Subordinated Convertible Unsecured INVESCO City and Commercial Trust plc higher than average income from investment Loan Stock and bank loan.
Invests principally in the securities of UK in the UK equity market.
It is intended that investment trust companies and other closed the Company will provide real dividend end funds.
The Trust is geared by an RPI growth over the medium term by investing linked Debenture Stock.
mainly in above-average yield equities.
Investing in Smaller Companies INVESCO Continental Smaller Companies stock selection strategy holding a well importance.
Gearing facilities are utilised to Trust plc diversified portfolio.
The Trust has gearing enable the Trust to take advantage of Aims to achieve capital growth by investing which the Directors believe will enhance the investment opportunities.
in a diversified portfolio of European return to shareholders, over the longer term.
INVESCO techMARK Enterprise Trust plc Smaller companies.
The Trust aims to INVESCO Japan Discovery Trust plc Investments are concentrated on emerging achieve growth in excess of the HSBC see below.
UK companies whose primary business Smaller Europe ex UK Index.
This Trust is activities are in technology and technologyINVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller Companies geared.
Gearing facilities are utilised to related fields.
The Trust will invest in Investment Trust plc enable the Trust to take advantage of members of the London Stock Exchanges Aims to achieve long-term capital growth investment opportunities.
techMARK market and will also be able to through investment in a selected list of INVESCO English and International Trust plc invest in other emerging technology quoted investments drawn predominantly Invests mainly in UK quoted and unquoted companies quoted on other markets.
The from the UK equity markets.
Investments smaller companies, and in US smaller Trust aims to achieve growth in excess of will normally be in smaller companies.
It pursues a relatively risk averse the FTSE techMARK 100 Index.
Investing Outside the UK INVESCO Asia Trust plc INVESCO Japan Discovery Trust plc enable the Trust to take advantage of investment opportunities.
Aims to provide long term capital growth Aims to provide long term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of by investing in a diversified portfolio of Perpetual Japanese Investment Trust plc Asian and Australasian companies.
The Trust smaller Japanese companies.
Aims to achieve long-term capital growth by aims to achieve growth in its net asset value INVESCO Perpetual European Investment investing in a diversified portfolio of quoted in excess of the Morgan Stanley Capital Trust plc Japanese securities.
Gearing facilities are International Far East ex Japan Free Index, utilised to enable the Trust to take advantage Aims to provide a high level of capital measured in sterling.
Gearing facilities are of investment opportunities.
growth through investment in European utilised to enable the Trust to take advantage companies.
Investing in Property Real Estate Opportunities Limited additional smaller investment into the by investment companies and trusts.
Investing in Split Capitalisation Funds INVESCO Geared Opportunities Trust plc 8.5% Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock.
investing primarily in equities but also debt Aims to achieve capital and income growth The Trust has an initial life projected to end securities which are considered to offer by investing in a combination of debt in 2005. recovery prospects.
The Trust is geared by securities and equities in UK quoted way of a bank loan, and returns to Ordinary INVESCO Recovery Trust 2005 plc companies.
The share capital of the Trust Shareholders are further geared by the prior Aims to meet the capital entitlements of the comprises Zero Shares and Geared Ordinary charge of the Zero Shares.
The Trust has an Zero Shares and to maximise the capital and Shares.
Investing for High Income INVESCO Leveraged High Yield Fund Aims to provide a high return, predominately portfolio of mainly European high yield Limited in the form of income, from a diversified corporate bonds............................................................................................................................................
Most of the INVESCO specialist funds listed above are eligible for inclusion in the INVESCO Investment Trust ISA and the INVESCO Investment Trust Savings Scheme.
The trusts marked with an are available through the INVESCO PERPETUAL Investment Trust ISA and the INVESCO PERPETUAL Investment Trust Savings Plan.
In addition, most of the above trusts are available for PEP and or ISA transfers via the Schemes listed above.
Keystone Investment Trust is available as an ISA investment via the INVESCO PERPETUAL Investment Trust ISA product or as a savings plan via the INVESCO Investment Trust Savings Scheme.
Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trust or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
co. uk investmenttrusts Perivan Financial Print 201318
