Information for shareholders 1 Financial calendar dividends 2003 Final 2004 Interim Dividend announced 26 February 2004 27 July 2004 Ex-dividend date for ordinary shares 7 April 2004 15 September 2004 Record date for the dividend 13 April 2004 17 September 2004 Annual general meeting 5 May 2004 Payment date of the dividend 14 May 2004 15 October 2004 2 Share price Information on our share price is available on the companys website, www.
com and Ceefax on BBC1 BBC2 and on Teletext on ITV Channel 4.
Information is also available, at a cost, from FT Cityline telephone: 0906 843 3731.
The share price is listed in the following daily newspapers: Financial Times The Daily Telegraph The Guardian Daily Mail Yorkshire Post The Herald The Times The Independent The Express Evening Standard The Scotsman 3 Individual Savings Account ISA Shareholders may take out an ISA which includes shares in the company with a provider of their choice.
However, the company has made arrangements with Redmayne Bentley for the provision of an ISA for its shareholders and employees.
Shareholders who are eligible and who wish to take advantage of this should contact Redmayne Bentley, Merton House, 84 Albion Street, Leeds, West Yorkshire LS1 6AG telephone: 0113 243 6941.
4 Tax on capital gains 4.1 For the purposes of tax on capital gains, the price of an ordinary share in the company on 31 March 1982 was 130.50p.
When adjusted for the 1 for 5 scrip issue in 1986, the 5 for 2 share split in 1993, the 1 for 1 bonus issue in 1996 and the share capital consolidation in 1998, this gives a figure of 22.54p.
4.2 Shareholders for whom the price of ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 is relevant should note that their allowable expenditure in relation to future disposals of ordinary shares may also be affected by other factors, such as indexation and or the disposal of fractional entitlements pursuant to the share capital consolidation of the company in April 1998.
5 Tax on dividends 5.1 A UK resident individual shareholder who receives a dividend is entitled to a tax credit in respect of the dividend.
1 5.2 The tax credit is 9th of the dividend corresponding to 10% of the dividend and the associated tax credit.
5.3 A UK resident individual shareholder is therefore treated as having paid tax at 10% on the aggregate of the dividend and the associated tax credit: as starting, lower and basic rate taxpayers are liable to tax on the dividend and associated tax credit at 10%, they will have no further liability to tax in respect of the dividend.
5.4 The tax liability on dividends for UK resident higher rate taxpayers is 32.5% on the aggregate of the dividend and the associated tax credit, so that their liability for additional tax is equal to 22.5% on the aggregate of the dividend and the associated tax credit.
5.5 Except as mentioned in 5.6 below, UK resident individuals cannot claim a refund of the 10% tax credit.
5.6 Shareholders who hold their shares through PEPs or ISAs will be able to reclaim the 10% tax credit attaching to dividends paid on or before 5 April 2004.
5.7 Arrangements can be made for a shareholders dividends to be paid directly into a nominated bank account.
Details are available on request from the companys registrar see paragraph 7 below.
6 The Provident Financial Company Nominee Scheme 6.1 The company has established the Provident Financial Company Nominee Scheme.
The key features of the scheme are: 6.1.
1 Your shares are held for you in a nominee account and you will receive regular statements of your account: you will not hold a share certificate: 6.1.
2 It provides a facility to allow you to deal in the companys shares by means of a low-cost telephone dealing service through the CREST electronic settlement system: 94 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Information for shareholders continued 6 The Provident Financial Company Nominee Scheme continued 6.1.
3 It provides a facility for you to reinvest your dividends in the companys shares: 6.1.
4 You will still retain the benefits of direct shareholding, such as prompt payments of dividends, a copy of the annual report and attendance, and voting, at the annual general meeting: and 6.1.
5 The service is provided at no cost to you.
However, if you wish to use the facility to deal in the companys shares or reinvest your dividends, you will have to pay charges.
6.2 Full details are available on request from the companys registrar see paragraph 7 below.
7 Registrar 7.1 The registrar deals with all matters relating to transfers of ordinary shares in the company and with enquiries concerning holdings.
The registrar is: Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU telephone: 0870 162 3100.
7.2 The registrars website is www.
This will give you access to your personal shareholding by means of your investor code which is printed on your share certificate or statement of holding.
8 Share ownership analysis as at 29 February 2004 Shareholders Shareholders Shareholding range Number % Up to 1,000 3,218 43.15 1,001 5,000 2,750 36.88 5,001 50,000 1,064 14.27 50,001 500,000 345 4.63 500,001 1,000,000 32 0.43 1,000,001 48 0.64 Total 7,457 100 Advisers Independent auditors  LLP Joint financial advisers and stockbrokers Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Merrill Lynch Registrar Capita Registrars Solicitors Slaughter and May Eversheds LLP Company details Registered office and contact details Provident Financial plc Colonnade Sunbridge Road Bradford West Yorkshire BD1 2LQ telephone: 44 0 1274 731111 fax: 44 0 1274 727300 email: enquiries@providentfinancial.
com Company number 668987 95 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Notes 96 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 124 successful years: The Provident business was founded in Bradford in 1880 to provide affordable credit for working families.
While our business is still to provide simple, financial products, the last seven years have seen big changes.
We now operate overseas and are steadily broadening our range of products in the UK.
SEVEN YEARS OF CHANGE 1997 2003 International opens The first overseas in Mexico, passes the 1 million operations open in Poland customer mark and finishes the and the Czech Republic.
1999 In the UK we launch Vanquis Bank to begin testing a credit card.
2000 The number of international customers grows from 16,000 to 138,000.
By the end of the year We acquire the car International finance business, we have 8 branch offices exceeds 450,000 Yes Car Credit.
and 16,000 customers in 2002 central Europe.
2001 1998 International reports its first annual profit and we open in two more central European countries Hungary and Slovakia.
TURNOVER SPLIT 1996 & 2003 KEY HIGHLIGHTS OF 2003 1996 2003 UK home credit 16 16% % 26% 26% Yes Car Credit 30% 13% 8.2% 6.8% 43% 43% 17 17% % International Turnover up to 1.1 billion Profit before goodwill Earnings per share before goodwill Total dividend for 2003 33.00p 74 74% % amortisation and exceptional amortisation and exceptional items Motor insurance 24% 24% items up to 206.2 million up to 57.54p Designed and produced by salterbaxter Printed by CTD Capita Photography by George Brooks Designed and produced by salterbaxter Printed by CTD Capita Photography by George Brooks Provident Financial plc ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 Provident Financial plc Pam, Amy, Thomas & Denise FRONT COVER Pam, home credit customer, and daughter Amy with their dog Thomas and agent Denise, Keighley, UK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 To find out where weve come from and how were doing LIFT THE FLAP Paper specification One of Provident Financials environmental objectives is to use paper as efficiently as possible.
This report is produced on material which comprises 50% TCF totally chlorine free pulp from sustainable forests and 50% recycled and fide-inked pulp from preand post-consumer waste.
Provident Financial plc Colonnade Sunbridge Road Bradford Contents West Yorkshire Good relationships BD1 2LQ 01 Introduction United Kingdom 02 Chairmans statement telephone: 44 0 1274 731111 06 Chief Executives review fax: 44 0 1274 727300 34 Financial review good business email: enquiries@providentfinancial.
com 42 Our directors and board committees website: www.
com 43 Directors report 47 Corporate governance report 52 Directors remuneration report Company number 60 Accounts 668987 93 Independent auditors report Provident Financial plc 94 Information for shareholders Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2003 Provident Financial plc Pam, Amy, Thomas & Denise FRONT COVER Pam, home credit customer, and daughter Amy with their dog Thomas and agent Denise, Keighley, UK ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2003 To find out where weve come from and how were doing LIFT THE FLAP Paper specification One of Provident Financials environmental objectives is to use paper as efficiently as possible.
com 43 Summary directors report 44 Summary corporate governance report 45 Summary directors remuneration report Company number 49 Summary financial statement 668987 54 Independent auditors report Provident Financial plc 55 Information for shareholders Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2003 Provident Financial plc Pam, Amy, Thomas & Denise FRONT COVER Pam, home credit customer, and daughter Amy with their dog Thomas and agent Denise, Keighley, UK ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2003 To find out where weve come from and how were doing LIFT THE FLAP Paper specification One of Provident Financials environmental objectives is to use paper as efficiently as possible.
com 43 Summary directors report 44 Summary corporate governance report 45 Summary directors remuneration report Company number 49 Summary financial statement 668987 54 Independent auditors report Provident Financial plc 55 Information for shareholders Company number 668987 124 successful years: The Provident business was founded in Bradford in 1880 to provide affordable credit for working families.
TURNOVER SPLIT 1996 & 2003 KEY HIGHLIGHTS OF 2003 1996 2003 UK home credit 16 16% % 26% 26% Yes Car Credit 30% 13% 8.2% 6.8% 43% 43% 17 17% % International Turnover up to 1.1 billion Profit before goodwill Earnings per share before goodwill Total dividend for 2003 33.00p 74 74% % amortisation and exceptional amortisation and exceptional items Motor insurance 24% 24% items up to 206.2 million up to 57.54p Designed and produced by salterbaxter Printed by CTD Capita Photography by George Brooks Hello and welcome toabusiness that knows its customers, knows what they want, and keeps growing by doing the simple things really well... 1 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 John John van Kuffeler, Chairman In 2003 we have made encouraging progress.
We expect to deliver good results in 2004.
2 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 CHAIRMANSSTATEMENT 30% 6.8% Increase in dividend of 6.8% Turnover up 30% to 1.1 billion Operations In order to give a clearer view of the financial off and so some have a reduced need for small I am pleased to announce our performance of the individual divisions, in sums of credit.
Many also have access to a wider results for 2003.
Strong growth 2003 we recharged to the UK home credit choice of alternative credit products, such as continued during the year with business and the international division costs credit cards and bank overdrafts, and some in respect of taxation, treasury and public choose to use these as well as, or instead of, group turnover up by 30% to 1.1 affairs services that were previously borne home credit.
Growth is more difficult in these billion and customer receivables as central costs.
The profit figures for 2003 competitive market conditions and so, in recent and prior year comparatives in this statement years, we have had to work harder to find the up by 15% to 1.1 billion.
Details are given in best mix of customer and credit issued volumes, goodwill amortisation, profit the summary financial statement on page 50. overhead expenses and bad debt costs to move before tax increased by 13.0% profits forward.
This was again the case in 2003, with modest profit growth achieved alongside to 206.2 million 2002 182.4 UK consumer small reductions in customer numbers and credit million and earnings per share credit division issued.
The number of customers at the end of increased by 8.2% from 53.19p 2003 was 1.61 million, 1.7% lower than at the end UK home credit of 2002. Credit issued for the year was down by to 57.54p.
Collections increased by UK home credit is a successful, cash generative amortisation and, in 2002, an 1.6% to 1,320 million and turnover increased business operating in a long established and exceptional item, profit before by 2.4% to 496 million.
Costs were carefully mature market segment.
managed and increased overall by just 1.8%, tax increased by 17.8% to 201.9 Its success is built upon the provision to customers benefiting from lower interest costs and tight of a simple and straightforward service tailored to million 2002 171.4 million and control of overhead expenses.
Loans are for small sums and are was satisfactory with annual bad debt costs as earnings per share increased by delivered quickly and conveniently to the a percentage of credit issued reducing slightly 14.8% to 55.84p 2002 48.66p.
customers home by an agent.
This personal during the second half from 9.7% at June 2003 to service and the close relationship between agent The directors recommend a 9.6% for the full year 2002 9.2%.
Profit before and customer is highly valued and is well suited to tax increased by 2.5% to 152.6 million 2002 final dividend of 19.90p 2002 the careful and responsible provision of credit.
18.44p, giving a total dividend Customers also value the transparency and flexibility of home credit.
Unexpected events can for the year of 33.00p per share Yes Car Credit cause customers to miss a loan repayment and 2002 30.90p, an increase of most credit products levy penalty charges and Yes Car Credit was acquired in December 6.8% for the year.
additional interest when this happens.
It has a distinct, credit-led, integrated credit offer recognises that these penalties just business model under which it sells its make things worse and so no penalty charges or customers a package of a car, financing additional interest are levied.
The customer has and related insurance products.
the peace of mind of knowing that all charges are The business has performed well in its first year in fixed at the outset and each repayment goes to the group and has benefited from greater access reduce the amount owed.
These features give rise to the capital needed to fund its development.
to an extraordinarily high customer satisfaction rating of 93% and explain the enduring appeal of Six new branches were opened during the year, home credit in an increasingly competitive market.
taking the total to 26, helping to increase the number of cars sold by 24% to 37,900.
The 8.2% The prolonged period of economic growth in the UK has benefited our customers.
Many are better Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items up by 8.2% to 57.54p 3 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 CHAIRMANSSTATEMENT 1.2million 32% 6 Six new Yes Car Credit Yes Car Credits turnover up 32% International division customers branches opened in 2003 up 30% to 1.2 million percentage of cars sold that were financed by Yes at the end of 2002 to 62,000.
Start-up losses for International division Car Credit has also been increased as planned, up 2003 were reduced by 0.4 million 20% to 1.6 The international division has again produced from 75% in 2002 to 95% in 2003.
the second half of 2003, Yes Car Credit financed even faster growth.
Customer numbers rose by all of the cars it sold.
The rapid increase in cars 163% from 55,000 to 143,000 and start-up losses It has grown substantially, achieving excellent sold and the increased percentage of sales for 2003 were sharply reduced, down by 1.2 profit growth in Poland and the Czech Republic financed in-house has led to substantial growth million 38% to 1.9 million 2002 3.1 million.
and successfully expanding the developing in turnover, up by 32% to 269 million and net operations in Hungary and Slovakia.
Customer A pilot operation was launched in Mexico in customer receivables, up by 54% to 252 million.
numbers for the division increased by 30% to August 2003.
This has performed well and, at Yes Car Credits contribution to the groups profit 1.2 million, credit issued by 26% to 361 million the end of December 2003, had 2,600 customers before goodwill amortisation for the year was and turnover by 34% to 191 million.
Profit before served from a single branch located in Puebla: a 11.2 million 2002 0.2 million and, as expected, tax increased substantially to 29.3 million large industrial city about 70 kilometres outside the acquisition and associated share placing has 2002 8.6 million.
enhanced earnings per share before goodwill Our business in Poland performed very well and amortisation during this first year of ownership.
continued to make excellent progress towards Motor insurance division its medium-term targets.
Customer numbers Vanquis Bank The cyclical downturn of margins in the UK increased by 23% to 813,000, credit issued by motor insurance market that began in the 14% to 226 million, collections by 25% to 305 Vanquis Bank was established to perform a summer of 2002 has continued.
million and turnover by 25% to 128 million.
Credit market test of credit cards.
Our plan is to offer quality developed as expected with bad debt as cards tailored to the needs of customers with In 2003 premium rates in the market as a whole a percentage of credit issued of 10.8% for 2003 modest incomes.
fell by 1% whilst claims costs increased by about 2002 9.1%.
Profit before tax increased very 8%.
As planned, we continued with our policy of The market test is designed to provide strong strongly, up by 16.4 million 98% to 33.1 million pricing for an adequate return on equity and so evidence of the attractiveness to customers of our 2002 16.7 million.
raised our premium rates in line with the rise in offer and of the financial returns we might expect claims costs.
This caused policyholder numbers Our Czech operation is experiencing lower rates if we were to progress to a full-scale launch.
to fall by 23% during 2003, down from 757,000 of growth in customer numbers and credit issued The testing includes offers to existing and new to 587,000.
Gross written premium reduced as it nears its target of 250,000 customers.
customers, both by direct marketing and through by 22%, in line with the fall in the number of Customer numbers increased by 2.4% to 223,000 home credit agents.
The cost base of the business was and credit issued by 6.4% to 74 million.
Collections by home credit agents and by remote means are sharply reduced in 2003.
Distribution is entirely increased by 18%, fuelled by the rapid increase in also being tested.
through independent intermediaries and so customer receivables during 2002 and, with the these costs fell in line with the reduction in written majority of income recognised when loans are The market test has progressed to plan and at premiums.
Overhead costs were also reduced.
collected, this in turn led to a 17% increase in the end of the year 36,800 cards were in issue.
In addition, the cost of levies fell by 3 million as turnover in 2003 to 39 million.
Credit quality The cost of the test for 2003 was 6.7 million.
compared to 2002 due to an unexpectedly low was stable with bad debt as a percentage of call from the Motor Insurers Bureau in the last credit issued for 2003 being unchanged at 11.0% quarter of 2003.
These factors contributed to an 2002 11.0%.
Profit before tax has increased underwriting profit of 4.0 million, down from 11.4 substantially, up by 3.7 million 72% to 8.8 million in 2002.
Income earned on the investment million 2002 5.1 million.
fund, held to meet the cost of future claims, was The performance of our newer operations in 24.6 million 2002 24.4 million.
The average 240% Hungary and Slovakia has been very encouraging.
fund size was 461 million 2002 455 million.
Both expanded rapidly, whilst maintaining good credit quality and both reported lower startup losses than in 2002.
In Slovakia, customer numbers increased by 130%, rising from 27,000 International division profit before tax increased by 240% to 29.3 million 4 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 The international division and Yes Car Credit both delivered excellent results and this was underpinned by solid performances from our UK home credit and motor insurance businesses.
Profit before tax for 2003 fell by 20% to 28.6 credit products such as mail order, overdrafts Motor insurance division million 2002 35.8 million.
This was a better and credit cards in a large and growing market for The cyclical downturn in margins in the motor result than we had expected, because of the small sum credit where competition has increased insurance market as a whole is likely to continue reduced levy costs and the business continued to substantially during recent years and is likely to throughout 2004.
We will continue only to write create value for shareholders, earning a post-tax continue to increase in future.
policies that earn an adequate return on equity return on equity of 24% for 2003 2002 29%.
and so we expect further reductions in policyholder Prospects for 2004 numbers and written premiums.
The profit impact Regulatory developments of this will be minimised by reductions in the cost base.
We also expect a fall in the size of the UK consumer In December 2003 the UK government investment fund in 2004 following the decrease published a White Paper on Consumer Credit credit division in written premium over the last 18 months and and proposals for revised regulations.
The UK market for home credit is mature and, this, together with a lower yield, is expected to We welcome these proposals, particularly the as our customers become more prosperous and result in lower investment income.
These factors call for greater transparency to the borrower of gain access to a wider range of credit products, taken together are expected to result in lower all of the costs of credit, a tighter licensing regime it is becoming increasingly competitive.
We will profits in 2004 from the motor insurance division and more effective redress for customers faced continue to make a measured trade-off between but with a continued good return on equity.
volume growth, credit quality and costs, with the aim of growing profits modestly.
A proposal for the revision of the EU Consumer International division Yes Car Credit made good progress in 2003.
It Credit Directive was published in September 2002 We continue to see excellent prospects for operates in a market that is estimated to be and, during 2003, has been the subject of scrutiny growth from our international division.
Poland growing at about 6% p. a. but Yes Car Credit has and debate by the Council of Ministers and the is expected to be the major contributor to this, grown faster than this because of its innovative European Parliament, a process that typically with lower growth forecast in the Czech market.
offer and by expanding its branch network to lasts for several years.
A number of important Reduced start-up losses from the developing increase geographic coverage.
We expect the changes to the framework of consumer credit law businesses in Hungary and Slovakia in 2004 are market will continue to grow in 2004 and we intend are proposed, focused primarily on improved also expected and we continue to believe both to open five new branches during the year in order transparency of the terms and costs of borrowing will report a profit for 2005.
The pilot in Mexico to further increase geographic coverage.
will continue during 2004 and start-up losses result, we look forward to continued strong In September 2003 the National Consumer of about 3 million are expected.
Council NCC said that it would be undertaking Overall, we expect that 2004 will be another research with a view to supporting a possible During 2003 Vanquis Bank tested a range of offers very good year for our international division.
supercomplaint, under the Enterprise Act 2002, and at the end of 2003 had 36,800 credit card to the Office of Fair Trading regarding the holders.
We now intend to observe the performance competitiveness of the UK home credit industry.
of the business before deciding in the second half Group Our experience is that: home credit customers are of this year whether or not to proceed to a fullIn 2003 we have made encouraging progress.
highly satisfied with the personal service provided scale roll-out.
The cost of the operation is likely The international division and Yes Car Credit both by home credit agents and that the home credit to be about 9 million for 2004. delivered excellent results and this was underpinned product is ideally suited to the needs of its target by solid performances from our UK home credit market: barriers to enter the home credit industry and motor insurance businesses.
We expect to are low, as demonstrated by Cattles national deliver good results in 2004. expansion and the entry of Park Direct Credit in recent years, and 146 new members of the home credit industrys trade association during the last five years: many home credit customers use other John van Kuffeler Chairman 16 March 2004 5 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Robin Robin Ashton, Chief Executive Our business At Provident Financial we pride ourselves on knowing our customers well and offering simple financial products tailored to their needs.
This thinking underlies each of our three divisions UK consumer credit, international, and motor insurance.
Its one reason why customers keep coming back again and again.
6 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our strategy Provident Financial has successfully 7 provided home credit in the UK for well over a century, and in the Republic of Ireland for more than sixty years.
By the mid-1990s, however, it was Provident now operates in 7 countries clear that the UK home credit market was maturing.
We needed, therefore, to refresh our strategy for the next phase of our growth and so began a twofold Were also making good progress on the second process of developing home credit internationally leg of the strategy broadening our product range.
and broadening our product range in the UK.
With the acquisition in 2002 of the car finance business, Yes Car Credit, and the market test of the The group has changed dramatically as a result.
new Vanquis Bank credit card, we are adding different Since 1997, when we signed up our first customer in but related products to attract new customers and Poland, our international business has grown rapidly.
to offer more to those we already serve.
The original overseas operations in Poland and the Czech Republic are already making a substantial These strategies offer plenty of scope for further contribution to group profits while Hungary and growth.
As we move ahead, our priorities are to Slovakia continue to make good progress.
The new introduce home credit to further overseas markets, pilot operation in Mexico is just the latest step in expanding in the measured, controlled way that has a story of vigorous and profitable expansion.
served us well so far: and to develop our new credit products in the UK, taking these into overseas markets when the time is right.
UK consumer credit division 1 UK home credit Yes Car Credit Vanquis Bank International division 2 Poland Czech Republic Hungary Slovakia Mexico Motor insurance division 3 Provident Insurance 7 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 916m 37,900 36,800 credit issued by UK home credit cars sold by Yes Car Credit credit cards issued by Vanquis Bank UK consumer credit The heart of our UK consumer credit division is our home credit business small loans, with affordable repayments, collected every week from the customers home.
But the product range is broadening.
The division now provides car finance and is also testing a new credit card.
8 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Paul Paul Watch, branch manager, Yes Car Credit, Portsmouth, UK Looking back over the year, Im amazed at how busy weve been.
Theres a real buzz from selling more cars to more customers and giving them a better deal than they might have thought was possible.
9 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW UK consumer credit 1 Customers take out their loans for a wide variety Home credit the core Whats been happening of reasons.
Some spend the money to help of our UK business in the UK home credit fund Christmas, birthdays or holidays or on other market?
Although UK consumer credit is now special family events.
Some use the cash to buy broadening its product range, the bedrock household items or consumer electronics.
In UK home credit has operated for over of the division remains the home credit other cases, the loan is used to spread household a century and clearly its services will be business which serves 1.6 million customers.
costs over the year or to help in emergencies.
in demand for many years to come.
Nevertheless, we need to recognise that The service is popular for very clear reasons.
the market in which it operates is changing.
Its personal, friendly, convenient and flexible.
After a long period of economic growth and high The business lends small sums of money the 95% employment, the typical Provident customer has most popular loan is for 200 to people from steadily become better off.
She and it usually is all walks of life.
Our customers have moderate of UK home credit customers say they she tends, therefore, to have less need for small incomes and need to manage their finances find their agent helpful and friendly sum credit and so borrows less frequently.
They want, therefore, to borrow small same time, our customers have increasing access amounts with minimal financial risk and so Provident home credit provides a service that its to other forms of credit particularly credit cards welcome the structure and discipline of a customers appreciate and value.
We are proud to and overdrafts.
offer a high quality service that recognises our For these reasons, its clear that the potential for Repayments are affordable and are collected by customers needs.
expansion in the UK home credit market is limited.
agents every week from the customers home.
While we aim to achieve modest profit growth in Payment arrangements are flexible and most 2004, we recognise that we cant rely on home importantly our customers never have to face credit alone in the UK.
To keep succeeding, we additional or unexpected charges.
93% need to introduce other products that are distinct, relevant and attractive to our target market.
customer satisfaction rating in UK home credit 152.6m UK home credit profit before tax increased by 2.5% Provident home credit provides a service that its customers Muriel appreciate and value.
Home credit customer Muriel, Leeds, UK My agent sat down with me in my living room to sort out the loan I needed for my holiday.
Paying back weekly really suits me.
Thats good value in my book.
10 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Leanne & Jessica Vanquis Bank employees, Chatham, UK The same underlying values apply to these newer businesses as to home credit.
A new division Vanquis Bank In 2002 we formed the UK consumer credit In the same way, the Vanquis Bank credit division.
This includes not just UK home credit, card test recognises that many of our but the car finance business Yes Car Credit, customers like plastic that they welcome and Vanquis Bank.
both the flexibility and the feeling of being 7.4m in the financial mainstream.
The same underlying values apply to these newer businesses as to home credit.
All the businesses But many want a card with a low credit limit recognise and respect their customers needs and small, affordable repayments to help them and aspirations.
Some may have little or no credit Vanquis Bank net receivables history.
Others may have had credit cards in the past but, because of events in their lives such Yes Car Credit as changes in their income or the breakdown of a relationship, have been unable to manage Yes Car Credit provides finance and a high their credit card and, consequently, have been quality, reliable car to customers, making sure excluded from this important source of credit.
that the repayments remain affordable.
Vanquis Bank seeks to meet this need Its also a friendly way to do business.
The fact 252.4m by developing a product that offers all the that we set the credit limit before the customer advantages of plastic, but keeps the chooses a car avoids the embarrassment that customer firmly in control.
could otherwise occur if the customer first selects a car and then finds that they cannot arrange finance for it.
Yes Car Credit net receivables Vanquis Bank maintains more personal contact with its customers than most other credit card providers Yes Car Credit provides finance and a high quality, reliable car to customers 11 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 1.6m UK consumer credit customers choose Provident home credit in the UK Our customers also appreciate Providents With these advantages, its no wonder that UK home credit friendly, personal service.
Their contact with the satisfaction ratings are extremely high, at 93%, why so popular?
company is through an agent who knows them and that 83% of customers would recommend Peoples perception of home credit is individually and calls every week at a convenient Provident home credit to family and friends.
sometimes at odds with the reality.
The 12,000 UK agents typically come from We know that most of our customers have discussion of our performance and strategy, the same communities as their customers and choices when it comes to credit.
Nearly two-thirds its important to emphasise the features of many were customers themselves before have a bank account, almost a third have a credit the service that make it so successful.
card and many others make use of agency mail At Provident we lend responsibly.
We have to, The weekly visit from the agent also provides order catalogues.
Nevertheless, they choose because our loans are unsecured.
Furthermore, the encouragement to put aside the repayment Provident home credit because they like the we pay agents based only on the money they every week.
Regular, face to face contact helps service and the flexibility, convenience and value collect, not on what they lend, so its in their customers to stay in control of their credit and that we offer.
For a small, short-term loan, quickly interests not to lend more than people can keep up to date with their repayments.
and easily repaid, Provident is a rational choice.
In an age of internet banking and call centres, this Our product recognises what life is like for people personal service is highly valued.
Customers know on modest incomes, who need to manage their theyll get a sympathetic response if they get into finances carefully.
With Provident home credit difficulties that the agent understands the ups there are no penalty charges for late or missed and downs of life and can help them manage their 31% payments a feature that makes home credit personal and household finances.
quite distinct from credit cards, bank loans and 60% On the face of it, our APR looks higher than for virtually every other form of lending.
All costs other sources of small sum credit.
But direct are included in a single, up-front charge that comparisons are misleading.
The APRs quoted by of UK home credit customers see from the start.
Whatever happens, customers have a other lenders usually do not include the cost of the amount to be repaid never goes up.
of UK home credit credit card credit insurance or penalty charges if customers customers have a Therefore, when customers take out a loan, miss payments.
Similarly, the AERs on overdrafts bank current account they know exactly how much theyll have to pay do not include the monthly administration back.
Thats a great attraction for people on charges or the charges levied when the account tight budgets who want to avoid nasty financial goes above the overdraft limit.
It keeps them in control and provides Provident home credits APR includes not just the reassurance that every pound repaid reduces the interest charge but the cost of the agents the loan balance by the same amount.
weekly visit and the cost to Provident of never imposing any extra charges.
Provident home credits call centre Our objective is provides a service to its branch network modest profit growth in what is a mature and increasingly competitive market.
Through on-going research, we know our customers are highly satisfied with our home credit service 12 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 31% of UK home credit customers have an overdraft facility Getting better at what we do Although the UK home credit market is mature, we aim to achieve modest growth in profits by improving our service and modernising our offer.
In 2003 we took a fresh look at how we run our UK home credit business.
We sharpened functions such as credit management, devolved responsibilities to local managers, improved communications 200 between head office and employees, and made the organisation faster on its feet all with the aim of taking better care of customers and making the business more efficient.
An increasingly competitive market In recent years the range of sources of small sum credit available to our customers is the most popular Provident home credit loan in the UK has increased.
In particular, the use of credit cards and overdrafts alongside, or instead of, home credit has risen.
In this competitive environment it is vital that we continue to provide a distinct offer, tailored to our customers needs, and become even better at what we do.
Our objective is modest profit growth in what is a mature and increasingly competitive market.
We aim to achieve this through the quality of our service and by constantly balancing volumes, costs and bad debt.
Debbie, Grant & Diane Home credit customer Debbie with her son Grant, and agent Diane, Leeds, UK My agent arranged the cash I needed for my new computer.
She calls every week so I dont even have to go out to make the repayments.
13 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Paul & Robert Paul, home credit customer, with Robert White, Provident home credit development manager, Huddersfield, UK The scary thing about a lot of loans is whats in the small print.
It was great to discover Provident where everythings clear and you know from the start exactly what you have to pay.
14 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 A RELIABLE, SUPPORTIVE, CARING APPROACH TO ALL WE DO Jenny& James Jenny, home credit customer, and her grandson James, Halifax, UK It really helps to have people you can trust.
And I know I can trust my agent Liz to understand my situation and be sympathetic if I have to miss a payment.
15 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Ellen Yes Car Credit employee, Portsmouth, UK UK consumer credit Yes Car Credit How weve done Whats next?
this year In the coming year, we intend to capitalise Why expand into car on the natural growth of the market whilst In our first full year of ownership, weve finance?
also increasing our share by further extending expanded the number of branches from For many customers in our target market, our branch network and geographic coverage.
20 to 26, with five more planned in 2004. buying a family car is the single most This is expected to generate further In addition, Yes Car Credit now finances all of the important transaction they will undertake substantial growth.
vehicles it sells as compared with only 75% when and most will need credit if they want to we took it over which is good for margins.
In looking to broaden our product range, car finance As expected, Yes Car Credit has performed was, therefore, a natural choice.
We sold nearly 38,000 cars in 2003 up from 31,000 in 2002, and increased Yes Car Credit supplies good quality, threeto profits substantially to 11.2 million 2002 five-year old vehicles, financed at competitive 6.6 million assuming the benefit of lower rates of interest plus insurance policies to cover funding costs from membership of the Provident repairs and write-offs, and the loan repayments group throughout the year.
if the customers circumstances change.
This way, the owner is protected against future financial surprises and the car is kept on the road which encourages the customer to keep paying back the loan.
Another reason for acquiring Yes Car Credit was 70% its direct contact with the customer something we believe to be very important.
Unlike the 26 conventional car finance model, Yes Car Credit 6% deals face to face with its customers rather than with car dealers.
Firstly, Yes Car Credit does not have to share its profits with a dealership.
Secondly, it is able to ensure Yes Car Credits market Yes Car Credit has 26 Yes Car Credit profit before tax that the customer drives away in a high quality is estimated to grow by branches nationwide up 70% to 11.2 million vehicle another important factor in making sure 6% a year the customer is satisfied.
Besides fitting well alongside our home credit business, Yes Car Credit made an attractive acquisition as a fast-growing, entrepreneurial business in an expanding market.
We sold nearly 38,000 cars in 2003 At Yes Car Credit we have direct contact with the customer 16 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Kerrie Yes Car Credit customer, Portsmouth, UK Vanquis Bank 36,800 Why a credit card?
Vanquis Bank credit card customers For many consumers, having a credit card opens the door to the modern economy.
It allows them to shop by telephone or over the internet and is accepted in most countries throughout the world.
That said, many people particularly those on modest incomes are excluded, or exclude themselves, from having a card.
They may have been refused a card in the past or may never have been invited to apply for one.
Or they may be concerned that they might lose control of their spending.
With such customers in mind, we hope to offer a distinctive credit card that meets their needs and concerns.
What we envisage is not a replica of anything that already exists, but an offer specifically tailored to customers needs.
The aim is to offer the convenience and flexibility of using a card while preserving those stay in control features that make home credit so useful to people who need to watch their spending.
To test the possibilities, we recruited a team of credit card professionals, gained a deposit taking licence in February 2003 for our company, Vanquis Bank, and launched a pilot project in April.
The 36,800 cards weve issued so far cover a range of features.
There are cards with very low credit limits, cards with a higher APR but no penalties for missed payments, cards with fixed repayments so that monthly outgoings stay constant, cards that allow customers to repay every week or fortnight, and so on.
We are testing a range of offers to see what works best.
We also maintain more personal contact with our customers than many credit card providers, with credit vetting by telephone and further calls when a first payment is due or if a payment has been missed.
We now intend to monitor the performance of this portfolio before deciding in the second half of 2004 whether or not to proceed to a full-scale roll-out.
The test cost 6.7 million in 2003 and is likely to cost about 9 million in 2004.
We believe that there is unfulfilled demand in the UK market for a credit card designed to meet the Laura Vanquis Bank employee, needs of people earning Chatham, UK modest incomes.
17 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW International customer growth 1,244,000 960,000 708,000 466,000 138,000 16,000 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 International Our fast-growing international division has businesses in Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia, and a pilot operation in Mexico.
It has proved conclusively that we can be successful in overseas markets.
18 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Beatriz, Jaime, Daniela & Beatriz Home credit customers Beatriz and Jaime with their daughters Daniela and Beatriz, Puebla, Mexico All Beatriz really wanted for her birthday was a bike.
With a Provident loan I was able to spread the cost and get her the bike she always wanted.
19 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 98% International growth in Polands profit before tax 2 Meeting a need How weve done On track to meet this year our targets Since starting our international expansion just seven years ago, weve achieved The international division made excellent In 2003 the division passed some significant excellent growth, all of which has been progress during 2003. milestones.
Customer numbers rose by 30% to 1.2 million The number of agents passed 17,000 and From a standing start in 1997, our international and credit issued by 26% to 361 million.
customer numbers passed one million, putting division now serves 1.2 million people.
We have Profit before tax increased from 8.6 million us well on the way to reaching our target of built a business that has nearly 3,000 employees, to 29.3 million.
1.6 million customers in central Europe.
over 17,000 agents and operates from 145 towns Our largest and most established markets of Another milestone in the year was expanding and cities in five countries.
Poland and the Czech Republic are developing outside Europe with the start of our pilot These are countries where the home credit as expected and producing very good profits.
market didnt exist before Provident moved in.
The newer businesses in Hungary and Slovakia Our aim, in the medium-term, is for the central For the first time, customers wanting credit had are increasing their customer numbers rapidly European businesses to contribute a profit of a quick, convenient alternative to local banks or while start-up losses, in each case, were smaller 90-100 million per annum.
In 2003 they to borrowing money from friends and family.
As than in 2002. contributed 38 million towards divisional profits the soaring number of customers makes clear, and so are well on the way to achieving this.
theyve seized the opportunity with enthusiasm.
One reason for our success in central Europe is the way weve been able to learn from our 29.3m experience in each market and apply the lessons learnt as we move to the next.
Each market entry international profit before tax involves a careful process of market research followed by a pilot operation.
Only when were certain its working do we step up the investment and expand more rapidly across the country.
72% Agnieszka Home credit customer Agnieszka, Warsaw, Poland I like the fact that my agent calls at my growth in the Czech Republics home and collects my repayments when profit before tax its convenient for me and that if I have to miss a week there are no extra charges.
20 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Andrea Home credit customer Andrea, Puebla, Mexico Provident made it possible to go on holiday and I can enjoy it all the 102m more because Im not worried about extra charges on the loan.
There people live in Mexico wont be any nasty surprises.
Since starting Our fifth international country, Mexico, is We expect further strong growth from the undergoing the same careful evaluation that international division in the coming year with our international characterised our entry into central Europe.
each country making good progress towards We have a rigorous procedure for selecting its long-term targets.
expansion just a new country and researched a number of Our trial in Mexico will continue at a likely possibilities before deciding that Mexico best seven years ago, cost of 3-4 million in 2004.
Well also matched our criteria.
continue to research other potential home weve achieved Mexico is a large and attractive market with credit markets with a view to possible entry a population of 102 million.
The outlook for in 2005. economic growth is positive and inflation is excellent growth.
Our research suggested substantial potential demand for home credit and given these findings we decided to go ahead with a pilot.
In August 2003 we based our operation in Puebla: a large city located 70 kilometres from Mexico City.
The early stages have gone very well.
We 2,600 have now established the first office and recruited and trained the first local employees who, it is expected, in due course, will form the top and middle management of the Mexican operation.
home credit customers in Mexico We now have over 100 agents and 2,600 customers.
We still have a lot to learn, however, and the pilot will continue until early 2005 when we will make a decision on how to proceed.
Puebla is a large city located 70 The first Mexican employees are In Poland, Provident Polska is We now have nearly 3,000 kilometres from Mexico City now helping to build the business producing very good profits employees in our international in our newest market division 21 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Barbara, Jerzy & Wiktoria Home credit customers Barbara & Jerzy with their granddaughter Wiktoria, Warsaw, Poland The good thing about Provident for me is the way my agent understands my circumstances.
I can make repayments that are convenient and I know exactly what I owe.
My agent makes sure that I can afford the repayments when I ask for a loan.
22 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 IN 2003, WE EXPANDED OUR SUCCESSFUL HOME CREDIT MODEL INTO MEXICO Agnieszka & Klaudia Home credit customer Agnieszka with daughter Klaudia, Warsaw, Poland Im not surprised that Provident Polska is growing so fast.
Lots of people around here are customers and we keep telling our friends how good it is.
23 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 188.2m 28.6m profit before tax gross written premiums Motor insurance Provident Insurance is one of very few UK motor insurers to earn profits throughout the insurance cycle.
Provident Insurance focuses on underwriting motor policies for women As a result, insurance premiums have fallen during 2003.
Claims costs, drivers, customers wanting non-comprehensive insurance and drivers however, have continued to rise, so margins for the industry are contracting.
of the second car in the family.
It has a number of distinctive strengths Some insurers are already trading at a loss and more are expected to do long experience: a good understanding of the risks it underwrites: very low so as we go through 2004. operating costs based on advanced systems and processes: a flexible cost While most insurers are willing to cut or hold prices to keep up their volumes, structure that allows it to expand or contract very quickly: and a sharp our strategy is very different.
focus on generating added value for shareholders.
We set our prices to earn a sufficient return on equity.
So, during a cyclical The motor insurance market is extremely competitive.
Customers are well downturn when this makes us look expensive, we lose some customers.
informed and generally choose the lowest-priced policy.
The market goes When premiums and the cycle turn up, our rates become attractive once through clear pricing and profit cycles and is currently in a down-cycle.
more and we gain customers.
We cut our cost base to match changing Price competition is fierce with traditional insurers vying for market share volumes and so remain profitable throughout the cycle.
both with direct writers and with newer entrants such as supermarkets.
The past year has, therefore, held no surprises.
Premium rates in the market decreased by about 1%.
We increased ours by 8%, in line with claims cost inflation.
Policyholder numbers fell by 23% to 587,000 and gross written premiums fell by 22% to 188.2 million.
Profit before tax fell 20% to 28.6 million.
The downward trend is likely to continue in 2004.
While it does so, we 587,000 will keep our prices more or less in line with claims inflation, writing fewer policies but remaining profitable and earning a good return on equity.
motor insurance policyholders 24 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Tim Tim Richards, motor insurance employee, Halifax, UK Investing in the best technology allows us to assess the damage to a customers car and make claims decisions very quickly which all makes for better service and lower costs.
25 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Corporate responsibility The way we operate as a business is guided both by societys expectations and by our own high standards of corporate behaviour.
These determine how we relate to customers, employees and agents, how we run the business, and how we interact with all our stakeholders.
FTSE4 Business Good in the Community CR index Provident is one of the Provident is a member Top 100 Companies of the FTSE4Good index that Count 10,000 people involved in Sally Provident-funded West Yorkshire Consultant to Playhouse projects our environment programmes 26 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Good corporate behaviour is not just the right thing to do, its also in the best interests of the business.
How have we reported Managing our CR on our corporate performance responsibility In 2002 we set up a new management structure to carry our CR programme forward.
Under this structure, we sought to keep This year, in response to stakeholder feedback, improving our CR performance during 2003 the 2003 corporate responsibility report is and the work continues in 2004. available online at www.
These pages contain a summary of our Specific management structures for occupational activities.
health and safety and environmental issues are in place and are described later.
Wider CR issues, The online report includes our policies, including the social and economic aspects of performance data, case studies, and the what we do, are addressed through a CR working opportunity to give feedback.
This takes account of the operational and strategic interests of the business divisions as we put new measures in place.
We often try out new What does corporate ideas through pilot initiatives before applying the responsibility mean lessons learned across the group.
Our business affects the lives of millions of people customers, employees, agents, shareholders, business partners, suppliers, Marek community and environmental groups, and many more.
Participant in the Provident-funded Trampolina project, Poland Corporate responsibility, or CR, means listening carefully to what people expect from Provident and finding ways to manage these relationships and the different demands on the company.
84% Providents Business in the Environment score Our community programme offers new opportunities to people who live and work in areas where we operate 74% Providents Business in the Community CR index score 27 In 2003 all UK-based employees and agents received a summary CR report Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Corporate responsibility By way of offering more to our UK customers, Doing the best for Looking after through Vanquis Bank weve market-tested our customers our employees a new concept in credit cards designed to meet Good products For Provident, corporate Ours is a business based on relationships the particular needs of those on modest incomes.
responsibility is first and foremost about offering relationships with customers, relationships To provide more customers with the opportunity of our customers the financial products and services with agents, and relationships with employees.
buying a high quality, threeto five-year old car on they want.
We offer simple, affordable credit credit, weve continued to expand Yes Car Credit.
More than most companies, therefore, we rely with flexible terms and transparent charges.
on good people doing their jobs extremely well We lend across the socio-economic spectrum, And in our motor insurance division we supply and supporting others in doing theirs.
For this to but typically to customers with moderate incomes.
motor insurance policies for women drivers, happen, we identify the issues of importance to We believe that including these customers customers wanting non-comprehensive insurance our employees training, health and safety, and so in the financial mainstream in a responsible, and drivers of the second car in the family.
on and manage them in such a way as to ensure well-managed way is one of the most important Good value While many other types of lending a safe, supportive working environment one in social benefits that Provident provides.
include only the interest charge in their quoted which everyone can contribute and succeed.
APR excluding extras such as administration costs Our focus on internal development has proved and penalty charges, Provident home credit its value in the large number of senior people includes everything in the up-front repayment Provident home whove come up through the organisation.
Although the quoted APR may make it Indeed, our initial international expansion was look expensive, it generally offers very good value credit includes possible only because we had good people in the compared to other forms of small sum credit.
If UK to head it up helped, of course, by the high you then add the services of the agent and the all its charges calibre employees weve been able to attract in reassurance of no extra charges, its clear why so our newer markets.
We now have a very successful many customers say theyre getting an excellent secondment programme to help transfer skills in a single, deal.
In all these ways, we meet our customers needs, up-front charge, Training Training and development are vital expand the business and generate wealth for to our business.
We place great emphasis on employees, agents, investors and suppliers, so customers recognising talent and developing people to while also contributing to wider society through the peak of their abilities.
know exactly Each division has its own training and development department that offers an extensive programme of where they stand.
These range from induction courses for all employees to a new, tailored management development programme delivered by the University of Bradford School of Management.
Our training programmes are constantly evolving to take account of individual needs.
Our employees also benefit from regular performance appraisals with their managers.
We run a series of research surveys We have set up a confidential to help us track customers views advice line for our employees 28 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Zeinab, Theresa & Daniel Participants in the PACK community programme Working with people from a variety of backgrounds will bring new ideas to the business and increase innovation.
We also commissioned an external audit of our The community health and safety arrangements and procedures in Our community programme aims to help part of the group to identify areas for the people who live and work in the areas in 53 improvement.
which we operate in other words, customers, businesses started by young people with potential customers, agents and employees.
the help of The Princes Trust and Provident In co-operation with local partners, we aim Diversity to offer new opportunities and to play our We recognise that we need to do more about Consultation and communication We know part in the development of neighbourhoods valuing the cultural and other differences of that for people to do a good job, they need to and communities.
the people we work with including customers, feel involved to understand how they contribute In terms of funding, our main project in 2003 suppliers and employees.
Among other to the wider goals of the business and be aware was PACK Provident Action for Creative Kids benefits, working with people from a variety of the opportunities open to them.
To this end, which is run in conjunction with the Youth Hostels of backgrounds will bring new ideas to the we run an extensive programme of internal Association in England and Wales and its sister business and increase innovation.
PACK is a three-year For this reason, we identified diversity as a priority partnership which enables children from schools for our CR working group during 2003.
It was clear within Education Action Zones to take a two-day Health and safety we could enhance our data gathering in order to break at a youth hostel, with activities linked to gain a better picture of our present situation.
As We take our health and safety responsibilities the UK National Curriculum.
For many children, a first step, therefore, we completed an extensive seriously and have a clear structure for the its their first taste of the countryside.
The first survey of the data available throughout the group management of health and safety within the breaks took place in 2001.
To date, more than in order to set a baseline for measurement in the Provident group.
A health and safety steering 100 schools and 3,000 pupils have taken part.
We are now analysing this data before we group, chaired by an executive director, move ahead.
prepares an annual report for the board.
Weve also sought to address diversity issues Our health and safety programme continued through pilot projects chosen by the divisions.
during 2003 with some notable achievements.
For example, managers from our motor insurance During the year, all subsidiaries were able to certify division teamed up with managers from the West compliance with the group health and safety Yorkshire Playhouse in a diversity training project.
We also analysed the key performance indicators relating to different types of accident Managing diversity is included in the objectives or and incident in order to identify trends and job descriptions of some of our managers.
Their develop strategies for dealing with them.
At the performance in this area forms part of their same time, we brought Vanquis Bank and Yes Car assessment and contributes to their performanceCredit into our health and safety programme.
A development manager passes on Training in diversity helps people to Art education outreach project Our support of The Princes Trust the benefit of his health and safety understand each other and work Talking Pictures gives young people, like magician training better together Steven Frayne, the chance to start their own business 29 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 WE CONTINUE TO ACTIVELY SUPPORT COMMUNITY SCHEMES LIKE THE WEST YORKSHIRE PLAYHOUSE Lisa, Dan &Katie Lisa, West Yorkshire Playhouse creative education manager, with programme participants Dan and Katie, Leeds, UK Getting the support from Provident Financial for our work in the community has been great.
Its not just the money, its their encouragement and enthusiasm that has helped create a unique relationship.
30 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 2003 SAW PROVIDENT LENDING THEIR SUPPORT TO A HOLISTIC DRUG REHABILITATION UNIT IN DURHAM David, Sam & Ruth David, Sam and Ruth, participants in a joint Provident and West Yorkshire Playhouse diversity training project, Leeds, UK Teams work better when you understand how different people think and when theres real communication between colleagues.
Thats something were working on.
Its bound to benefit the business.
31 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Corporate responsibility Weve continued our association with the West Yorkshire Playhouse in Leeds, sponsoring its art Minimising our effect education programme which takes the work of the Playhouse into local schools and seeks to place on the environment art at the heart of the community.
2003 was another productive year for our Weve again supported The Princes Trust in its work in providing loans to young people in West Yorkshire environment programme.
Our score of 84% who want to start their own business.
As well as contributing financially, we help the Trust to select the in the Business in the Environment survey most promising candidates and provide mentors from our workforce to support successful applicants.
was the second year running that Provident So far weve helped over 50 new businesses in this way.
For the last four years weve supported the Free Form Arts Trust in its regeneration project, Building Our environmental performance is managed Communities, which helps local people to improve their environment.
through an environment strategy group, chaired We also continue to work with Quest for Economic Development to improve employment opportunities by finance director John Harnett.
This is supported for young, South Asian students in Bradford, as well as supporting LOuverture which uses arts and by a working group drawn from across the business media projects to build self-confidence and unleash hidden talents in children.
The London boroughs divisions to address operational issues.
of Lambeth, Lewisham, Southwark and Tower Hamlets are the main beneficiaries of our work with During the year, we implemented our LOuverture.
environmental management system in two new countries, Hungary and Slovakia.
Employees in Weve always had strong links with the visual arts.
Over the last two years, our Talking Pictures both businesses have shown great energy and programme has helped pupils from nine inner-city schools to study paintings in their local galleries enthusiasm in taking on this new challenge and and to use the experience to create their own oil paintings back at school.
We have also lent pictures have already made good progress towards an from our own collection of paintings to a school in Bradford and we will extend the project to more ISO14001 environment management system to schools in 2004. match those already implemented in the UK, As part of our commitment to responsible lending, we support a number of debt counselling Poland and the Czech Republic.
organisations such as Credit Action, Money Advice Trust and Christians Against Poverty.
In addition, weve extended our programme of Alongside these centrally-supported projects, our business divisions each run their own community external verification so it covers every division.
In the UK, our home credit and motor insurance businesses have focused on directly Full details are available in the CR report at benefiting the communities in which their customers live.
Employees have gone into local schools www.
to support industry days, make-over gardens and help children with their reading, as well as supporting In the UK, our second internal audit has been local charities.
Overseas, the Hungarian team collected and distributed over 1,000 books to children, completed.
All recommendations have now been whilst Poland has created the Trampolina project which provides schools with new sports equipment, implemented and the programme will be extended and the Czech Republic has been involved in a major tree-planting initiative in the Jizersky mountains.
Weve also made good progress in working with Working with suppliers our suppliers, improving the efficiency of our Managing our large number of suppliers is vital to the smooth running of the group.
There are operations and increasing the environmental responsibilities on both sides.
As a result, weve managed to cut our consumption of water, For our part, we offer fair terms and have an excellent payment record.
In return, we expect our suppliers energy and paper, while also reducing the waste to operate to agreed guidelines.
Our motor insurance business, for example, sets certain environmental we produce.
standards for the garages and salvage agents with which it works a move that has saved costs and improved efficiency for all involved, as well as helping to reduce our impact on the environment.
32 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Agnieszka, Piotr, Alicja & Marta The team who created the Polish environmental legislation register, Warsaw, Poland Learning in order Looking forward Finding out more to improve Were determined to keep making progress We are committed to good corporate in understanding our responsibilities to society.
behaviour, both because its the right thing In 2003 we joined Business in the Community That said, weve so far concentrated on the to do and because its in the long-term BitC and took part in its regional and national more immediate and straightforward issues interests of the business.
activities gaining valuable experience in and progress is likely to be harder in the future.
We ask all stakeholders to keep supporting our Which is not to say we wont keep trying.
Please continue to take an interest in Also, for the first time, we entered BitCs corporate One of the tasks in hand is to improve the how were doing and give us your comments responsibility index as a way of benchmarking way we collect and analyse data for CR and suggestions.
Your involvement is valuable our progress against other companies.
Here weve completed an and really does make a difference.
delighted to achieve a score of 74% and be named initial exercise to collate available information as one of the Top 100 Companies that Count To find out more on how were doing, take from existing business systems.
This has proved in the index.
a look at our 2003 corporate responsibility useful in identifying potential areas for further report which offers detailed reporting consideration.
It has also revealed gaps and information and case studies.
The report is inconsistencies in definitions and data that were available at www.
com where now acting to correct.
Once weve done that, you can also download and print it and give well be better able to decide which areas we 2003 us your views.
Provident entered the Business in the Community 2003 corporate responsibility index Another first in 2003 was the publication of a summary of last years printed CR report and the Robin Ashton distribution of 15,000 copies to employees and Chief Executive agents.
The aim was both to inform and to ask for 16 March 2004 feedback, and the responses we received have proved invaluable in guiding our future plans.
In many ways, employees and agents are both our best allies and our sternest critics in helping to find ways to act responsibly and improve performance.
A good year for our CR programme Member of FTSE4Good the index of the UKs most responsible companies Setting targets for our environment programme with the help of Business Scored 84% in Business in the Environment survey in the Environment Named as one of the Top 100 Companies that Count in Business in the Communitys corporate responsibility index with a score of 74% Exceeded many of our environment targets 93% of customers satisfied with Providents UK home credit service Extended our verification programme to cover more of our data and activities Launched employee edition of our 2002 corporate responsibility report Closer partnership with suppliers is Extended our environment programme to Hungary and Slovakia helping Providents motor insurance business to cut costs and improve its environmental performance 33 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 John John Harnett, Finance Director All our businesses performed well in 2003.
Group turnover increased by 30% and group operating profit before goodwill amortisation increased by 23.8 million.
34 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 FINANCIAL REVIEW The total dividend for the year, at 33.00p per share, represents a dividend yield of 5.1%, based on our year end share price.
13% increase in profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Profit All our businesses performed well in 2003.
Group turnover increased by 30% and group operating The international division reported a profit profit, before goodwill amortisation, increased to 206.2 million 2002 182.4 million, up by for the year of 29.3 million 2002 8.6 million.
This result is after start-up losses in Slovakia, Hungary and Mexico of 4.7 million.
Poland Group operating profit for the year by division is shown below: and the Czech Republic both reported strong 2003 2002 Change growth with profits of 33.1 million and 8.8 million m m m compared to 2002 profits of 16.7 million and UK home credit 152.6 148.8 3.8 5.1 million respectively.
Yes Car Credit 11.2 0.2 11.0 Profits from our motor insurance division fell Vanquis Bank 6.7 1.1 5.6 in 2003, as we expected, from 35.8 million to UK consumer credit 157.1 147.9 9.2 28.6 million, as the cyclical downturn in the motor insurance industry continued during International 29.3 8.6 20.7 the year.
Motor insurance 28.6 35.8 7.2 Group central costs 8.8 10.9 2.1 Group central costs, after the recharges to UK home credit and international, decreased Businesses sold or closed 1.0 1.0 to 8.8 million 2002 10.9 million.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 206.2 182.4 23.8 Goodwill amortisation 4.3 0.3 4.0 Earnings, tax and Operating profit 201.9 182.1 19.8 dividend policy Earnings per share, before goodwill The results above are after allocating certain costs to UK home credit and international which previously amortisation and last years exceptional were included in group central costs.
The prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
loss on the sale of our insurance broking UK home credit showed steady profit growth of 2.5% to 152.6 million.
In its first full year in the group, Yes Car Credit expanded its branch network and geographical coverage The effective tax rate for the year was 29.5% and increased revenue substantially to produce a profit for the year of 11.2 million.
of earnings before goodwill amortisation.
It is expected that the effective tax rate will be at In April 2003, through Vanquis Bank, we launched a market test of Visa branded credit cards.
The net a similar level in 2004. investment in this pilot in the year was 6.7 million, in line with our expectations.
Our dividend policy, which has been in place The international divisions operating profit is analysed by country in the table below: for several years, is to achieve a dividend cover 2003 2002 Change of about 1.75 times which equates to a pay-out m m m of 57% of our post-tax profit, before goodwill Poland 33.1 16.7 16.4 amortisation.
Czech Republic 8.8 5.1 3.7 The full year dividend per share has been Hungary 1.9 3.1 1.2 increased by 6.8% to 33.00p.
Slovakia 1.6 2.0 0.4 For 2003 the full year dividend of 83.4 million Mexico 1.2 1.2 was covered by after tax profits 1.74 times and International central costs 7.9 8.1 0.2 we paid out 40% of the total at the interim stage.
Operating profit 29.3 8.6 20.7 The total dividend for the year, at 33.00p per share, represents a dividend yield of 5.1%, based on our year end share price.
35 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 FINANCIAL REVIEW Value distributed during 2003 Employees Agents Shareholders 12% Taxation 31% Retained 12% 17% 28% Value added and value distributed Our business contributes to the economic well-being of many of our stakeholders.
The salaries paid to our 7,600 employees and the commission paid to 29,000 self-employed agents help to support many individuals and their families.
Similarly, the taxes we pay to governments help to fund public services and the payments we make to suppliers help to sustain businesses and jobs.
One way to measure this creation and distribution of wealth is through a value added statement, as set out below.
2003 m Value added: Net income from sales 1,134 Payments to policyholders, brokers and suppliers of goods and services 639 Value added 495 Value distributed: Employees 153 Agents 139 Shareholders 83 Community contributions and donations 1 Government, taxation excluding employee taxes 61 Retained by the business 58 Value distributed 495 This statement shows, in monetary terms, the value we add to the goods and services we buy in, measured as the difference between income received from customers and payments made to our suppliers.
The value created in this way is then available for distribution to our stakeholders.
Some is retained in the business and invested for future growth, so benefiting tomorrows stakeholders.
In 2003 nearly 60% of the value added was distributed to employees and agents.
272 Total shareholder return Total shareholder return TSR is a concept used to compare the performance of different 152 companies shares over time.
130 It combines share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return to the shareholder.
TSR provides an objective measure of company performance and value creation for shareholders.
The chart on the left shows the TSR of 100 invested in Provident over the last ten years as compared with the TSR for the FTSE 250 and the FTSE All Share indices over the same period.
Provident FTSE 250 FTSE All Share The chart clearly shows the additional value created for shareholders during this period.
Total shareholder return over the last ten years 36 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 1,134 206 182 170 875 160 155 833 728 583 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Group turnover m Group PBT, pre-exceptional, pre-goodwill m Group turnover has increased by 30% in 2003, Group profit, before goodwill amortisation arising from the acquisition of Yes Car Credit in and the 2002 exceptional loss on the sale of December 2002 and the continued expansion Colonnade Insurance Brokers, increased by of the international division.
Most of this increase came from the international division and Yes Car Credit offset by the investment in Vanquis Bank and lower profits from the expected downturn in the motor insurance division.
57.54 33.00 30.90 53.19 29.35 50.39 47.52 27.30 24.80 43.15 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Group EPS, pre-exceptional, pre-goodwill p Group DPS p Group earnings per share, before goodwill A final dividend of 19.90p per share is proposed amortisation and the exceptional loss on the sale bringing the full year dividend to 33.00p, up 6.8% of Colonnade Insurance Brokers, has increased by on 2002.
This gives a dividend cover of 1.74 times.
8.2% in 2003, giving a compound annual growth rate over the last five years of 7.5%.
doubled since 1999 to over 1.1 billion.
37 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 FINANCIAL REVIEW Cash flow generation Borrowings, investments and capital structure The group has a very good record of cash generation.
During the year UK home credit generated free cash flow that is, operating cashflows less taxation and net capital expenditure of 102.0 The nature of the cashflows arising from million.
This was largely used to invest in the growth in the loan books of Yes Car Credit, our consumer credit and motor insurance international and Vanquis Bank.
This is shown in the table below.
2003 2002 In our consumer credit businesses, advances Free cash flow m m are made to customers which are collected UK home credit 102.0 77.7 in future periods and which, therefore, require Yes Car Credit 77.4 funding.
In the motor insurance division, Vanquis Bank 14.0 premiums are received in advance and are held on deposit until claims are paid at a later date.
International 20.5 54.6 The cash and investments held by the motor Motor insurance 16.3 72.5 insurance division are strictly segregated from Group central costs 11.5 10.3 the funds of the rest of the group and are not 5.1 85.3 available to service borrowings or to pay dividends to our shareholders.
The group has a very good 146m record of cash generation.
increase in consumer credit receivables 38 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 A robust balance sheet and financial flexibility are key factors in the success of our business.
Capital structure FRS 17 pension liability A robust balance sheet and financial flexibility are key factors in the success of our business.
2003 2002 We aim to fund about 25% of our consumer credit receivables by equity.
m m Market value of scheme assets 194 147 The capital structure of the group is shown below: Value of scheme liabilities 299 283 2003 2002 m m FRS 17 pension deficit 105 136 Consumer credit receivables 1,109 963 Deferred tax 31 41 Net borrowings 789 696 Net FRS 17 pension liability 74 95 Motor insurance capital 81 91 Consumer credit capital 290 227 Goodwill 88 85 The net deficit in the defined benefit schemes Group net assets 459 403 at 31 December 2003 on an FRS 17 basis was Consumer credit capital as a % of consumer credit receivables 26% 24% 74 million 2002 95 million.
The size of the Group gearing ratio 172% 173% deficit is largely a result of depressed equity markets giving lower asset values and low Consumer credit receivables increased by 146 million during the year to 1.1 billion and net borrowings corporate bond rates producing higher liabilities.
At 31 December 2003 we were close to our target capital structure.
The The FRS 17 deficit reduced during the year, in part consumer credit businesses had capital excluding goodwill of 290 million.
This capital represents due to an upturn in equity markets.
In addition, approximately 26% of net customer receivables and is very close to our 25% target.
The group gearing we made further special contributions to the ratio was little changed at 172%.
We expect that this level of additional contribution should Pensions and FRS 17 deficit eliminate the deficit in the medium-term.
Also, from 1 October 2003, the employee contribution During the year we made a number of changes to the pension arrangements for our rate was increased from 6% to 7% of earnings to employees.
Following an extensive review in 2002, which considered a range of factors, help towards the rising cost of pension provision.
including the changing trends in employment patterns, greater life expectancy, investment performance and the proposed changes to the reporting of pension costs in company In common with many companies, we continue accounts, we closed our defined benefit pension schemes to employees joining the to account for pension costs under SSAP24 and, group from 1 January 2003.
These employees are offered membership of a stakeholder consequently, our UK pension cost for the year pension plan into which the company contributes 8% of members pensionable earnings, was 7 million.
Under FRS 17 it would have been provided the employee contributes a minimum of 6%.
A full actuarial valuation of both defined benefit pension schemes will be carried out in June 2004 and the results of that review will be incorporated into a new funding plan.
We recognise the importance of pension provision to our employees and will continue to monitor closely the funding position of the schemes.
39 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 FINANCIAL REVIEW At the end of 2003 we had available borrowing facilities of 1.1billion, almost all of which were committed facilities.
This compares with gross borrowings of 819 million.
At 31 December 2003 our committed borrowing Borrowings Investments facilities had an average maturity of four years.
Group borrowings were 819 million at the Our motor insurance business receives During 2003 the group secured additional end of the year compared with 734 million in premiums in advance and holds a portion of funding of 77 million with the issue of 2002.
The increased borrowings were mainly these in reserve until claims are paid.
These $120 million of US dollar loan notes, of which used to fund the growth in the loan books of funds are invested in a low-risk portfolio in $76 million was for a ten-year maturity and the international division and Yes Car Credit.
order to ensure the security of the investment, the remaining $44 million was for a seven-year whilst producing a reliable flow of interest The group borrows mainly to provide loans maturity.
The group also secured an increase income.
The motor insurance divisions to customers.
The normal pattern of lending of 26 million to its syndicated loan facility in investment portfolio consists entirely of in our home credit businesses means that our Poland in order to fund the continuing growth deposits with, or investments in, interestpeak funding requirements arise in December of the Polish loan book.
In addition, since the bearing instruments issued by banks and each year.
year end, the group has secured an additional building societies for periods of up to one 100 million of committed loan facilities.
We need to ensure that there are always year.
There are strict limits, approved by sufficient borrowings available and so we arrange the board, on our maximum exposure to Interest costs of 50.9 million were 11.0 million committed borrowing facilities comfortably any one counterparty and on the average higher than in 2002, largely reflecting the higher exceeding our expected peak funding maturity of the portfolio.
average level of borrowings during the year.
requirements and for periods well in excess The average rate of interest paid on sterling Total investments held by the motor insurance of the life of the loans.
borrowings, including hedging costs, was 6.7% division amounted to 458 million at the year in 2003 compared with 7.1% in 2002.
Interest The groups main sources of funding are private end 2002 466 million.
The divisions total payable is covered five times by profit before placement loan notes and committed revolving investment income increased from 24.4 million interest and tax 2002 six times.
loan facilities provided by banks principally based to 24.6 million, reflecting the higher average in the countries in which we operate.
value of the investment fund.
The average yield The group has continued to comply with all its earned on those investments in 2003 was 5.3%, borrowing covenants, none of which represents At the end of 2003 we had available borrowing a little lower than the 5.4% earned last year.
facilities of 1.1 billion, almost all of which were committed facilities.
The chart below shows the level of borrowing facilities available to the group during the next three years.
Sources of group borrowing facilities at 31 December 2003 1,064 1,036 1,028 1,008 960 800 47% 567 UK banks 8% Overseas banks 27% Overdraft and uncommitted loans 17% US$ loan notes issued to private investors Syndications December June December June December June December 1% 2003 2004 2004 2005 2005 2006 2006 Arranged borrowing facilities m 40 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Sterling exchange rates used in 2002 and 2003 Polish Czech Hungarian Slovak zloty crown forint crown euro Average exchange rate during 2003 6.33 45.96 365.12 59.90 1.44 Exchange rate as at 31 December 2003 6.66 45.83 372.65 58.33 1.42 Average exchange rate during 2002 6.12 49.03 386.10 67.89 1.58 Exchange rate as at 31 December 2002 6.17 48.40 361.63 64.16 1.53 Currency risk As the group expands Treasury policy International Financial internationally, our exposure to movements in and financial risk Reporting Standards exchange rates is increasing.
Our policy is to management Since the company is listed, the group will be minimise the value of our net assets denominated required to produce its consolidated financial in foreign currencies by funding a high proportion The board approves treasury policies and statements for the year ending 31 December of our overseas receivables by borrowings in local the groups treasury function manages the 2005 in line with International Financial currency or by sterling borrowings swapped into day-to-day operations.
The board delegates Reporting Standards IFRS.
This will require local currency for the duration of the loans.
certain responsibilities to the treasury an opening balance sheet to be prepared committee.
The treasury committee, which As far as possible, we aim to hedge the under IFRS as at 1 January 2004 and a full includes the finance director, is empowered to currency risk associated with expected future profit and loss account, balance sheet, cash take decisions, within that delegated authority.
cash flows which are denominated in local flow statement and related notes for the year Treasury activities are reported to the board currency and which we expect to arise in the ending 31 December 2004 for comparative on a regular basis and are subject to periodic following 12 months.
independent reviews and audits, both internal and external.
The group is reviewing the changes to its current Accounting policies accounting policies that will be required on the Treasury policies are designed to manage adoption of IFRS and has a detailed project plan the main financial risks faced by the group in The groups accounting policies are chosen in place to ensure full compliance with all relevant relation to funding, investment and hedging.
by the directors to ensure that the financial standards when they become effective in 2005.
These policies ensure that: the borrowings and statements present a true and fair view.
investments are with high quality counterparties: All of the groups accounting policies are limited to specific instruments: the exposure are consistent with the requirements of Going concern to any one counterparty or type of instrument Accounting Standards, Urgent Issues Task The directors have reviewed the groups is controlled: and the groups exposure to Force Abstracts and company law.
budgets, plans and cash flow forecasts for interest rate and exchange rate movements Where there is a choice between accounting the year to 31 December 2004 and outline is maintained within set limits.
policies, the most appropriate policy is selected projections for the four subsequent years.
The treasury function enters into derivatives for the purpose of giving a true and fair view.
Based on this review, they have a reasonable transactions, principally interest rate swaps, This choice is made against the objectives expectation that the group has adequate currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
of relevance, reliability, comparability and resources to continue to operate for the The purpose of these transactions is to manage understandability.
The continued appropriateness foreseeable future.
For this reason, the the interest rate and currency risks arising from of the accounting policies, and the methods directors continue to adopt the going the groups underlying business operations.
of applying those policies in practice, are concern basis in preparing the accounts.
No transactions of a purely speculative nature reviewed annually.
are undertaken and written options may only There have been no changes in accounting be used when matched by purchased options.
Interest rate risk The group seeks to limit John Harnett the net exposure to changes in interest rates.
Finance Director This is achieved through a combination of natural 16 March 2004 hedging, which allows the increased cost of borrowing resulting from higher interest rates to be offset by increased investment income and vice versa, and by the use of derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps.
41 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Our directors and board committees at 16 March 2004 1 23 456 78 9 John van Kuffeler, Chairman, age 55 Chris Johnstone, Managing Director, John Maxwell, independent non-executive 1 Graduated with a degree in economics and qualified 4 UK consumer credit, age 45 Qualified as a 7 director, age 59 Qualified as a chartered as a chartered accountant in 1973.
He joined Provident chartered accountant in 1982.
He joined the group in accountant in 1967.
He joined the board of Provident Financial in 1991 as Chief Executive and was appointed 1984 as management accountant to the UK home Financial in 2000.
He is a non-executive director of Executive Chairman in 1997.
He became non-executive credit companies and was appointed Finance Director The Big Food Group plc, London Finance & Investment Chairman from 1 May 2002.
He was formerly Group Chief of Provident Insurance in 1986 and Managing Director Group PLC, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group PLC Executive of Brown Shipley Holdings PLC.
In 1999 he was appointed Managing Director and Parity Group PLC.
He is also Chairman of the of Huveaux PLC and Eidos plc.
He is also a non-executive of the UK home credit division.
He joined the board Institute of Advanced Motorists and a governor of director of The Medical Defence Union Limited.
of Provident Financial in 2001 and is now responsible the Royal Ballet School.
for the UK consumer credit division UK home credit, Robin Ashton, Chief Executive, age 46 Ray Miles, independent non-executive director, Vanquis Bank and Yes Car Credit.
2 Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1982 8 age 59 Graduated with a degree in economics.
having graduated in economics and law.
He joined the David Swann, Managing Director, He joined the board of Provident Financial on 1 January group in 1983 as Finance Director of Provident Insurance 5 international, age 57 Graduated with a degree 2004.
He is Chief Executive Officer of CP Ships Limited and subsequently became Deputy Managing Director in economics and politics.
He joined the group in 1973 which is listed on the Toronto and New York stock of H T Greenwood and Managing Director of Provident and has held many positions within the UK home credit exchanges.
He is also a director of The Chamber of Investments.
He became Group Treasurer in 1989 and business including Managing Director of Provident Shipping Limited and a trustee of the National Maritime joined the board as Finance Director in 1993.
He was responsible for group Museums at Greenwich and Cornwall.
he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive and in 2001 corporate development from 1994 to 1997 and in Graham Pimlott, independent non-executive was appointed Chief Executive.
that role was involved in the initial investigation of 9 director, age 54 Qualified as a solicitor in the international potential for home credit.
In 1997 he John Harnett, Finance Director, age 49 1976.
He joined the board of Provident Financial on was appointed Managing Director of the international 3 Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1981 having 26 June 2003.
He is Deputy Chairman of Hammerson division.
He joined the board of Provident Financial graduated in business studies.
He joined the group in PLC and a non-executive director of Tesco PLC.
1999 and was appointed to the board.
He has previously Chairman of the Export Credit Guarantee Department held positions as Finance Director of Allied Colloids PLC Charles Gregson, Deputy Chairman and senior and a member of the Auditing Practices Board.
and Holliday Chemical Holdings plc.
6 independent non-executive director, age 56 Qualified as a solicitor in 1972 having graduated in history and law.
He joined the board of Provident Financial in 1995 as a non-executive director and was appointed Deputy Chairman in 1997.
He is a director of United Business Media plc and has had responsibility for a number of its businesses.
In addition, he is nonexecutive Chairman of ICAP plc, which provides specialist intermediary broking services to commercial banks and investment banks.
BOARD COMMITTEES Audit Executive Nomination Remuneration Risk advisory committee committee committee committee committee Graham Pimlott Robin Ashton John van Kuffeler John Maxwell Charles Gregson Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Charles Gregson John Harnett Robin Ashton Charles Gregson Robin Ashton John Maxwell Chris Johnstone Charles Gregson Ray Miles John Maxwell Ray Miles David Swann John Maxwell Graham Pimlott Ray Miles Ray Miles Graham Pimlott Graham Pimlott 42 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Summary directors report Introduction This information is extracted from the directors report of Provident Financial plc the company for the financial year ended 31 December 2003. Review of the business The company is a holding company.
A full review of the groups activities, performance and prospects is contained in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the financial review on pages 2 to 41 of this report.
Dividends An interim dividend of 13.10p per ordinary share was paid on 17 October 2003.
The board recommends a final dividend of 19.90p per ordinary share to be paid on 14 May 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 April 2004.
This makes a total dividend for the year of 33.00p per ordinary share.
Earnings per share Details of the companys earnings per share are shown on page 51.
Substantial shareholdings On the basis of the information available to the company as at 29 February 2004, the following investment managers have interests in aggregate amounting to over 3% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company: Prudential plc and its subsidiaries 8.85% Fidelity International Limited FMR Corporation 8.85% Morley Fund Management Limited 5.47% AXA S. A. and its subsidiaries 4.09% Schroder Investment Management Limited 3.78% Marathon Asset Management Limited 3.63% Legal & General Group plc Legal & General Investment Management 3.50% Henderson Global Investors Limited 3.06% Directors Details of the current members of the board are shown on page 42.
They all served as directors throughout 2003, with the exception of Graham Pimlott who was appointed on 26 June 2003.
Angela Heylin was a non-executive director from 1 January to 30 June 2003.
Ray Miles was appointed on 1 January 2004.
Directors interests in shares The beneficial interests of the directors in the issued share capital of the company were as follows: Number of shares 31 December 2003 1 January 2003 John van Kuffeler 16,000 13,395 Robin Ashton 37,672 39,672 John Harnett 14,494 8,000 Chris Johnstone 107,787 97,590 David Swann 59,377 53,638 Charles Gregson 1,837 1,837 John Maxwell 2,100 2,100 Graham Pimlott 10,000 as at date of appointment Important note: The summary directors report on this page, the summary directors remuneration report on pages 45 to 47 and the summary financial statement on pages 50 to 53 are a summary of the information contained in the Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 the Annual Report & Accounts 2003.
The Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 does not contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding of the results of the Provident Financial group, the state of affairs of the company and the Provident Financial group and the policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration.
For more detailed information, reference should be made to the directors report, the directors remuneration report and the full accounts, all contained in the Annual Report & Accounts 2003.
The statutory accounts will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies and the auditors have reported on them.
The auditors report was unqualified and did not contain a statement under section 237 2 or 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
A copy of the Annual Report & Accounts 2003 can be obtained free of charge by writing to the companys registrar at the address on page 56.
It can also be accessed on the companys website at www.
Shareholders wishing to receive the Annual Report & Accounts as well as the Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement free of charge in future years should write to the companys registrar at the address on page 56.
43 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Summary corporate governance report The board The board leads and controls the company.
It currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, four executive directors and four independent nonexecutive directors.
The composition of the board is thus considered to be well-balanced.
Non-executive directors Non-executive directors are currently appointed for fixed periods of three years, subject to election by shareholders.
The initial three-year period may be extended for one further three-year period and, in exceptional cases, for a further period, subject to re-election by shareholders.
Each of the nonexecutive directors has been formally determined by the board to be independent for the purposes of the revised Combined Code of Best Practice issued in July 2003.
Governance framework The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, including corporate strategy, approval of budgets and financial results, new board appointments, proposals for dividend payments and the approval of all major transactions.
This schedule is reviewed on an annual basis and was last reviewed on 10 December 2003.
The board has appointed five committees: audit, executive, nomination, remuneration and risk advisory.
All these committees have written terms of reference which are reviewed on an annual basis.
The terms of reference can be found on the companys website or are available on request from the Company Secretary, who is secretary to all the committees.
In addition, the group has detailed corporate policies.
Independent advice All directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the board.
There is a formal procedure by which any director may take independent professional advice relating to the performance of his duties at the companys expense.
Accountability The board presents the companys position and prospects in as clear a way as possible, both by means of the annual report and accounts and in circulars and reports to shareholders.
These documents are posted on the companys website at www.
Announcements made by the company to the London Stock Exchange are also posted on the companys website.
Internal control There is a framework of internal controls both financial and non-financial which are kept under review by the audit and risk advisory committees.
Relations with shareholders The executive directors meet with institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels of communication are established between the Chief Executive and the other executive directors and shareholders and ensuring that the views of the shareholders are made known to the board.
The company encourages private investors to attend the annual general meeting the AGM.
The chairmen of the board committees are available to answer questions from shareholders at the AGM and there is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions on each resolution proposed.
The company has established the Provident Financial Company Nominee Scheme to enable shareholders to take advantage of a low-cost telephone dealing service through the CREST electronic settlement system.
Members of this scheme receive all documents sent to shareholders and may attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code The company complied with all the provisions in Sections A, B, C and D of the Combined Code of Best Practice issued in June 1998 as at 31 December 2003.
The variation of the executive directors and the Chairmans service agreements was completed on 24 December 2003 reducing the period of notice to be given by the company from two years to one year, thus enabling the company to comply with B.
1.7 with effect from that date.
The company has made a number of changes to take account of the revised Combined Code issued in July 2003 and the board currently anticipates that the company will comply with the revised Combined Code throughout 2004.
44 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Summary directors remuneration report 1 Introduction This information is extracted from the directors remuneration report of Provident Financial plc the company for the financial year ended 31 December 2003 which was prepared pursuant to and in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
In accordance with the Regulations, a resolution to approve that report will be proposed at the annual general meeting of the company to be held on 5 May 2004.
2 Statement of the companys policy on directors remuneration Remuneration policy 2.1 The remuneration policy applied by the remuneration committee the committee is based on the need to attract, reward, motivate and retain executive directors in a manner consistent with the long-term accumulation of value for shareholders.
The committee is also conscious of the need to avoid paying more than is reasonable for this purpose.
2.2 The executive directors remuneration consists of a basic salary, an annual cash bonus subject to performance conditions and other benefits.
The directors participate in pension schemes.
Additionally they may participate in an employee savings-related share option scheme which is not subject to performance conditions, executive share option schemes and a performance share plan both of which are subject to performance conditions.
The remuneration policy is designed to ensure that a significant proportion of the executive directors remuneration is linked to performance, through the operation of the annual cash bonus and the executive share incentive schemes.
2.3 The committee reviews the executive directors remuneration annually.
Following the appointment of two new directors to the board in 2001 and the appointment of a new Chief Executive, the policy was to set the executive directors basic salaries in the lower quartile to median range at that time.
Following a two-year period of successful trading and a remuneration review during the year the committee decided to move basic salaries, in stages over two years, towards the median level, subject to satisfactory performance.
2.4 The fees for the non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, are fixed by the board and are designed both to recognise the responsibilities of non-executive directors and to attract individuals with the necessary skills and experience to contribute to the future growth of the group.
Their business expenses are reimbursed by the company.
Full details of their fees for 2003 with 2002 comparative figures are set out in the table of directors remuneration on page 47 in paragraph 3 below.
2.5 It is currently envisaged that the existing policy on directors remuneration will continue for subsequent financial years but it will be reviewed again in December 2004.
Cash bonus 2.6 An annual cash bonus is payable, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
The bonus is calculated as a percentage of salary.
The purpose of the bonus scheme is to provide a meaningful incentive for executive directors which is clearly focused on improving the groups performance and aligns, so far as is practicable, shareholder and executive director interests.
Executive directors are eligible for annual cash bonuses by reference to the growth in the companys audited earnings per share as defined in the bonus scheme over the previous financial year and the achievement of agreed personal objectives.
The total bonus payable cannot exceed 100% of salary.
In exceptional circumstances the committee may make such adjustments to the calculation of earnings per share as it considers fair and reasonable.
Bonuses do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Share options 2.7 The company currently operates two senior executive share option schemes.
Further details are set out in paragraphs 2.7.
1 The Provident Financial plc Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 is an Inland Revenue approved scheme.
The aggregate exercise prices of the options held by an executive under this scheme must not exceed 30,000.
The Provident Financial plc Unapproved Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 1996 is not approved by the Inland Revenue.
The aggregate exercise prices of the options granted to an executive annually under both schemes must not exceed two times his salary.
2 Both schemes have performance targets which have to be met before any options can be exercised.
3 For options granted prior to 2002 the performance condition is that over a three-year period the real growth in earnings per share as defined must average 3% a year after making appropriate adjustments for inflation.
4 For options granted in 2002 and 2003 the following performance conditions apply: a where the option is granted over shares with an aggregate exercise price of up to one times the directors salary, the real growth in earnings per share after adjusting for inflation must average 3% a year over a fixed three-year period this period may be extended to four or five years : b to the extent that the option is granted over shares with an aggregate exercise price in excess of one times the directors salary, the condition is 4% rather than 3% real growth in earnings per share.
45 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Summary directors remuneration report continued 2 Statement of the companys policy on directors remuneration continued 2.7.
5 A performance condition based on earnings per share has been used in both executive schemes since their establishment in 1995 and 1996.
It is considered that this aligns, so far as is practicable, the interests of the directors with those of the shareholders.
The performance conditions were amended in 2002 pursuant to the approval of the company in general meeting but retained earnings per share as their basis, reflecting the alignment of the interests of the directors and those of the shareholders.
The performance conditions permit limited retesting by reference to a fixed base.
The committee is conscious of the fact that since 2002 there has been a change in attitude by institutions towards even limited retesting: but, since the current executive schemes expire in 2005, the committee considers it appropriate to make no change at present on the basis that a full review will be carried out in December 2004 and that retesting is not expected to form part of any new executive schemes.
6 The grant of options under the schemes to executive directors and senior managers is normally considered once in each year after the announcement of the companys results in accordance with a formula determined by reference to salary.
7 No executive options have been granted at a discount.
2.8 The executive directors together with other eligible group employees may participate in the Provident Financial plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2003.
Participants save a fixed sum each month for three or five years and may use these funds to purchase shares after three, five or seven years.
The exercise price is fixed at up to 20% below the market value of the shares at the date directors and employees are invited to participate in the scheme.
Up to 250 can be saved each month.
This scheme does not contain performance conditions as it is an Inland Revenue approved scheme designed for employees at all levels.
Performance share plan 2.9 The Provident Financial Performance Share Plan the performance share plan entitles executive directors who waive up to 50% of their annual cash bonus to be considered for participation.
Participants receive a basic award of shares up to the value of the waived bonus together with a matching award of an equivalent amount which is subject to a performance condition.
In normal circumstances the awards vest after three years.
For awards granted in 2003 and 2004 the matching award will vest only if the companys average growth in earnings per share as defined is equal to or greater than RPI plus 3% over a period of three consecutive financial years, the first of which is the financial year starting immediately before the grant date of the matching award.
The performance conditions were selected by the committee after consideration of other possible types of condition.
The committee took the view that the use of this earnings per share target aligned, so far as is practicable, the interests of the directors with those of the shareholders.
Other benefits 2.10 The executive directors are provided with company-owned cars and fuel or a cash alternative, long-term disability cover under the companys insured permanent health policy and medical cover for them and their immediate families.
Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
Shareholding policy 2.11 The company has a share retention policy for executive directors which encourages them to build up a shareholding from shares acquired under the senior executive share option schemes referred to in paragraph 2.7 above and the performance share plan referred to in paragraph 2.9 above, provided that gains have been made on options and matching awards have vested under the performance share plan.
Over a five-year period commencing on 1 May 2002 a director should, in this way, aim to acquire a shareholding with a market value which is equal to or in excess of two times his annual salary.
The committee reviews the shareholdings of the executive directors in the light of this policy once a year.
Service agreements 2.12 In December 2003 the committee reviewed and amended the companys policy in relation to the notice periods in the service agreements of the executive directors.
The current policy is for executive directors service agreements to provide for both the company and the director to give one years notice.
Prior to December 2003 the policy was for two years notice to be given by the company.
No compensation was paid to the directors for the change.
No director has a service agreement containing a liquidated damages clause on termination: in the event of the termination of an agreement, particularly for poor performance, it is the current policy to seek full mitigation of loss by the director concerned and to ensure that any payment made is the minimum which is commensurate with the companys legal obligations.
Where possible, the company would seek to make any payment in instalments and subject to appropriate conditions.
Other directorships 2.13 The company will normally permit an executive director to hold up to two non-executive directorships and to retain the fees from the appointments.
However, any proposed appointment will require the approval of the board.
In accordance with the revised Combined Code, the board would not permit an executive director to take on more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company or the chairmanship of such a company.
None of the executive directors currently holds a non-executive directorship.
Detailed information 2.14 Full details of salaries, bonus earnings and other benefits for 2003 with 2002 comparative figures for the executive directors are set out in the table of directors remuneration on page 47 in paragraph 3 below.
46 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Summary directors remuneration report continued 3 Directors remuneration 3.1 The aggregate directors emoluments during the year amounted to 2,045,000 2002 1,586,000 and are analysed as follows: 2003 2002 Salary Bonus Benefits Fees Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman John van Kuffeler 130 32 162 244 Executive directors Robin Ashton 380 176 27 583 408 John Harnett 267 124 33 424 302 Chris Johnstone 241 112 23 376 262 David Swann 241 112 32 385 272 1,129 524 115 1,768 1,244 Non-executive directors Charles Gregson 1 35 36 30 Angela Heylin 15 15 34 John Maxwell 3 41 44 34 Graham Pimlott 20 20 4 111 115 98 Total 1,259 524 151 111 2,045 1,586 to date of resignation from date of appointment 3.2 The aggregate notional gain representing the difference between the exercise price and the market price of the shares at the date of exercise made by all the directors on the exercise of share options during 2003 amounted to 94,275 2002 28,834.
3.3 In February 2004 the directors participated in a performance share plan.
They waived bonuses totalling 198,581 and received conditional awards of shares in the company with an aggregate market value of 402,837 at the date of the award.
The normal vesting period is three years from the date of the award.
3.4 There are three directors 2002 three for whom retirement benefits are accruing under the Provident Financial Senior Pension Scheme and two directors 2002 two for whom retirement benefits are accruing under money purchase schemes.
3.5 The aggregate contributions made by the company to money purchase pension plans in 2003 were 85,676 2002 108,232.
47 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Summary directors remuneration report continued 4 Performance graph The graph below shows a comparison of the total shareholder return TSR for the companys shares for each of the last five financial years against the total shareholder return for the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index.
This index was chosen for this comparison because the company is currently a member of this index and has been a member for approximately 85% of the five-year period.
Provident Financial FTSE 250 150 130 110 90 70 50 31 Dec 98 31 Dec 99 31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 Base data at 31 December 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 FTSE 250 100.0 136.39 141.09 130.88 98.56 137.73 Provident Financial 100.0 81.68 125.47 81.77 78.81 91.94 48 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 TSR rebased to 31 Dec 98 Summary financial statement Contents 50 Summary consolidated profit and loss account 52 Summary consolidated balance sheet 53 Summary consolidated cash flow statement Summary financial statement Summary consolidated profit and loss account 2003 2002 for the year ended 31 December m m Turnover 1,134.2 875.0 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 206.2 182.4 Goodwill amortisation 4.3 0.3 Operating profit 201.9 182.1 Exceptional loss on disposal of business 10.7 Profit before taxation 201.9 171.4 Taxation 60.8 52.8 Profit after taxation 141.1 118.6 Dividends 83.4 76.9 Retained profit for the year 57.7 41.7 Earnings per share pence Basic 55.84p 48.66p Adjusted 57.54p 53.19p Diluted 55.68p 48.50p Dividend per share pence 33.00p 30.90p An analysis of turnover and operating profit by class of business is set out below: Turnover Operating profit 2003 2002 2003 2002 for the year ended 31 December m m m m UK home credit 495.6 484.3 152.6 148.8 Yes Car Credit 269.2 5.5 11.2 0.2 Vanquis Bank 1.3 6.7 1.1 UK consumer credit 766.1 489.8 157.1 147.9 International 191.4 142.4 29.3 8.6 Motor insurance 176.7 232.1 28.6 35.8 1,134.2 864.3 215.0 192.3 Central 8.8 10.9 Ongoing operations 1,134.2 864.3 206.2 181.4 Colonnade Insurance Brokers 10.7 1.0 Turnover and operating profit excluding goodwill amortisation 1,134.2 875.0 206.2 182.4 Goodwill amortisation 4.3 0.3 Turnover and operating profit 1,134.2 875.0 201.9 182.1 In previous years, costs in relation to taxation, treasury and public affairs administration were included in central costs.
In order to give a clearer view of divisional performance for 2003, UK home credit and international division have been recharged 4.9m and 2.4m respectively in respect of the costs of these services.
In 2002 this recharge would have been 3.8m to UK home credit and 2.0m to international division.
The results shown above for 2002 have been restated to include these recharges.
Goodwill amortisation in 2003 includes 4.1m in respect of Yes Car Credit 2002 0.1m and 0.2m in respect of UK home credit 2002 0.2m.
50 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Summary financial statement continued The international operating profit comprises: 2003 2002 for the year ended 31 December m m Poland 33.1 16.7 Czech Republic 8.8 5.1 Hungary 1.9 3.1 Slovakia 1.6 2.0 Mexico 1.2 Central divisional overheads 7.9 8.1 Operating profit 29.3 8.6 Earnings per share The basic and diluted earnings per share figures have been calculated using the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders of 141.1m 2002 118.6m and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
The adjusted earnings per share figure is shown after excluding goodwill amortisation and the exceptional loss in 2002 on the disposal of Colonnade Insurance Brokers Limited.
The adjustments made, and their impact on earnings per share, are as follows: 2003 2002 Earnings Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share for the year ended 31 December m p m p Basic earnings and earnings per share 141.1 55.84 118.6 48.66 Exceptional loss 10.7 4.39 Amortisation of goodwill 4.3 1.70 0.3 0.14 Adjusted earnings and earnings per share 145.4 57.54 129.6 53.19 51 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Summary financial statement continued Summary consolidated balance sheet 2003 2002 as at 31 December m m Fixed assets 146.3 138.0 Current assets Stock 14.6 11.0 Amounts receivable from customers due within one year 905.3 821.1 due in more than one year 204.1 141.9 Debtors 153.1 171.6 Investments 514.5 503.8 Cash at bank and in hand 38.8 48.5 1,830.4 1,697.9 Current liabilities Bank and other borrowings 19.6 38.2 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 220.8 180.9 Insurance provisions and deferred income 462.9 495.3 703.3 714.4 Net current assets 1,127.1 983.5 Total assets less current liabilities 1,273.4 1,121.5 Non-current liabilities Bank and other borrowings 799.8 695.4 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 11.6 21.9 Provision for liabilities and charges deferred taxation 2.6 1.5 Net assets 459.4 402.7 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 26.3 26.3 Share premium account 101.5 100.9 Revaluation reserve 2.7 2.7 Other reserves 4.4 4.4 Profit and loss account 324.5 268.4 Equity shareholders funds 459.4 402.7 The summary financial statement on pages 50 to 53 was approved by the board on 16 March 2004.
John van Kuffeler John Harnett Chairman Finance Director 52 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Summary financial statement continued Summary consolidated cash flow statement 2003 2002 for the year ended 31 December m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 57.1 151.5 Taxation 45.1 49.7 Capital expenditure and financial investment 16.7 14.5 Acquisitions and disposals 5.4 18.8 Equity dividends paid 79.7 73.2 Management of liquid resources 13.1 73.4 Financing 87.2 81.0 Decrease increase in cash in the year 15.7 2.9 The summary consolidated cash flow statement above has been prepared in accordance with FRS 1 Revised 1996 Cash Flow Statements.
As required by that standard, the statement aggregates the cash flows arising from each division within the group.
However, the cash and investments held by those businesses that are regulated are required to be strictly segregated from the rest of the group and are not available to repay group borrowings.
At 31 December 2003 the cash and investments held by the groups regulated businesses amounted to 508.7m 2002 514.7m.
2003 2002 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities m m Operating profit 201.9 182.1 Depreciation and amortisation 14.3 8.9 Loss on sale of tangible fixed assets 0.4 0.3 Increase in amounts receivable from customers 158.1 74.3 Decrease increase in stock and debtors 14.3 26.3 Decrease in unearned insurance premiums 28.2 15.8 Decrease increase in insurance claims provision 4.1 72.4 Increase in trade creditors, accruals and other liabilities 16.6 4.2 Net cash inflow from operating activities 57.1 151.5 Analysed as: Net cash inflow from UK home credit 149.1 123.7 Net cash outflow from Yes Car Credit 79.5 Net cash outflow from Vanquis Bank 13.1 Net cash inflow from UK consumer credit 56.5 123.7 Net cash outflow from international 11.1 42.4 Net cash inflow from motor insurance 23.2 80.4 Net cash outflow from central 11.5 10.2 Net cash inflow from operating activities 57.1 151.5 53 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Provident Financial plc We have examined the summary financial statement of Provident Financial plc.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement with the annual financial statements, the directors report and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the annual financial statements, the directors report and the directors remuneration report of Provident Financial plc for the year ended 31 December 2003 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Leeds 16 March 2004 54 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Information for shareholders 1 Financial calendar dividends 2003 Final 2004 Interim Dividend announced 26 February 2004 27 July 2004 Ex-dividend date for ordinary shares 7 April 2004 15 September 2004 Record date for the dividend 13 April 2004 17 September 2004 Annual general meeting 5 May 2004 Payment date of the dividend 14 May 2004 15 October 2004 2 Share price Information on our share price is available on the companys website, www.
2 It provides a facility to allow you to deal in the companys shares by means of a low-cost telephone dealing service through the CREST electronic settlement system: 55 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 Information for shareholders continued 6 The Provident Financial Company Nominee Scheme continued 6.1.
com Company number 668987 56 Provident Financial Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 124 successful years: The Provident business was founded in Bradford in 1880 to provide affordable credit for working families.
TURNOVER SPLIT 1996 & 2003 KEY HIGHLIGHTS OF 2003 1996 2003 UK home credit 16 16% % 26% 26% Yes Car Credit 30% 13% 8.2% 6.8% 43% 43% 17 17% % International Turnover up to 1.1 billion Profit before goodwill Earnings per share before goodwill Total dividend for 2003 33.00p 74 74% % amortisation and exceptional amortisation and exceptional items Motor insurance 24% 24% items up to 206.2 million up to 57.54p Designed and produced by salterbaxter Printed by CTD Capita Photography by George Brooks Provident Financial plc ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2003 Provident Financial plc Pam, Amy, Thomas & Denise FRONT COVER Pam, home credit customer, and daughter Amy with their dog Thomas and agent Denise, Keighley, UK ANNUAL REVIEW & SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2003 To find out where weve come from and how were doing LIFT THE FLAP Paper specification One of Provident Financials environmental objectives is to use paper as efficiently as possible.
com 43 Summary directors report 44 Summary corporate governance report 45 Summary directors remuneration report Company number 49 Summary financial statement 668987 54 Independent auditors report Provident Financial plc 55 Information for shareholders Company number 668987
