22 Capita Operating review Health Private sector & other financial services At the heart of the NHS Plan is a modernisation In recent years the tendency for private sector agenda, offering patients a more personalised, organisations to outsource services has grown responsive service as well as raising standards of dramatically, with considerable market potential care.
Delivering this change means re-thinking the remaining.
In a recent MORI survey, 57% of way that health services are organised and private sector rms were found to be favourable investing in the people, technology and processes or very favourable to outsourcing services, while to make it happen.
Government spending on the a further 20% were positive.
Nearly threeNHS will rise by 7.1% a year in real terms up to quarters of private sector rms said they would 2007 08, an unprecedented level of growth in be willing to explore a strategic partnership the health services history.
to make changes in their businesses in at least one area.
The possibilities of outsourced services and private public partnerships in the Health Service Capitas ability to deliver professional support are considerable, as are the potential benets for and service transformation to any part of a the NHS and patients.
The Government efficiency companys operations is the main reason why our Review and the NHSs National Shared Services private sector revenue continues to grow.
We Initiative will play to Capitas strengths as a have built up our service portfolio to mirror the provider of efficient HR, financial administration entire infrastructure of most typical organisations and related IT and support services.
Capita from property and IT infrastructure, through already works extensively with the NHS across a back ofce administration processes and staff range of service areas.
For example, we provide recruitment and development, to front line support in the recruitment and development of customer services.
Our client base spans leading key personnel and the establishment of better companies across numerous sectors, including: working environments.
Each of our support financial services, retail, transport, food, sport services to the health sector is bound by a and leisure.
In 2003 Northern Rock and the common thread enabling healthcare Homestyle Group Plc both switched their share professionals to focus on their core business of register administration to Capita.
National Air looking after patients, not bureaucracy.
Trafc Services appointed Capita to deliver all its contractor and temporary worker needs in a Over the past year, Capita has been named as five-year arrangement, and we also delivered a a preferred recruiter for the NHS, worked with bespoke recruitment service for Sainsburys.
the Modernisation Agencys Improvement Partnership for Hospitals to develop knowledge With private sector organisations now accounting and skills in Clinical Systems Improvement and for 47% of our revenue, these examples fall well produced a successful web-based training short of telling the whole story.
To some of our package for the National Patient Safety Agency.
private sector customers we provide a single, There will be other significant consultancy and discrete service, while others require a complete capacity building opportunities for our integrated solution.
Given the constant pressure consultancy, recruitment and training businesses.
on organisations to remain competitive by We have also been chosen to be part of the NHS reducing costs, whilst delivering higher levels of ProCure 21 National Framework as partner to a customer care, we see demand for our broad number of the 12 Principal Supply Chain Partners scope of services remaining strong.
PSCPs, offering our full range of property consultancy services.
With BPO and IT in the health sector projected to grow by 25% between 2003-2006 07, there are major opportunities to expand Capitas role in this sector source: Ovum Holway 2003.
Rehabilitation Wards, Alliance & Leicester and BUPA St Helens Hospital Northern Rock Capita has provided IT contractors to The new Rehabilitation Wards at St Communications with shareholders The thought of moving our Share BUPA for the past seven years four Helens Hospital is the first project are a high priority for any company, Register at such a busy time was a years of which have been as one of designed and constructed under the so switching the running of your share little daunting, however, any concerns three preferred suppliers.
Last year, we NHS ProCure 21 banner in the UK.
register to another organisation can were diminished from the outset due also won the contract to provide Capita provided cost consultancy, be a concern.
Capita takes a highly to Capita providing an excellent handsmanaged services for resourcing mechanical and electrical design and personalised approach to share on project team which included an permanent staff.
structural engineering design services register transfers, providing a single invaluable secondment to our ofces Capita demonstrated that they were to Interserve Health, the Principal point of contact for each client, with throughout.
I am delighted at the prepared to work alongside us and to Supply Chain Partner PSCP selected a team of specialists on hand.
successful conclusion of the project be proactive and exible in their by the Trust to deliver the project.
which brings an excellent start to our One of the most pleasing aspects of delivery.
We selected Capita for their business relationship and I am looking The 4.3m project focused on working with the team at Capita is partnership approach and ability to forward to the improved service and partnering with the client to develop a their willingness to take on board the deliver innovative solutions.
opportunities presented to us by the solution that championed both culture of Alliance & Leicester and also move to Capita.
In short, Capita really understands our IT architectural and engineering innovation their exible approach to dealing with resource requirements.
We nd their and excellence.
Paula Germany Assistant Director, service to be fast and professional, which Shareholder Relations, The project was delivered within the Richard Hawker Company means we can focus on dealing with other Northern Rock plc cost and time parameters agreed with Secretarial officer, key issues, confident that Capita will the Trust.
I am proud of our team and the team spirit we foster Capita has made a significant contribution to the achievement of this goal.
Adrian Bowen Group IS Resource Manager, BUPA 23 Capita Operating review Managing the recruitment needs of our clients, enabling them to maintain high standards of continuous service for their customers.
Providing over 300 IT contractors for BAA plc and over 100 professionals for National Air Trafc Services per year.
SUPPLYING PROFESSIONALS TO KEEP SERVICES MOVING 24 Capita Operating review CREATING AND SUPPORTING OPPORTUNITIES FOR OUR EMPLOYEES Ely Holborough Tracey OBrien Nick Spann Group Finance Education Services Capita IT Services Accounts Receivable Manager Head of User Support Solutions Manager Age 30 Age 30 Congestion Charging Scheme Age 22 The work load is quite varied and I really enjoy working for Capita helps to keep you interested.
Morale and am hoping there will be more I have enjoyed my time with Capita is high and everyone in the team is great opportunities for me in the so far, and look forward to new treated in the same way, which I years ahead.
The way the company challenges and working on new appreciate.
There have been lots of is growing is excellent and projects in the future.
Its a good new challenges such as assisting conrmation that Capita is a very working atmosphere, with with the transfer over to SAP and forward thinking company.
colleagues that are up for a laugh, going to other sites to give training but get the job done.
The work can and to help with workloads which be stressful at times, but is always has helped me to appreciate the enjoyable.
sheer size of Capita and just what the different businesses do.
