56 Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting nominal amount of 52,282,722 or such nominal amount of RIT Capital Partners plc will be held at The Royal that represents less than a third of the issued equity share Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS capital at the date of the Meeting, whichever is less.
on 2 July 2003 at 11 a. m. Gentlemen attending are Resolution 8 requested to wear a jacket and tie in order to comply with THAT the power conferred upon the Directors by the rules of The Royal Automobile Club.
The Meeting Article 11 B of the Companys Articles of Association will be held for the following purposes: power to allot, or make offers or agreements to allot, equity securities as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act ORDINARY BUSINESS 1985 did not apply to such allotment be hereby renewed Resolution 1 for the period ending on whichever is the earlier of the To receive the Directors Report and Accounts for the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2004 year ended 31 March 2003. and 30 September 2004.
Resolution 2 Resolution 9 To declare a final dividend.
THAT the Company be authorised to purchase up to an aggregate of 23,511,540 ordinary shares of 1 each of the Resolution 3 Company or such a number of ordinary shares as To re-elect as Directors the following: represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the i Timothy Barakett date of the Meeting, whichever is less at a price exclusive ii Mikael Breuer-Weil of expenses which is: iii Baron Lambert a not less than 1 per share: and b not more than 5% above the arithmetical average of Special notice has been given in respect of Baron Lambert, the middle-market quotations as derived from the a Director retiring by rotation, who attained the age of 73 Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for on 3 March 2003. the five business days preceding any such purchase: Resolution 4 AND THAT the authority conferred by this Resolution To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the shall expire on 30 September 2004 except in relation to year ended 31 March 2003. the purchase of shares the contract for which was concluded before such date and which might be executed Resolution 5 wholly or partly after such date.
To re-appoint  LLP as the auditors of the Company having previously been By order of the Board appointed by the Board to fill the casual vacancy arising by reason of the resignation of .
J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited Secretary Resolution 6 27 St Jamess Place To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration London SW1A 1NR of the auditors.
27 May 2003 Notes SPECIAL BUSINESS Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, the following resolutions which will be proposed as to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of Special Resolutions: the Company.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in Resolution 7 person.
THAT the authority conferred upon the Directors by Article 11 A of the Companys Articles of Association Copies of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of authority to allot, and to make offers or agreements Association will be available for inspection at the to allot, relevant securities be hereby extended for the registered office of the Company and at the offices of period ending on whichever is the earlier of the date of Linklaters, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ during the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2004 and normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and 30 September 2004: AND THAT such authority shall for Bank Holidays excepted until 2 July 2003 and at the that period relate to relevant securities up to an aggregate place of the meeting from 10.45 a. m. until its conclusion.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
