Shareholder Information Cautionary statements Registrar This document contains forward looking statements as dened in the Lloyds TSB Registrars, PO Box 3679, 54 Pershore Road South, Birmingham US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Shareholder Helpline Telephone: 44 0 870 600 3988 looking statements and information relating to the Companys financial Shareholders with a text phone facility should use 44 0 870 600 3950 condition, results of operations, business, strategy and plans, based on Internet address: www.
co. uk currently available information.
These statements are often, but not There is now a range of shareholder information on line at www.
always, made through the use of words or phrases such as expects, Shareholders can check holdings and nd practical help on transferring should continue, believes, anticipates, estimated and intends.
shares or updating details and register their email address to receive The specic forward looking statements cover, among other matters: shareholder information and Annual Report & Accounts electronically.
industry outlook, the timing of our disposal programme, the appropriateness of the level of our claims provisions, regulatory approval Royal & SunAlliance has appointed Lloyds TSB Registrars as its registrar of the release of surplus solvency capital, reduction in expenses in the UK to manage the shareholder register, ensuring that all information held Life operations and the prospect for improving results.
Such statements about the Groups shareholders is kept up to date, and to pay dividends.
are inherently subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual future As a shareholder of the Group, you will be sent information about Royal results and trends could differ materially from those set forth in such & SunAlliance.
It is important to ensure that Lloyds TSB Registrars are kept statements due to various factors.
Such factors include general economic up to date about any changes to your personal details, such as your name conditions, including in particular economic conditions in the United and home address.
Further details can be found in the Frequently Asked Kingdom: the frequency, severity and development of insured loss events Questions section.
arising out of catastrophes: as well as man made disasters: the availability, pricing and ability to collect reinsurance: the ability to exclude and to Scrip dividends reinsure the risk of loss from terrorism: mortality and morbidity experience Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 28 May 2004, the and trends: policy renewal and lapse rates: uctuations in interest rates: Company is offering shareholders the opportunity to take new ordinary returns on and uctuations in the value of xed income investments, shares, credited as fully paid, in lieu of cash dividends, by participating equity investments and properties: uctuations in foreign currency in a Scrip Dividend Scheme.
exchange rates: rating agency actions: changes in laws and regulations: Participation in the Scrip Dividend Scheme will enable shareholders to judicial decisions and rulings and general competitive factors, and other increase their holdings in the Company without incurring dealing costs risks and uncertainties, including those detailed in the Companys lings or stamp duty.
At the same time, the Company will benefit by retaining with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the UK Listing the cash for reinvestment that would otherwise be paid out as dividends.
The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, Details of the proposed Scrip Dividend Scheme were mailed to future events or otherwise.
Past performance cannot be relied on as shareholders on 15 March 2004.
If you are a shareholder and did not a guide to future performance.
receive this mailing, or wish to obtain further details, please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 241 3018 44 121 415 7047 if you are calling from overseas or look at their website.
The Scrip Dividend Scheme will be operated on a mandate basis.
If a mandate form is completed, all future dividends will automatically be paid in the form of an allotment of the Companys shares.
Shareholders who wish to continue to receive cash dividends on their shares need take no further action.
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan which the Company currently operates will cease to be effective following the implementation of the Scrip Dividend Scheme.
Personal Equity Plans PEPs New investments in PEPs have not been permitted since 5 April 1999 when the Government replaced PEPs with Individual Saving Accounts ISAs.
Investors who hold shares in an existing Royal & SunAlliance Corporate PEP or Royal & SunAlliance Single Company PEP managed by Halifax Investment Services Limited can obtain full details of their investment from: Halifax Investment Services Mellon House, Ingrave Road, Brentwood, Essex CM15 8TA.
Telephone: 44 0 870 606 6418 Share dealing service We have established an execution only share dealing service, through Cazenove & Co. Ltd, for private investors who wish to buy or sell Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc shares.
Further details can be obtained from: Royal & SunAlliance Share Dealing Service, Cazenove & Co. Ltd, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DG.
Telephone: 44 0 20 7155 5155 96 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next Shareholder Information continued ShareGIFT ADS voting Holders of ADSs will receive a Voting Instruction Form and details of the If you only have a small number of shares which are uneconomic to sell, you may wish to consider donating them to charity under ShareGIFT: business of the Company to be raised at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Registered ADS holders who wish to instruct the ADS Depositary a charity share donations scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh to vote their ADSs at the Annual General Meeting should return their Foundation.
A ShareGIFT transfer form may be obtained from Lloyds TSB completed Voting Instruction Form to Citibank NA no later than 10.00am Registrars.
Further information about the Scheme can be found on the New York time on 21 May 2004.
Shareholder information Capital gains tax For further information about Royal & SunAlliance, please contact our The market value at 31 March 1982 of each post consolidation ordinary Investor Relations team at, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc, 30 share of 27.5p in the Company, for capital gains tax purposes after Berkeley Square, London W1J 6EW.
Telephone: 44 0 20 7569 6136 relevant adjustments, was 146.41p 25p shares 133.1p for former Royal Internet address: www.
com Insurance shareholders and 57.97p 25p shares 52.7p for former Sun Alliance shareholders.
An adjustment to tax cost is required to take The Groups share price is shown on Ceefax BBC1 page 230 and BBC2 page account of the 2003 rights issue according to whether the rights were 223 and on Teletext Ch4 page 515.
It is also available on the Groups taken up or sold.
Similarly, for former Royal Insurance shareholders, an website www.
com this price is delayed by twenty minutes.
adjustment to tax cost is required to take account of the 1993 rights issue Registered Ofce and Group Corporate Centre according to whether the rights were taken up or sold.
30 Berkeley Square, London W1J 6EW Internet Telephone: 44 0 20 7636 3450 The Annual Report & Accounts, interim statements and other useful Registered in England No.
2339826. information on the Company are available through the Internet at www.
Annual General Meeting We welcome the views of shareholders and hope that you will be able to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting, which will be held in the Grand Ballroom, Hotel Inter-Continental London, One Hamilton Place, Hyde Park Corner, London W1V 0QY at 10.30am on 28 May 2004.
The Notice of the Meeting and the Proxy Card accompany this document.
If you are unable to attend the Annual General Meeting to ask a question in person, you may write to us at 30 Berkeley Square, London W1J 6EW or contact us through our Group website at www.
Disabled shareholders Royal & SunAlliance are committed to providing a quality service to all their shareholders.
Please let us know if you would like documentation to be provided to you in a special format and we will do our best to meet your request.
American depositary shares ADSs Each ADS represents five ordinary shares.
The Group is subject to the informational requirements of the US securities laws applicable to foreign companies and les an annual report on Form 20-F and other information with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Any enquiry relating to ADS holdings should be addressed to, Citibank NA, Shareholder Services, PO Box 2502, Jersey City, NJ 07303 Telephone: 1 877 248 4237, Internet address: www.
com adr ADS holders receive the annual reports issued by the Group.
ADS dividends ADS holders are eligible for all dividends or other entitlements accruing on the underlying Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc shares and receive all cash dividends in US dollars.
These are usually paid twice a year.
Dividend cheques are mailed directly to the ADS holder on the payment date if ADSs are registered with the Companys US Depositary Citibank NA.
Dividends on ADSs that are registered with brokers are sent to the brokers, who forward them on to ADS holders.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 97 previous contents next
