Estimation Techniques, Uncertainties and Contingencies Introduction Where possible the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the One of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to protect required level of provisions.
This assists in giving greater understanding themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance companies of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The projections accept the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders and seek to add given by the various methodologies also assist in setting the range of value through the aggregation and management of these risks.
The most appropriate estimation technique is selected taking into account the characteristics of the business class The uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reected in the and the extent of the development of each accident year.
financial statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the financial statements principally arises in respect of the technical Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
separate estimate is made of the amounts that will be recoverable from reinsurers based upon the gross provisions and having due The technical provisions include the provision for unearned premiums regard to collectability.
and unexpired risks, the provision for outstanding claims and the long term business provision.
The provisions for unearned premiums and The general business claims provisions are subject to annual unexpired risks represent the amount of income set aside by the independent review by external advisors.
In addition, for major classes company to cover the cost of claims that may arise during the where the risks and uncertainties inherent in the provisions are unexpired period of risk of insurance policies in force at the balance greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are undertaken by sheet date.
The provision for outstanding claims represents the advisors who are able to draw upon their specialist expertise and a companys estimate of the cost of settlement of claims that have broader knowledge of current industry trends in claims development.
occurred by the balance sheet date but have not yet been nally As an example, the Groups exposure to asbestos and environmental settled.
The long term business provision covers similar liabilities to pollution is examined at least triennially on this basis.
The results of the above in respect of long term business.
these reviews are considered when establishing the appropriate levels of provisions for outstanding claims and unexpired periods of risk.
In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards the It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the balance determination of general insurance business liabilities involve sheet date but remain unsettled.
This includes claims that may have obtaining corroborative evidence from as wide a range of sources as occurred but have not yet been notied to the company and those possible and combining these to form the overall estimate.
This that are not yet apparent to the insured.
technique means that the estimate is inevitably deterministic rather than stochastic.
A stochastic valuation approach, whereby a range of As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs possible outcomes is estimated and probabilities assigned thereto, is to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine the only possible in a limited number of situations.
Long term business technical provisions are computed using statistical or Estimation techniques mathematical methods, which are expected to give approximately the In general business, claims and unexpired risks provisions are same results as if an individual liability was calculated for each long term determined based upon previous claims experience, knowledge of contract.
The computations are made by suitably qualied personnel events and the terms and conditions of the relevant policies and on who are usually employed by the Group on the basis of recognised interpretation of circumstances.
Particularly relevant is experience with actuarial methods, with due regard to the actuarial principles laid down similar cases and historical claims payment trends.
The approach also in European law and by actuarial best practice in the individual territory.
includes the consideration of the development of loss payment trends, The methodology takes into account the risks and uncertainties of the the levels of unpaid claims, judicial decisions and economic conditions.
particular classes of long term business written and the results are The Group employs a variety of statistical techniques and a number of certied by the professionals undertaking the valuations.
different bases to determine these provisions.
These include methods The value of long term business includes the shareholders share of the based upon the following: net of tax future cash ows arising from the in force long term business the development of previously settled claims, where payments to policies and has been calculated in accordance with industry practice.
date are extrapolated for each prior year: This has been calculated using a projection technique that is sensitive to the assumed investment returns and discount rate.
The principal estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and assumptions for the UK long term business are set out in note 45. average cost: The pension asset and pension and post retirement liabilities notied claims development, where notied claims to date for calculated in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 17 FRS17 each year are extrapolated based upon observed development are disclosed in note 7.
These assets, liabilities, and profit and loss of earlier years: account charge, calculated in accordance with FRS17, are sensitive expected loss ratios.
to the assumptions set out in that note.
In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the BornhuetterThe longer term investment return is determined with the objective of Ferguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
ensuring that, in aggregate over time, the return recognised in The Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of business.
operating profit does not exceed or fall below the actual returns achieved, as set out in the accounting policies.
The pre tax returns are Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally applied to an estimation of the value of investments after adjustment assessed separately, being measured either at the face value of the loss adjusters estimates or projected separately in order to allow for to reduce the effect of short term uctuations.
The principal the future development of large claims.
assumptions are disclosed in note 12.
56 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next Uncertainties and contingencies of both internal asbestos and environmental pollution experts and The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be external legal and professional advisors.
characterised under a number of specic headings, such as: Financial enhancement products uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would give In the UK, US and Korea the Group has exposures to financial rise to a policyholder suffering an insured loss: enhancement products which provide surety to banks, lending institutions and credit facilities that insure principal and interest uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by a repayment on debt securities.
The Group no longer writes such policyholder as a result of the event occurring: business: however, the nature of such contracts is normally that the uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder for Group is on risk for more than one year and therefore liabilities remain a loss suffered.
During 2002 a reinsurance arrangement was entered into, for which a premium of 124m was ceded, which has The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to reduced the Groups exposure in relation to these products in the the characteristics of the insured risks.
For certain classes of policy UK.
Further information on financial enhancement products in the US eg term assurance the value of the settlement of a claim may be is discussed below.
specified under the policy terms while for other classes eg motor insurance the cost of a claim will be determined by an actual loss US financial enhancement products suffered by the policyholder.
Within the financial enhancement portfolio of Financial Structures Limited, a subsidiary of the US Group, are a variety of credit default There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of product exposures including collateralised debt obligations CDO, the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
credit enhancement and residual value insurance contracts for which Following the identication and notication of an insured loss, there the majority of premium has not been earned and losses are provided may still be uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing of the on an arising basis.
These products are no longer written.
Losses settlement of the claim.
There are many factors that will determine during 2003 amounted to 50m.
Claims provisions of 69m, after the level of uncertainty such as ination, judicial trends, legislative payments of 13m in 2003, have been established at 31 December changes and claims handling procedures.
2003 in addition to 58m of unearned premium provision on these The establishment of technical provisions is an inherently uncertain products.
The ultimate loss estimate over the life of the CDO products process and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual cost is 165m based on a model, which utilises S&Ps historical average of settlement of outstanding claims and unexpired risks can vary default patterns and recovery values.
However, the ultimate losses substantially from the initial estimates.
The Group seeks to provide from this business will depend upon the performance of underlying appropriate levels of claims provision and provision for unexpired risks debt obligations.
taking the known facts and experience into account.
However, by their Litigation, mediation and arbitration nature the quantication of the provisions must remain very uncertain.
The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, is Contingent liability subject to litigation, mediation and arbitration in the normal course of As announced with the six months results, the Group commissioned its business.
The directors do not believe that any current mediation, an independent review of its general business claims provisions from arbitration and pending or threatened litigation or dispute will have a Tillinghast, the consulting actuaries, during the year.
This review material adverse effect on the Groups financial position, although there confirmed that the existing Group claims provisions were in a can be no assurance that losses resulting from any pending mediation, reasonable range, however, the Tillinghast estimate was some 800m arbitration and threatened litigation or dispute will not materially affect higher.
Following the review, more work was undertaken by internal the Groups financial position or cash ows for any period.
and external actuaries in validating the claims position.
This work Reinsurance continued through the nine months up to these financial statements.
The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contract At 31 December 2003, the Group has increased its general business wordings and the possibility of default by its reinsurers, including claims provisions as a result of this work.
In addition, a contingent from the credit risk taken in fronting arrangements.
The Group liability of 200m has been identied in respect of potential adverse monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including those to claims development.
This reects the inherent uncertainty in determining whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the financial some aspects of general business claims provisions, in particular very position for non recoverability due to reinsurer default by requiring long tail business and claims dependent on court judgements.
operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List is the list of Asbestos and environmental claims companies whom the directors believe will not be able to pay The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims for amounts due to the Group in full.
asbestos and environmental pollution is subject to a range of uncertainties that is generally greater than those encountered for Potential misselling of life products other classes of business.
A significant issue is the long delay in The Group and its UK insurance subsidiaries continue to be in reporting losses, since the onset of illness and disability arising from discussion with the Financial Services Authority FSA in relation to exposure to harmful conditions may only become apparent many the sale and accounting treatment of regulated life products.
For example, cases of mesothelioma can have a latent products include the sale of mortgage backed endowments, the period of up to 40 years.
There may also be complex technical issues treatment of life guaranteed annuity options and the potential effect that give rise to delays in notication arising from unresolved legal on holders of policies not subject to such options.
These discussions issues on policy coverage and the identity of the insureds.
As a have not been concluded and could result in significant financial consequence, traditional techniques for estimating claims provisions consequences for the Group including the provision of further cannot wholly be relied upon and the Group employs specialised financial support for subsidiaries, changes in the calculation of techniques to determine provisions using the extensive knowledge policyholder liabilities and the possible imposition of penalties by Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 57 previous contents next Estimation Techniques, Uncertainties and Contingencies continued the FSA.
In March 2003 the FSA levied a ne of 950,000 on the arrangements discussed below, should be sufficient to meet the Group in respect of mortgage endowment sales practices.
Based on funds solvency requirements in a range of adverse scenarios relating the information currently available, the directors consider they have to these matters.
made appropriate provisions for such costs and they do not believe The funds are also exposed to regulatory uncertainty that could increase that any further costs will have a material adverse effect on the the capital requirements signicantly above this level, dependent on the Groups financial position.
outcome of discussions with the FSA in relation to the management of Rating agencies the Groups with profit business, in particular relating to potential non The ability of the Group to write certain types of general insurance Guaranteed Annuity Rate GAR misselling and the target percentage business is dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit of asset shares in the calculation of bonuses.
The directors estimate that ratings from the rating agencies.
The Group has the objective of this additional capital requirement could be up to 300m, in the event maintaining single A ratings from Standard & Poors S&P and from that an adverse conclusion by the FSA is coincidental with a combination AM Best.
At the present time the ratings are Afrom S&P and Aof a number of other factors having an adverse impact on the funds.
The actions announced by the Group during 2002 and The aggregate amount of 500m of potential requirement includes 2003 are intended to improve its capital position and regain the the buffers and margins currently notied to us as being required target ratings.
Any worsening in the ratings would have an adverse by the FSA.
impact on the ability of the Group to write certain types of general Based on the foregoing a Group company has agreed, in certain insurance business.
circumstances, to make loans of up to 650m to the Life funds in Regulatory environment order to support their solvency position, should the need arise.
The regulatory environment is subject to significant change over the 320m of this facility has been drawn at 31 December 2003.
The next few years, in particular in respect of solvency requirements.
This companies are required to maintain capital sufficient to meet the is in part attributable to the implementation of EU Directives but is higher of the statutory solvency or estimated realistic position also the natural response of the regulators to the challenging market introduced by the FSA early in 2003.
On this basis, 146m conditions that have prevailed over the last few years.
The Group 31 December 2002 25m was required by the Life funds to continues to have discussions with the FSA on the regulatory capital meet their requirements.
The loans are expected to be repaid.
position of its UK insurance subsidiaries, the progress of the actions During the year the Group received permission to adopt, for two of announced on 7 November 2002 and 4 September 2003 to improve its with profits Life funds, Tiner waivers which resulted in a decreased that position, the implementation of the EU Financial Conglomerates capital requirement under statutory solvency reserving.
This approach Directive and its interrelationship with the overall capital of the improves the capital position of these funds and has enabled Sun Group.
In December 2003 the FSA granted a waiver in respect of the Alliance and London Assurance Company Limited to terminate its claims discounting provisions within Solvency 1.
All waivers are for a reinsurance, which was previously providing solvency relief.
The directors currently expect to apply for a renewal when the waiver expires.
There is however a risk that the waiver may The FSA proposes to apply to life insurers a framework for individual not be renewed in which event other options would need to be capital adequacy standards, which will entail the individual self considered to ameliorate the adverse solvency impact.
assessment by rms of their capital needs and the giving of individual capital guidance by the FSA.
Individual capital guidance will apply to The changes that can be expected in the solvency requirements in the with profits and non profit business and may result in guidance that UK are generally anticipated to arise in 2004 through 2006, although a life insurer should hold more capital than either the realistic it is possible that the FSA will bring forward some developments.
requirement or the minimum requirement calculated pursuant to the Inevitably, until the requirements are specified, there will be EU Life Directive, which are prescribed by the rules.
The FSA currently uncertainty as to the implications for Group solvency and the impact proposes to implement the new rules in the second half of 2004. of such developments could materially increase our solvency requirements.
The directors believe that, following the actions UK Life capital requirements are dependent on the outcome of the FSA announced, including the rights issue, the Group are better discussions and the implementation of the capital adequacy standards.
positioned to comply with these potential regulatory developments.
US regulatory capital However, there remain considerable uncertainties regarding these The consolidated US regulatory capital and surplus position as at developments and potential outcomes.
Declines in regulatory capital could UK Life trigger action by the insurance regulators.
There can be no certainty The regulatory solvency of the UK Life funds is sensitive to change in as to whether, in the light of the other uncertainties affecting the US investment and other conditions.
The reduction in equity exposures of based operations, or for other reasons, the regulatory position may the funds and other actions taken over the last two years to mitigate deteriorate and, if this occurs, what action the US regulators might take.
our risks in these funds, together with the introduction of the new World Trade Center regulatory solvency requirements, have reduced the volatility of capital The estimated cost of the insurance losses associated with the requirements to investment market uctuations.
However, the Life terrorist action of 11 September 2001 is a gross loss in excess of funds remain exposed to uctuations in equity values, interest rates 1bn, reduced to 279m net of reinsurance.
This was an and property values and to adverse movements in euro sterling rates.
unprecedented event, which still has many unresolved issues in In 2003 we commissioned an external review of the capital respect of both the gross loss and consequent extent of the requirements of the main UK with profits Life funds.
The loss estimate has been prepared on the account the conclusions of the review, the directors believe that, basis of the information currently available as to the magnitude of the although the funds retain some exposures to these uctuations and claims, including business interruption losses.
Most major exposures to certain insurance and operational risks, the funds existing capital, have now been reserved at policy limits.
The estimate of quantum together with an amount of up to 200m under the contingent loan continues to be based on the assumption that the industry position, 58 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next that the destruction of the World Trade Center towers represents one recoveries, the extent and amount of recoveries from the borrower occurrence rather than two, is correct.
However, this is subject to under the respective loan programmes and or reserves, if any, among litigation in the US and, as a consequence, there is uncertainty as to other factors, will be resolved in favour of Royal Indemnity.
The final cost may be different from the current Based on current knowledge of the circumstances, legal advice estimate due to the uncertainties outlined above and it is not possible received and the range of other actions available to the Group to to reliably estimate the quantum.
Nevertheless, the directors believe manage any insurance exposure, the directors believe that the their estimate of the gross and net loss is appropriate based on the resolution of the legal proceedings in respect of these credit risk information available to them and that there will be no material insurance policies will not have a material adverse effect on the adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
Student Finance Corporation Strategic and operational review In early 2002, issues arose in connection with a series of credit risk The programme of strategic and operational improvements is complex insurance policies covering loans made to students in various post and involves a restructuring of, and the implementation of substantial secondary trade schools, primarily truck driving schools.
At changes to, a significant portion of the Groups operations.
In 31 December 2003, the loan portfolio had a face value of addition, the programme contemplates actions being taken in a approximately $501m.
In June and July 2002, Royal Indemnity number of businesses and jurisdictions simultaneously.
Company, a US subsidiary, led lawsuits in Texas state court, seeking Implementation of the planned improvements and realisation of the among other things rescission of these policies in response to a forecast benets will be challenging within the timeframe systematic pattern of fraud, misrepresentation and cover up by various contemplated by the Group.
In addition, successful implementation of parties, which among other things concealed default rate of the loans.
this programme will require a significant amount of management As Royal Indemnitys lawsuits seek rescission of these policies, all the time and, thus, may affect or impair managements ability to run the Groups financial accounting entries associated with the transactions business effectively during the period of implementation.
This is have been reversed.
The ultimate outcome of the suit is uncertain.
particularly so in relation to our US operation where a new The foregoing rescission actions gave rise to other related lawsuits management team has recently been appointed.
led in Delaware by MBIA Insurance Corporation MBIA and various The restructuring plans in the US are complex and are subject to banks, seeking to enforce the Royal Indemnity credit risk insurance particular risks.
Our US subsidiaries are subject to government policies.
Plaintiffs in the Delaware actions were Wells Fargo Bank regulation in their states of domicile and also in each of the Minnesota, NA Wells Fargo, in its capacity as trustee of a number of jurisdictions in which they are licensed or authorised to do business.
securitisations that were collateralised by student loans, MBIA which In the US, the conduct of insurance business is regulated at the state insured the obligations issued through these securitisations and PNC level and not by the federal government.
The implementation of our Bank and Wilmington Trust, both of which provided interim nancing restructuring plan in the US will be subject to the approval of prior to securitisation.
These actions are all pending in US district insurance regulators in many jurisdictions applying differing insurance court, District of Delaware.
Plaintiffs in the Delaware actions moved regulations.
The outcome of such proceedings and approvals may for summary judgement.
On 30 September 2003, the court granted lead to conicting pronouncements and amendments to our summary judgement to MBIA and Wells Fargo.
The court then restructuring plan that may have a material impact on our financial entered a Judgement on 10 October 2003 which was superseded by condition and business prospects.
a corrected judgement entered on 27 October 2003.
Royal Indemnity Some events or transactions comprised in the restructuring plans may led its notice of appeal from the judgement on 29 October 2003. give rise to risks and or liabilities which, individually or taken together, The summary judgement motions by PNC Bank and Wilmington Trust are sufciently material to require the provision of additional capital, were still pending at 31 December 2003.
It is possible that the court or the implementation of alternative transactions, to meet legal or will decide the Wilmington Trust motion before 31 March 2004, and regulatory obligations.
the PNC Bank motion before 30 September 2004, to avoid having to report the motions as pending for more than a year.
In the event that the court grants summary judgement to PNC Bank and or Wilmington Trust, Royal Indemnity plans to appeal from those rulings as well.
The courts corrected judgement led on 27 October 2003 awarded MBIA and Wells Fargo approximately $360m.
This amount consists of approximately $270m in original claims, $67m in claims accruing from the date the suit was led to 27 October 2003, and $23m in prejudgement interest accruing to 27 October 2003.
If the court were to grant summary judgement to PNC Bank and Wilmington Trust on the same basis as MBIA Wells Fargo, the awards would be approximately $121m to PNC Bank and $14m to Wilmington Trust.
The ultimate outcome of these lawsuits is necessarily uncertain.
In the event Royal Indemnitys lawsuits do not result in complete rescission of all applicable policies, any loss on the loan portfolio will be reduced to the extent of reinsurance available to Royal Indemnity, recoveries from the original borrowers on the defaulted loans, and reserves, if any.
Any losses may be further offset by recoveries from other third parties.
To that end, Royal Indemnity has led recovery actions against certain trucking school entities.
However, there can be no assurance that the outcome of these lawsuits, the availability of reinsurance Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 59 previous contents next Consolidated profit and Loss Account Technical Account General Business For the year ended 31 December 2003 2003 2002 Notes m m Gross premiums written 9,929 11,959 Outward reinsurance premiums 3,299 3,324 Premiums written, net of reinsurance 6,630 8,635 Change in the gross provision for unearned premiums 658 368 Change in the provision for unearned premiums, reinsurers share 13 140 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 10 7,301 8,407 Allocated investment return transferred from the Non-Technical Account 12 767 962 Claims paid Gross amount 6,841 8,382 Reinsurers share 1,570 1,886 5,271 6,496 Change in the provision for claims Gross amount 602 601 Reinsurers share 130 342 472 259 Unwind of discount in respect of claims outstanding 63 53 Claims incurred, net of reinsurance 5,806 6,808 Acquisition costs 1,928 2,382 Change in deferred acquisition costs 167 83 Administrative expenses 655 810 Reinsurance commissions and profit participation 400 566 Net operating expenses 3 2,350 2,543 Amortisation of goodwill in acquired claims provisions 17 19 25 Underwriting result 811 916 Longer term investment return allocated to the General Business Technical Account 767 962 Unwind of discount in respect of claims outstanding 63 53 Balance on the technical account before change in the equalisation provisions 107 7 Change in the equalisation provisions 9 24 1 Balance on the Technical Account for General Business 131 6 Current year discontinued and acquired operations do not form a material part of the gures above.
The Accounting Policies and the Notes on the Accounts form part of these financial statements.
60 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next Consolidated profit and Loss Account Technical Account Long Term Business For the year ended 31 December 2003 2003 2002 Notes m m Gross premiums written 1,579 2,289 Outward reinsurance premiums 106 407 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 1,473 1,882 Investment income 11 1,715 1,460 Unrealised gains on investments 521 Total technical income 3,709 3,342 Claims paid Gross amount 3,244 3,822 Reinsurers share 48 76 3,196 3,746 Change in the provision for claims Gross amount 4 3 Reinsurers share 1 9 3 12 Claims incurred, net of reinsurance 3,199 3,734 Change in long term business provision Gross amount 1,975 118 Reinsurers share 705 486 1,270 604 Change in technical provisions for linked liabilities, net of reinsurance 301 1,331 Change in other technical provisions, net of reinsurance 969 1,935 Acquisition costs 87 219 Change in deferred acquisition costs 26 58 Administrative expenses 220 207 Net operating expenses 3 333 484 Investment expenses and charges 11 65 68 Unrealised losses on investments 1,851 Tax attributable to the long term business 14 193 4 Other technical charges amortisation and write off of acquired value of in-force business 2, 19 66 13 Total technical charges 2,887 4,219 Technical income less charges 822 877 Allocated investment return transferred to from the Non-Technical Account 13 22 Transfers to from the fund for future appropriations 432 999 Balance on the Technical Account for Long Term Business 5 377 144 Current year discontinued and acquired operations do not form a material part of the gures above.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 61 previous contents next Consolidated profit and Loss Account Non-Technical Account For the year ended 31 December 2003 Restated 2003 2002 Notes m m Balance on the General Business Technical Account 131 6 Balance on the Long Term Business Technical Account 377 144 Tax credit attributable to balance on the Long Term Business Technical Account 169 65 Balance on the Long Term Business Technical Account gross of tax 546 209 Investment income 11 1,172 1,146 Allocated investment return transferred from to the Long Term Business Technical Account 13 22 Investment expenses and charges 11 127 146 Unrealised losses on investments 395 638 Allocated investment return transferred to the General Business Technical Account 12 767 962 Income from other activities 120 215 Charges from other activities 2, 3 151 241 Central expenses 3 94 48 Amortisation and impairment of goodwill 17 24 713 Total Group operating profit loss 133 1,202 Share of results of associated undertakings 29 4 profit loss on ordinary activities before exceptional items and tax 162 1,206 Analysis of profit loss on ordinary activities before exceptional items and tax General business result 31 83 89 Long term business result 5 168 227 Other activities including associated undertakings 111 90 Group operating result based on longer term investment return 140 226 Interest on dated loan capital 53 52 Change in the equalisation provisions 9 24 1 Amortisation and impairment of goodwill 17 24 713 Amortisation of goodwill in acquired claims provisions 17 19 25 Exceptional gain on UK long term insurance business 5 444 Reorganisation costs and other items 2 268 92 Group operating profit loss based on longer term investment return 196 655 Short term investment uctuations 34 551 profit loss on ordinary activities before exceptional items and tax 162 1,206 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiary undertakings 24 308 253 Loss on ordinary activities before tax 146 953 Tax charge credit on loss on ordinary activities 14 217 91 Loss on ordinary activities after tax 363 862 Attributable to equity minority interests 19 9 Loss for the financial year attributable to shareholders 382 871 Dividends 15 120 95 Transfer from retained profits 502 966 Earnings per ordinary share 16 19.6 p 49.8 p Diluted earnings per ordinary share 16 19.6 p 49.8 p Group operating earnings after tax per ordinary share based on longer term investment return 16 2.5p 4.6p Current year discontinued and acquired operations do not form a material part of the gures above.
62 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next
