Accounting Policies Financial statements are included within the Long Term Business Technical Account.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the UK accounting standards and the Statement of Recommended prevailing rate at the date of the transaction and the resulting Practice SORP issued by the Association of British Insurers in exchange differences are included within the profit and Loss Account.
As noted in the investment accounting policy the Derivatives true and fair override has been adopted in respect of the valuation of Interest rate and currency swaps in relation to the Groups dated loan the Groups investment properties and no depreciation is provided.
capital are treated as hedges.
The underlying hedged dated loan Changes in accounting policy capital is carried at cost and accordingly the swaps have not been During the year the directors considered the accounting policy on the marked to market.
The interest payable or receivable on interest rate recognition of the value of long term insurance business.
The revised swaps is included in interest paid.
Other derivatives are included SORP was issued by the Association of British Insurers in November within the category to which the contract relates and are valued at 2003 for application by insurance companies to financial statements market value.
for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2004.
The General Business Technical Account revised SORP recommends that the internally generated value of long General business is accounted for on an annual basis.
Premiums term insurance business should not be recognised.
The existing written are accounted for in the year in which the contract is entered version of the SORP makes no recommendation on the recognition of into and include estimates where the amounts are not determined at the internally generated value of long term insurance business.
Premiums written exclude taxes and duties During 2003 the International Accounting Standards Board issued an levied on premiums.
An allocation of the investment return has been exposure draft, ED5 Insurance Contracts.
ED5 proposed that the made to the General Business Technical Account from the Noncontinuation of an existing accounting policy that recognises the Technical Account on the longer term rate of return basis.
The internally generated value of long term insurance business should be commission and other acquisition costs incurred in writing the permitted but placed constraints on adopting a new accounting business are deferred and amortised over the period in which the policy that recognises such value.
The directors reviewed the Groups existing policy in the light of the Claims paid represent all payments made during the period whether requirement to change the accounting policy in 2004 and the likelihood arising from events during that or earlier periods.
that the new policy will continue on adoption of International Financial The balance on the General Business Technical Account is arrived at Reporting Standards IFRS in 2005.
The directors concluded that it after taking account of changes in the equalisation provisions.
would be appropriate to make the change in the 2003 financial statements and to derecognise the internally generated value of long Long Term Business Technical Account Premiums and annuity considerations are accounted for when due term insurance business.
The financial impact of this accounting policy change is described in note 1 and the comparatives have been restated.
except premiums in respect of linked business which are accounted for when the policy liabilities are created.
Single premiums are those Group accounts relating to products issued by the Group where there is a contractual The consolidated accounts of the Group include the results of all obligation for the payment of only one premium.
Annual premiums subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December.
are those where there is a contractual obligation for the payment of The Consolidated profit and Loss Account and Consolidated Balance premium on a regular basis.
Claims arising on maturity are recognised Sheet are drawn up in accordance with the provisions of section when the claim becomes due for payment.
Death claims are accounted for on notication.
Surrenders are accounted for at the 255A of, and schedule 9A to, the Companies Act 1985.
The Parent earlier of the payment date or the date at which the policy ceases to Company Balance Sheet is drawn up in compliance with the be included in the long term business provision or the technical provisions of section 226 of, and schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the provisions for linked liabilities.
Parent Company profit and Loss Account has not been included in Acquisition costs comprise direct and indirect costs of obtaining and these financial statements.
These costs are deferred as an explicit Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the deferred acquisition cost asset, gross of tax relief and amortised over effective date of acquisition.
the period in which they are expected to be recovered out of margins in matching revenues from related policies.
At the end of each The Consolidated Shareholders Cash Flow Statement has been drawn accounting period, deferred acquisition costs are reviewed for up in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 1 Revised which recoverability by category, against future margins from the related requires the Cash Flow Statement to exclude the cash ows of the policies in force at the balance sheet date.
The profits on long term insurance business represent the transfer Principal associated undertakings are accounted for by the equity from the long term funds to shareholders following the actuarial method in the consolidated financial statements.
The gures included valuation of liabilities, investment income arising on shareholders for interests in principal associated undertakings are for the funds attributable to the long term business based on the longer term accounting periods indicated in the list of Principal Associated investment return, and the movements in certain reserves attributable Undertakings and Other significant Shareholdings.
to shareholders held within the long term funds.
profits are shown in Translation of foreign currencies the Non-Technical Account grossed up for tax at the effective rate of Assets and liabilities including dated loan capital and results of both corporation tax applicable in the period.
For business transacted businesses and associates denominated in foreign currencies are overseas, results have been included in accordance with local translated into sterling at rates ruling at the year end and the resulting generally accepted accounting principles where they are consistent differences are taken to reserves or in the case of long term business with UK practice.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 53 previous contents next Accounting Policies continued New business premiums are recognised when the policy liability is Deferred tax is provided in full and consists of the estimated taxation established.
New single premiums include recurrent single premium or relief from taxation which is expected to arise from material timing contracts including DSS rebates and increments under group pension differences using rates based on tax rates and laws that have been schemes.
Where products are substituted by the policyholder or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Provision is made for pension contracts are vested, these transactions are reected as new taxation which might arise on the distribution of profits retained by business only to the extent that they give rise to incremental premiums.
overseas subsidiaries or associated undertakings only to the extent that dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Credit is taken for relief for Reversionary bonuses are recognised when declared: terminal bonuses trading and other losses only to the extent that the directors anticipate are recognised when payable.
that suitable profits will absorb such losses in future periods.
Shareholders accrued interest for long term business represents the Deferred tax balances that derive from undiscounted cash ows and excess of accumulated profit recognised under the modied statutory for which the impact of discounting is material have been discounted basis of reporting over the statutory transfers made from the long using appropriate rates.
The amount of profit recognised as shareholders accrued interest is credited to the profit and Loss Goodwill Account within capital and reserves.
Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of an acquisition and the fair value of the net tangible assets acquired, arising on the Investment return acquisition of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings, is Income from investments is included in the profit and Loss Account capitalised in the balance sheet and amortised to the profit and Loss on an accruals basis.
Dividend income on ordinary shares is Account on a straight line basis.
The cost of acquisition is the amount recognised when the related investment goes ex dividend.
Realised of cash paid and the fair value of other purchase consideration given and unrealised gains and losses on investments attributable to long together with associated expenses.
The period of amortisation, which term business are dealt with in the Long Term Business Technical does not exceed 20 years, is determined by an assessment of the Account.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses on other useful economic life of the goodwill, this being the period over which investments, including the Groups share of realised and unrealised the value of the businesses acquired are expected to exceed the value gains and losses of associated undertakings, are dealt with in the of their underlying assets.
Goodwill arising prior to 31 December Non-Technical Account.
Realised gains and losses on investment 1997 has been eliminated against reserves in accordance with the disposals represent the difference between net sale proceeds and cost Group accounting policy at the date of acquisition.
Unrealised gains and losses on investments represent the difference between the carrying value at the year end and the In the event of the disposal of a business acquired prior to this date, carrying value at the previous year end or, in the case of investments the related goodwill is charged to the profit and Loss Account in the purchased in the year, the cost of acquisition.
Group operating result and profit based on longer term investment Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full year return are presented including investment return on the longer term following an acquisition and when events or changes in circumstances rate of return basis.
The longer term rate of return basis reects both indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
historical experience and the directors current expectations for The present value of the shareholders interest in the acquired value investment returns.
The rates of longer term return are set with the of in force long term business is included as part of the fair value of objective of ensuring that, in aggregate over time, the return the acquired net tangible assets in the goodwill calculation and is recognised in operating profit based on longer term investment dealt with as described below.
return does not exceed or fall below the actual returns achieved.
Short term investment uctuations represent the difference between The fair value of general business claims provisions relating to the actual investment return in the year and that determined on the businesses acquired is established after making allowance for future longer term rate of return basis.
The discount, being the difference between the fair value and the undiscounted value at which they are accounted for Group operating result and profit based on longer term on consolidation, is capitalised as goodwill in acquired claims investment return provisions and amortised to the profit and Loss Account over the Group operating result based on longer term investment return is expected run off period of the related claims.
analysed between general business, long term business and other activities as an additional disclosure.
Group operating result based on Investments longer term investment return excludes interest on dated loan Investments and assets held to cover linked liabilities are shown at capital, short term investment uctuations, the change in the market value, for which purpose unlisted investments, mortgages and equalisation provisions, amortisation and impairment of goodwill and loans are included at directors valuation and properties at professional valuation.
For listed securities the stock exchange values of goodwill in acquired claims provisions and other items including are used except that xed income securities held for long term reorganisation costs.
Group operating profit based on longer term business in certain overseas operations are included on an amortised investment return excludes short term investment uctuations.
Properties are valued annually at open market value.
Taxation Taxation in the Non-Technical Account and Long Term Business The Companies Act requires properties to be depreciated over their expected useful economic lives.
The directors consider that Technical Account is based on profits and income for the year as depreciation of investment properties would not give a true and fair determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together view.
In accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice with adjustments to provisions for prior years.
UK tax in respect of 19 Accounting for Investment Properties, no depreciation is provided overseas subsidiaries and principal associated undertakings is based on dividends received.
Taxation in the Non-Technical Account includes on these properties on the basis that depreciation is already reected the tax by which the balance on the Long Term Business Technical in the annual valuations.
The amounts attributed to this factor by the Account has been grossed up.
valuers cannot reasonably be separately identied or quantied.
54 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next It is the Groups practice to maintain properties occupied by the Group in balance sheet date.
It includes related expenses and a deduction for a continual state of sound repair.
Accordingly the directors consider that the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
The provision is the economic lives of these properties and their residual values, based on determined using the best information available of claims settlement prices prevailing at the time of acquisition or subsequent valuation, are patterns, forecast ination and settlement of claims.
such that any depreciation is insignicant and is thus not provided.
General business provisions for claims outstanding, and related Investments in subsidiaries are included in the Parent Company reinsurance recoveries, are discounted where there is a particularly Balance Sheet at net asset value and unrealised gains and losses are long period from incident to claims settlement and where there exists dealt with in the revaluation reserve.
a suitable claims payment pattern from which to calculate the discount.
In dening those claims with a long period from incident to Acquired value of long term business claims settlement, those categories of claims where the average This represents the value of the shareholders investment in the long period of settlement is six years or more from the balance sheet date, term business not already recognised under the modied statutory has been used as a guide.
principles of profit recognition at the date of acquisition less amounts charged to the profit and Loss Account.
Claims provisions relating to long term permanent disability claims in the US, Canada and Scandinavia are determined using recognised The present value of in force long term business existing at acquisition actuarial methods.
is amortised in the Long Term Business Technical Account on a systematic basis over the anticipated periods of the related contracts in Differences between the estimated cost and subsequent settlement of the portfolios as the profit on these acquired contracts is recognised.
claims are dealt with in the appropriate technical account for the year in which they are settled or re estimated.
Tangible assets and depreciation Tangible assets, other than land and buildings in the Parent Company Provision is made, based on information available at the balance sheet Balance Sheet, comprise xtures, ttings and equipment including date, for any estimated future underwriting losses relating to computers and motor vehicles which are stated at cost and unexpired risks after taking into account future investment income on depreciated over periods not exceeding their estimated useful lives relevant technical provisions.
The unexpired risk provision is assessed between three and ten years after taking into account residual value.
in aggregate for business classes which, in the opinion of the directors, are managed together.
Own shares The shares held by the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trusts are The long term business provision is derived from actuarial valuation.
recognised as assets under the heading Own shares at original cost, For with profits business, the calculation includes explicit allowance less provision for diminution in value, in the Consolidated Balance for vested bonuses including those vesting following valuation at Sheet until such time as the shares vest unconditionally with the the balance sheet date.
No explicit provision is made for future relevant executive director or employee.
Any profit that may arise reversionary or terminal bonuses except on certain accumulating with in the Trusts upon exercise of the options will be recognised at the profits contracts.
Equalisation provisions are established in accordance with the Fund for future appropriations requirements of legislation in certain countries and are in addition to Certain long term funds comprise either participating, or both the provisions required to meet the anticipated ultimate cost of participating and non participating long term business contracts, settlement of outstanding claims at the balance sheet date.
where policyholders have a contingent interest in the excess of assets The technical provisions for linked liabilities are the repurchase value over liabilities in the fund.
Accordingly the excess of assets over of units allocated to in force policies including any liability in respect liabilities within these funds is not allocated between policyholders of deferred tax at the balance sheet date, where the policy benets and shareholders and is taken to the fund for future appropriations.
are wholly or partly related to investments of any description or to Dated loan capital indices of the value of investments.
Dated loan capital comprises subordinated bonds and loans.
Operating leases Subordinated bonds and loans are stated at the fair value of Payments made under operating leases are charged on a straight line consideration received after deduction of unamortised issue costs basis over the term of the lease.
Issue costs together with discount allowed on issue of bonds and loans are amortised to investment expenses and charges Pension costs within the Non-Technical Account on an annual basis over the term The Group operates a number of dened benefit pension schemes of the bonds and loans.
The cost of providing these pension benets is accounted for over the employees working lives on a systematic basis Dated loan capital is presented as a component of the Groups capital as advised by qualied actuaries.
The effects of variations from regular base as it is in the nature of long term capital nancing.
As such, the cost are spread over the expected remaining service lives of members cost of such capital is treated as a nancing item and is not deducted of the schemes.
Contributions to dened contribution pension plans in arriving at Group operating result based on longer term are charged as they become payable.
Technical provisions The provision for unearned premiums in respect of general business represents the proportion of premiums written relating to periods of insurance subsequent to the balance sheet date, calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
The provision for claims outstanding, whether reported or not, comprises the estimated cost of claims incurred but not settled at the Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 55 previous contents next
