Shareholder information 219 Contents Financial calendar 220 Shareholder enquiries 220 Capital gains tax 220 Analyses of ordinary shareholders 221 Trading market 221 Memorandum and articles of association 223 Taxation for US holders 223 Exchange controls 227 Documents on display 228 Important addresses 228 Principal offices 228 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Shareholder information Shareholder information Financial calendar Annual general meeting 29 April 2004 at 2.00 pm, Edinburgh International Conference Centre, The Exchange, Morrison Street, Edinburgh Interim results 3 August 2004 Final results 24 February 2005 Dividends Payment dates: 220 Ordinary shares 2003 Final 4 June 2004 Ordinary shares 2004 Interim October 2004 Cumulative preference shares 31 May and 31 December 2004 Non-cumulative dollar preference shares 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December 2004 Ex-dividend dates: Ordinary shares 2003 Final 10 March 2004 Cumulative preference shares 5 May 2004 Record dates: Ordinary shares 2003 Final 12 March 2004 Cumulative preference shares 7 May 2004 If the necessary approvals are obtained from shareholders at the annual general meeting on 29 April 2004, as an alternative to cash, a scrip dividend election will be offered and shareholders will receive details of this by letter after that date.
Shareholder enquiries Capital gains tax Shareholdings in the company may be checked by visiting our For shareholders who held RBS ordinary shares at 31 March website www.
You will need the shareholder 1982, the market value of one ordinary share held was 103p.
reference number printed on your share certificate or tax After adjusting for the 1 March 1985 rights issue, the 1 September voucher to gain access to this information.
1989 capitalisation issue and the bonus issue of Additional Value Shares on 12 July 2000, the adjusted 31 March 1982 Braille and audio Annual Review and base value of one ordinary share held currently is 46.1p.
Summary Financial Statement Shareholders requiring a Braille or audio version of the Annual For shareholders who held NatWest ordinary shares at 31 March Review and Summary Financial Statement should contact the 1982, the market value of one ordinary share held was 85.16p Registrar on 0870 702 0135. for shareholders who accepted the basic terms of the RBS offer.
This takes account of the August 1984 and June 1986 ShareGift rights issues and the June 1989 bonus issue of NatWest ordinary The company is aware that shareholders who hold a small shares as well as the subsequent issue of Additional Value Shares.
number of shares may be retaining these shares because dealing costs make it uneconomical to dispose of them.
When disposing of shares, shareholders are also entitled to ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme is a free service indexation allowance to April 1998 only in the case of individuals operated by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity and non-corporate holders, which is calculated on the 31 1052686 to enable shareholders to donate unwanted shares March 1982 value, on the cost of subsequent purchases from to charity.
the date of purchase and on the subscription for rights from the date of that payment.
Further adjustments must be made Should you wish to donate your shares to charity in this way where a shareholder has chosen to receive shares instead of you should contact ShareGift for further information: cash for dividends.
Individuals and non-corporate shareholders may also be entitled to some taper relief to reduce the amount ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, of any chargeable gain on disposal of shares.
46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN Tel: 020 7337 0501 The information set out above is intended as a general guide www.
org only and is based on current United Kingdom legislation and Inland Revenue practice as at this date.
This information Donating your shares in this way will not give rise to either a deals only with the position of individual shareholders who gain or a loss for UK capital gains tax purposes and you may are resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes, who are be able to reclaim UK income tax on gifted shares.
Further the beneficial owners of their shares and who hold their information can be obtained from the UK Inland Revenue or shares as an investment.
It does not deal with the position of your local tax office.
shareholders other than individual shareholders, shareholders who are resident outside the United Kingdom for tax purposes or certain types of shareholders, such as dealers in securities.
Shareholder information Analyses of ordinary shareholders at 31 December 2003 % shareholdings millions of total Individuals 169,290 243.3 8.2 Banks and nominee companies 24,177 2,472.1 83.4 Investment trusts 146 0.8 Insurance companies 364 27.6 0.9 Other companies 2,539 190.7 6.5 Pension trusts 37 13.9 0.5 Other corporate bodies 103 14.9 0.5 196,656 2,963.3 100.0 221 Range of shareholdings: 10,000,0011,000 128,606 45.7 1.5 10,001,00110,000 62,389 170.9 5.8 10,010,001100,000 4,339 108.2 3.7 11,100,0011,000,000 974 308.9 10.4 11,000,00110,000,000 301 847.8 28.6 10,000,001 and over 47 1,481.8 50.0 196,656 2,963.3 100.0 Trading market On 22 August 1991, 26 August 1992, 13 September 1995, 16 October 1996, 26 March 1997, 12 February 1998, 8 February 1999, 30 July 1999, 30 September 1999 and 12 June 2001, the company issued the following American Depositary Shares ADSs, each in connection with a public offering in the United States: 8,000,000 Series B Series B ADSs representing 8,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series B: 16,000,000 Series C Series C ADSs representing 16,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series C: 7,000,000 Series D Series D ADSs representing 7,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series D: 8,000,000 Series E Series E ADSs representing 8,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series E: 8,000,000 Series F Series F ADSs representing 8,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series F: 10,000,000 Series G Series G ADSs representing 10,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series G: 12,000,000 Series H Series H ADSs representing 12,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series H: 12,000,000 Series I Series I ADSs representing 12,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series I: 9,000,000 Series J Series J ADSs representing 9,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series J: and 16,000,000 Series K Series K ADSs representing 16,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series K. Each of the respective ADSs represents the right to receive registered shareholders of Series G ADSs, 96 registered one corresponding preference share, is evidenced by an shareholders of Series H ADSs, 123 registered shareholders of American Depositary Receipt ADR and is listed on the New Series I ADSs, 74 registered shareholders of Series J ADSs York Stock Exchange NYSE.
and 65 registered shareholders of Series K ADSs.
The ADRs evidencing the ADSs above were issued pursuant to On 29 March 1994 and 23 June 2003, respectively, the Deposit Agreements, among the company, The Bank of New company issued 8,000,000 Exchangeable Capital Securities, York as depository, and all holders from time to time of ADRs Series A and 34,000,000 Exchangeable Capital Securities, issued thereunder.
Currently, there is no non-United States Series B together, the X-CAPs, each in connection with a trading market for any of the non-cumulative dollar preference public offering in the United States.
The X-CAPs are listed on shares.
All of the non-cumulative dollar preference shares are the NYSE and trade under the symbol RBSPRX and RBSPRY.
held by the depository, as custodian, in bearer form.
Currently, there is no non-US market for the X-CAPs.
On 30 January 2003, the company redeemed the 8 million The ADSs, the X-CAPs and the perpetual regulatory tier one Series B and 16 million Series C, non-cumulative dollar securities PROs are listed on the NYSE.
preference shares of US$0.01 each.
Shareholder information Memorandum and articles of association References below to the Treaty are references to either the A summary of certain terms of the companys Memorandum of Prior Treaty or the New Treaty as applicable.
Association the Memorandum and Articles of Association the Articles as in effect at the date of this annual report and For the purposes of the New Treaty and the Estate Tax Treaty certain relevant provisions of the Companies Act 1985, as and for purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, amended the Act as relevant to the holders of any class of as amended the Code, US Holders of ADRs will be treated share is contained in the companys Report and Accounts as owners of the non-cumulative dollar preference shares 2002 incorporating the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the underlying such ADRs.
year ended 31 December 2002, which summary is incorporated by reference into this annual report.
The Preference shares or ADSs evidenced by ADRs 223 summary description is qualified in its entirety by reference to Taxation of dividends the terms and provisions of the Memorandum and Articles.
The The company is not required to withhold tax at source from Memorandum and Articles are registered with the Registrar of dividend payments it makes or from any amount including any Companies of Scotland.
Holders of any class of share are amounts in respect of accrued dividends distributed by the encouraged to read the full Memorandum and Articles, which company.
have been filed with the SEC.
Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon Taxation for US Holders a holders individual circumstances, dividends to noncorporate The following discussion summarises certain US federal and US Holders in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2009 UK tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership and will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
Noncorporate disposition of non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ADSs, US Holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine X-CAPs or PROs by a beneficial owner that is a citizen or whether they are subject to any special rules that limit their resident of the United States or that otherwise will be subject ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
to US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect of the non-cumulative dollar preference shares, X-CAPs, ADSs or The New Treaty applies to dividend payments after 1 May PROs a US Holder.
This summary assumes that a US 2003.
If a US Holder would have been entitled to greater Holder is holding non-cumulative dollar preference shares, benefits under the Prior Treaty, that US Holder may elect to ADSs evidenced by ADRs, X-CAPs or PROs, as applicable, as continue to apply the Prior Treaty until 1 May 2004. capital assets.
This summary does not address the tax consequences to a US Holder i that is resident or, in the case New Treaty of an individual, ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax purposes Because payments of dividends by the company to non-UK or, generally, ii that is a corporation which alone or together investors are not subject to UK withholding tax, it is not with one or more associated companies, controls, directly or necessary to apply the New Treaty in order to receive a indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of the company.
Since there is no UK withholding tax on payments of dividends to US Holders, US Holders will The statements and practices set forth below regarding US not be entitled to a foreign tax credit for foreign taxes paid as a and UK tax laws including the US UK double taxation result of the payment of dividends by the company.
convention relating to income and capital gains which entered into force on 31 March 2003 the New Treaty, the prior Prior Treaty effect of UK tax credit US UK double tax convention relating to income and capital An individual shareholder who is resident in the UK for UK tax gains the Prior Treaty and the US UK double taxation purposes and who receives a dividend from the company is convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax entitled to claim a tax credit in the UK against its income tax Treaty are based i on those laws and practices as in force liability attributable to the dividend.
Although a US Holder that and as applied in practice on the date of this Report and ii in receives a dividend from the company will not be entitled to part, on representations of the depository, and the assumption this UK tax credit, under the Prior Treaty, certain US Holders that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related may treat an amount equal to this credit the Tax Credit agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
The Amount as a tax paid to the UK taxing authorities, for which US Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to whom such US Holder may claim a US foreign tax credit.
A US ADRs are pre-released may be taking actions that are Holder that makes that election described above must include inconsistent with the claiming, by US Holders of ADRs, of the Tax Credit Amount in its income and will generally be foreign tax credits for US federal income tax purposes.
entitled, subject to certain limitations, to a credit against its US Accordingly, the analysis of the creditability of UK taxes federal income tax liability equal to the Tax Credit Amount.
described below could be affected by future actions that may be taken by the US Treasury.
This summary is not exhaustive of For foreign tax credit purposes, dividends paid by the all possible tax considerations and holders are advised to company with respect to the non-cumulative dollar preference satisfy themselves as to the overall tax consequences, shares and any Tax Credit Amount Included will generally including specifically the consequences under US federal, constitute passive income or, in the case of certain US state, local and other laws, and possible changes in taxation Holders, financial services income.
law, of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of noncumulative dollar preference shares, ADSs evidenced by ADRs, X-CAPs or PROs by consulting their own tax advisers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Shareholder information Shareholder information continued Taxation for US Holders continued UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax SDRT Taxation of capital gains The following is a summary of the UK stamp duty and SDRT A US Holder that is not resident or, in the case of an consequences of transferring an ADR in registered form individual, ordinarily resident in the UK will not normally be otherwise than to the custodian on cancellation of the ADS or liable for UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposition of of transferring a non-cumulative dollar preference share.
such holders non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADR unless at the time of the disposal, in the case of a corporate A transfer of a registered ADR executed and retained in the US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade, in the UK US will not give rise to stamp duty and an agreement to through a permanent establishment or, in the case of any other transfer a registered ADR will not give rise to SDRT.
US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade, profession or 224 vocation in the UK through a UK branch or agency and such Stamp duty or SDRT will normally be payable on or in respect non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADR is or has been of transfers of non-cumulative dollar preference shares and used, held or acquired by or for the purposes of such trade or accordingly any holder who acquires or intends to acquire profession or vocation, permanent establishment, branch or non-cumulative dollar preference shares is advised to consult agency.
Special rules apply to individuals who are temporarily his own tax advisers in relation to stamp duty and SDRT.
not resident or ordinarily resident in the UK.
X-CAPs An exchange by a US Holder of non-cumulative dollar United States preference shares or ADRs for other shares in the company will Because the X-CAPs have no stated maturity, can be not give rise to a charge to UK tax on capital gains even if exchanged for preference shares or ADSs at the option of the such US Holder would be subject to tax on a disposal of such company and would be treated as if they were preference shares holders non-cumulative dollar preference shares or ADRs.
in a winding-up of the company, and because the company may elect not to make payments on the X-CAPs, the X-CAPs A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of a will be treated as equity for US federal income tax purposes.
non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS representing preference shares, generally recognise capital gains or losses Payments including any UK tax withheld there from, as to for US federal income tax purposes assuming in the case of a which see below will constitute foreign source dividend redemption, that such US Holder does not own, and is not income for US federal income tax purposes to the extent paid deemed to own, any ordinary shares of the company in an out of the current or accumulated earnings and profits of the amount equal to the difference between the amount realised company, as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
excluding in the case of a redemption any amount treated as Payments will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction a dividend for US federal income tax purposes and the US allowed to corporations.
For foreign tax credit limitation purposes, Holders tax basis in the non-cumulative dollar preference payments will generally constitute passive income, or in the share or ADS.
case of certain US Holders, financial services income.
A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on a gain Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon recognised on the disposal of the non-cumulative dollar a holders individual circumstances, dividends to noncorporate preference share or ADR will generally be entitled, subject to US Holders in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2009 certain limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US federal will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
Noncorporate income tax liability in respect of such gain.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special rules that limit their Estate and gift tax ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
A non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADR held by an individual, whose domicile is determined to be the United A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of XStates for purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not a CAPs, generally recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on income tax purposes in an amount equal to the difference the individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of the nonbetween the amount realised and the US Holders tax basis in cumulative dollar preference share or ADR, except in certain the X-CAPs assuming, in the case of a redemption, that such cases where the non-cumulative dollar preference share or US Holder does not own, and is not deemed to own, any ADR i is comprised in a settlement unless, at the time of the ordinary shares of the company.
A US Holder who is liable for settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and both UK and US tax on a gain recognised on the disposal of was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the business the X-CAPs will generally be entitled, subject to certain property of a UK permanent establishment of an enterprise: or limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US federal income iii pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the tax liability in respect of such gain.
performance of independent personal services.
The Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal tax liability Gain or loss will not be recognised by a US Holder upon the for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the exchange of X-CAPs for preference shares or ADSs pursuant non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADR is subject both to the companys exercise of its exchange right.
A US Holders to UK inheritance tax and to US federal estate or gift tax.
basis in the preference shares or ADSs received in exchange Shareholder information for its X-CAPs will be the same as the US Holders basis in the However, interest with a UK source received without deduction X-CAPs at the time of the exchange and the US Holders holding or withholding on account of UK tax will not be chargeable to period for the preference shares or ADSs received in the exchange UK tax in the hands of a US Holder unless, in the case of a will include the holding period of the X-CAPs exchanged.
corporate US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the UK through a UK permanent establishment or in the case of United Kingdom other US Holders, such persons carry on a trade, profession or Taxation of payments of interest vocation in the UK through a UK branch or agency in Payments on the X-CAPs will constitute interest rather than connection with which the interest is received or to which the dividends for UK withholding tax purposes.
However, the XX-CAPs are attributable.
There are exemptions for interest CAPs will constitute quoted eurobonds within the meaning of received by certain categories of agent such as some brokers 225 section 349 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and investment managers.
and therefore payments of interest will not be subject to withholding or deduction for or on account of UK taxation as EU Directive on taxation of savings income long as X-CAPs are and remain at all times listed on the New The European Union has adopted a new directive regarding York Stock Exchange or some other recognised stock the taxation of savings income.
Subject to a number of exchange within the meaning of section 841 of the Income important conditions being met, Member States of the and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
So long as the X-CAPs are so European Union will be required from a date not earlier than listed, withholding will not be required whether the X-CAPs are 1 January 2005 to provide to the tax authorities of another in bearer or registered form.
In all other cases an amount must Member State details of payments of interest or other similar be withheld on account of UK income tax at the lower rate income paid by a person within its jurisdiction to an individual currently 20% subject to any direction to the contrary by the resident in that other Member State, except that Belgium, Inland Revenue under the Treaty and except that the Luxembourg and Austria will instead operate a withholding withholding obligation is disapplied in respect of payments to system for a transitional period in relation to such payments persons who the company reasonably believes are within the unless during such period they elect otherwise.
charge to corporation tax or fall within various categories enjoying a special tax status including charities and pension Disposal including redemption funds, or are partnerships consisting of such persons unless A disposal including redemption of X-CAPs by a US Holder, the Inland Revenue directs otherwise.
who is an individual or other non corporation tax payer, will not give rise to any liability to UK taxation on capital gains unless If interest were paid under deduction of UK income tax e. g. if the US Holder carries on a trade which for this purpose the X-CAPs lost their listing, US Holders may be able to claim includes a profession or vocation in the UK through a branch a refund of the tax deducted under the Treaty.
or agency and the X-CAPs are, or have been, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, branch or agency.
The Any paying agent or other person through whom interest is exchange by such a US Holder of X-CAPs for ADRs pursuant paid to, or by whom interest is received on behalf of, an to the companys exercise of its exchange right will not give individual, may be required to provide information in relation to rise to a charge to UK tax on capital gains even if such US the payment and the individual concerned to the UK Inland Holder would be subject to tax on a disposal of such Holders Revenue.
The Inland Revenue may communicate this X-CAPs in accordance with the tax treatment referred to in the information to the tax authorities of other jurisdictions.
The UK Inland Revenue confirmed at around the time of issue A transfer of X-CAPs by a US Holder will not give rise to a of the X-CAPs that interest payments should not be treated as charge to UK tax on accrued but unpaid interest payments, distributions for UK tax purposes i by reason of the fact that unless the US Holder is an individual or other non corporation interest may be deferred under the terms of issue or ii by tax payer and at any time in the relevant year of assessment or reason of the undated nature of the X-CAPs, provided that at accounting period carries on a trade in the UK through a the time an interest payment is made, the X-CAPs are not held branch or agency to which the X-CAPs are attributable.
by a company which is associated with the company or by a funded company.
A company will be associated with the Annual tax charges company if, broadly speaking, it is in the same group as the Corporate holders of X-CAPs may be subject to annual UK tax company.
A company will be a funded company for these charges or relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange purposes if there are arrangements involving that company rates and in respect of profits, gains and losses arising from being put in funds directly or indirectly by the company, or an the X-CAPs, in place of the tax treatment referred to in the two entity associated with the company.
In this respect, the Inland preceding paragraphs but only if such corporate US Holders Revenue has confirmed that a company holding an interest in carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a UK X-CAPs which incidentally has banking facilities with any permanent establishment to which the X-CAPs are attributable.
company associated with the company will not be a funded company by virtue of such facilities.
Interest on the X-CAPs constitutes UK source income for tax purposes and, as such, may be subject to income tax by direct assessment even where paid without withholding.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Shareholder information Shareholder information continued Taxation for US Holders continued PROs Inheritance tax United States X-CAPs in bearer form physically held outside the UK should Payments of interest on a PRO including any UK tax withheld not be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of a lifetime there from will constitute foreign source dividend income for transfer by, or the death of, a US Holder who is neither US federal income tax purposes to the extent paid out of the domiciled nor deemed to be domiciled in the UK for current or accumulated earnings and profits of the company, inheritance tax purposes.
However, in relation to X-CAPs held as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Payments through DTC or any other clearing system, the position is not will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction free from doubt and the Inland Revenue are known to consider allowed to corporations.
For foreign tax credit limitation that the situs of securities held in this manner is not purposes, payments will generally constitute passive income, 226 necessarily determined by the place in which the securities are or in the case of certain US Holders, financial services income.
If X-CAPs in bearer form are or become A US Holder who is entitled under the Treaty to a refund of UK situated in the UK, or if X-CAPs are held in registered form, tax, if any, withheld on a payment will not be entitled to claim a there may be a charge to UK inheritance tax as a result of a foreign tax credit with respect to such tax.
See United lifetime transfer at less than fair market value by, or on the Kingdom Taxation of Payments on the PROs below for a death of, such a US Holder.
However, exemption from, or a discussion of circumstances in which UK withholding may apply.
reduction of, any such UK tax liability may be available under the Estate Tax Treaty in the same manner as for non-cumulative Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon dollar preference shares.
US Holders should consult their a holders individual circumstances, dividends to noncorporate professional adviser in relation to such potential liability.
US Holders in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2009 will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
Noncorporate Stamp duty and SDRT US Holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine No UK stamp duty is payable on the transfer by delivery or whether they are subject to any special rules that limit their redemption of bearer X-CAPs, whether in definitive form or in ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
the form of one or more global X-CAPs.
No SDRT is payable on any agreement to transfer bearer X-CAPs provided that the A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of a agreement is not made in contemplation of, or as part of an PRO, generally recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal arrangement for, a takeover of the company.
income tax purposes in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realised excluding any amount in respect No UK stamp duty will be payable in respect of any instrument of mandatory interest and any Missed Payments which are to of transfer of depositary interests representing X-CAPs, be satisfied on a Missed Payment Satisfaction Date, which provided that any instrument relating to such a transfer is not would be treated as ordinary income and the US Holders tax executed in the UK, and remains at all times outside the UK.
basis in the PRO assuming, in the case of a redemption, that Depositary interests representing X-CAPs will not be such US Holder does not own, and is not deemed to own, any chargeable securities for SDRT purposes and consequently a ordinary shares of the company.
A US Holder who is liable for transfer of such depositary interests will not be subject to both UK and US tax on a gain recognised on the disposal of SDRT.
Although the position is not clear, the transfer on the sale PROs will generally be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to of X-CAPs in registered form may attract ad valorem UK stamp credit the UK tax against its US federal income tax liability in duty or if an unconditional agreement to transfer X-CAPs is respect of such gain.
not completed by a duly stamped transfer UK SDRT, generally, at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid, which, in the United Kingdom case of stamp duty, will be rounded up to 5 or multiples Taxation of payments on the PROs thereof.
The transfer of X-CAPs in registered form i to, or to a Payments on the PROs will constitute interest rather than nominee, or agent for, a person whose business is or includes dividends for UK withholding tax purposes.
However, the PROs issuing depositary receipts or ii to, or to a nominee for, a will constitute quoted eurobonds within the meaning of person whose business is or includes the provision of section 349 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 clearance services, may give rise to a liability to UK stamp and therefore payments of interest will not be subject to duty or to the extent that UK stamp duty is not paid on an withholding or deduction for or on account of UK taxation as instrument of transfer UK SDRT, generally, at the rate of 1.5% long as the PROs are and remain at all times listed on a of the price of the X-CAPs transferred, which, in the case of recognised stock exchange within the meaning of section 841 stamp duty, will be rounded up to 5 or multiples thereof.
Such of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
So long as the a transfer of X-CAPs in bearer form may give rise to a charge PROs are so listed, withholding will not be required.
In all other to UK SDRT, generally, at the rate of 1.5% of the price of the Xcases an amount must be withheld on account of UK income CAPs transferred.
A charge to UK SDRT may also arise on the tax at the lower rate currently 20% subject to any direction to issue of X-CAPs whether in registered or bearer form i to, or the contrary by the Inland Revenue under the Treaty and to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business is or except that the withholding obligation is disapplied in respect includes issuing depositary receipts or ii to, or to a nominee of payments to persons who the company reasonably believes for, a person whose business is or includes the provision of are within the charge to corporation tax or fall within various clearance services, generally at the rate of 1.5% of the price categories enjoying a special tax status including charities and of the X-CAPs issued.
pension funds, or are partnerships consisting of such persons Shareholder information unless the Inland Revenue directs otherwise.
Where interest Disposal including redemption has been paid under deduction of UK withholding tax, US A disposal including redemption of PROs by a US Holder, Holders may be able to recover the tax deducted under the Treaty.
who is an individual or other non corporation tax payer, will not give rise to any liability to UK taxation on capital gains unless If interest were paid under deduction of UK income tax e. g. if the US Holder carries on a trade which for this purpose the PROs lost their listing, US Holders may be able to claim a includes a profession or a vocation in the UK through a refund of the tax deducted under the Treaty.
branch or agency and the PROs are, or have been, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, branch or agency.
Any paying agent or other person by or through whom interest is paid to, or by whom interest is received on behalf of, an A transfer of PROs by a US Holder will not give rise to a 227 individual, may be required to provide information in relation to charge to UK tax on accrued but unpaid interest payments, the payment and the individual concerned to the UK Inland unless the US Holder is an individual or other non corporation Revenue.
The Inland Revenue may communicate this tax payer and at any time in the relevant year of assessment or information to the tax authorities of other jurisdictions.
accounting period carries on a trade in the UK through a branch or agency to which the PROs are attributable.
The UK Inland Revenue confirmed at around the time of the issue of the PROs that interest payments would not be treated Annual tax charges as distributions for UK tax purposes i by reason of the fact Corporate holders of PROs may be subject to annual UK tax that interest may be deferred under the terms of issue or ii by charges or relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange reason of the undated nature of the PROs, provided that at the rates and in respect of profits, gains and losses arising from time an interest payment is made, the PROs are not held by a the PROs, in place of the tax treatment referred to in the two company which is associated with the company or by a preceding paragraphs but only if such corporate US Holders funded company.
A company will be associated with the carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a company if, broadly speaking, it is part of the same group as UK permanent establishment to which the PROs are the company.
A company will be a funded company for these attributable.
purposes if there are arrangements involving that company being put in funds directly or indirectly by the company, or an Inheritance tax entity associated with the company.
In this respect, the Inland In relation to PROs held through DTC or any other clearing Revenue has confirmed that a company holding an interest in system, the UK inheritance tax position is not free from doubt the PROs which incidentally has banking facilities with any in respect of a lifetime transfer, or death of, a US Holder who is company associated with the company will not be a funded not domiciled nor deemed to be domiciled in the UK for company by virtue of such facilities.
inheritance tax purposes: the UK Inland Revenue are known to consider that the situs of securities held in this manner is not Interest on the PROs constitutes UK source income for tax necessarily determined by the place where the securities are purposes and, as such, may be subject to income tax by registered.
In appropriate circumstances, there may be a direct assessment even where paid without withholding.
charge to UK inheritance tax as a result of a lifetime transfer at However, interest with a UK source received without deduction less than fair market value by, or on the death of, such a US or withholding on account of UK tax will not be chargeable to Holder.
However, exemption from, or a reduction of, any such UK tax in the hands of a US Holder unless, in the case of a UK tax liability may be available under the Estate Tax Treaty.
corporate US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the US Holders should consult their professional advisers in UK through a UK permanent establishment or in the case of relation to such potential liability.
other US Holders, such persons carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a UK branch or agency in Stamp duty and SDRT connection with which the interest is received or to which the No stamp duty, SDRT or similar tax is imposed in the UK on the PROs are attributable.
There are exemptions for interest issue, transfer or redemption of the PROs.
received by certain categories of agent such as some brokers and investment managers.
Exchange controls The company has been advised that there are currently no UK EU Directive on taxation of savings income laws, decrees or regulations which would prevent the remittance The European Union has adopted a new directive regarding of dividends or other payments to non-UK resident holders of the taxation of savings income.
Subject to a number of the companys non-cumulative dollar preference shares.
important conditions being met, Member States of the European Union will be required from a date not earlier than 1 There are no restrictions under the articles of association of January 2005 to provide to the tax authorities of another the company or under UK law, as currently in effect, which limit Member State details of payments of interest or other similar the right of non-UK resident owners to hold or, when entitled to income paid by a person within its jurisdiction to an individual vote, freely to vote the companys non-cumulative dollar resident in that other Member State, except that Belgium, preference shares.
Luxembourg and Austria will instead operate a withholding system for a transitional period in relation to such payments unless during such period they elect otherwise.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Shareholder information Shareholder information continued Documents on display Principal offices Documents concerning the company may be inspected at The company 36 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 2YB telephone 0131 42 St Andrew Square Edinburgh EH2 2YE 556 8555.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc In addition, we file reports and other information with the SEC.
42 St Andrew Square Edinburgh EH2 2YE You can read and copy these reports and other information at 280 Bishopsgate London EC2M 4RB the SECs Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N. W. Washington, D. C. 20549.
You can call the SEC at 1-800-SECNational Westminster Bank Plc 0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room or at 135 Bishopsgate London EC2M 3UR 228 the offices of The New York Stock Exchange, on which certain of our securities are listed, at 20 Broad Street, New York, New Citizens York 10005.
The SEC also maintains a website at www.
gov Citizens Financial Group, Inc. which contains in electronic form each of the reports and other One Citizens Plaza Providence Rhode Island 02903 USA information that we have filed electronically with the SEC.
Ulster Bank Important addresses 11-16 Donegall Square East Belfast BT1 5UB Shareholder enquiries Georges Quay Dublin 2 Registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC RBS Insurance PO Box 82 Direct Line House 3 Edridge Road Croydon Surrey CR9 1AG The Pavilions Churchill Court West Moreland Road Bromley BR1 1DP Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH RBS Greenwich Capital Telephone: 0870 702 0135 600 Steamboat Road Facsimile: 0870 703 6009 Greenwich Connecticut 06830 USA Group Secretariat Coutts Group The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 440 Strand London WC2R 0QS 42 St Andrew Square Edinburgh EH2 2YE The Royal Bank of Scotland International Limited Telephone: 0131 523 2471 Royal Bank House 71 Bath Street Facsimile: 0131 557 6140 St Helier Jersey Channel Islands JE4 8PJ Registered office NatWest Offshore 36 St Andrew Square 23 25 Broad Street Edinburgh EH2 2YB St Helier Jersey Channel Islands JE4 8QG Telephone: 0131 556 8555 Website www.
co. uk The registered office of the company is 36 St Andrew Square Edinburgh EH2 2YB telephone 0131 556 8555.
The principal place of business of the company is 42 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh EH2 2YE telephone 0131 556 8555.
