com Board of Directors #o 6 Peter Mitchell, 68, Deputy Chairman He joined the Board of Capital Radio in October 1997.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman in January 2002 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was formerly a Director of Guinness.
He is a partner in PBM Associates and has recently retired from the Chairmanship of Mountainview Group Limited.
He is a former Council Member of the Advertising Standards Authority.
#o 7 Barbara Thomas, 56, Non-executive Director She joined the Board of Capital Radio in February 1999.
She is the Chairman of Private Equity Investor, Deputy Chairman of Friends Provident Life Office and a Director of Quintain Estates and Development plc.
Mrs Thomas is a lawyer and international banker and was previously a Commissioner for the US Securities and Exchange Directors and Company Secretary #o Commission, as well as an Executive Director of Samuel 1 Peter Cawdron, 60, Chairman Montagu plc and News International plc.
He joined the Board of Capital Radio in December 2000 and was appointed Deputy Chairman in October 2001 o 8 Tim Mason, 46, Non-executive Director and Chairman in January 2002.
Until 1997, he was Group He joined the Board of Capital Radio in December 2000.
Strategy Director of Grand Metropolitan plc.
He is now He is a Director of Tesco PLC responsible for marketing a Non-executive Director of a number of companies and property services and is Chairman of Tesco.
including Compass Group plc, ARM Holdings plc, Capita He is a Non-executive Director of Tesco Personal Finance.
Group plc and Johnson Press plc.
o 9 Tony Illsley, 47, Non-executive Director 2 David Mansfield, 49, Chief Executive He joined the Board of Capital Radio in December 2000 He joined the Board as Commercial Director in January and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was formerly 1993 and was appointed Chief Executive in July 1997.
Chief Executive Officer of Telewest plc prior to the merger He is a Director of the Radio Advertising Bureau Limited with Flextech plc.
Prior to this, he was with PepsiCo as and the Commercial Radio Companies Association.
President of Walkers Snack Foods and before this he was President of Pepsi-Cola Asia Pacific.
He is also a Non- 3 Peter Harris, 41, Finance Director executive Director of easyJet plc, Jarvis Hotels plc, He joined Capital Radio in 1994 and was appointed Lionhead Studios plc and Leisure Link Group Limited.
to the Board in September 1996.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse in 1987.
10 Nathalie Schwarz, 33, Strategy and Development Director 4 Paul Davies, 48, Operations Director and Company Secretary He was previously Managing Director of MSM, the She joined Capital Radio as Company Secretary and Head of Companys former radio advertising sales house.
He was Legal Affairs in July 1998.
She was appointed Strategy and appointed to the Board as Commercial Director in Development Director in 2001.
She qualified as a Solicitor October 1997 and was appointed Operations Director in with Clifford Chance in 1995.
He is also a Director of Independent Radio News Limited.
President Lord Attenborough CBE, 80 5 Linda Smith, 41, Commercial Director He was appointed President of Capital Radio in 1992 She joined Capital Radio in March 2000 as Managing in recognition of his outstanding contribution to its Director of Capital Radio Advertising.
He was Chairman of the Company from to the Board as Commercial Director in February 2002. its formation in 1972 until his retirement from the She is a Director of the Radio Advertising Bureau Board in 1992.
A member of the Remuneration Committee of the Board A member of the Audit Committee of the Board # A member of the Nominations Committee of the Board o Independent Director Senior Independent Director Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 33 Contents 35 Report of the Directors 39 Corporate Governance 42 Directors Remuneration Report 53 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts 54 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital Radio plc 56 Group Profit and Loss Account 57 Group Balance Sheet 58 Group Cash Flow Statement 59 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 59 Statement of Group Total Recognised Gains and Losses 60 Company Balance Sheet 61 Notes forming part of the Accounts 82 Principal Investments 83 Financial Record and Key Statistics 84 Shareholder Information 85 Company Secretary and Advisers 86 Notice of Annual General Meeting 34 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Report of the Directors The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report together with the audited accounts for the year ended 30 September 2003.
Principal activities and business review The Groups principal activity is that of a local radio broadcaster in the United Kingdom.
Other activities include the provision of services to the radio industry, the operation of entertainment-based internet sites, record production and distribution.
The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries are set out on page 82.
A review of the Groups activities for the year and its future prospects is set out in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 1 to 21, and the Chairmans Statement on page 3.
Financial Results Details of the Groups profit, taxation and dividends are set out in the Group Profit and Loss Account on page 56 and in the Notes to the Accounts.
Dividend The Directors have decided to recommend a final dividend of 12.5p 2002: 12.5p net per share payable on 6 February 2004 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 21 November 2003 ex-dividend date: 19 November 2003.
With the interim dividend of 6.0p 2002: 6.0p net per share paid on 20 June 2003, this makes a total for the year of 18.5p 2002: 18.5p net per share.
Donations During the course of the year, the Group raised over 3,550,000 for its own charities, Help a London Child, Share a Capital Christmas, Cash for Kids in Birmingham and Help a South Wales Child, as well as for The Princes Trust and many local charities.
In addition, the Groups own donations to charities in the year amounted to 5,099 2002: 10,173.
These were principally to support the musical and artistic life in London and Birmingham, and charities mainly supporting needy children.
No contributions were made to political organisations.
Staff policies The quality, commitment and effectiveness of the Groups staff are crucial to its continued success.
Staff policies and programmes are designed to encourage employees to become interested in the Groups activities and to reward all staff according to their contribution and capability.
Employee communications are a high priority and regular staff briefings are used to ensure that all staff are kept properly informed.
Employee share ownership is encouraged through savingsrelated and other employee share schemes.
Employment policies do not discriminate between employees or potential employees on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic or natural origin, sex, marital status, religious beliefs or disability.
If an employee were to become disabled whilst in employment and, as a result, was unable to perform his her duties, every effort would be made to offer suitable alternative employment and assistance with re-training.
Directors The names and details of the Directors holding office at 30 September 2003 are given on page 33.
Under Article 112 of the Articles of Association of the Company, Tony Illsley, Tim Mason and Peter Mitchell retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, notice of which is set out on pages 86 to 88.
Tony Illsley, Tim Mason and Peter Mitchell, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In relation to the re-elections of Tony Illsley, Tim Mason and Peter Mitchell, the Board is satisfied that each of these Directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the Company.
Peter Mitchell became a Director in October 1997 and therefore seeks re-election for a third term.
The Board is satisfied that his re-election is in the interests of shareholders, in view of Mr Mitchells substantial contribution to the Board and his Chairmanship of our Remuneration Committee.
In addition, in accordance with Article 121 of the Articles of Association of the Company, Directors appointed since the last Annual General Meeting are required to submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of all Directors offering themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting can be found on page 86.
com | 35 Report of the Directors continued Information on Directors remuneration and share option rights is given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 52.
Significant shareholdings At 13 November 2003 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its Ordinary Shares: Number of Ordinary Shares % FMR 11,125,399 13.41 Morgan Stanley Investment Management 8,461,640 10.20 M&G Investment Management 5,872,390 7.08 Morley Fund Management 4,722,681 5.69 Legal & General Investment Management 3,452,157 4.16 Deutsche Asset Management 3,390,234 4.09 ISIS Asset Management 2,658,078 3.20 Non-executive Directors fees Under Article 101 of the Companys Articles of Association, a limit of 250,000 is placed on the aggregate amount of fees that can be paid to Non-executive Directors.
This limit does not apply to the Executive Directors, who have a salaried employment.
In addition, under Article 103, the Board may grant extra remuneration to any Director who performs special services at the request of the Company.
The fees payable to Non-executive Directors have not increased since 2001.
The Board has considered the level of remuneration paid to Non-executive Directors against the background of an increasing workload and the additional demands placed on them as a result of corporate governance and increases in responsibility required in response to the Higgs Report recommendations and the recently revised Combined Code.
The passage of time since the aggregate limit was established has eroded the headroom available for the recruitment of additional Non-executive Directors and the scope to increase remuneration.
It is important that the Company is able to continue to attract high calibre Non-executive Directors and therefore resolution 11, which will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, seeks shareholder approval for an increase in the maximum amount of aggregate fees that can be so paid from 250,000 to 500,000 per annum.
Details of the Companys current policy and practice with regard to Non-executive Directors remuneration are given in the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 42 to 52.
Share allotment and pre-emption rights In accordance with the Companys normal practice, a resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew the Boards authority to allot unissued Ordinary Shares up to a maximum amount of 425,237 being the lesser of the unissued share capital of the Company and 33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this report.
This authority will expire on the fifth anniversary of the date of the resolution.
A resolution will also be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew the Boards authority to issue shares for cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis.
The authority will expire on the earlier of 3 June 2005 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and is limited to Ordinary Shares having an aggregate nominal value of up to 103,738 which is equivalent to approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this Report.
Save in connection with the allotment of Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each pursuant to the exercise of options under the Companys employee share schemes, the Directors have no present intention of issuing any Ordinary Shares.
com Authority to buy-in shares Under Article 9 of the Articles of Association, the Company is empowered to purchase its own shares.
The Directors consider that it is prudent to maintain the power to make purchases in the market of the Companys own shares and the necessary special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The maximum number of shares which may be acquired pursuant to the authority is 8,299,050 which is equivalent to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this report and the maximum price payable for each Ordinary Share is 105% of the average closing middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the purchase.
The authority will expire on the earlier of 3 February 2005 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
The Board has no immediate intention to exercise the authority and purchases will only be made if the Board believes that to do so would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
The authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting has not been used in the past year.
Supplier payment policy Community involvement is a mainstay of the Groups radio operations and the Group considers that this extends equally to its position in the business community.
The Group does not follow a code but operates a payment policy to agreed terms in settling outstanding debts.
For certain types of regular contracted services, the Group encourages direct debit or standing order arrangements.
Most other supplies are on an ad hoc basis and the terms of payment are agreed when the order is placed.
The majority of payments are made by electronic transfer direct to suppliers bank accounts.
The amount of trade creditors shown in the balance sheet at 30 September 2003 represents 51 days 2002: 29 days of average purchases during the year for the Company and 56 days 2002: 33 days for the Group.
Directors shareholdings, share options and conditional share awards The beneficial interests of the Directors at 1 October 2002 and the end of the financial year were: At 30 September 2003 At 1 October 2002 Conditional Conditional share share Shares Options awards Shares Options awards DJ Mansfield 111,320 214,688 141,220 80,972 126,486 73,100 PR Davies 39,895 124,798 85,380 39,895 63,960 44,120 PJ Harris 31,724 100,489 73,020 31,724 47,370 36,540 L Smith 10,679 92,590 66,480 10,679 42,044 22,210 P Cawdron 3,200 3,200 A Illsley 4,200 T Mason P Mitchell 1,000 1,000 B Thomas 2,414 2,030 Please note that, in addition to the individual shareholdings set out above, the Directors are for Companies Act purposes deemed to be interested in the 610,536 Ordinary Shares held in the Capital Radio Employee Trust.
The market value of these shares as at 30 September 2003 was 2,884,783.
There were no changes in the Directors registered interests in the shares of the Company during the period from 1 October 2003 to 13 November 2003.
None of the Directors had any interest in the shares of any subsidiary company.
Further details of options and conditional share awards held by the Directors at 30 September 2003 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
com | 37 Report of the Directors continued Environmental policy The Group recognises the importance of environmental responsibility and, where practicable, has an environmental policy in place for the relevant business areas of the Group.
The nature of its activities has a minimal effect on the environment, but where it does, the Group acts responsibly and is aware of its obligations at all times.
Treasury The Groups financial instruments comprise borrowings, some cash and liquid resources, and various items, such as trade debtors and trade creditors, that arise directly from its operations.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The principal risk arising from the Groups financial instruments is interest rate risk.
The Board has reviewed and agreed policies for managing this risk and this is summarised below.
This policy has remained unchanged since the beginning of the year.
Short-term debtors and creditors that meet the definition of a financial asset or liability under Financial Reporting Standard 13 have been excluded from the disclosures as permitted by the Standard.
Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
The Group borrows at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
The Groups operating activities are principally financed by floating rate borrowings, whereas significant investment and acquisition activities are generally financed through fixed interest borrowings.
Liquidity risk Short-term flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.
The Groups operations are typically cash generative, so exposure to liquidity risk is considered insignificant.
Foreign currency risk The Group has no exposure to foreign currency risk as it has no significant investments or financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies.
Auditors A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors of the Company.
The remuneration and expenses of the Auditors are fully disclosed in note 3 to the Accounts.
By order of the Board Nathalie Schwarz Company Secretary 30 Leicester Square London WC2H 7LA 13 November 2003 Registered Number 923454 38 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Corporate Governance The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
In June 1998 the Combined Code was published which embraces the work of the earlier Cadbury, Greenbury and Hampel Committees.
This statement, together with the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 42 to 52, describes how the Company has applied the principles of good governance as set out in the Combined Code.
A revised version of the Combined Code was published in July 2003 and will apply to the Company for the financial year commencing 1 October 2004.
The Company will, during the current financial year, address what steps will need to be taken to comply with the provisions of the revised Combined Code.
Directors The Board of Capital Radio plc is responsible and accountable for the Groups operations.
Its principal focus is the overall direction and control of the Group.
As at the date of this Report, the Board currently comprises the Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other Executive Directors and four other Non-executive Directors.
Their biographies set out on page 33 illustrate the Directors breadth of experience which should ensure an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of non-executive presence.
All of the Nonexecutive Directors are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Non-executive Directors bring individual judgement to Board decisions and extensive expertise at a senior level of business operation and practice.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and each Director receives appropriate training on appointment and subsequently if necessary.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and, in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
The Board meets monthly throughout the year and the annual programme is approved by the Board.
Currently, the programme includes reviews of strategy together with the operations and results of the main business units, as well as the approval of annual budgets.
Actual results for the Group and individual business units are reported to all Directors each month.
These procedures, together with other regular and ad hoc reports are intended to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information that is appropriate to the discharge of its duties.
The Board reserves to itself certain key matters to approve or monitor, such as the Groups strategic plans, annual operating plan and budget and the Groups operating and financial performance.
The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Executive Committees.
Reflecting the important role played by the independent Non-executive Directors in ensuring high standards of corporate governance, the Audit and Remuneration Committees comprise all the Non-executive Directors.
The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Committees and to the Executive Directors as described below:  The Audit Committee currently comprises the Chairman and all the Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Tony Illsley.
The Committee met three times during the financial year to review the half year and full year results and the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee has also reviewed the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, policies and procedures.
The Group has an internal risk and audit function that conducts a rolling programme of reviews and introduces improvements to the Groups financial controls.
The Committee believes that this function will continue to prove beneficial in identifying and correcting any control deficiencies.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Finance Director and by other Directors and the Groups external and internal auditors as appropriate.
 The Remuneration Committee currently comprises the Chairman and all the Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Peter Mitchell.
The Committee met three times during the year to review the Companys general policy on Executive Remuneration and the application of this policy to the remuneration and benefits of the Executive Directors and other senior executives of the Company.
The Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 42 to 52 contains a more detailed description of the Companys policy and procedures for Executive Remuneration.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chief Executive as appropriate.
com | 39 Corporate Governance continued  The Nominations Committee currently comprises the Chairman and two Non-executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman and meets as required to select and propose to the Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre for appointment as Non-executive Directors.
 The Executive Committee currently comprises the Executive Directors and selected members of senior executive management.
The Committee meets every week and has the responsibility of dealing with the day to day management of the Group.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association currently the nearest number to, but not exceeding, one third of the Board shall retire each year by rotation Directors may submit themselves for re-election.
In practice, all Directors usually offer themselves for re-election at least every three years and the Articles will be amended to reflect this practice when they are next revised.
Details of appointments during the year and Directors retiring and submitting themselves for re-election can be found in the Directors Report on page 35.
Directors remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 42 to 52 and contains a statement of remuneration policy and details of the remuneration of each Director.
Shareholders will be invited to consider separately the Directors Remuneration Report at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 February 2004.
Relations with shareholders The Company maintains an active dialogue with its shareholders through a planned programme of investor relations.
This activity is a keystone of the Companys corporate communications programme and is headed by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
The programme includes formal presentations in London of the Companys full-year and interim results and meetings between institutional investors, analysts and senior management on a regular basis.
Regular communication with shareholders also takes place through the Companys Annual and Interim Reports and via the Company website www.
com which contains up to date information on Group activities.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an important opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders, and also involves a short statement on the Companys latest trading position.
Shareholders may ask questions of the full Board, including the chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The results of the proxy votes submitted by shareholders in respect of each resolution are declared at the Annual General Meeting.
Internal control In September 1999, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance was published to assist Directors in complying with the internal control elements of the Combined Code.
The Financial Services Authority requires all listed companies to follow this guidance when determining the extent of their compliance with the Combined Code.
Associated companies have not been dealt with as part of the Group for the purposes of applying these guidelines.
The Directors acknowledge their overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Although no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet business objectives and can only provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or detected on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Board confirms that there are ongoing procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group and these accord with the Turnbull Guidance which the Board has fully adopted.
These procedures have been in place for the financial year covered in this Annual Report and Accounts and up to the date of its approval, and their effectiveness is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the financial year.
In particular, the Board has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
There are supporting Group policies and procedures for the reporting and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
com The Board has established an internal risk management function to identify, with relevant management, the major business risks facing the Group and put in place appropriate policies and procedures to manage those risks.
Internal and external risks are assessed on a continual basis, and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
These involve a process of control, self-assessment and hierarchical reporting that has been established to provide for a documented trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across Group operations and provide successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
Management regularly reports on its review of the risks and how they are managed to both the Board and the Audit Committee, whose role is to review the key risks inherent in the business and the systems of control necessary to manage those risks.
The Audit Committee presents its findings to the Board as appropriate.
Management also reports to the Board on significant changes in the business and the external environment which affect significant risks.
The Board is provided with monthly financial information, which includes key performance and risk indicators.
Where areas for improvement in the system are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by management and the Audit Committee.
The Board believes that it is not appropriate to establish a separate Risk Committee, as risk is properly the responsibility of the full Board.
The Board reviews the risk management and control process and considers the:  authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in the identification, assessment and management of significant risks faced by the Group:  response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others:  monitoring of reports from Group management:  maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk: and  annual reporting procedures.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Company complied with the requirements of the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the financial year other than those relating to the length of Directors service contracts.
The Executive Directors now all have rolling service contracts with notice periods of 12 months.
However, David Mansfield and Paul Davies previously had notice periods of 18 months.
With effect from the new financial year, David Mansfield and Paul Davies have voluntarily agreed to reduce their notice periods from 18 months to 12 months, without payment of compensation for this amendment.
Going concern The Group continues to generate a strong positive operating cash flow.
As a result the Directors are confident in making the following formal statement on going concern: After making appropriate enquiries, including a review of budgets and other plans, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
com | 41 Directors Remuneration Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2003.
This Report complies with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 which apply to the Company for the first time this year.
The Report also sets out how the principles of the Combined Code relating to Directors remuneration are applied.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee will, during the current financial year, address what steps need to be taken to comply with the provisions of the revised Combined Code relating to Directors remuneration.
The information that has been audited in this report comprises the Directors emoluments table on page 48, the share options table on page 49, the Long-Term Incentive Plan table on page 50 and the pensions disclosure on pages 51 and 52.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 3 February 2004 inviting them to consider and approve this Report.
1 Remuneration Committee The Board has overall responsibility for determining the framework of Executive Remuneration and is required to take account of any recommendations made by the Remuneration Committee.
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee, through formal terms of reference, oversight of the specific remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and consideration of Executive Remuneration issues generally, including the use of share incentive plans.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Peter Mitchell and consists exclusively of independent Non-executive Directors.
Members throughout the course of the financial year were Peter Mitchell, Barbara Thomas, Tim Mason, Peter Cawdron and Tony Illsley.
The Committee, which met three times during the year, reviews and advises the Board on the Companys general policy on Executive Remuneration and applies it when considering the terms of service, remuneration, share options and other benefits of the Executive Directors, including where appropriate severance payments.
The Chief Executive normally attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee, but is not present at any discussions concerning his own remuneration.
The terms of reference permit the Remuneration Committee to obtain its own external advice on any matter at the Companys expense.
The Committee appointed Monks Partnership a division of  and Inbucon Meis to provide external assistance on the selection of comparator companies, market pay guidelines for main board posts and annual bonus and long-term incentive practice within comparator companies for the year ended 30 September 2003.
Monks Partnership also advised on similar matters relating to senior management below Board level.
For the financial year under review, the Committee was also assisted internally by the Companys Director of Human Resources and the Company Secretary.
2 Remuneration policy for Executive Directors The Companys policy on Directors remuneration will continue to apply to each Director for the financial year to 30 September 2004 and, so far as is practicable, for subsequent years.
The Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Companys business environment and in remuneration practice.
Any changes in policy for subsequent years will be described in future reports, which will continue to be subject to shareholder approval.
All statements in this Report in relation to remuneration policy for subsequent years should be considered in this context.
com The Committee aims to provide a competitive remuneration package to attract, retain and motivate the Executive Directors and senior executives of the highest calibre and experience needed to shape and execute the Companys strategy and deliver shareholder value.
The Committee takes account of external market data supplied by independent professional advisers and is sensitive to the wider scene, including pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, especially when determining annual salary increases.
The Committee also takes account of the remuneration paid by the Companys comparator group in the market.
Capital Radio has made a number of changes to Executive Remuneration over the past few years and the Committees policy is for an increasing proportion of executive reward to be variable and dependent upon the Groups performance, and for target performance-related incentives for Executive Directors to equate to well over half of the total potential remuneration.
Variable reward components provide an opportunity for higher levels of remuneration where this is supported by exceptional performance whether at an individual level or in relation to the Groups short-term and longer-term business priorities.
Variable rewards will continue to be provided through a balanced mix of performance-related elements.
The Annual Bonus Scheme supports operational objectives over the financial year, whilst the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan will reward superior performance based on total shareholder return over a longer period and the 1998 Share Option Scheme will support the Companys growth objectives and reward share price improvement.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors consists of:  Basic salary which is based on comparable positions in leading businesses of similar size and complexity.
 Annual bonus scheme which is based on achievement of stretching revenue and financial targets and individual performance-related targets.
The bonus is paid partly in cash and partly in shares with a deferred share element if the individual remains in service for three years.
Details of performance criteria are set out on page 44.
 Share option scheme under which an annual grant of up to 110% of basic salary is made during the financial year at the market price on the date of grant.
Details of performance criteria are set out on page 46.
 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP under which an annual conditional share award of up to 110% of basic salary measured in terms of share price on the date of grant is made during the financial year entitling them, at the end of the three-year period, to a number of shares in the Company determined by reference to the achievement of demanding performance criteria.
Details of performance criteria are set out on page 45.
 Pension a part of the package is to provide appropriate pension arrangements, having regard to individual circumstances.
These are either final salary or money purchase arrangements.
There are no elements of remuneration, other than basic salary, which are pensionable.
 Profit related bonus under which all employees may receive a bonus up to a maximum of 10% of salary, dependent on the Group meeting its profit targets.
Further details of each element of the Executive Directors remuneration package, together with details of interests in shares and share options, are set out below in this Report.
com | 43 Directors Remuneration Report continued Pursuant to the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the following graphs show Capital Radios Cumulative Total Shareholder Return TSR for the five years to 30 September 2003.
This is compared against the Companys specific peers in the FTSE Media and Entertainment Index, as well as for general purposes monitored against the FTSE 250 Index in which the Company is listed and is therefore of interest to our shareholders.
Both of these indices are used as performance criteria for determining the exercisability of share options granted to Directors under the 1998 Share Option Scheme.
Five-year Capital Radio vs FTSE Media Cumulative TSR Five-year Capital Radio vs FTSE 250 Cumulative TSR 350 350 350 350 300 300 300 300 250 250 250 250 200 200 200 200 150 150 150 150 100 100 100 100 50 50 50 50 1999 1999 2000 2000 2001 2001 2002 2002 2003 2003 1999 1999 2000 2000 2001 2001 2002 2002 2003 2003 Capital Radio Capital Radio T TO OT T R Return IND eturn IND Capital Radio Capital Radio T TO OT T R Return IND eturn IND FTSE Media & Entertainment FTSE Media & Entertainment T TO OT T R Re eturn IND turn IND FTSE MID 250 FTSE MID 250 T TO OT T R Return IND eturn IND 3 Executive Director Remuneration a Basic Salary and Benefits In formulating and reviewing pay packages for the Executive Directors, the Committee will normally receive comparator group information and assistance from independent remuneration consultants.
Capital Radios policy has been to maintain a salary structure based upon the mid-market of its comparator group of companies.
The Company structures remuneration packages appropriate to the particular function and level of responsibility of each individual executive designed to attract, retain and motivate the individuals.
It takes into account the remuneration structures and levels at other companies, in particular in the media sector.
The Remuneration Committee is made aware of pay conditions around the Group when it is considering annual salary increases.
All Executive Directors receive company car and private healthcare benefits.
Life and disability insurance is provided as part of the pension arrangements for each Executive Director.
b Annual Bonus Scheme The Company operates an annual bonus scheme which is reviewed each year by the Remuneration Committee and under which each Director is able to earn a bonus of a maximum of 100% of basic salary, dependent upon performance conditions being met.
The bonus is payable 65% in cash and 35% in shares.
The cash element and half of the share allocation is payable immediately after announcement of financial results for the financial year.
The remaining balance of the shares will be awarded after three years, provided the Director is still in employment and has retained his original share allocation.
The value of the deferred element is derived from annual bonus criteria and the release of shares under this element is not dependent on satisfaction of a further performance condition.
For the financial year ended 30 September 2003, challenging performance targets were set on a sliding scale and included a mix of financial and strategic measures whereby a maximum of 80% of basic salary is payable for achievement of targets for the Group underlying profit before tax and a maximum of 20% of basic salary is payable for achievement of personal targets.
com c Share Incentive Plans It is the Remuneration Committees policy that Executive Directors should participate in the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the 1998 Share Option Scheme because these schemes align the Directors interests with those of our shareholders by linking the reward available to participants to total shareholder return and share price performance respectively.
Executive Directors may also participate in the Capital Radio Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE, which was adopted in January 1995, and which is open to all full time members of the Group who have been employed for more than 12 months at the date of grant of the options.
Details of all share incentive awards outstanding for each Executive Director are set out on page 49.
All Directors future entitlements are subject to the performance conditions applicable to the relevant scheme as set out below: Long-Term Incentive Plan Under the LTIP, the Executive Directors may be granted each year up to 110% of basic salary measured in terms of share price on date of grant in conditional performance-related awards entitling them, at the end of a three-year period, to a number of shares in the Company determined by reference to growth in total shareholder return over that period.
Total shareholder return TSR is defined as the aggregate of a the increase or decrease in the market value of a share over the three-year period, b the aggregate of gross dividends paid in respect of a share over the three-year period and c the value arising from the re-investment of those dividends in further shares.
The figure is then expressed as an inflation-adjusted compound annual rate of growth over the market value of a share at the start of that period.
Awards generally lapse if a participant leaves the employment of the Group before the end of the three-year period.
The Remuneration Committee selected this performance condition for the LTIP because it aligns the Directors interests with those of our shareholders by linking the reward available to participants to total shareholder return growth achieved by the Company.
The extent to which a participants conditional award vests at the end of the three-year period is set out in the following table: Percentage Total annual of conditional shareholder return award realisable Up to 7.5% 0% Above 7.5% and up to 8.5% 25% Above 8.5% and up to 9.5% 30% Above 9.5% and up to 10.5% 35% Above 10.5% and up to 11.5% 40% Above 11.5% and up to 12.5% 45% Above 12.5% and up to 13.0% 50% Above 13.0% and up to 14.0% 60% Above 14.0% and up to 15.0% 70% Above 15.0% and up to 17.5% 80% Above 17.5% and up to 20.0% 90% Above 20.0% 100% Awards under the LTIP can be satisfied by the issue of new Ordinary Shares, as well as the purchase of existing Ordinary Shares.
Any new Ordinary Shares issued under the Plan would count towards the overall limits on the percentage of the Companys equity which may be issued for employee share scheme purposes.
The LTIP is operated in conjunction with a discretionary trust operated by an independent Trustee.
Cash amounts may be lent by the Company to the Trustee in order to acquire shares on the London Stock Exchange for the purpose of fulfiling the awards.
The cost of funding projected awards under the Plan is amortised over the performance period of three years in accordance with guidance given by the Accounting Standards Board.
com | 45 Directors Remuneration Report continued 1998 Share Option Scheme It is the Remuneration Committees policy that the value of options granted to Executive Directors each year measured in terms of the exercise prices of those options under the 1998 Share Option Scheme should not exceed 110% of the individuals base salary, other than in exceptional circumstances.
Share option awards granted to the Executive Directors are subject to stringent performance conditions.
First, in common with other participants in the scheme, options will only normally be exercisable if the growth in the Companys earnings per share in any three-year period between the grant and exercise exceeds the growth in the Retail Prices Index over the same period by an average of at least 3% per annum.
Secondly, options granted to Executive Directors are split into two separate option pools: each pool will have its own separate hurdle, performance against which will be measured at the third, fourth or fifth anniversaries of grant the Test Dates.
In the case of one half of the shares under option, the performance target will relate to the Companys percentage share price growth compared to the percentage growth in the FTSE 250 Index.
If at one of the three Test Dates, the Companys percentage share price growth equals or exceeds the percentage growth in the FTSE 250 Index over the same period share price growth being computed on the same basis as Index growth, then 50% of the option would be exercisable.
If the Companys percentage share price growth exceeds the percentage growth in the FTSE 250 Index by at least 25%, then 75% of that half of the option would be exercisable.
If the Companys percentage share price growth exceeds the percentage growth in the FTSE 250 Index by at least 50%, then that half of the option would be exercisable in full.
In the case of the other half of the shares under option, the performance target will relate to the Companys TSR ranking against a comparator group.
The comparator group is the Media and Entertainment Index on the date of grant at each award a copy of the full list of comparator companies is available from the Company on request.
If at one of the three Test Dates the Company ranks at the median point, 50% of the shares under the option would be exercisable: if the Company ranks at the 65th percentile, 75% of the shares under the options would be exercisable: at the 75th percentile, all of the shares under the option would be exercisable.
In relation to each type of target the level of exercisability will increase if the Companys performance improves between the three Test Dates, provided that the relevant option has not been exercised.
Once a particular level of exercisability has been attained, an option holder who delays exercise will not be prejudiced if performance subsequently falls.
The Remuneration Committee selected these performance conditions for the 1998 Share Option Scheme because they align Directors interests with those of our shareholders by linking the reward available to participants to the share price performance of the Company relative to two key indices used by shareholders the FTSE 250 Index and the Media and Entertainment Index.
d Service Contracts The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews all aspects of executive service contracts in the light of current practice and the specific circumstances of the Group.
All the Executive Directors now hold contracts terminable on 12 months notice.
The notice period for David Mansfield and Paul Davies had previously been 18 months.
However, with effect from 1 October 2003, both David Mansfield and Paul Davies have voluntarily agreed to reduce their notice from 18 months to 12 months without payment of compensation by the Company.
It is the Committees policy that, for new appointments, the notice period should be 12 months.
The Committee recognises the advantage of service contracts including an explicit calculation of compensation payable on early termination, other than for misconduct or in other circumstances justifying summary termination.
The Committee believes that it is in the best interests of shareholders to retain key Executive Directors whilst providing certainty, and facilitating a speedy and clean break on early termination by agreeing liquidated damages which reflect a discount to take account of an agreed level of mitigation.
com Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract, the notice periods of which are described below: David Mansfield was appointed a director in January 1993.
His service contract, which is dated 5 February 2001, provides for a rolling notice period of 12 months.
It can be terminated by the Company on 12 months notice, or by Mr Mansfield on 12 months notice.
The Company may at its discretion terminate the service contract without notice and make a payment in lieu of notice to Mr Mansfield equal to 95% of the sum of 12 months salary and the value of other benefits including annual bonus.
In the event of a constructive dismissal, Mr Mansfield is entitled to receive liquidated damages equal to the amount calculated on the basis of a termination by the Company.
Paul Davies was appointed a director in October 1997.
His service contract, which is dated 23 January 2001, provides for a rolling notice period of 12 months.
It can be terminated by the Company on 12 months notice, or by Mr Davies on 12 months notice.
The Company may at its discretion terminate the service contract without notice and make a payment in lieu of notice to Mr Davies equal to 95 % of the sum of 12 months salary and the value of other benefits including annual bonus.
In the event of a constructive dismissal, Mr Davies is entitled to receive liquidated damages equal to the amount calculated on the basis of a termination by the Company.
Peter Harris was appointed a director in September 1996.
It can be terminated by the Company on 12 months notice, or by Mr Harris on 12 months notice.
The Company may at its discretion terminate the service contract without notice and make a payment in lieu of notice to Mr Harris equal to 95% of the sum of 12 months salary and the value of other benefits including annual bonus.
In the event of a constructive dismissal, Mr Harris is entitled to receive liquidated damages equal to the amount calculated on the basis of a termination by the Company.
Linda Smith was appointed a director in February 2002.
Her service contract, which is dated 14 February 2003, provides for a rolling notice period of 12 months.
It can be terminated by the Company on 12 months notice, or by Ms Smith on 12 months notice.
The Company may at its discretion terminate the service contract without notice and make a payment in lieu of notice to Ms Smith equal to 95% of the sum of 12 months salary and the value of other benefits including annual bonus.
In the event of a constructive dismissal, Ms Smith is entitled to receive liquidated damages equal to the amount calculated on the basis of a termination by the Company.
e External Appointments Capital Radio recognises that its Directors may be invited to become Non-executive Directors of other companies or to become involved in charitable or public service organisations.
As the Board believes that this can broaden the knowledge and experience of the Companys directors to the benefit of Capital Radio, it is the Companys policy to approve such appointments provided there is no conflict of interest and the commitment required is not excessive.
The Director concerned can retain the fees relating to any such appointment.
None of the Executive Directors hold any significant business Directorships which are not directly related to the business of the Group.
Fees payable in relation to the services of Directors representing the Group on the boards of other companies are received and retained by the Group.
4 Non-executive Directors a Remuneration Policy for Non-executive Directors The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
Non-executive Directors receive an annual fee and are reimbursed expenses incurred in attending meetings.
They do not receive any performance related bonuses, pensions provision, share options or other forms of benefit.
Subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Board intends to increase the aggregate of fees payable to Non-executive Directors.
The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Board.
In reaching future decisions on appropriate levels of pay, the Board will continue to have regard to the packages awarded to Chairmen of other UK listed companies of a similar size and complexity.
com | 47 Directors Remuneration Report continued The President is paid a fee of 13,000, which has not increased since his appointment in 1992. b Appointment of Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years.
Their appointment can be terminated by the Company giving notice in writing.
Re-appointment may be made after one or two three-year terms.
In special circumstances, Non-executive Directors may be re-appointed for a third three-year term.
Any re-appointment beyond three terms of three years would be subject to annual review.
Non-executive Directors serve the Company under letters of appointment and do not have service contracts.
Directors remuneration The remuneration excluding pension contributions which are set out on page 52 of each of the Directors and the President for the year ended 30 September 2003 was as follows: Salary Benefits 2003 2002 and fees Bonus in kind Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors: DJ Mansfield 383 81 23 487 381 PR Davies 232 46 14 292 230 PJ Harris 202 43 14 259 193 L Smith 192 62 13 267 140 Total: Executive Directors 1,009 232 64 1,305 944 Other Directors: P Cawdron Chairman 90 90 71 A Illsley 34 34 32 T Mason 30 30 30 P Mitchell 34 34 34 B Thomas 30 30 30 IAN Irvine retired January 2002 25 Total: Other Directors 218 218 222 Total Directors remuneration 1,227 232 64 1,523 1,166 President Lord Attenborough 13 13 13 The benefits in kind shown in the above table relate principally to a fully expensed company car and medical health cover for the Directors and their immediate family.
com Share Incentive Plans The total interests of current Directors in the issued share capital of the Company are shown on page 37.
Options were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant and are exercisable during the period between three and ten years from the date of grant.
The exercise of share options under the Capital Radio 1986 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme is not subject to satisfaction of a performance condition as it was not market practice to impose such a condition at the time the scheme was implemented.
The last grants were made in December 1996 and no further grants can be made under this scheme.
The exercise of share options under the Capital Radio Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE is not subject to satisfaction of a performance condition as the scheme is Inland Revenue approved and open to all eligible employees.
Details of the performance conditions applicable to options granted under the 1998 Share Option Scheme are described on page 46 of this Report.
As at 30 September 2003, the market price of the Companys Ordinary Shares of 2.5p was 4.725.
During the year ended on that date, the share price moved within the range of 3.575 and 5.90.
com | 49 Directors Remuneration Report continued David Mansfield exercised a share option on 18 June 2003, shortly before it was due to expire having been held by David Mansfield since 1993.
The market price of an Ordinary Share at the time of exercise of the option was 515p.
The total gain made by David Mansfield was 35,494.
This was the only option exercised by a Director during the year.
Details of the shares conditionally awarded to the Directors under the LTIP are given in the table below.
Subject to the conditions described earlier in this Report on page 45, a proportion of the shares will vest with the individuals on the vesting dates.
The awards made in November 2000, November 2001, November 2002 and January 2003 vest in November 2003, November 2004, November 2005 and January 2006 respectively.
At the date of this Report the performance percentage, reflecting performance to date, was 0% for the awards vesting in November 2003, November 2004 and November 2005 and 35% for the awards vesting in January 2006.
At the Annual General Meeting on 23 January 2003, shareholders approved an amendment to the rules of the LTIP which had the effect of varying existing awards under the plan.
The rules were amended so that the number of shares which are realisable following a change of control of the Company is determined by the Remuneration Committee at its discretion having regard to the performance of the Company and management over the shortened test period ending with the change of control.
This reflected the principle that there should be no automatic vesting of shares on change of control as set out in the latest guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers.
com Details of the shares to which the Directors are conditionally entitled in connection with the deferred share element of the Annual Bonus Scheme further details of which are set out on page 44 are set out below: Shares Shares Shares 1 October awarded vested lapsed 30 September Vesting 2002 in year in year in year 2003 date DJ Mansfield 4,293 4,293 15 11 03 PR Davies 2,602 2,602 15 11 03 PJ Harris 2,146 2,146 15 11 03 L Smith 449 449 15 11 03 The shares vesting on 15 November 2003 were awarded on 15 November 2000.
The market price of an Ordinary Share at the time of award was 1320p.
Pension Schemes David Mansfield and Paul Davies are members of the Capital Radio Final Salary Pension and Assurance Scheme the Defined Benefit Scheme.
The first table below shows pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values under the Defined Benefit Scheme.
Peter Harris and Linda Smith are members of the Capital Radio Group Personal Pension Plan the Group Personal Pension Plan, to which the Company contributes.
In addition, the Company contributes to Personal Money Purchase Pension Schemes and Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Schemes FURBS on behalf of all of the Executive Directors.
The second table shows the amounts paid as money purchase contributions to the Executive Directors.
Defined Benefit Scheme Transfer Transfer Increase in Increase in Increase in value value transfer Accrued accrued accrued of accrued of accrued value pension at pension pension Transfer rights at rights at net of 30 September excluding including value of 30 September 30 September members 2003 inflation inflation increase 2003 2002contributions DJ Mansfield 13,200 1,477 1,672 48,426 127,389 72,537 51,936 PR Davies 63,075 6,025 6,979 210,777 571,017 326,866 237,427 The accrued pension for the highest paid Director for the financial year ended 30 September 2002 was 11,528.
com | 51 Directors Remuneration Report continued Money Purchase Schemes In the financial year, the Company contributed the following amounts to Personal Pension Plans on behalf of the Directors: Money Personal Total Total FURBS purchase pension plan 2003 2002 DJ Mansfield 88,300 88,300 82,513 PR Davies 27,840 27,840 25,953 PJ Harris 34,920 19,620 54,540 49,386 L Smith 52,153 15,000 67,153 17,209 Included within these amounts are payments enabling the directors to discharge their income tax liability on the contributions made by the Company into the FURBS pension scheme.
This Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Nathalie Schwarz Company Secretary 30 Leicester Square London WC2H 7LA 13 November 2003 52 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those accounts the Directors are required to:  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently:  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent:  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and  prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
com | 53 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital Radio plc We have audited the accounts on pages 56 to 81.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Directors Remuneration Report.
As described on page 53 this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on page 41 reflects the Companys compliance with those provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
com Opinion In our opinion:  the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 September 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and  the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 13 November 2003 Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 55 Group Profit and Loss Account For the year ended 30 September 2003 2003 2002 Note 000 000 Turnover 2 115,328 120,004 Operating profit Before goodwill and exceptional operating costs 2 21,982 27,930 Exceptional operating costs 2, 4 3,576 Amortisation of goodwill 2 9,372 9,372 Operating profit 3 12,610 14,982 Share of operating profit of associated companies 4 2,113 1,144 Profit on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 2 14,723 16,126 Net interest payable and similar items 6 1,465 1,477 Underlying profit before taxation 4 22,795 27,762 Goodwill and exceptional items 4 9,537 13,113 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 13,258 14,649 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 7 6,939 7,472 Profit for the financial year 6,319 7,177 Dividends 9 15,191 15,197 Retained loss for the financial year 18 8,872 8,020 Basic earnings per share 10 7.7p 8.8p Loss per share on goodwill and exceptional items after taxation 11.6p 14.7p Underlying basic earnings per share 10 19.3p 23.5p Diluted earnings per share 10 7.7p 8.8p 56 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Group Balance Sheet 30 September 2003 2003 2002 Note 000 000 Fixed assets Intangible assets goodwill 11 152,076 161,448 Tangible fixed assets 12 16,858 16,387 Investments 13 5,656 5,905 174,590 183,740 Current assets Debtors 14 20,958 20,081 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 15 63,323 62,938 Net current liabilities 42,365 42,857 Net assets 132,225 140,883 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 17 2,075 2,055 Share premium account 18 78,965 75,516 Merger reserve 18 23,767 23,767 Profit and loss account 18 27,418 39,545 Equity shareholders funds 132,225 140,883 These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 November 2003 and were signed on its behalf by: Peter Cawdron Chairman David Mansfield Group Chief Executive Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 57 Group Cash Flow Statement For the year ended 30 September 2003 2003 2002 Note 000 000 000 000 Net cash inflow from operating activities 19 26,962 30,081 Dividends from associated undertakings 1,684 1,029 28,646 31,110 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Interest received and similar income 35 240 Interest paid 1,661 1,676 Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 1,626 1,436 Taxation paid 7,117 6,128 Capital expenditure and financial investments Proceeds from sale of tangible fixed assets 76 71 Purchase of tangible fixed assets 3,541 2,198 Cash outflow on capital expenditure 3,465 2,127 Acquisitions and disposals 20 145 2,644 Cash outflow from equity dividends paid 15,180 15,141 Cash inflow before financing 1,403 3,634 Cash outflow from financing 21 2,686 9,730 Decrease in cash in the period 1,283 6,096 Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt note 22 Decrease in cash in the period 1,283 6,096 Cash flow from increase decrease in bank loans and overdrafts 1,500 6,000 Repayment of finance leases 31 227 Repayment of loan notes 4,186 3,771 Movement in net debt in the period 1,434 3,902 Net debt at 1 October 28,999 32,901 Net debt at 30 September 22 27,565 28,999 58 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds For the year ended 30 September 2003 2003 2002 000 000 Group Profit for the financial year 6,319 7,177 Dividends 15,191 15,197 Retained loss for the financial year 8,872 8,020 New share capital issued 31 2,938 Movement on QUEST 183 303 Net decrease in shareholders funds 8,658 5,385 Shareholders funds at beginning of year 140,883 146,268 Shareholders funds at end of year 132,225 140,883 Company Profit for the financial year note 8 6,770 10,964 Dividends 15,191 15,197 Retained loss for the financial year 8,421 4,233 New share capital issued 31 2,938 Movement on QUEST 183 11 Net decrease in shareholders funds 8,207 1,284 Shareholders funds at beginning of year 174,747 176,031 Shareholders funds at end of year 166,540 174,747 Statement of Group Total Recognised Gains and Losses For the year ended 30 September 2003 2003 2002 000 000 Group Profit for the financial year: Group 4,888 6,387 Share of associates 1,431 790 Total gains and losses recognised since last annual report 6,319 7,177 Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 59 Company Balance Sheet 30 September 2003 2003 2002 Note 000 000 Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets 12 10,346 9,401 Investments 13 245,663 245,947 256,009 255,348 Current assets Debtors 14 52,895 51,967 52,895 51,967 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 15 142,341 132,568 Net current liabilities 89,446 80,601 Total assets less current liabilities 166,563 174,747 Provisions for liabilities and charges 16 23 Net assets 166,540 174,747 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 17 2,075 2,055 Share premium account 18 78,965 75,516 Revaluation reserve 18 429 429 Merger reserve 18 37,242 37,242 Profit and loss account 18 47,829 59,505 Equity shareholders funds 166,540 174,747 These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 November 2003 and were signed on its behalf by: Peter Cawdron Chairman David Mansfield Group Chief Executive 60 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Notes forming part of the Accounts 1 Accounting policies A summary of the principal Group accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year, is set out below.
a Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost accounting rules and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
b Basis of consolidation i The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 September 2003.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
An associate is an undertaking in which the Group has a long-term interest, usually from 20% to 50% of the equity voting rights, and over which it exercises significant influence.
The Groups share of the profits less losses of associates is included in the consolidated profit and loss account and its interest in their net assets is included in the consolidated balance sheet.
Other fixed asset investments in the Group accounts, and all fixed assets in the accounts of the Company, are stated at cost less amounts written off in respect of any impairment in value.
ii Purchased goodwill both positive and negative arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions before 1 October 1997, when Financial Reporting Standard 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, was adopted, was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent disposal occurs any related goodwill previously written off to reserves is written back through the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given and any related costs over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 1 October 1997 is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful life, being deemed to be 20 years.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business acquired since 1 October 1997, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging crediting the unamortised amount of any related goodwill negative goodwill.
iii Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The profit for the financial year dealt with in the financial statements of the holding company was 6,770,000 2002: 10,964,000.
com | 61 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued c Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Freehold buildings 2%-4% per annum Long leasehold premises 4%-6% per annum Short leasehold premises over the term of the lease, or where the lease is renewable, 5% Office and studio equipment 10%-20% per annum Digital equipment over the term of the contract Computer equipment 33% per annum Motor vehicles 25% per annum Freehold land is not depreciated.
d Investments In the Companys accounts investments in subsidiary companies are stated at cost less provisions where, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been an impairment in the value of the investment.
Dividends receivable from subsidiary companies are credited to the Companys profit and loss account.
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions where, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been an impairment in the value of the investment.
e Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by Financial Reporting Standard 19, Deferred Tax.
f Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
g Finance leases Assets held under finance lease agreements are included in tangible fixed assets and are depreciated in accordance with the depreciation policy.
Obligations under such agreements are included in creditors net of finance charges allocated to future periods.
Finance charges are taken to the profit and loss account so that the annual rate of charge on the outstanding obligation at the end of each accounting period is approximately constant.
h Turnover Turnover comprises income from the sale of advertising airtime, sponsorship and promotions net of agencies commissions and income from advertising on the Internet.
Turnover is stated excluding VAT, trade discounts, and intra group transactions and derives from goods and services provided in the normal course of business.
Airtime revenue is recognised on the date of broadcast.
Sponsorship revenue is recognised over the life of the contract.
Internet advertising is recognised evenly over the life of the contract.
i Licences Expenditure incurred on the purchase of licences and successful applications and re-applications for licences is written off to the profit and loss account as it is incurred.
com j Pensions The Group provides for and funds pension liabilities on a going concern basis, on the advice of external actuaries.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account is calculated to produce a level percentage of the current and future pensionable payroll.
The Group has adopted the transitional arrangements under Financial Reporting Standard 17, Retirement Benefits, and these disclosures can be found in note 23. k Own shares held under trust Shares in the Company issued to cover SAYE schemes are held in a qualifying Share Ownership Trust QUEST.
Shares in the Company issued to cover the Long-Term Incentive Plan Capital Radio Restricted Share Plan are held in the Capital Radio Employee Trust.
l Employee share schemes The cost of awards to employees that take the form of shares or rights to shares are recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the employees related performance.
Where there are no performance criteria, the cost is recognised when the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
No cost is recognised in respect of SAYE schemes that are offered on similar terms to all or substantially all employees.
Shares acquired by the Trustee of the Long-Term Incentive Plan funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company are classified as fixed asset investments until such time as the shares vest unconditionally in employees.
m Development expenditure Development expenditure is written off to the profit and loss account in the year in which it is incurred.
All exceptional costs relate to analogue commercial radio activities.
Net assets cannot be split between analogue and digital.
During the year the Group entered into Barter agreements worth 407,000 2002: 206,000.
This is recognised at the Companys airtime rates in accordance with UITF 26.
3 Operating profit 2003 2002 000 000 Turnover 115,328 120,004 Direct costs 14,406 14,843 Gross profit 100,922 105,161 Staff costs 27,827 27,065 Other operating charges 48,078 46,583 Exceptional operating costs 3,576 48,078 50,159 Depreciation and amortisation 12,407 12,955 Operating profit 12,610 14,982 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging crediting the following items: 2003 2002 000 000 Hire of plant or machinery 869 921 Other operating lease charges 2,062 1,801 Auditors remuneration: Audit services 100 99 Further assurance services 24 27 Tax services 54 21 Other services 3 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 41 30 Profit on disposal of investment 20 Fees paid to the auditor for the audit of the Company amounted to 25,000 2002: 25,000.
Auditors fees have been reviewed by the Audit Committee.
com 4 Underlying profit before taxation Underlying profit before taxation has been calculated as follows: 2003 2002 000 000 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 13,258 14,649 Restructuring costs 3,576 Amounts written off goodwill radio 9,372 9,372 Amounts written off goodwill associates 165 165 Net excluded items 9,537 13,113 Underlying profit before taxation 22,795 27,762 Restructuring costs in 2002 related to costs incurred in re-aligning the Groups operations along brand lines and into one commercial division.
These costs consisted of redundancies, consultancy fees and fixed asset write-offs of 319,000.
5 Staff The aggregate payroll costs of the persons employed by the Group during the year were as follows: 2003 2002 000 000 Wages and salaries 23,441 23,403 Social security costs 2,589 2,538 Other pension costs see note 23 1,317 1,124 27,347 27,065 Redundancy costs included within exceptional operating costs in 2002 480 1,477 27,827 28,542 The above analysis includes the costs relating to Directors.
The figures exclude radio presenters engaged under short-term and part-time contracts.
The total cost of these persons amounted to 8,937,000 2002: 8,970,000.
The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year was as follows: 2003 2002 Number Number Radio: Management and administration 152 173 Sales 315 319 Programming 168 170 Engineering 27 25 662 687 Details of individual Directors emoluments, pension entitlements, long-term incentive schemes and share options including gains on exercise are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 52.
com | 65 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 6 Net interest payable and similar items 2003 2002 000 000 Interest receivable and similar income: Bank interest 40 240 Bank interest attributable to associated undertakings 60 95 100 335 Interest payable and similar charges: Bank loan and overdrafts, wholly repayable within 5 years 1,444 1,415 Interest on Capital Radio plc loan notes 114 338 Hire purchase, finance leases and other interest 1 19 Bank interest attributable to associated undertakings 6 40 1,565 1,812 1,465 1,477 7 Taxation 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 Corporation tax at 30% 6,215 7,539 Share of associated companies taxation 736 409 Adjustment relating to prior years 130 42 Total current tax 6,821 7,990 Deferred tax see note 16 Origination reversal of timing differences 250 226 Adjustment in respect of prior years 132 292 118 518 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 6,939 7,472 Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The current tax charge for the year is higher 2002: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30%.
The differences are explained below: 2003 2002 000 000 Current tax reconciliation Profit on ordinary activities before tax 13,258 14,649 Current tax at 30% 2002: 30% 3,977 4,395 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes: Goodwill amortisation including that in respect of associated undertakings 2,861 2,861 Other 99 554 Depreciation for period in excess of capital allowances 14 171 Utilisation of tax losses 33 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods 130 42 Total current tax charge see above 6,821 7,990 66 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com 8 Profit for the financial year The profit for the financial year dealt with in the accounts of the Company was 6,770,000 2002: 10,964,000.
A reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds is shown on page 59.
9 Dividends 2003 2002 000 000 Interim dividend of 6.0p 2002: 6.0p per share, paid on 20 June 2003 4,925 4,921 Proposed final dividend of 12.5p 2002: 12.5p per share, to be paid on 6 February 2004 10,266 10,276 Total dividend of 18.5p 2002: 18.5p per share 15,191 15,197 Shares held in the Capital Radio Employee Trust, Capital Radio Restricted Share Plan and QUEST have waived their right to receive dividends.
10 Earnings per share The calculation of earnings per share is based on the profit after taxation of 6,319,000 2002: 7,177,000 and on the weighted average of 82,070,658 2002: 82,014,070 Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
The underlying earnings per share from operations is included to show the effect of adjusting for the impact of goodwill and restructuring costs which results in earnings increasing by 9,537,000 2002: 13,113,000, see note 4.
After the effect of a related tax credit of nil 2002: 977,000, this results in earnings of 15,856,000 2002: 19,313,000.
Dilution increases the weighted average number of shares to 82,160,899 2002: 82,040,322.
The dilution effect is caused by the inclusion of 90,242 share options 2002: 26,252.
There is no change in profit after taxation.
11 Intangible assets goodwill 000 Group Book value Beginning and end of year 192,136 Amortisation Beginning of year 30,688 Provided during the year 9,372 End of year 40,060 Net book value Beginning of year 161,448 End of year 152,076 Capital Radio plc | www.
The depreciation charge in respect of these assets amounted to 61,000 2002: 82,000.
The gross book value of freehold property includes 1,488,000 2002: 1,488,000 of depreciable assets.
com 13 Fixed asset investments Details of the Groups principal investments are given on page 82.
Associated Other Own companies investments shares Total 000 000 000 000 Group Book value Beginning of year 5,637 622 626 6,885 Additions 72 72 Disposals 111 30 141 Share of retained profits 207 207 End of year 5,805 592 626 7,023 Provisions Beginning of year 165 575 240 980 Provided during the year 222 222 Amortisation of goodwill 165 165 End of year 330 575 462 1,367 Net book value Beginning of year 5,472 47 386 5,905 End of year 5,475 17 164 5,656 Fixed asset investments comprise: Beginning of year Unlisted investments 5,472 47 5,519 Listed investments 386 386 Total 5,472 47 386 5,905 End of year Unlisted investments 5,475 17 5,492 Listed investments 164 164 Total 5,475 17 164 5,656 Market value of listed investments Beginning of year 463 463 End of year 446 446 Included within associated companies is goodwill of 2,974,000 2002: 3,139,000 which arose on the acquisition of 19% of Choice FM Tainside Limited.
com | 69 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 13 Fixed asset investments continued Subsidiary Associated Other Own companies companies investments shares Total 000 000 000 000 000 Company Book value Beginning of year 293,570 4,801 614 626 299,611 Additions 7 72 79 Disposals 111 30 141 End of year 293,577 4,762 584 626 299,549 Provisions Beginning of year 52,437 415 572 240 53,664 Provided during the year 222 222 End of year 52,437 415 572 462 53,886 Net book value Beginning of year 241,133 4,386 42 386 245,947 End of year 241,140 4,347 12 164 245,663 Fixed asset investments comprise: Beginning of year Unlisted investments 241,133 4,386 42 245,561 Listed investments 386 386 Total 241,133 4,386 42 386 245,947 End of year Unlisted investments 241,140 4,347 12 245,499 Listed investments 164 164 Total 241,140 4,347 12 164 245,663 Own shares in both the Group and Company represents shares in Capital Radio plc acquired by the Trustee of the Capital Radio Restricted Share Plan to satisfy potential future obligations to award shares under the Plan.
In accordance with guidance given by the Urgent Issues Task Force the cost of these shares is amortised over three years, being the period of service in respect of which conditional awards have been made.
Further details of the Plan are given on page 45.
14 Debtors Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 Restated Restated 000 000 000 000 Amounts falling due within one year: Trade debtors 14,032 13,207 14,032 13,207 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 34,348 34,281 Deferred tax asset see note 16 400 518 95 Other debtors 1,133 761 878 542 Prepayments and accrued income 4,426 4,643 2,670 2,890 19,991 19,129 51,928 51,015 Amounts falling due after more than one year: Prepayments and accrued income 967 952 967 952 967 952 967 952 Total 20,958 20,081 52,895 51,967 2002 is restated for reclassification of credit balances held within trade debtors.
com 15 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 Restated Restated 000 000 000 000 Bank loans and overdrafts 25,771 22,988 25,785 23,002 Loan notes see note below 1,794 5,980 1,794 5,980 Finance leases 31 Trade creditors 10,921 7,327 10,139 6,793 Other creditors 1,966 4,148 1,590 3,660 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 86,176 78,182 Corporation tax payable 4,104 5,136 243 113 Proposed dividend 10,266 10,276 10,266 10,276 Other taxation and social security 2,890 2,340 2,890 2,340 Accruals and deferred income 5,611 4,712 3,458 2,222 63,323 62,938 142,341 132,568 2002 trade creditors is restated for reclassification of credit balances held within trade debtors.
The floating rate bank loans carry interest at 0.8% over London Inter-Bank Offered Rates LIBOR and are repayable by 31 March 2004.
Bank overdrafts carry interest at 1% over bank base rate and are repayable on demand.
Capital Radio plc loan notes Capital Radio plc loan notes amounting to 420,000 were redeemed by the Company on 31 July 2003.
The loan notes were issued in July 1998 over a five-year term.
Interest was paid six monthly in arrears at 1% below LIBOR.
Capital Radio plc loan notes amounting to 1,660,000 2002: 5,426,000 were issued in June 2000 and have a five-year term.
Interest is paid six monthly in arrears at 1% below LIBOR.
The loan notes may be redeemed at the holders option on interest dates until 2005, or by the Company on 31 March 2005.
Capital Radio plc loan notes amounting to 134,000 2002: 134,000 were issued in August 2000 and have a five-year term.
com | 71 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 16 Provisions for liabilities and charges Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 Deferred taxation at 1 October 2002 Charge to the profit and loss for the year: Additional amounts provided 23 Deferred taxation at 30 September 2003 23 The elements of deferred taxation are as follows: Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 Accelerated capital allowances 85 67 360 192 Other timing differences 369 352 337 287 Tax losses 116 99 Deferred tax asset see note 14 400 518 95 Deferred tax liability 23 No account has been taken of UK tax losses which are not expected to be utilised in the foreseeable future.
The total amount unprovided in respect of these losses is 1,300,000 2002: 1,300,000.
17 Share capital 2003 2002 000 000 Authorised 100,000,000 2002: 100,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each 2,500 2,500 Allotted, called-up and fully paid 82,990,505 2002: 82,211,330 Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each 2,075 2,055 The increase in the issued share capital was due to: Number Number Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each issued fully paid during the year: on acquisitions 260,253 on issue of own shares to LTIP 516,129 133,700 on issue to QUEST not exercised 250,000 on exercise of option rights 13,046 57,578 779,175 451,531 72 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com 17 Share capital continued At 30 September 2003, the Company had options outstanding to subscribe for 3,796,534 2002: 2,750,204 Ordinary Shares.
Details of the outstanding options are as follows: Option Number of Exercise shares price Exercisable not Grant date under option pence earlier than Capital Radio 1986 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme December 1994 24,100 332 December 1997 December 1996 24,300 540 December 1999 Capital Radio Savings Related Share Option Scheme December 1998 20,858 448 February 2004 December 1999 13,520 897 February 2005 December 2000 5,664 1054 February 2006 December 2001 45,169 614 February 2007 December 2002 307,134 428 February 2008 Capital Radio 1998 Share Option Scheme March 1998 151,855 633 March 2001 November 1998 234,958 541 November 2001 June 1999 48,243 865 May 2002 November 1999 182,718 1224 November 2002 May 2000 72,685 1262 May 2003 November 2000 297,933 1172 November 2003 December 2000 16,204 1172 December 2003 February 2001 70,067 1080 February 2004 May 2001 131,229 765 May 2004 November 2001 373,897 815 November 2004 January 2002 109,059 705 January 2005 May 2002 110,394 772 May 2005 June 2002 54,264 645 June 2005 July 2002 79,734 667 July 2005 November 2002 636,077 502 November 2005 May 2003 557,211 427 May 2006 Capital Radio Presenters Share Option Scheme March 2000 54,794 1825 March 2003 December 2000 40,358 1115 December 2003 July 2001 38,759 645 July 2004 November 2001 30,674 815 November 2004 November 2002 64,676 502 November 2005 During the year, options over 59,750 Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each were exercised, of which 46,704 were issued through the QUEST, for a total consideration of 183,000, resulting in an increase in the share premium account of 31,000.
Options over 459,533 shares lapsed during the year.
The number of shares held in the QUEST as at 30 September 2003 was 284,365 and their market value was 1,344,000.
Share options under the Capital Radio 1986 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme and the Capital Radio 1998 Share Option Scheme and the Capital Radio Presenters Share Option Scheme expire ten years after the date of grant.
Options under the Capital Radio Savings Related Share Option Scheme expire six months after the date on which they can first be exercised.
com | 73 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 18 Reserves The movement on reserves during the year was as follows: Profit Share Revaluation Merger and loss premium reserve reserve account 000 000 000 000 Group Beginning of year 75,516 23,767 39,545 Retained loss for the year 8,872 Movement on QUEST 183 Issue of shares to QUEST 1,237 1,244 Issue of shares to LTIP 2,181 2,194 Premium arising on issue of shares 31 End of year 78,965 23,767 27,418 Company Beginning of year 75,516 429 37,242 59,505 Retained loss for the year 8,421 Movement on QUEST 183 Issue of shares to QUEST 1,237 1,244 Issue of shares to LTIP 2,181 2,194 Premium arising on issue of shares 31 End of year 78,965 429 37,242 47,829 The cumulative total of goodwill written off against the Group profit and loss account reserve in respect of acquisitions prior to 1 October 1997, when Financial Reporting Standard 10: Goodwill and Intangible Assets was adopted, amounts to 45,941,000 2002: 45,941,000.
19 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities 2003 2002 000 000 Operating profit 12,610 14,982 Depreciation and impairment 3,035 3,902 Amortisation and impairment of goodwill 9,372 9,372 Profit on disposal of tangible fixed assets 41 30 Increase in debtors 694 3,015 Increase in creditors 2,478 4,670 Profit on disposal of investment 20 Change in provisions against investments in own shares 222 200 Net cash inflow from operating activities 26,962 30,081 20 Cash flows from acquisitions and disposals 2003 2002 000 000 Net cost from sale of Border Television Plc 397 Net proceeds from sale of other investments 50 Purchase of fixed asset investments 16 2,247 Repayment of associate set-up costs 111 Net cash inflow outflow from acquisitions and disposals 145 2,644 74 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com 21 Cash flows from financing 2003 2002 000 000 Proceeds from issue of shares 31 268 Bank loans 20,000 Repayment of bank loans 18,500 6,000 Repayment of loan notes 4,186 3,771 Capital element of finance leases 31 227 Net cash outflow from financing 2,686 9,730 22 Analysis of net debt Net debt at Net debt at 1 October Cash 30 September 2002 flow 2003 000 000 000 Bank loans and overdrafts 4,488 1,283 5,771 Bank loans falling due in less than one year 18,500 1,500 20,000 Loan notes 5,980 4,186 1,794 Finance leases 31 31 24,511 2,717 21,794 28,999 1,434 27,565 23 Pension funds The Group operates three pension schemes on behalf of its employees.
The Capital Radio Plc Pension and Assurance Scheme CRPPAS and the Midlands Radio Group Pension Scheme MRGPS are contributory defined benefit schemes.
Both schemes were closed to new employees from 31 March 1995.
At 30 September 2003, 18 employees of Capital Radio plc and six employees of Birmingham Broadcasting Limited respectively were active members of these schemes.
All other employees in the Radio Group, and in particular new employees, are eligible to join the Capital Radio Group Personal Pension Plan, which was established on 1 April 1995.
This scheme is a contributory defined contribution arrangement and as at 30 September 2003, 234 employees were active members of this scheme.
The Group makes age related contributions to the scheme.
For both defined benefits schemes, the assets are held separately from those of the Group, being invested with insurance companies.
Independent actuarial valuations are obtained every third year.
Contributions to the pension schemes are made in accordance with advice given by independent qualified actuaries.
com | 75 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 23 Pension funds continued Details of the most recent actuarial valuations of the defined benefit pension schemes, insofar as they relate to the Group, are as follows: MRGPS CRPPAS Date of last valuation 30 September 2002 1 April 2002 Method used Minimum Funding Minimum Funding Requirement MFR Requirement MFR Assumptions: Annual salary increase 6% 4.5% Annual investment return before retirement 9% 6% Annual investment return after retirement 8% 5% Market value of scheme assets 2,735,000 9,422,000 Percentage of liabilities 86% 76% Under the MFR method of valuation, the current service cost of members will increase as members approach retirement.
The contribution to the CRPPAS made by the Company in the year was 345,000.
The Company has agreed to redress the deficit over five years at the funding rate of 21% of pensionable salaries plus the cost of insured death in service benefits plus 31,500 per month as recommended by the actuary.
The contribution to the MRGPS made by the Company in the year was 347,000.
The Company has agreed to redress the deficit over five years at the funding rate of 16.2% of pensionable salaries plus 5,800 per month for three years as recommended by the actuary.
Additional disclosures in accordance with FRS 17 An actuarial estimate performed by independent qualified actuaries, based on the last full valuations as above, has been undertaken to provide the information required for FRS 17 as at 30 September 2003: The major assumptions used by the actuary were: MRGPS and CRPPAS MRGPS and CRPPAS 30 September 2003 30 September 2002 Rate of increase in salaries 4.25% 4.00% Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.25% 3.00% Discount rate 5.30% 5.40% Inflation assumption 2.50% 2.25% The assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return were: Long-term rate Long-term rate of return expected at Value at of return expected at Value at 30 September 2003 30 September 2003 30 September 2002 30 September 2002 MRGPS CRPPAS MRGPS CRPPAS MRGPS CRPPAS MRGPS CRPPAS 000 000 000 000 Assets in the scheme Equities 7.0% 6.0% 2,367 3,515 7.0% 6.5% 1,756 3,156 Gilts 4.5% 6.0% 847 3,515 4.5% 6.5% 723 3,156 Cash other 4.0% 6.0% 30 2,540 4.0% 5.4% 248 2,191 3,244 9,570 2,727 8,503 76 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com 23 Pension funds continued The following amounts at 30 September 2003 and 30 September 2002 were measured in accordance with the requirements of FRS 17: 2003 2002 MRGPS CRPPAS MRGPS CRPPAS 000 000 000 000 Total market value of assets 3,244 9,570 2,727 8,503 Present value of scheme liabilities 5,923 12,784 5,255 12,042 Deficit in scheme 2,679 3,214 2,528 3,539 Related deferred tax asset 804 964 758 1,062 Net pension deficit 1,875 2,250 1,770 2,477 If the above amounts had been recognised in the financial statements, the Groups net assets and profit and loss reserve at 30 September 2003 and 30 September 2002 would be as follows: 2003 2002 000 000 Net assets excluding pension deficit 132,225 140,883 Pension deficit MRGPS 1,875 1,770 Pension deficit CRPPAS 2,250 2,477 Net assets including pension deficit 128,100 136,636 Profit and loss reserve excluding pension deficit 27,418 39,545 Pension reserve MRGPS 1,875 1,770 Pension reserve CRPPAS 2,250 2,477 Profit and loss reserve 23,293 35,298 The Company participates in a multi-employer pension scheme and is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities.
The following amounts would have been recognised in the performance statements in the year to 30 September 2003 under the requirements of FRS 17: 2003 2002 MRGPS CRPPAS MRGPS CRPPAS 000 000 000 000 Operating profit Current service cost 51 141 81 194 Past service cost Loss on settlements curtailments 35 Total operating charge 51 176 81 194 Other finance income Expected return on pension scheme assets 174 531 189 511 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 285 647 271 595 Net return 111 116 82 84 Statement of total recognised gains and losses Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 47 327 341 329 Experience gains and losses on pension scheme liabilities 115 489 268 35 Change in assumptions underlying pension scheme liabilities 268 544 486 1,496 Actuarial gains and losses in STRGL 336 272 1,095 1,860 Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 77 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 23 Pension funds continued 2003 2002 MRGPS CRPPAS MRGPS CRPPAS 000 000 000 000 Movement in deficit during the year Deficit in scheme at beginning of year 2,528 3,539 1,595 1,676 Movement in year: Current service cost 51 141 81 194 Contributions 347 345 325 275 Past service costs Other finance income 111 116 82 84 Loss on settlements curtailments 35 Actuarial gains and losses 336 272 1,095 1,860 Deficit in scheme at end of year 2,679 3,214 2,528 3,539 Details of experience gains losses for year to 30 September 2003 Difference between actual and expected return on assets: Amount 47 327 341 329 Percentage of scheme assets 1.4% 3.4% 12.5% 3.9% Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: Amount 115 489 242 35 Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities 1.9% 3.8% 4.6% 0.0% Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses: Amount 336 272 1,095 1,860 Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities 5.7% 2.1% 20.8% 21.9% In accordance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 17, the deficits on the above schemes have not been recognised in the accounts.
Pension costs for the two defined benefit schemes are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives with the Group.
The pensions charge for the other scheme represents the contributions paid.
The outstanding creditor to pensions schemes at 30 September 2003 was 103,000 2002: 102,000.
com 24 Financial commitments Annual operating lease commitments as at 30 September 2003 analysed by expiry date are as follows: 2003 2002 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other 000 000 000 000 Group Less than one year 437 105 Within one to two years 208 357 Within three to five years 149 221 In more than five years 2,094 2,016 2,094 794 2,016 683 Company Less than one year 54 20 Within one to two years 49 38 Within three to five years 35 55 In more than five years 1,472 1,461 1,472 138 1,461 113 There was no contracted capital expenditure for the Group or Company at 30 September 2003 2002: nil.
25 Contingent liabilities On 25 October 2001 Capital Radio plc acquired 19% of Tainside Limited trading as Choice FM for 3,565,000.
The net assets on acquisition amounted to 261,000.
The Group has applied associate accounting for this purchase.
On the same date the Group also signed a Put and Call Option to acquire the remaining 81% of Tainside Limited.
The option can potentially be exercised between 30 September 2004 and 29 September 2006.
The current best estimate of the possible additional consideration is approximately 17,000,000 which will be settled predominantly in Capital Radio plc shares at a valuation of 6.355 per share.
The additional consideration would, however, be recorded at the actual share price on completion.
The Company has given its bankers a cross guarantee to secure the bank borrowings of the other Group undertakings.
The Directors do not anticipate that any liability will fall on the Company in respect of this guarantee.
During the year, the Company granted a guarantee in favour of Bank of Scotland for all amounts due and to become due by Soul Media Limited Choice FM.
The guarantee is limited to a sum of 500,000 plus interest and costs.
Soul Media Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Tainside Limited.
com | 79 Notes forming part of the Accounts continued 26 Related parties The Group has trading relationships with Independent Radio News Limited IRN and the Radio Advertising Bureau Limited RAB.
The Group holds significant shareholdings in both of these companies and has representatives on their boards of directors, and is therefore in a position to exercise significant influence over these companies.
All transactions were conducted at normal commercial rates.
IRN supplies the UK radio industry with a news service in return for airtime adjacent to news bulletins.
This airtime is sold as the Newslink national advertising product by Capital Advertising, as agent for IRN.
An element of the profits of IRN are repaid to participating stations as a payment for airtime given.
The Group also supplies accounting services to IRN.
During the year the Group received 1,757,000 2002: 2,232,000 of income from IRN, representing Capital Advertising commission income, airtime rebate, payment for accounting services and non-executive director fees.
The value of airtime transferred to IRN during the year was 1,697,000 2002: 2,298,000.
At 30 September 2003 there was an outstanding creditor to IRN of 855,000 2002: 823,000.
The RAB is a trade body promoting commercial radio with advertisers.
The RAB is funded by levies paid by the commercial radio industry in the UK based on volumes of advertising.
During the year the Group paid 817,000 2002: 832,000 in levies to the RAB and at 30 September 2003 had an outstanding debtor of 16,000 2002: creditor 34,000.
Wildstar Records Limited is a record label.
At 30 September 2003 there were no outstanding debtors or creditors 2002: nil with the Group.
During the year the Group received 400,000 2002: nil for management services.
CE Digital operates three local digital radio multiplexes.
During the year the Group paid 1,056,000 2002: 844,000 to CE Digital in respect of radio broadcasts and received 145,000 2002: nil from CE Digital in respect of legal expertise and engineering time.
At 30 September 2003 there was an outstanding creditor of 129,000 2002: 254,000.
Tainside Limited operates a commercial radio station Choice FM.
At 30 September 2003 there was an outstanding creditor to Tainside of 56,000 2002: nil.
Holiday FM operates a commercial radio station in Spain.
During the year the Group received 50,000 2002: nil which related to an advance on future revenues.
At 30 September 2003 there were no outstanding debtors or creditors to the Group.
Hit 40 UK operates a chart show which is broadcast over various radio networks.
During the year the Group received 767,000 2002: nil of income from Hit 40 UK representing commercial commission, share of revenue and accounting services.
At 30 September 2003 there was an outstanding creditor to Hit 40 UK of 504,000 2002: nil.
com 27 Derivatives and other financial instruments An explanation of the Groups objectives, policies and strategies for the role of derivatives and other financial instruments can be found in the Report of the Directors on page 38.
Interest rate profile of financial assets and financial liabilities: Financial assets The interest rate risk profile of the financial assets of the Group as at 30 September 2003 was as follows: 2003 2002 000 000 Cash at floating interest rate Debtors due after more than one year 967 952 Unlisted investments 17 47 984 999 Financial liabilities The Groups floating rate financial liabilities which had a weighted average interest rate at the year end of 4.4%, consist of: 2003 2002 000 000 Bank overdraft 5,771 4,488 Bank loans 20,000 18,500 Loan notes 1,794 5,980 Finance leases 31 27,565 28,999 The floating rate bank loans carry interest at 0.8% over LIBOR and are repayable by 31 March 2004.
The loan notes carry interest at 1% below LIBOR and are redeemable by the holders on interest dates or by the Company on 31 March 2005.
The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 30 September 2003 was as follows: 2003 2002 000 000 In one year or less, or on demand 27,565 28,999 In more than one year but not more than two years In more than two years but not more than five years 27,565 28,999 Borrowing facilities The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
The undrawn facilities available at 30 September 2003 in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met were as follows: 2003 2002 000 000 Expiring in one year or less 33,729 35,512 Fair value financial assets and financial liabilities There are no material differences between the carrying values and the fair values of the financial assets and financial liabilities disclosed above.
com | 81 Principal Investments At 30 September 2003 the principal investments of the Group were as stated below.
All the holdings are of Ordinary Shares, and are shown to the nearest whole percentage.
Proportion of shares held by: Principal Activity The Company Subsidiaries Total Principal subsidiary undertakings Beat 106 Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Birmingham Broadcasting Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Gold Birmingham Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Gold Hampshire Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Gold Kent Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Gold Manchester Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Gold Sussex Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Radio Management Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Cardiff Broadcasting Company Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Century Radio Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Century Radio 105 Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Century Radio 106 Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% First Oxfordshire Radio Company Limited Commercial radio 40% 60% 100% Radio Invicta Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Southern Radio Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% The Ocean Radio Group Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Xfm Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Radio Digital Limited Commercial digital radio 100% 100% Midlands Radio plc Holding company 100% 100% Southern Radio Group Limited Holding company 100% 100% Capital Radio Investments Limited Investment company 100% 100% Capital Radio UBC Data Limited Commercial digital data 70% 70% Issued share capital: 100,000 Principal associated undertakings Independent Radio News Limited Programme production 37% 9% 46% Issued share capital: 374,535 Radio Advertising Bureau Limited Marketing of commercial radio 30% 15% 45% Issued share capital: 50,000 Wildstar Records Limited Record production 50% 50% Issued share capital :600,000 Hit 40 UK Limited Commercial radio 38% 38% Issued share capital: 1 Tainside Limited Commercial radio 19% 19% Issued share capital: 109 CE Digital Limited Commercial digital radio 50% 50% Issued share capital: 2 MXR Limited Commercial digital radio 24% 24% Issued share capital: 750,000 Digital News Network Limited Commercial digital radio 18% 18% Issued share capital: 600,000 All principal investments are incorporated in England and Wales except Beat 106 Limited, which is incorporated in Scotland.
Digital News Network Limited and MXR Limited have a 31 August year end.
Tainside Limited is accounted for as an associate on the basis of significant influence.
com Financial Record and Key Statistics 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Restated Restated Profit and Loss Turnover million 115.3 120.0 123.2 124.9 105.8 Operating profit before taxation and exceptional items million 22.0 27.9 30.0 39.9 38.4 As a percentage of turnover 19% 23% 24% 32% 36% Operating profit million 12.6 15.0 20.3 30.5 16.4 As a percentage of turnover 11% 12% 16% 24% 15% Underlying profit before taxation million 22.8 27.8 30.1 41.2 37.7 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation million 13.3 14.6 27.9 30.4 15.8 Commercial Radio Analogue Turnover million 114.6 119.7 122.2 123.9 105.2 Underlying profit before taxation million 26.2 31.2 36.5 45.4 39.7 As a percentage of turnover 23% 26% 30% 37% 38% Profit on ordinary activities before taxation million 16.8 18.3 24.2 39.5 37.2 As a percentage of turnover 15% 15% 20% 32% 35% Balance Sheet Net debt million 27.6 29.0 32.9 100.7 1.2 Net assets employed million 132.2 140.9 146.3 141.1 42.4 Cash Flow Net cash inflow from operating activities million 27.0 30.1 34.8 44.4 45.0 Ordinary Shares Underlying earnings per share pence 19.3 23.5 26.3 39.2 35.2 Basic earnings per share pence 7.7 8.8 23.8 26.3 5.7 Dividends per share pence 18.50 18.50 18.50 18.50 16.65 Dividend cover times 1.0 1.3 1.4 2.1 2.1 Shares in issue at 30 September million 83.0 82.2 81.8 81.6 74.5 Share price during year High 5.90 8.48 15.05 19.53 9.50 Low 3.58 4.53 4.83 8.85 4.36 Share price at 30 September4.73 4.90 5.20 14.38 8.85 Market capitalisation at 30 September million 392 403 425 1173 659 Average employees number 662 687 731 809 1,035 Notes 1 The underlying operating profit, underlying profit before taxation and underlying earnings per share figures are stated after eliminating the effect of significant exceptional items, goodwill and discontinued operations.
2 Net debt represents the net total of cash at bank, loan notes, overdrafts and short-term lease finance debt, plus short-term investments.
3 Dividend cover is calculated using underlying earnings per share from continuing operations.
4 1999 and 2000 were restated for discontinued operations.
Dividends: The record date for this years proposed final dividend, payable on 6 February 2004, is 21 November 2003 and the shares will trade ex-dividend on the London Stock Exchange from 19 November 2003.
Holders of Capital Radio Variable Rate Unsecured Loan Notes 2005 Registrar: The Registrar for the Loan Notes is the Company at its registered office and all correspondence regarding the Loan Notes should be sent to the Companys registered office, marked for the attention of the Company Secretary.
Interest Payment and Redemption: Interest is payable on the Border Loan Notes six monthly in arrears on 31 March and 30 September each year.
The Loan Notes are redeemable by the Company on 31 March 2005.
However, a holder of Loan Notes may require the Company to redeem the whole or part, such part being for 5,000 or more, of their holding on any interest payment date falling on or after 31 March 2001.
Interest is payable on the Beat Loan Notes six monthly in arrears on 31 March and 30 September each year.
com Company Secretary and Advisers Company Secretary and Registered Office Auditors Nathalie Schwarz KPMG Audit Plc 30 Leicester Square 8 Salisbury Square London WC2H 7LA London EC4Y 8BB Company Registration Number Brokers 923454 Cazenove & Co Ltd 20 Moorgate Solicitors London EC2R 6DA Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 65 Fleet Street Bankers London EC4A 1SH Bank of Scotland 38 Threadneedle Street Merchant Bankers London EC2P 2EH Credit Suisse First Boston One Cabot Square Registrars and Transfer Office London E14 4QJ Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland P O Box 28448 Finance House Orchard Brae Edinburgh EH4 1WQ Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 85 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirtieth Annual General Meeting of the members of Capital Radio plc will be held on 3 February 2004 at One Whitehall Place Hotel, Whitehall Place, Westminster, London SW1 at 11.00am for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1 To receive and adopt the accounts for the year to 30 September 2003 and the reports of the Directors and Auditors.
2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 30 September 2003.
3 To approve the payment of a final dividend of 12.5p net per Ordinary Share.
4 To re-elect as a Director Tony Illsley who retires by rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
5 To re-elect as a Director Tim Mason who retires by rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
6 To re-elect as a Director Peter Mitchell who retires by rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
7 To re-elect as a Director Peter Williams who having been appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting retires in accordance with the Articles of Association.
8 To re-elect as a Director Nathalie Schwarz who having been appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting retires in accordance with the Articles of Association.
9 That KPMG Audit Plc be and are hereby appointed as the Auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
10 That the Directors be and are hereby authorised to determine the remuneration of the Auditors of the Company.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of which resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 13 and 14 will be proposed as special resolutions:- Ordinary Resolutions 11 That, pursuant to the authority conferred by Article 101 of the Companys Articles of Association, the aggregate fees which Directors other than any Director who for the time being holds an executive office shall be paid by way of remuneration for their services as Directors be and is hereby increased from an amount not exceeding in aggregate 250,000 per annum to an amount not exceeding in aggregate 500,000 per annum.
12 That: i for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 425,237 such authority to expire five years from the date of the passing of this resolution unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting : ii the Company may make an offer or agreement before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement: and iii this authority shall replace all existing authorities conferred on the Directors in respect of the allotment of relevant securities to the extent that the same have not been previously utilised.
Special Resolutions 13 That: i subject to and conditional upon the passing of resolution numbered 12 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 18 December 2003 the section 80 resolution, the Directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred by the section 80 resolution or any renewal thereof as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: 86 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com a to the allotment of equity securities, whether by way of rights issue, open offer or otherwise, to ordinary shareholders and holders of any other shares or securities of the Company that by their terms are entitled to participate in such rights issue, open offer or otherwise where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders and such holders of other shares or securities are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them or into which their shares or securities are to be deemed converted in calculating the extent of their participation but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or stock exchange in, any territory: and b to the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above up to an aggregate nominal value of 103,738: ii this power expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting following the date of this resolution or 3 June 2005 unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in General Meeting : iii this power shall enable the Company to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of this power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the expiry of this power and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement: and iv this power shall replace all existing powers granted to the Directors to allot equity securities as if the said section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to the extent that the same have not been previously utilised.
14 That, pursuant to Article 9 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company provided that: i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares authorised to be purchased is 8,299,050: ii the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is 2.5p exclusive of expenses: iii the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average closing middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day of purchase: iv this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting following the date of this resolution or 3 February 2005 whichever is the earlier: and v the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares prior to the expiry of this authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and the Company may make purchases of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board Nathalie Schwarz Company Secretary 30 Leicester Square London WC2H 7LA 18 December 2003 Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 87 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his or her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be effective the accompanying Form of Proxy should be lodged together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified or office copy of such power or authority at the registered office of the Company not later than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the Meeting or adjourned meeting.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not affect the right of a member to attend and vote in person at the Meeting.
In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those members registered in the register of members of the Company as at 11am 1 February 2004 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their respective names at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
Copies of the Directors service contracts with the Company or its subsidiaries will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting itself and will be available for inspection at the Meeting and for a period of fifteen minutes before it commences.
The register of Directors share interests is available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded.
Biographical details of Directors offering themselves for re-election 1 Tony Illsley, 47, Non-executive Director Resolution 4 He joined the Board of Capital Radio in December 2000 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was formerly Chief Executive Officer of Telewest plc prior to the merger with Flextech plc.
Prior to this, he was with PepsiCo as President of Walkers Snack Foods and before this he was President of Pepsi-Cola Asia Pacific.
He is also a Nonexecutive Director of easyJet plc, Jarvis Hotels plc, Lionhead Studios plc and Leisure Link Group Limited.
2 Tim Mason, 46, Non-executive Director Resolution 5 He joined the Board of Capital Radio in December 2000.
He is a Director of Tesco PLC responsible for marketing, property services and is Chairman of Tesco.
He is a Non-executive Director of Tesco Personal Finance.
3 Peter Mitchell, 68, Non-executive Director Resolution 6 He joined the Board of Capital Radio in October 1997.
4 Peter Williams, 49, Non-executive Director Resolution 7 He joined the Board of Capital Radio in December 2003.
He is Chief Executive of Selfridges.
He is also Chairman of the London Retail Consortium and a Board Member of the British Retail Consortium.
5 Nathalie Schwarz, 33, Strategy and Development Director Resolution 8 She joined Capital Radio as Company Secretary and Head of Legal Affairs in July 1998.
She was appointed Strategy and Development Director in 2001 and was appointed to the Board in December 2003.
She qualified as a Solicitor with Clifford Chance in 1995.
She is also Company Secretary.
com Our portfolio of brands The Capital FM Network 95.8 Capital FM | www.
com The Capital Gold Network | www.
com The Century FM Network 100-102 Century FM | www.
co. uk ANALOGUE COVERAGE DIGITAL COVERAGE ANALOGUE AND DIGITAL COVERAGE Glasgow Edinburgh Newcastle Middlesborough Leeds Preston Liverpool Sheffield Manchester Humberside Nottingham Wolverhampton Norwich Leicester Birmingham Oxford Cardiff London Bristol & Bath Dover Southampton Brighton From London to the nation in 30 years Since the birth of Capital Radio in 1973 our portfolio of brands has broadened and the Group has expanded nationally.
We now broadcast to 85% of the UK, entertaining our listeners with passion and pride.
Designed and produced by Nick Portet at Pauffley and Fitch:London.
Printed in the UK by St Ives Westerham Press.
Storafine awarded the Nordic Swan Nordic Environmental Product Label Licence No 344043.
Totally recyclable and biodegradable including recyclable packaging and pallets.
Redeem 100% recycled post-consumer waste, produced without any secondary bleaching to the pulp whatsoever.
