28 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Governance Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 2004 Annual General Meeting of The Board supports the election of Merlyn Lowther, who will Schroders plc will be held at 31 Gresham Street, London provide additional independent non-executive representation on EC2V 7QA on Thursday 22nd April 2004 at 12 noon to transact the Board and the Audit Committee.
the following business: Re-election of Directors having attained the age of seventy Resolutions 5 and 6 Resolutions 5.
To re-elect George Mallinckrodt as a Director of the Company.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass resolutions numbered 1 to 9 and 12 to 14 as Ordinary Resolutions requiring a majority 6.
To re-elect Bruno Schroder as a Director of the Company.
and resolutions 10 and 11 as Special Resolutions requiring a majority of not less than Under Articles 84 and 89 of the Companys Articles of Association 75 per cent.. any Director must retire and offer themselves for re-election annually once they have attained the age of seventy.
Both George Report & Accounts Mallinckrodt and Bruno Schroder are over seventy and retire and 1.
To receive and adopt the Report of the Directors and the offer themselves for re-election.
Profiles of George Mallinckrodt Accounts of the Company for the year ended and Bruno Schroder are contained on page 13.
The Board believes that it is appropriate for George Mallinckrodt to For each financial year the Directors are required to present the be re-elected in view of his many years international business report of the Directors and the financial accounts for adoption by experience.
The Board also believes that it is appropriate for the shareholders.
Accordingly, the Report and Accounts for the Bruno Schroder, as the representative of our principal shareholder year ended 31st December 2003 are now presented.
Final Dividend Auditors Resolutions 7 and 8 2.
To declare a final dividend of 13.0p per share on the ordinary 7.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of shares and on the non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the Auditors.
The payment of the final dividend of 13.0p per share in respect of the year ended 31st December 2003, recommended by the Board The Companys auditors must offer themselves for re-appointment on the ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares of the Company, at each Annual General Meeting at which accounts are presented.
requires the approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Accordingly, the Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, proposes the re-appointment of Remuneration Report  LLP as the Companys auditors.
To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended Resolution 8 authorises the Directors to agree the remuneration 31st December 2003. of  for their services as auditors.
Section 234B of the Companies Act 1985 as amended requires Increase in aggregate Directors fees limit that the Directors must prepare an annual report detailing the 9.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and remuneration of the Directors and the Companys remuneration unconditionally authorised to increase the aggregate Directors policy and under section 241A ensure that a resolution is put to fees as detailed in Article 97 of the Articles of Association from shareholders each year for their approval.
The Remuneration 500,000 per annum to 1,000,000 per annum.
Report can be found on pages 14 to 22.
This notice therefore contains a resolution to approve the Remuneration Report for the The current cap on aggregate Directors fees is 500,000.
The result of this resolution is level has not been reached but the Board believes that it should advisory only.
be increased to 1,000,000 to allow the Board to recruit further independent non-executive Directors and to provide headroom to Election of Director appointed since the last accommodate future developments in directors remuneration.
To elect Merlyn Lowther as a Director of the Company.
Authority to purchase own shares 10.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and Article 87 of the Companys Articles of Association requires that unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within any Director appointed to office by the Board may hold office only the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 as until the next Annual General Meeting, when shareholders have amended of non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each Shares, the opportunity to vote on their election.
Accordingly, Merlyn subject to the following conditions: Lowther, appointed on 10th March with effect from 1st April 2004, is seeking election.
A profile of Merlyn Lowther is contained on a such authority be limited to a maximum number of page 13.
14,750,000 Shares: Annual Report & Accounts 2003 29 b the maximum price at which Shares may be purchased is Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association 5 per cent.
above the average of the middle market 11.
That the Articles of Association of the Company be amended quotations for the Shares as derived from the London by the adoption of the amendments to articles 2, 4, 6, 8, 13, Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business 14, 16, 37, 38, 41, 43, 44, 47, 54, 58, 63, 76, 79, 88, 95, days preceding the date of purchase or, in the case of a 101, 112, 124, 131, 132, 140, 142, 144 and 145 highlighted tender or partial offer, the date the tender or partial offer is in the revised print of the Articles of Association initialled by the made whichever is the greater, and the minimum price at Chairman for the purpose of identification only.
which Shares may be purchased is 1 per share, in both cases exclusive of expenses: and The Companys Articles of Association were adopted in February 2000 and last amended in April 2002.
Since then there have been c such authority shall, unless renewed prior to such time, certain changes to company law and practice, most notably the expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General coming into force of the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Meeting of the Company save that the Company may Treasury Shares Regulations 2003, the effect of which is before such expiry enter into a contract to purchase explained above in relation to resolution 10.
Various minor Shares under which such purchase will or may be amendments to the Companys Articles of Association are completed or executed wholly or partly after the recommended so as to make them consistent with these expiration of such authority and may make a purchase Regulations.
This will clarify the interpretation of the Articles of of Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
Association should the Company wish to hold shares in treasury in the future.
These amendments affect Articles 8, 13, 58, 63, 101, If passed, this resolution would renew the Companys authority to 112, 131, 132 and 145. make purchases of its own non-voting ordinary shares.
This authority relates to 14,750,000 shares, representing approximately In addition, a number of technical amendments are proposed to 5 per cent.
of the total issued share capital and some 21 per cent.
take account of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 of the issued non-voting ordinary share capital.
The authority sets and other developments relating to the holding of shares in limits on the price which may be paid for any shares and is limited uncertificated form.
These amendments affect Articles 2, 14, 43, to market purchases on the London Stock Exchange or so far 44, 47, 79 and 144. as required under the Listing Rules by tender or partial offer to all shareholders.
Certain other changes to the Articles of Association are recommended to be made to take account of developments in The previous authority granted at the Annual General Meeting on market practice or which are of a technical or drafting nature.
23rd April 2003 was not used during the year.
The Directors have These changes would affect Articles 2, 4, 6, 13, 16, 37, 38, 41, no plans to use this authority generally if it is renewed.
In addition, an they do intend that, if the authority is given, the Company would amendment to Article 88 is proposed to allow Directors to retire by exercise its right to make purchases with a view to maintaining rotation more frequently than once every three years.
This is over the medium term the ratio of ordinary shares to non-voting intended to spread the retirement of Directors more evenly over a ordinary shares, taking into account the issue of non-voting three year period.
An amendment to Article 54 is proposed to ordinary shares under the Companys share or share option plans.
authorise the Company to dispense with sending notices of meetings and related documents to members who are If the authority is given, purchases would only be made where the untraceable.
It would no longer be necessary to continue mailing Directors believed that they were in the best interests of the documents to an inoperative address after documents had been Company, taking into account other available investment returned undelivered on two consecutive occasions.
opportunities and the overall financial position of the Group.
Purchases would only be made where earnings per share would The number of the proposed amendments is such that they have be increased except possibly in respect of purchases made in not been described separately in this resolution but have been relation to the issue of non-voting ordinary shares under the marked in a revised draft of the Articles of Association which is Companys share or share option plans.
available for inspection as detailed on page 30.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Political donations and expenditure Resolutions 12, 13 Regulations 2003 came into force on 1st December 2003 and and 14 made certain amendments to the Companies Act 1985 so as to 12.
That pursuant to section 347C of the Companies Act 1985 allow companies acquiring their own shares in certain as amended the Company be and is hereby authorised to: circumstances to hold those shares in treasury, for resale or for a make donations to EU political organisations: and the purposes of a companys share or share option plans, rather than being obliged to cancel them.
If the Company were to b incur EU political expenditure in an aggregate amount not purchase its own non-voting ordinary shares pursuant to the exceeding 50,000 during the period commencing on the authority sought in this resolution, the Directors would consider passing of this resolution and ending on 22nd April 2008 whether to cancel those shares or hold them as treasury shares, or, if sooner, at the conclusion of the Annual General in the latter case only to be used for the purposes of the Meeting to be held in 2008.
For the purposes of this Companys share or share option plans.
resolution, the terms donations, EU political organisations and EU political expenditure shall have the meanings set out in Part XA of the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
30 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Governance Notice of Annual General Meeting Notes 13.
That pursuant to section 347D of the Companies Act 1985 as An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to amended Schroder Investment Management Limited being a appoint one or more proxies to attend and insofar as permitted by the wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, be and is hereby Companys Articles of Association to vote instead of him.
authorised to: A proxy need not be a member.
A form of proxy is enclosed for ordinary a make donations to EU political organisations: and shareholders which should be completed and returned to the Companys registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, b incur EU political expenditure in an aggregate amount not BN99 6DN not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
exceeding 50,000 during the period commencing on the Completion of the proxy will not preclude an ordinary shareholder from attending and voting in person.
passing of this resolution and ending on 22nd April 2008 or, if sooner, at the conclusion of the Annual General Shareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the internet can do so through the registrars website at Meeting of the Company to be held in 2008.
co. uk where full instructions are given.
The personal reference purposes of this resolution, the terms donations, EU number, card ID and account number printed on the proxy form will be political organisations and EU political expenditure shall required.
Alternatively shareholders who have already registered with Lloyds have the meanings set out in Part XA of the Companies TSB Registrars on-line portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on Company Act 1985 as amended.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if received after 12 noon on 20th April 2004.
Please note that any communication found to contain a computer virus 14.
That pursuant to section 347D of the Companies Act 1985 will not be accepted.
as amended Schroder Investment Management The Company specifies that only those ordinary shareholders on the register of Luxembourg S. A. being a wholly-owned subsidiary of the members as at 6 p. m. on 20th April 2004 will be entitled to attend or vote at Company, be and is hereby authorised to: the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 6 p. m. on 20th April a make donations to EU political organisations: and 2004 will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or b incur EU political expenditure in an aggregate amount not vote at the meeting.
exceeding 50,000 during the period commencing on the The Register of Directors interests kept in accordance with section 325 of the passing of this resolution and ending on 22nd April 2008 Companies Act 1985 and a print of the Articles of Association showing proposed changes are available for inspection at the Companys registered office of the or, if sooner, at the conclusion of the Annual General during normal business hours on weekdays until 22nd April 2004 and will be Meeting of the Company to be held in 2008.
For the available for inspection at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
purposes of this resolution, the terms donations, EU Profiles of each of the Directors offering themselves for election or re-election political organisations and EU political expenditure shall are on page 13 of this report.
The profiles include, where appropriate, have the meanings set out in Part XA of the Companies membership of Board Committees.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting These resolutions concern Part XA of the Companies Act 1985 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored as amended, inserted by the Political Parties, Elections and members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service Referendums Act 2000.
Any donations to political organisations in provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, excess of an aggregate of 5,000 or any political expenditure by who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
the Company and any appropriate subsidiaries must be In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service authorised by the Companys shareholders.
Whilst the Group and to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction its subsidiaries did not make any donations to political parties in must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCo's specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the last financial year and each does not intend to do so in the the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the current one, the resolutions are intended to authorise normal appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a expenditure which, due to the wide definitions under previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to Part XA, may be construed as political expenditure or as a be received by the issuer's agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the Notice of Meeting.
For this purpose, the donation to a political organisation.
The resolutions do not purport time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp to authorise any particular donation or expenditure but are in applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the general terms as required by the Act.
Any donations or issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to expenditure in excess of 200, falling within the ambit of the proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee definitions, are required to be disclosed in the Companys Annual through other means.
Report in compliance with the Act.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures A proxy form is enclosed to enable shareholders unable to in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will attend the meeting to cast their votes by post at the Annual therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member General Meeting.
is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service By Order of the Board Registered Office: provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is 31 Gresham Street transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or Howard Trust London EC2V 7QA voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Secretary Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the 19th March 2004 circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 31 Governance Shareholder information Schroders plc Sharegift Registered in England If you only have a small number of shares whose value makes it Company No.
3909886 difficult to sell, you may wish to consider donating to charity through Sharegift, an independent charity share donation scheme.
Registered Office Company Secretary For further information, please contact either Lloyds TSB Registrars or Sharegift, telephone 44 0 20 7337 0501 or see Schroders plc Howard Trust the website at www.
31 Gresham Street Schroders plc London EC2V 7QA 31 Gresham Street Enquiries Tel: 44 0 20 7658 6000 London EC2V 7QA Fax: 44 0 20 7658 6965 Tel: 44 0 20 7658 6000 Enquiries and notifications concerning dividends, share certificates Fax: 44 0 20 7658 6965 or transfers and address changes should be sent to the Registrar: other shareholder enquiries should be addressed to the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
Financial Calendar Ex-dividend date 24th March 2004 Further information is also available from the Companys investor Record date 26th March 2004 relations website at http: ir.
Annual General Meeting 22nd April 2004 Final dividend payment date 26th April 2004 Capital Gains Tax Registrar Values at 31st March 1982 The market values of the former parent companys shares at Lloyds TSB Registrars 31st March 1982 adjusted to take account of the 1986, 1990, The Causeway 1993, 1995 and 1998 capitalisation issues were: Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Ordinary shares: 23.6509p Non-voting ordinary shares: 22.7582p UK Helpline: 44 0 870 600 3970 Fax: 44 0 870 600 3980 Values related to disposal of investment banking business Overseas Branch Register Shareholders who received Schroders plc shares and Schroder Holdings Jersey Ltd SHJ shares in place of Schroders plc An Overseas Branch Register is operated in Bermuda for the shares held prior to 18th April 2000 may have a liability to UK benefit of shareholders with registered addresses in Bermuda.
capital gains tax in respect of their disposal of the SHJ shares for Enquiries should be directed to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
a consideration of 3.00 per share to Salomon Smith Barney.
Shareview Portfolio Service Shareholders on the register at 17th April 2000 received an The Shareview portfolio service from the Companys Registrar additional 4.5132p per share in October 2000 under the terms of gives direct access to details of your shareholding, portfolio the Offer from Salomon Smith Barney dated 27th April 2000.
This valuation and general information for shareholders.
Shareholders should be taken into account for capital gains tax in the same way must register at www.
You will need to enter as the original consideration of 3.00 per share.
The base cost of the shareholder reference on your share certificate and other the previously held shares should be apportioned between the personal details.
Having selected your own PIN, a user ID will be SHJ shares and the new Schroders plc shares.
The Inland Revenue has confirmed the methodology to be used Postal Dealing Service for this apportionment.
Cazenove & Co. operates a postal dealing service in the Companys shares.
A form can be accessed from our website at The market values for the new Schroders plc shares on their first www.
Further information is available from: day of trading were 9.77 for the ordinary shares and 8.05 for the non-voting ordinary shares.
Cazenove & Co. Ltd 20 Moorgate The market value of the SHJ shares on that date was 3.00 and London EC2R 6DA the apportionment of base cost is based on this value notwithstanding that the total consideration to be included in Tel: 44 0 20 7588 2828 capital gains tax computations will include the additional Fax: 44 0 20 7155 9000 consideration of 4.5132p.
For voting ordinary shares the base cost apportionment is: 9.77 12.77 to the new Schroders plc shares, 3.00 12.77 to the SHJ shares.
32 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Governance Shareholder information For non-voting ordinary shares, the base cost apportionment is: To the extent that loan notes or shares were received, there is no disposal for capital gains tax and any gain or loss which 8.05 11.05 to the new non-voting Schroders plc shares and: would have arisen on a disposal will be rolled over into the loan notes or shares.
These are treated as the same asset as the 3.00 11.05 to the SHJ shares.
relevant holding of SHJ shares for which they were exchanged.
Any subsequent disposal of the loan notes or shares may give Whether or not a liability to UK capital gains tax arises on rise to a capital gain or loss depending on individual the disposal of SHJ shares will depend on the individual circumstances.
In calculating the capital gain arising on any such circumstances of the shareholder and the form of disposal, the holders acquisition costs will be deemed to be the consideration received: original acquisition cost to the holder of the relevant holding of SHJ shares.
Where cash was received, the shareholder will be treated as having made a disposal or part disposal of the SHJ shares for capital gains tax purposes: Directors responsibility statement The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with The Directors, having prepared the financial statements, have the Report of the independent auditors, is made with a view to requested the auditors to take whatever steps and to undertake distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the whatever inspections they consider appropriate for the purpose of Directors and auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Management statement on pages 3 to 5 and the Operating Accounts.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the and financial review on pages 6 to 9 contain certain forwardGroup keeps proper accounting records.
They are required by looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results company law to prepare financial statements which give a true of, operations and businesses of the Group.
These statements and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to Group at the end of the financial year and of the results for the events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied fraud and other irregularities.
by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
Nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
The Directors remain satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business and accordingly that financial statements should be drawn up on a going concern basis.
Further, appropriate accounting policies consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been used in the preparation of these financial statements and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
These policies and standards, for which the Directors accept responsibility, have been discussed with the auditors.
