Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Notice and Agenda NOTICE is hereby given that the eighth Annual General securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if Meeting of Schroder Ventures International Investment the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Trust plc will be held at 12.00 noon on Thursday 29 April 2004 8.
That, in substitution for the authority granted at the at 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA, to consider and, if Companys Annual General Meeting held on 25 April 2003, thought t, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions the Board be and is hereby empowered, pursuant to 1 to 7 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot equity resolutions 8 to 10 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act 1.
That the Report of the Directors and the Accounts for the for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 7 year ended 31 December 2003 be adopted.
above, as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, PROVIDED THAT this 2.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended power shall be limited to: 31 December 2003 be approved.
a the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate 3.
That Mr Andrew Williams be re-elected as a Director of the nominal amount of 1,126,551 equivalent to 1 per Company.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the 4.
That Mr John Govett be re-elected as a Director of the Company as at 26 March 2004 in connection with the Company.
Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc 61 Executive Share Option Plan 2001: 5.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as Auditors of the Company.
b the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer 6.
That the Board be authorised to agree the Auditors in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity remuneration.
securities respectively attributable to the interests of 7.
That, in substitution for the authority granted at the such ordinary shareholders on a xed record date are Companys Annual General Meeting held on 25 April 2003, proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective the Board be and is hereby generally and unconditionally numbers of ordinary shares held by them subject to authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the may deem necessary or expedient to deal with Companies Act 1985 : fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of a up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,126,551 any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other equivalent to 1 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share matter whatsoever : and capital of the Company as at 26 March 2004 in connection with the Schroder Ventures International c the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subInvestment Trust plc Executive Share Option Plan paragraphs a and b above of equity securities up 2001: and to an aggregate nominal amount of 11,265,517 equivalent to 10 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share b up to an aggregate nominal amount of 37,551,724 capital of the Company as at 26 March 2004, equivalent to one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 26 March 2004, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual which authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry of this resolution unless previously revoked or varied by make an offer or agreement which would or might require the Company in general meeting save that the Company equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an would or might require relevant securities to be allotted offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had after such expiry and the Board may allot relevant not expired.
Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Notice and Agenda continued 9.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 1.00 each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 16,887,010 equivalent to 14.99 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 26 March 2004 : b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share is 1.00: c the maximum price which may be paid for a Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five 62 business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: d purchases may only be made pursuant to this authority if the Shares are at the date of the proposed purchase trading on the London Stock Exchange at a discount to the net asset value: e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and f the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
That the name of the Company be changed to SVG Capital plc.
Registered Ofce: 31 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QA By Order of the Board Schroder Investment Management Limited Secretary 31 March 2004 Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Notice and Agenda continued NOTES do so for the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST and insofar as permitted by the Companys Articles of sponsored members, and those CREST members who have Association to vote instead of him.
appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that only those Shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the Company at 6.00 p. m. on 27 April 2004 shall be entitled to CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated Shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must Register of Members after 6.00 p. m. on 27 April 2004 shall be contain the information required for such instructions, as disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of and vote at the meeting.
whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed A proxy need not be a member.
A form of proxy is enclosed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be for ordinary shareholders which should be completed and received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time for returned to the Companys registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, 63 receipt of proxy appointments specified above.
For this The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6LE not later purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the Completion of the proxy will not preclude an ordinary CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is shareholder from attending and voting in person.
able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the Shareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of proxy electronically via the internet can do so through the instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be registrars website at www.
co. uk where full communicated to the appointee through other means.
The personal reference number, card ID CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST and account number printed on the proxy form will be required.
sponsors or voting service providers should note that A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in to any address other than those provided or if received after 12 CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings noon on 27 April 2004.
Please note that any communication and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
It is the responsibility of the CREST In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a 1985, a statement of all transactions of each Director and of CREST personal member or sponsored member or has his family interests in the shares of the Company will be appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his available for inspection by any member of the Company at CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such the registered office of the Company, 31 Gresham Street, action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is London EC2V 7QA, during normal business hours on any transmitted by means of the CREST system by an particular weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where and by any person attending the Annual General Meeting, applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers during the continuance of the Meeting.
None of the Directors are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST have a contract of service with the Company.
Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Profiles of each of the Directors offering themselves for re-election are on page 2 of this report.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001. through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Glossary INVESTMENT STAGES: General Terms Carried interest carry : Carried interest or simply carry Early Stage represents the share of a private equity funds profit usually 20% that will accrue to the general partners.
Seed Financing provided to allow a business concept to be Committed funds or raised funds or committed developed, perhaps involving production of prototypes and capital : Capital committed by investors.
This will be additional research, prior to bringing a product to market.
requested or drawn down by private equity managers on a deal-by-deal basis.
This amount is different from invested Start-up funds for two reasons.
Firstly, most partnerships will invest Financing provided to companies for the use in product only between 80% and 95% of committed funds.
Second, one development and initial marketing.
Companies may be in has to deduct the annual management fee which is supposed the process of being set up or may have been in business to cover the cost of operation of a fund.
for a short time, but have not sold their product commercially.
Distributions: Payments to investors after the realisation of investments of the partnership.
Other early stage Financing provided to companies that have completed the Divestments or realisations or exits : Exits of product development stage and require further funds to investments, usually via a trade sale or an IPO Initial Public initiate commercial manufacturing and sales.
They will not Offering on a stock market.
Draw downs: Payments to the partnership by investors in Late Stage order to finance investments.
Funds are drawn down from investors on a deal-by-deal basis.
Expansion Financing Capital provided for the growth and expansion of a 64 Fund of funds: Private equity funds whose principal activity company which is breaking even or even trading profitably.
consists of investing in other private equity funds.
Investors in Funds may be used to finance increased production funds of funds can thereby increase their level of capacity, market or product development and or provide diversication.
Capital provided for turn-around Gearing, debt equity ratio or leverage situations is also included in this category.
The level of a companys borrowings as a percentage of Management Buy-Out MBO shareholder funds.
Funds provided to enable current operating management Hurdle rate: Arrangement that caps the downside risk for and investors to acquire an existing business.
It allows investors to get preferential access to the Management Buy-In MBI profits of the partnership.
In the absence of reaching the Funds provided to enable a manager or group of hurdle return, general partners will not receive a share of the managers from outside the company to buy into the profit carried interest.
A hurdle rate of 10% means that the company.
private equity fund needs to achieve a return of at least 10% before the profits are shared according to the carried interest Follow-on investment arrangement.
A company which has previously received venture capital.
Limited partnership: Most private equity rms structure their Secondary purchase funds as limited partnerships.
Investors represent the limited Purchase of existing shares in a company from another partners and private equity managers the general partners.
venture capital rm, or from other shareholders.
Realisation: the sale of an investment.
Public to Private Purchase of the share capital of a company quoted on a stock Secondary market: The secondary market enables exchange with the intention of fide-listing the company and institutional investors to sell their stakes in a private equity taking it private.
partnership before it is wound up.
Trade sale: Sale of the equity share of an investee company to another company.
Turnaround: A loss making company which can be successfully transformed into a profit maker.
148514 Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Report and Accounts 2003 148514 cover 4 1 04 2:19 PM Page 1 Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc www.
co. uk Report and Accounts 2003 Registered Office Head Office 31 Gresham Street Burleigh House London EC2V 7QA 357 Strand London WC2R 0HS Telephone 020 7658 3206 Telephone 020 7010 8900 Fax 020 7658 3538 Fax 020 7240 5346
