Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Company Summary THE COMPANY WEB SITE Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc carries on The Companys dedicated Web Site may be found at business as an investment trust and it is listed on the London www.
The site contains details of all press releases Stock Exchange.
The Companys principal investment objective published by the Company, share price information, copies is to achieve capital appreciation by investing primarily in an of the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report and international portfolio of buy-out and development capital funds, Accounts, and a Newssheet which incorporates information which are managed or advised by Permira or Schroder on recent transactions, a comprehensive analysis of the Ventures.
To complement this investment objective and create Companys Portfolio and detailed market commentary.
The capital and income streams for the Company, its fund advisory News sheet is distributed to the shareholders of the Company.
business structures, markets, manages and advises products CAPITAL GAINS TAX INFORMATION for investment in private equity, and in public equity using private For the 2004 2005 tax year, the annual capital gains after equity techniques.
adjusting for indexation and taper relief of private individuals Investment trust companies are able to switch investments in excess of 8,200 2003 2004: 7,900 are assessed for without liability for capital gains tax.
This, together with the capital gains tax.
advantages of professional management and spread of risk, Capital gains on shares disposed of by individuals may be makes investment trusts a valuable investment medium.
The taper reduces the amount of a In order to obtain exemption from capital gains tax the chargeable gain according to how long the asset has been Company conducts itself with a view to being an approved held for periods after 5 April 1998. investment trust for the purposes of Section 842 of the United Where shares were acquired before 6 April 1998, the capital Kingdom Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 as gain will also be reduced by indexation allowance for the amended.
The Company is not a close company for taxation period up to April 1998, but not thereafter.
For the benefit of those shareholders who acquired their INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS holdings in exchange for their interests in Schroder Ventures The Companys shares and Subordinated Convertible bonds funds, the acquisition cost of the shares for capital gains tax are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The stock purposes based upon initial dealings on 23 May 1996 was exchange code for the shares is SVI and for the bonds are as follows: SVIC and SVIE.
The price of the shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times, The Daily Telegraph and The Times.
Real time share information for the Shares is available on the The acquisition cost of the Subordinated Convertible bonds FT Cityline by dialling: 0906 843 1432.
Calls are charged at for capital gains tax purposes based upon the original 60p per minute at all times.
purchase price, at initial issue, was as follows: 1 The net asset value is calculated at 30 June and Each 4 2% Subordinated Convertible Bond of 100,000 31 December each year following an extensive valuation nominal value: 100,000. procedure.
Due to the nature of the Companys investments, it is not practicable to publish the net asset value on a more frequent basis.
A factsheet containing information including the diversication of the portfolio and the Companys largest investments is published quarterly and is available on request from the Secretary.
Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Company Summary continued SCHRODER INVESTMENT TRUST DEALING REGISTRAR SERVICES SERVICE Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address The Schroder Investment Trust Dealing Service provides a held on the share register.
Any notifications and enquiries convenient and cost effective means of investing in the relating to registered share holdings, including a change of ordinary shares of the Company.
The Service offers investors: address or other amendment should be directed to Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland at PO Box 28448, Finance House, a regular investment option from a minimum of 50 per Orchard Brae, Edinburgh EH4 1WQ.
The helpline telephone month number of Lloyds TSB Registrars is 0870 601 5366. a lump sum investment option from a minimum of 1,000 Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland maintain a web-based daily dealing enquiry service for shareholders.
Currently the Shareview site address below contains information available on public competitive charges registers.
Shareholders will be invited to enter their name, the option to reinvest income.
shareholder reference account number and post code and will be able to view information on their own holding.
Other investment trusts which are available through this service are Schroder AsiaPacic Fund plc, Schroder Income Visit www.
Growth Fund plc, Schroder Japan Growth Fund plc, Schroder 59 JP Morgan Chase Bank act as Registrar for the Subordinated Split Investment Fund plc, Schroder Split ZDP plc, Schroder Convertible bonds.
Any notications and enquiries relating to UK Growth Fund plc, Schroder UK Mid and Small Cap Fund Subordinated Convertible Bonds should be directed to JP plc and International Biotechnology Trust plc.
Morgan Chase Bank, Trinity Tower, 9 Thomas More Street, INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNT SCHRODER London E1N 1YT.
MAXI ISA PLAN The Schroder ISA offers investors: lump sum investments in the ordinary shares of the Company from a minimum of 1,000 to a maximum of 7,000 in the current tax year a regular investment option from a minimum of 50 per month competitive charges the option to reinvest income the option to include other trusts.
If you would like further information about the Schroder Investment Trust Dealing Service or the Schroder Maxi ISA, please contact the Secretary of the Company at 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA or call Schroder Investor Services on freephone 0800 718 777.
