NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the ninety-fourth Annual General Meeting of The Scottish Mortgage andTrust PLC will be heldwithin the RegisteredOffice of the Company, 1 RutlandCourt, Edinburgh EH3 8EY, on Thursday, 3 July 2003, at 11.00 am for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To approve the Accounts of the Company for the year to 31 March 2003 with the Reports of the Directors andof the Auditors thereon.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
To re-elect Mr GA Ball as a Director.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions as Special Resolutions: 7.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, the Company be authorised, in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorisedto be purchasedshall be 14.99% of the issued share capital on the date on which this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paidfor a Share shall be 25p: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paidfor a Share shall be 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be heldin 2004 or 2 January 2005, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority andmay make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
That, the name of the Company be changedto Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC with effect from such date as the Directors shall determine, not being later than 31 August 2003.
By order of the Board BAILLIE GIFFORD & Co Managers and Secretaries 23 May 2003 Notes 1 A member entitledto attendandvote at the meeting is entitledto appoint one or more proxies to attendand, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A proxy neednot be a member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy for the use of members is enclosed.
2 An ordinary shareholder entered on the Register of Members 48 hours before the meeting is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting pursuant to Regulation 34 of the  Regulations 1995.
Any changes to the Register of Members after such time and date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any shareholder to attendand or vote at the meeting.
3 Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie GiffordInvestment Trust ISA PEP who wish to vote and or attendthe meeting must complete andreturn the  of Direction.
4 No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
THE SCOTTISH MORTGAGE AND TRUST PLC 45
