savings products alliance trust savings limited ATS ATS savings products comprise the Select Pension, PEP, charges also reflect ATS bargaining power, with around ISA and Investment Plans and the CAT ISA.
All these 1bn of investors assets being administered, and the products are provided and administered by ATS using its economies of scale available, particularly through the use of own staff and systems.
modern computer systems to aggregate orders.
For example, for purchases of Second Alliance Trust stock the Each product has different tax rules and advantages.
The dealing charge is only 1, regardless of the amount invested, Investment Plan is unrestricted in size but has no tax plus the unavoidable 0.5% stamp duty reserve tax.
The PEP and ISA are both tax-free but subscriptions of up to 7,000 in 2003 2004 can only be stakeholder and CAT standards made to the ISA.
The Pension attracts tax relief on CAT Charges, Access and Terms standard products contributions and there is no additional tax on income require, amongst other matters, charges to amount to no received in the Plan.
However, it has limits on contributions, more than 1% per annum including government stamp duty and pension benefits cannot normally be taken before age 50. and all other costs.
The Select products do not qualify for ATS also accepts transfers of PEPs, ISAs, pensions and CAT standards because the charges are transaction rather share portfolios.
than percentage based, even though in many instances they will not exceed 1%.
For example ATS makes a 1 the select philosophy charge on a 50 investment in the Second Alliance Trust The Select products are designed with four key principles and charges the same amount on an investment of 5,000. in mind:- The former would not comply with the 1% CAT standard limit, the latter would.
Customers are stockholders: All ATS customers are Stakeholder pensions comply with similar criteria to the stockholders in The Second Alliance Trust PLC and or The CAT standards, but otherwise follow the same tax rules as Alliance Trust PLC.
Each customer thereby has a direct other money purchase pensions.
ATS decided not to interest in the success of the organisation as a whole.
The develop a stakeholder pension because the impact of minimum investment in the Trusts in each product is 50. annual charges over the long-term is significant, and, for a Flexibility: The products are designed for long-term pension customer, the expenses of the Select Pension may investors, but recognise that there will be times when be considerably below the 1% level, depending on the financial plans have to be changed.
To achieve flexibility, customers investment and activity.
subscriptions can be started and stopped without penalty, purchases made or deferred and investments sold, when select pension required.
The self-invested personal pension SIPP is ATS fastest Self-select: Products are designed for investors who wish growing product, reflecting the wish of many individuals for to manage their own portfolios as well as those who wish a pension which is designed to be capable of travelling with to delegate some or all of their investment management them throughout life, with sufficient investment flexibility through use of managed funds.
Investors can choose on a and choice for a complete portfolio to be built around self-select basis to invest in UK listed securities, including pension planning with one pension provider.
It is available investment trusts, equities, corporate bonds, gilts and bond to children and non-earners, as well as those who have funds.
Cash can be held within a deposit account.
The core investment of the Alliance Trusts can be the first building block in a pension, but the flexibility No annual or ad valorem charges: Charges are levied on of the Select Pension means that, as time passes and a transaction basis according to the work involved.
There pension assets grow, investments can be changed without are no annual or ad valorem fees.
In particular, this means moving providers and without having a number of small, that large investors do not subsidise small ones, inactive separate and potentially uneconomic pension plans.
investors do not subsidise active ones and long-term investors do not subsidise short-term ones.
The low 46 select PEP select investment plan Transferring PEPs to ATS is now even more attractive for The Select Investment Plan is a general purpose, flexible, many individuals.
Since the PEP rules were changed in savings vehicle for your core investment and for your 2001, the whole of a PEP can be invested in the Alliance investment portfolio.
It is popular with those investing for Trusts.
For those who wish to manage a spread of themselves, their children and their grandchildren, and investments, the investment choice given by the Select many trusts also use the Plan to hold their investment PEP allows consolidation of PEPs held elsewhere, thereby portfolios.
Subscriptions are often made by regular direct enabling rationalisation and potentially more economical debits to reduce investment timing risk and to benefit from management.
Unlike many other providers, ATS has no PEP pound cost averaging.
transfer-in charge dealing charges after transfer still apply.
investor seminars select and CAT ISAs ATS hosts seminars for private investors which are held at The same features of the Select PEP are available in the various locations throughout the UK.
An invitation is Select ISA which, as well as accepting transfers, is available extended to all stockholders who would like to come along for subscriptions up to the 2003 2004 annual limit of to learn more about the Alliance Trusts and ATS savings 7,000.
Stocks and shares and cash components are products.
Those attending can meet informally with available on a maxi or mini basis with the cash component directors and management.
also available on a TESSA-only basis.
Tax-free interest is Seminar dates and locations are published on the website payable in the cash component and the full Select choice of www.
com securities is available in the stocks and shares component.
If you would like to attend free of charge any of these As with the PEP, there is no transfer-in charge.
seminars, please contact ATS by telephone on For investors seeking a simple core investment in the 01382 306006 or by e-mail at contact@alliancetrusts.
com Alliance Trust only, the CAT ISA is available with a 0.75% annual charge.
The savings products information on these two pages has been issued and approved by Alliance Trust Savings Limited ATS.
ATS is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Products are provided on a direct offer transaction basis and marketed only in the United Kingdom to UK investors.
Most charges are transaction based and may be high or low depending on how you manage the investments in your plan.
The value of investments and any income from them may go down as well as up and you may not get back the amount you put in.
Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future returns.
Taxation levels, bases and reliefs are subject to change and may depend on individual circumstances.
Alliance Trust Savings Limited, PO Box 164, Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee DD1 9YP Tel: 01382 201900 Web: www.
com For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone calls may be recorded.
