financial statements accounting policies 1 basis of accounting 4 expenses and interest The financial statements which follow on pages 32 to 42 Expenses and interest are accounted for on an accruals have been prepared under the historical cost convention, basis using the exchange rate applicable on payment where modified to include the revaluation of fixed assets.
Expenses are charged through the revenue also assume the going concern basis of accounting and that account except where they directly relate to the acquisition the Company will continue to have approval as an or disposal of an investment, in which case they are added investment trust.
They have been drawn up in accordance to the cost of the investment or deducted from the with applicable accounting standards and with the proceeds as the case may be.
Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies.
5 taxation Provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing 2 valuation of fixed assets differences except as otherwise stated by FRS 19.
Listed investments are valued at market prices or middle Deferred tax is calculated at the average rate of tax market prices as appropriate.
Unlisted investments and expected to apply.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not mineral rights are valued by the Board on the basis of discounted to reflect the time value of money.
market prices, latest dealings, stockbrokers valuations, petroleum consultants valuations and accounting information 6 reserves as appropriate.
Foreign assets and liabilities are valued Gains and losses on the realisation of investments and using the middle rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
foreign currency are accounted for in the realised capital reserve.
Increases and decreases in the valuation of 3 income investments held at the year end are accounted for in the Income from equity shares is brought into account on the unrealised capital reserve.
ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is 7 pension costs established.
The pension scheme is a defined benefit scheme and is Income includes any taxes deducted at source.
Fixed open to all qualifying employees who have completed six returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are months service.
Contributions are charged against revenue.
recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect They are calculated by reference to actuarial valuations the effective yield on the investment.
carried out for the trustees at intervals of not more than three years.
They represent a proper charge to cover the Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in accruing liabilities of the pension scheme on a the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the continuing basis.
amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
Foreign income is converted at the rate of exchange applicable on the appropriate date.
