information for stockholders annual general meeting incorporation The 120th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be The Second Alliance Trust PLC is incorporated in Scotland held at 11.30am on Friday 24 October at Discovery Point, with the registered number 1284.
general enquiries Stockholders are cordially invited to meet the directors and investment managers after the AGM, which will also If you have an enquiry about the Company please contact the Company Secretary at our registered office: include a presentation from one of the investment managers and a question and answer session.
Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee DD1 1TJ tel: 01382 201700 fax: 01382 225133 We welcome all investors to the AGM, regardless of whether you hold stock directly in your own name or e-mail: contact@alliancetrusts.
All beneficial owners are given the If you have an enquiry about Alliance Trust Savings opportunity to indicate their voting intentions and to speak products, please contact the enquiries team: and ask questions.
Alliance Trust Savings Limited Directions and other information, including how to vote to Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee DD1 9YP proxy, can be found in the Notice of Meeting which is sent tel: 01382 306006 fax: 01382 202250 separately from this annual report and accounts.
com For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone calls may be recorded.
registrars Change of address notifications and registration enquiries for stockholdings registered in your own name should be sent to the Companys registrars.
Please also contact our registrars if you wish dividends to be sent to your bank or building society account.
Our registrars are: Computershare Investor Services plc, PO Box 435, Owen House, 8 Bankhead Crossway North, Edinburgh EH11 4BR tel: 0870 702 0010 fax: 0870 703 6413 You may check your holdings and view other information about your Second Alliance Trust stock at www.
financial calendar final dividend and agm year to 31 july 2003 ex-dividend date 8 October 2003 annual general meeting 24 October 2003 final dividend payment date 29 October 2003 interim dividend year to 31 july 2004 proposed announcement date 16 February 2004 proposed ex-dividend date 10 March 2004 proposed interim dividend payment date 30 March 2004 44 confidentiality income tax on dividends We are unable to prevent other parties using the Dividends paid by the Company carry a tax credit at 10% of Companys register for marketing or other purposes.
If you the gross dividend being the net dividend plus the 10% wish to limit unsolicited mail, you may contact the Mailing tax credit.
Preference Service at FREEPOST 22, London W16 7E2.
Where the stock is held in a PEP or ISA, tax credits on Information held by ATS is not given to other parties for dividends paid before 6 April 2004 may be reclaimed by marketing purposes without the customers consent.
Individual UK taxpayers who are not liable to higher rate information and news tax and who hold their stock outside a PEP or ISA incur Daily stock prices and net asset values are available at no further income tax liability.
com, which also carries news about the Higher rate UK taxpayers, who hold their stock outside Company, event information and a Frequently Asked a PEP or ISA, are subject to income tax at 32.5% of the Questions section.
gross dividend, but are able to set the tax credit off against part of this liability.
electronic communications Where stock is held in a Pension Plan, dividends are We are now able to send you annual reports and notices of credited net.
The tax credit may not be reclaimed but meetings electronically instead of in paper format.
If you no further tax is payable on the dividend.
choose to register, an e-mail is sent to you telling you that a report or notice is available and providing a link to the tax vouchers website where it can be accessed.
If you wish to register please log on to www.
htm Whether your dividends are paid directly to you, or to your bank or building society, or to ATS for reinvestment through dividend payments the Select Investment Plan, the tax voucher which you need for your tax records will be sent to your registered If you hold stock in your own name on the register of address.
members, you will receive your dividends directly by post to your address on the register.
Alternatively, you may ATS will automatically supply you with a consolidated instruct us to send your dividends by direct credit to your income tax voucher for income received on all securities bank or building society account.
To do this, please held in the Select Investment Plan, shortly after the end of complete the mandate which is sent to you with each each tax year.
dividend, or which is available from the Company, and lodge If your dividends are received by another nominee, such as it with our registrars, or contact Computershare direct.
your stockbrokers nominee, you must contact that person for the tax voucher.
dividend reinvestment If you have opened a Select Investment Plan administered capital gains tax by ATS you may reinvest the dividends in your Second For capital gains tax purposes, the market value of each Alliance stock.
For information 25p unit of the Companys ordinary stock at 31 March 1982 please contact ATS on 01382 306006. was 2.35.
There have been no stock splits or other corporate events affecting the calculation of the increase in value of the Companys stock since that date.
No capital gains tax liability arises in respect of a disposal of the Companys stock while held within a PEP, ISA or Pension Plan.
