95 S T. JAMES S PLACE FOUNDATION ST. JAMESS PLACE FOUNDATION 96 The ethos of raising money within the working environment, for the benefit of the less fortunate members of society, plays an important role in the lives of those associated with St. Jamess Place.
From the outset, charitable giving has been a key part of the culture of the Company.
Sir Mark Weinberg has a long association with the charitable world, being one of the co-founders of The PerCent Club now part of Business in the Community, an organisation set up to encourage businesses to donate a percentage of their profits to charitable causes.
In addition, the founder members of the Company knew, from their previous walks of life, how much satisfaction people within a company can obtain from putting something, whether time or money, back into the community.
It is not surprising therefore that charitable trusts were established early on by both St. Jamess Place Capital plc and the J. Rothschild Assurance Group.
These charitable trusts were merged in 1999 and in 2000 renamed the St. James's Place Foundation the Foundation.
How is the Foundation Funded?
The Trustees ultimately retain responsibility for any actions taken by the Foundation.
However, to assist them in their duties and to encourage involvement and a sense of ownership, a management committee made up of one representative from each regional office, together with representatives from the Company's head office, was established at the outset.
This remains the position today, with each representative supported within their office by a group of people who assist in organising fund raising events.
Each of the Companys regional offices and each department within head office organise fundraising events.
These range from raffles bringing in a few hundred pounds, to promises auctions and race evenings, which can raise several thousands of pounds.
Every social event is looked upon as an opportunity to raise funds for the Foundation.
Many of the Company's local and national suppliers are happy to support the Foundation and are very generous when approached to provide a raffle prize.
In addition to group events, individuals also push themselves to the limit in an effort to raise as much sponsorship as possible from their contacts and clients.
The challenges taken up include: the Sahara Marathon, a 12-team all day Triathlon, a 5-Peaks Mountaineering Challenge, 3 Marathons in 3 different countries in 3 weeks and many more.
Alongside these ad hoc fundraising initiatives, the Foundation has consistently promoted the benefits of Deeds of Covenant Gift Aid and supported these by deductions from payroll and, in the case of Partners, deductions from their gross earnings.
This has had two major benefits.
Firstly, it provides regular monthly income to the Foundation: and secondly, the Foundation can reclaim the tax relief provided under the Deeds of Covenant Gift Aid regimes.
By the end of 2003, over 85% of the St. Jamess Place community of 1,500 people were making regular monthly donations to the Foundation through Gift Aid, demonstrating the commitment to the Foundation throughout the Company at every level.
Over 337,000 of the money raised in 2003 was as a result of these regular monthly donations.
The funds raised by the The St. Jamess Place Foundation and in its previous guise, The J. Rothschild Assurance Foundation since 1992 has steadily risen and for the past three years has exceeded 1 million each year.
ST. JAMESS PLACE FOUNDATION continued 97 Until 1998 the Foundation was funded solely by members of staff and members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership through their support of such fundraising initiatives.
In 1999, the shareholders of St. James's Place Capital agreed that, in future, the Company should match, pound for pound, all monies raised by the Foundation, with an upper limit of 500,000.
This upper limit has recently been raised to 700,000.
In 2001, this resulted in funds raised exceeding 1 million in one year for the first time, an accomplishment that was repeated in both 2002 and 2003.
Indeed 2003 was a record breaking year raising 1,188,379 in total.
A Common Goal Supporting the Foundations fundraising activities is a key corporate objective.
The management team, from the top down, focus on this aspect of the Company's business, in much the same way as it does on other key objectives.
Indeed, three of the four Trustees are Chairman, Chief Executive and Managing Director of the Company.
How Does the Foundation Award Grants?
The Foundations management committee, in consultation with the rest of the community, establish a theme framework for awarding grants.
For the year 2003, there have been two themes, the first being Cherishing the Children, whereby any charity that has a project in the UK that is for the direct benefit of physically disabled children or those suffering from a mental condition or those suffering from a life threatening or degenerative illness, can apply for a grant from the Foundation.
The second theme is the Hospice Movement, whereby the Foundation will make grants to hospices in the UK for items such as equipment, the cost of therapy and other treatments.
"The other major change that took place in 2003 was the introduction of a Major Grants Programme, whereby 150,000 was set aside for grants of up to 50,000 spread over two years to be made for innovative and new projects which would ""make a real difference"" under either theme."
In addition to the grants awarded under the themes, and largely as a result of the additional monies available to the Foundation from the Company's matching policy, the Foundation has been able to enter into a seven year commitment to Hope & Homes for Children, a UK based charity which provides family homes and other support for children orphaned by war or disaster.
Because of additional fundraising by Partners and employees, it is likely that the sum of 1 million in total will have been paid over to Hope & Homes for Children at some time in 2004, the 5th year of our arrangement with them.
In 2001, the Foundation entered into an arrangement with the Variety Club of Great Britain whereby it will fund 21 Sunshine Coaches for children with disabilities at special schools organisations located near to each of the Companys offices.
This will entail a commitment approaching 400,000 in all.
As at 31 December 2003, commitments have been entered into for the purchase of 13 coaches, the majority of which are in use already.
It is hoped that a close and lasting relationship will be formed between the school organisation and the members of the local offices.
Over 3,300,000 has been given in grants to all causes since the Foundation was established just over eleven years ago.
In addition, the Foundation has approximately 1 million available for future distribution.
The Future The Foundation is proud of what has been achieved over the past 11 years and looks forward to the challenge of sustaining and increasing its growth so that even more people may benefit from its success.
