Principal Accounting Policies Accounting Convention Debt Securities, Equity Shares and Treasury Bills The accounts of the Company and of the Group have been Securities, including equity shares and treasury bills, which are prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the intended for use on a continuing basis in the Groups activities revaluation of certain fixed assets and dealing positions.
The are classified as investment securities.
They include portfolios of following accounting policies have been consistently applied.
securities held in countries where the Group is required to maintain a stock of liquid assets.
Investment securities are Group Accounts stated at cost less any provision for permanent diminution in The consolidated accounts of the Group comprise the accounts value.
The cost of dated investment securities is adjusted to of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year reflect the amortisation or accretion of premiums and discounts ended 31 December 2003 and are drawn up in accordance with on acquisition on a straight-line basis over the residual period to Part VII Chapter II of the UK Companies Act 1985 the Act, maturity.
The amortisation and accretion of premiums and applicable Accounting Standards and the British Bankers discounts are included in interest income.
Associations Statements of Recommended Accounting Practice.
Securities other than investment securities are classified as dealing securities and are held at market value.
Where the Company Accounts market value of such securities is higher than cost, the original The Company accounts are drawn up in accordance with cost is not disclosed as its determination is not practicable.
Section 228 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Act and applicable Accounting Standards.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Act, Deferred Taxation the Companys profit and loss account has not been included in In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred these financial statements.
tax, deferred taxation is provided in full, subject to the recoverability of deferred tax assets, arising from the inclusion of income and Bad and Doubtful Debts expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from Provisions for bad and doubtful debts are held in respect of these in which they are included in the financial statements, on loans and advances, including cross border exposures.
The timing differences at the rates of taxation anticipated to apply provisions comprise two elements specific and general.
Provisions against loans and advances are based on an appraisal of the loan portfolio.
Specific provisions are made where the Equipment Leased to Customers and Instalment repayment of identified loans is in doubt and reflect an estimate Credit Agreements of the amount of loss expected.
The general provision is for the Assets leased to customers under agreements which transfer inherent risk of losses which, although they have not been substantially all the risks and rewards associated with ownership, separately identified, are known from experience to be present other than legal title, are classified as finance leases.
The balance in any loan portfolio and to other material uncertainties where sheet amount represents total minimum lease payments receivable specific provisioning is not appropriate.
The amount of the less unearned income.
Income from finance leases is recognised general provision reflects past experience and judgements about in the profit and loss account in proportion to the funds invested.
current conditions in particular locations or business sectors.
Fixed rate instalment credit agreements are treated in a similar manner to finance leases.
Provisions are made against cross border exposures where a country may experience or has experienced external liquidity Lease agreements other than finance leases are classified as problems and doubts exist as to whether full recovery will operating leases.
Operating leases are included in loans and be achieved.
advances but are treated as fixed assets and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful life of the Provisions are applied to write off advances, in part or in whole, asset.
The profits arising from operating leases are recognised in when they are considered wholly or partly irrecoverable.
In prior the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the years, advances against which provisions were outstanding for duration of each lease.
two years or more were written down to their net book value.
Prior periods have been restated accordingly.
Income arising from the residual interest in instalment credit agreements which have been sold is credited to the profit and Interest on loans and advances is accrued to income until such loss account as it accrues.
Expenses incurred in generating this time as reasonable doubt exists about its collectability: thereafter, income are deferred and amortised over the duration of the and until all or part of the loan is written off, interest continues to income flow and in proportion to it.
accrue on customers accounts, but is not included in income.
Such suspended interest is deducted from loans and advances Foreign Currencies on the balance sheet.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are expressed in US dollar terms at rates of exchange ruling on the balance sheet date.
Profits and losses earned in foreign currencies are expressed in US dollar terms at the average exchange rate of each currency against US dollar during the year.
Exchange Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Standard Chartered 69 Principal Accounting Policies differences arising from the balance sheet period end rate and the Sale and Repurchase Agreements profit and loss average rate are taken to reserves.
Gains or These are arrangements under which assets are sold by losses arising from positions taken to hedge such profits and one party to another on terms that provide for the seller to losses are included in the profit and loss account.
repurchase the assets in certain circumstances at a later date.
Translation differences arising from the application of closing Where the substance of the transaction is that of a secured loan, rates of exchange to opening net assets denominated in foreign the sale and any apparent profit will not be recorded as such in currencies are taken directly to reserves.
the books of the seller, but the proceeds of sale will be recorded as a deposit.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of opening net monetary assets and results of operations in areas experiencing Swaps and Sales of Assets hyper-inflation are included in the profit and loss account.
Assets acquired through debt exchange transactions are included Non-monetary assets in these areas are not retranslated.
in the accounts in the same line as the original underlying asset All other exchange differences arising from normal trading at the directors assessment of their fair value.
Where the asset activities, and on branch profit and dividend remittances to the represents exposure to a country which is experiencing payment United Kingdom, are included in the profit and loss account.
difficulties, it is stated at its principal amount and any provision required to reduce the exposure to its fair value is included with Investments in Subsidiary Undertakings other provisions of a like nature.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance Profits and losses on sales of assets are calculated by reference sheet of the Company at the Companys share of their attributable to their net carrying amount, whether at historical cost less any net assets, together with any long-term loans provided by the provisions made or at a valuation, at the time of disposal.
Company to the subsidiary undertakings.
Tangible Fixed Assets Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments Freehold and long leasehold premises premises with unexpired Off-balance sheet financial instruments are valued with reference lease terms of 50 years or more are included in the accounts to market prices and the resultant profit or loss is included in the at their historical cost or at the amount of any subsequent profit and loss account, except where the position in the instrument valuation.
Leasehold premises with no long-term premium has been designated as a hedge when the profit or loss resulting value are not revalued.
from marking them to market is dealt with in the same way as the accounting treatment applied to the position hedged.
Freehold premises are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated residual lives.
Leasehold Trading positions are valued at market rates, and non-trading premises are amortised over the remaining term of each lease on positions are valued on the same basis as the items being a straight-line basis.
Netting occurs where transactions with the same counterparty meet the following requirements.
The balances Equipment, including fixed plant in buildings, computers and must be determinable and in freely convertible currencies.
The capitalised software development expenditure, is stated at cost Standard Chartered entity can insist on net settlement, and this and is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its expected ability is beyond doubt.
economic life, which is six years on a weighted average basis.
Retirement Benefits Intangible Fixed Assets The Group operates some 50 retirement benefit schemes Any purchased goodwill is capitalised and amortised to nil, on a throughout the world.
Arrangements for retirement benefits for straight-line basis, over its estimated useful life.
The amortisation members of staff are made in a variety of ways in accordance with period of capitalised goodwill is up to 20 years, being the period local regulations and customs.
The major schemes are of the over which the Group expects to derive economic benefit from defined benefit type.
Purchased goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions before 1 January 1998 was written off through The pension costs relating to these schemes are assessed in reserves in the year of acquisition and has not been restated.
accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
The assets of Any goodwill previously written off through reserves is charged the schemes are generally held in separate funds administered through the profit and loss account in the year of disposal.
The cost of providing pensions and other post-retirement Fees and Commissions benefits for employees is charged to the profit and loss account Fees or commissions which represent a payment for a service over their expected working lives.
provided in setting up a transaction, are credited to the profit and loss account once they are receivable.
The Group is complying with the transitional requirements of FRS17 Retirement Benefits.
Fees or commissions which in substance amount to an additional interest charge, are recognised over the life of the underlying transaction on a level yield basis.
70 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2003
