Statement of accounting policies GENERAL Dividends received as scrip dividends are taken to The accounts are prepared in accordance the revenue account.
The accounting treatment of with applicable accounting standards and with special dividends is considered on a case by case the Statement of Recommended Practice basis.
Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies The fixed returns on debt securities are recognised SORP.
The accounts have been prepared on the on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect their historical cost basis of accounting modified to include effective yield.
the revaluation of fixed asset investments.
MANAGEMENT CHARGE CONSOLIDATION In accordance with the expected long term division of All subsidiary companies make up accounts to returns, 40% 2002: 50% of the investment 31 December and results for the year ended on that management fee for the year is charged to the date are included in the Group results in full.
revenue account and the other 60% 2002: 50% is charged to capital reserves, net of incremental INVESTMENTS corporation tax relief and inclusive of any related Listed investments are stated at market value which irrecoverable value added tax.
Investments in funds is based upon middle market prices at the balance managed by the Investec Group are wholly excluded sheet date.
Realised surpluses or deficits on the from this charge.
disposal of investments and permanent impairments in the value of investments are taken to capital DEFERRED TAXATION reserve-realised and unrealised surpluses and Provision is made for taxation at current rates on the deficits on the revaluation of investments are taken to excess of taxable income over expenses.
Suspended securities are applicable, a provision is made on all timing included at directors valuation.
differences between the recognition of income in the financial statements and its recognition in the SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES Companys annual tax returns.
Investments in subsidiary companies are valued at the lower of cost or net asset value, as in the opinion DEBENTURE INTEREST of the directors this most fairly reflects the value of the Interest payable is treated on an accruals basis.
accordance with the expected long term division of returns, 40% 2002: 50% of the interest for the year INCOME AND EXPENSES is charged to the revenue account and the other 60% All income and expenses are treated on the accruals 2002: 50% is charged to capital reserves, net of basis and dividend income is included in revenue incremental corporation tax relief.
when an investment is quoted ex-dividend.
UK dividends are stated net of related tax credits.
