Notice of meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the seventy-eighth Annual General Meeting of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Monday 29 March 2004 at 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1. to approve the group accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003, together with the reports of the directors and auditors thereon, 2. to approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2003, 3. to declare a final dividend of 17.80p per ordinary share, 4. to re-elect Mr J Reeve as a director, 5. to re-elect Mr J L Hudson as a director, 6. to re-elect Mr F L J Walton as a director, 7. to consider the following resolution, special notice having been received of the intention to propose the resolution as an ordinary resolution: THAT Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed auditors of the Company having previously been appointed by the board to fill the casual vacancy arising by reason of the resignation of  LLP, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and that their remuneration be determined by the directors.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following special resolution: 8.
That the Company generally be and is hereby authorised for the purpose of section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases as defined in section 163 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 8,680,913 being 14.99 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for such shares is 25p per share: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses payable by the Company which may be paid for such shares shall be 5% above the average of the market value of the share quotations taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made: iv the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed or revoked expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2005, or, if earlier, the date falling fifteen months from the date of this resolution: v the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
Dated this 17th day of February, 2004 By order of the Board of Directors M K Slade For Investec Investment Management Limited Secretary 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QP TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 39 NEWGATE STREET CHEAPSIDE GRESHAM STREET Notice of meeting continued Museum of London LONDON WALL Shown is a plan of the location of Investec Investment Management Limited, St Barts Hospital 2 Gresham Street, ANGEL ST. London EC2V 7QP where the Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday ST PAULS 29 March 2004 at 11.00 a. m. St Pauls Cathedral NOTES 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend the meeting and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
Instruments of proxy should be sent to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing BN99 6ZR so as to arrive no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending and voting at the meeting in person should they wish to do so.
Members who hold ordinary shares in the Company in uncertificated form must have been entered on the Companys register of members by 11.00 a. m. on 27 March 2004 in order to be able to attend and vote at the meeting.
Such members may only vote at the meeting in respect of ordinary shares held at the time.
The Register of Directors Interests kept by the Company in accordance with section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 will be open for inspection at the meeting.
None of the directors has a service contract with the Company.
Only holders of ordinary shares or their proxies are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
T S E U G A T N O M. T S NOBLE ST STREET D R A W D FOSTER LA WOOD E G N I K ST MARTINS LE GRAND
