Independent auditors report continued We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain as at 31 December 2003 and of the total return all the information and explanations which we and cash flows of the Group for the year then considered necessary in order to provide us with ended: and sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the financial statements and the part of the Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Remuneration Report to be audited are free from have been properly prepared in accordance with material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or the Companies Act 1985. other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Ernst & Young LLP presentation of information in the financial statements Registered Auditor and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to 1 More London Place, London SE1 2AF be audited.
17 February 2004 Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts The directors are required by UK company law to The financial statements are published on the prepare accounts for each financial year that give a www.
com website, which is a website true and fair view of the state of affairs of the maintained by the Companys Investment Manager, Company and Group as at the end of the financial Investec Investment Management Limited Investec.
year and of the total return of the Group for that year.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Investec or any of its subsidiaries is, so The directors confirm that suitable accounting far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of policies have been used and applied consistently and Investec.
The work carried out by the auditors does reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates not involve consideration of the maintenance and have been made in the preparation of the accounts integrity of this website and accordingly, the auditors for the year ended 31 December 2003.
The directors accept no responsibility for any changes that have also confirm that applicable accounting standards occurred to the financial statements since they were have been followed and that the accounts have been initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the prepared on a going concern basis.
website need to be aware that legislation in the The directors are responsible for keeping proper United Kingdom governing the preparation and accounting records that disclose with reasonable dissemination of the financial statements may differ accuracy at any time the financial position of the from legislation in their jurisdiction.
Company and the Group to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
