Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Ninety-Ninth Annual d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the General Meeting of TR Property Investment Trust plc will conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the be held at 4 Broadgate, London, EC2M 2DA on Friday Company in 2004 or, if earlier, 18 months from the 25 July 2003 at 12 noon for the following purposes: passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry enter into a contract to Ordinary Business purchase Shares under which such purchases will 1 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the or may be completed or executed wholly or partly year ended 31 March 2003. after the expiration of this authority and may make 2 To receive the Report of the Directors and the audited a purchase of Shares in pursuance of any such accounts for the year ended 31 March 2003. contract.
3 To declare a final dividend of 1.15p per ordinary share.
By order of the Board 4 To re-elect Mr A Ross Goobey as a director.
J S Ellman-Brown ACIS Henderson Secretarial Services Limited 5 To re-elect Mr P L Salsbury as a director.
Secretary 6 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the 5 June 2003 Company.
Notes 7 To authorise the directors to determine the 1.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities remuneration of the auditors.
Regulations 2001, only those shareholders registered in Special Business the register of members of the Company at 7.00pm on To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 23 July 2003 shall be entitled to attend and or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of resolution as a special resolution: shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to 8 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and entries on the relevant register of securities after that time unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section on 23 July 2003 shall be disregarded in determining the 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be of the Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint capital of the Company Shares on such terms and holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined in such manner as the Directors may from time to time by the order in which the names stand in the register in determine provided that: respect of the joint holding.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, to be purchased shall be 62,230,160 representing on a poll, to vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The number of votes cast approximately 14.99% of the Companys ordinary by proxy for each resolution will be communicated to shares in issue at 5 June 2003, the date of this shareholders at or following the AGM and will be available Notice of Annual General Meeting : on request.
b the maximum price exclusive of expenses at 3.
A form of proxy is enclosed and to be valid must be lodged which a Share may be purchased shall not exceed with the Registrar of the Company not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
of the average of the middle market return of a form of proxy will not preclude a shareholder quotations for the Shares as taken from the from attending and voting in person.
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 4.
This notice is sent for information only to holders of five business days immediately preceding the date debentures issued by Trust Union Finance 1991 PLC.
The Register of Directors Interests kept by the Company in accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which will be open for inspection at the AGM.
may be paid for a Share shall be 25p, being the 6.
The Registered Office of the Company is 4 Broadgate, nominal value per Share: and London EC2M 2DA.
