Directors and other Information Directors Secretary A Ross Goobey Chairman Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, C M Burton represented by J S Ellman-Brown ACIS J H M Newsum Registrar P L Salsbury Computershare Investor Services PLC R A Stone PO Box 435 Owen House Registered Office 8 Bankhead Crossway North 4 Broadgate Edinburgh EH11 4BR London EC2M 2DA Telephone: 0870 702 0010 Telephone: 020 7818 1818 Facsimile: 020 7818 1819 Registered Auditors Ernst & Young LLP Registered Number Rolls House Registered as an investment company in England and 7 Rolls Buildings Wales No.
84492 Fetter Lane London EC4A 1NH Investment Manager Henderson Global Investors Limited, an Company Stockbrokers authorised and regulated by the Financial Services UBS Warburg Authority 1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP Fund Manager: C M Turner MRICS Solicitors Deputy Manager: Slaughter and May M A Phayre-Mudge MRICS One Bunhill Row Finance Manager: London EC1Y 8YY J L Elliott ACA Direct Property Portfolio Manager: J F K Wilkinson MRICS Investor Relations Manager: M I L Vickery 52 TR Property Investment Trust TR Property Investment Trust plc Highlights of the Year Outperformed benchmark for fifth consecutive year Total return of minus 4.2% compares with All Share total return of minus 29.8% Revenue earnings rise 27.8% Dividend increased by 24.2% Encouraging start to current financial year Warrant holders are reminded that their last opportunity to exercise their subscription rights will be 31 July 2002.
Warrant holders attention is drawn to the Circular Letter accompanying this Report and Accounts.
TR Property Investment Trust 1 TR Property Investment Trust plc Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan The Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan offers a simple and flexible way of investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc.
The Share Plan offers the following: Regular savings from 50 per month quarter, or lump sum investments from 500 Contents and additional top-up from 100 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your Directors Review bank or building society account Contents All paperwork and documentation is simplified and reduced to a minimum 1 Highlights of the Year Half yearly valuations with consolidated tax certificate and complimentary market 2 Profile reviews 3 Financial Highlights and Performance Information 4 Chairmans Statement Henderson Selection ISA 8 Managers Report 16 Twenty Largest Equity Investments You can invest in TR Property Investment Trust plc through a Henderson Selection ISA.
The ISA offers the following: 18 Principal Investment Properties Tax free income and tax free growth Directors Report Regular savings from 100 per month or lump sum investments from 2,000 20 Directors and Management An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your 22 Directors Remuneration Report bank or building society account 23 Report of the Directors Half yearly valuations, reports and complimentary market reviews 26 Corporate Governance 28 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts Both Mini and Maxi ISAs available for investment by lump sum or regular savings Accounts Henderson Selection Transfer PEP 29 Report of the Independent Auditors 30 Group Statement of Total Return Although you cannot subscribe new funds to any PEP, it is possible to transfer existing PEP 31 Group and Company Balance Sheets funds in cash from other managers into the Henderson Selection Transfer PEP.
This offers you 32 Group Cash Flow Statement the opportunity to invest PEP funds in TR Property Investment Trust plc.
33 Notes to the Accounts 47 Notice of Annual General Meeting Further Information 48 Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Please consult our website www.
com or write to Henderson Global Investors, Shareholder Information FREEPOST, Newbury RG14 2ZZ.
49 General Shareholder Information and Glossary of Terms Alternatively, please contact your professional adviser for further information or call our Investor 52 Directors and other Information Services Department on freephone 0800 832 832 quoting the reference REPORT.
Please call Inside Back Cover Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan 44 20 7818 1315 if you are telephoning from abroad.
We may record telephone calls for our Henderson Selection ISA mutual protection and to improve customer service.
Henderson Selection Transfer PEP Please remember that the value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of market and currency fluctuations and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc and Henderson Administration Limited all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority provide investment products and services.
TR Property Investment Trust plc 2003 Annual Report & Accounts TR Property Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2003 TR Property Investment Trust plc is managed by Printed by Perivan, London HGI5994 2003
