Corporate Governance continued Socially Responsible Investment Environmental Policy Good corporate governance extends to a companys The Company has adopted an environmental policy in policies on the environment, employment, human rights respect of its investments.
The annual statements of the and community relationships.
Corporations are playing an companies in which it invests are reviewed and their increasingly important role in global economic activity and environmental statement considered.
In respect of the direct the adoption of good corporate governance enhances a property portfolio, there is an environmental assessment companys economic prospects by reducing the risk of prior to purchase to identify possible contamination or government and regulatory intervention and any ensuing materials considered environmentally harmful.
Remedial damage to its business or reputation.
action is taken where appropriate.
Tenants are encouraged to pursue their own environmental procedures.
The Companys policy is to examine and monitor the Statement of Compliance policies and actions of the companies in which it invests.
The directors consider that the Company has complied Its overriding objective remains the maximisation of throughout the year ended 31 March 2003 with all the relevant shareholders total return.
provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts The directors are required by UK company law to prepare preparation of the accounts for the year ended 31 March accounts for each financial year that give a true and fair 2003.
The directors also confirm that applicable accounting view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group standards have been followed and that the accounts have as at the end of the financial year and of the net revenue been prepared on a going concern basis.
of the Group for that period.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and been used and applied consistently and that reasonable and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
