Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1, 2 and 3: Remuneration Report, Accounts intended that purchases would only be made at prices & Dividend below net asset value.
Your board considers that it will be These are the resolutions which deal with the approval of most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to be the directors remuneration report, the presentation of the able to make such purchases as and when it considers the audited accounts and the declaration of the final dividend.
timing to be favourable and therefore does not propose to The vote to approve the remuneration report is advisory only set a timetable for making any such purchases.
and will not require the Company to alter any arrangements The rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the price which detailed in the report should the resolution not be passed.
may be paid by the Company to 105% of the average Resolutions 4 and 5: Re-election of Directors middle-market quotation for an ordinary share on the 5 These resolutions deal with the re-election of Mr A Ross business days immediately preceding the date of the Goobey and Mr P L Salsbury as Directors.
The minimum price to be paid will be Articles of Association, they are required to retire by rotation 25p per ordinary share being the nominal value.
Also at the Annual General Meeting.
The directors in question these rules limit a listed company to purchases of shares have confirmed that they will stand for re-election.
representing up to 15% of its issued ordinary share capital through the market pursuant to a general authority such as Resolutions 6 and 7: Auditors this.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its authority to These deal with the re-appointment of the Auditors, Ernst & make such purchases to 62,230,160 ordinary shares being Young LLP, and the authorising of the directors to approximately 14.99% of the ordinary shares in issue at the determine their remuneration.
The authority will last until the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2004 Resolution 8: Authority to make Market Purchases of the or, if earlier, 18 months from the passing of the resolution.
Companys own Shares At the Annual General Meeting held on 25 July 2002, a A special resolution is one that requires a majority of at special resolution was proposed and passed, giving the least 75% of those present and voting to be passed.
directors authority, until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2003, to make market purchases of the Companys own issued ordinary shares up to a maximum of 62,448,290 being 14.99% of the issued share capital at that time for cancellation.
As stated in the Report of the Directors on page 24 these powers have been used to purchase 17,530,872 ordinary shares in the year to 31 March 2003 and your board is proposing that they should be given renewed authority to purchase ordinary shares in the market for cancellation.
Your board believes that to make such purchases in the market at appropriate times and prices is a suitable method of enhancing shareholder value.
The Company would, within guidelines set from time to time by the board, make either a single purchase or a series of purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with the aim of maximising the benefits to shareholders.
Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share, this will enhance the net asset value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore 48 TR Property Investment Trust
