Marketing Review James Budden Witan maintained its commitment to marketing in 2003.
The Trusts strategy was built around two key objectives, namely to increase demand for trust A terrific deal for parents, grandparents and godparents.
shares through sales of product plans and to enhance Witan as an investment brand.
During the year it proved difficult to show progress against the former objective.
The environment was not propitious to achieving the volume of new investment through products as had been enjoyed in previous years.
Although positive performance has made a welcome return, the confidence of the private investor has taken time to mirror this improvement.
However, there are clear Ill give you burps.
indications drawn from the response to marketing activity that this situation is Ill give you used nappies.
Witans products themselves enjoyed a mixed year.
On Ill give you sleepless nights.
the one hand, poor press and the abolition of the tax credit attached to ISAs Ill give you chickenpox.
seems to have undermined the attractiveness of this product to the consumer.
Ill give you dirty laundry.
On the other hand, Jump the Savings Plan for Children proved resilient within Ill give you heartache.
an increasingly competitive sub-set of the investment world.
Indeed investment And in return you can invest volume across the range of Witan plans showed signs of picking up during the all your spare cash in this clever final quarter of the year.
This bodes well for 2004. account for me, so when Im 18 Ill have enough to buy a fast car and scare Witans marketing activities were more successful in pursuit of their second the life out of you.
By maintaining a strong presence during a difficult year and by employing an innovative approach, the Trust continued to enhance its brand If youd invested 25 a month with us for the last 18 years, your child would now have 10,865 compared to the building society return of 7,165.
Your investment is based on Witan, the profile.
A level of advertising was maintained with an eye on circumstances long-established investment trust, whose managers look after around 1.3 billion for over 55,000 The savings fund for children investors.
Call now for an information pack, because you know a good deal when you see one.
com Ref XXXXX and value for money.
Witans topical cartoons won further friends through Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance.
The value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of market and currency fluctuations and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Banks and their exposure in a variety of popular and cerebral magazines.
The building society accounts offer greater security to your capital.
Source: Micropal net income reinvested 18 years to 31 12 03 Building Society Index UK Savings 2,500.
25 a month invested over 5 years 1,286 compared to building society return of 1,527.
Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, sponsorship of Chemmy Alcott, Britains brightest skiing hope, proved a Henderson Fund Management plc and Henderson Administration Limited all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority provide investment products and services.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
strong association as her career progressed at a pace.
Witans continued support of the Royal Horticultural Society bore fruit once more during 2003.
A tangible expression of the strength of Witans brand profile manifested itself upon the announcement in October that the Trust proposed to appoint a Chief Executive Officer.
The subsequent interest surrounding this news was significant with every national newspaper running the story.
Witan... Marketing Strategy 2004 Whilst 2003 proved to be a year of consolidation and concentrated on doing basic things right in marketing terms, the coming year should prove more exciting and rewarding.
The Trusts decision to adopt an open architecture approach using managers alongside Henderson creates an even stronger investment proposition for Witan.
It sets the Trust aside from its competitors and offers a real opportunity for improved returns to shareholders.
This multi-manager approach is an exciting one which should attract interest from a range of potential investors both private and professional.
The Trusts marketing programme will develop this proposition and communicate it to the relevant target markets.
This should impact positively wisdom on both the volume of new investment through product plans and Witans brand profile.
What an Old Romantic the Mayor of London is!
If you need the extra cash to pay ye new-fangled ha!
London congestion charges, maybe you should invest with us.
Additionally, Witans marketing activity continues to cover the following areas: Advertising the share price and net asset value in national papers and 0800 082 81 80 www.
CONGESTION journals Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc and Henderson Administration Limited all regulated by the FSA provide investment products and services.
Publishing the net asset value daily Facilitating the involvement of nominee shareholders Membership of the AITC Support of AITC marketing initiatives 48 The programme for 2003 includes key performance indicators Witanwisdom approved by the Board as measurement of the progress of There are a variety of ways to invest in Witan.
Whilst the application of the Witans shares can be traded easily on the stock market.
marketing mix will be creative and innovative, emphasis will However, bearing in mind the benets of income reinvestment, be placed on ensuring cost effective response across all regular savings and tax free wrappers, one of Witans activities.
The marketing budget is fixed annually and investment plans may be the answer.
expenditure is kept under close review.
The budget for 2004 is Witan Share Plan is a straightforward savings scheme expected to be similar to that for 2003. with minimum lump sum investment from 500 and regular savings from 50 per month.
Marketing Rationale When the environment has proved difficult for attracting Witan ISA enables investors to save tax free up to a investment, it is worth reiterating the reasons for maintaining limit of 7,000 per annum.
The minimum lump sum marketing levels.
investment is 2,000 with regular savings from 50 per month.
It is the cumulative effect of the marketing process that adds value for shareholders investments.
Such activity stimulates Witan Transfer PEP allows investors to transfer all demand for Witan shares.
This in turn guarantees a level of or any number of their existing PEP holdings into Witan.
liquidity which boosts the share price and allows shareholders The transfer is free except for 0.5% stamp duty and to purchase and sell shares at a price reflecting the performance investments retain their tax free status during and and rating of the Trust.
The presence of liquidity for after transfer.
investment trust shares is increasingly important in a fickle Witan Simple Contribution Pension provides the marketplace where demand can drop, discounts slip and price opportunity to claim up to 792 in tax benefit from the spreads widen.
It is a stakeholder type pension which can be opened on behalf of another person, including non-earners.
Jump gives parents, grandparents or other adults the chance to save effectively for children over the long term.
Minimum lump sum investment is set at 100 and regular contributions can be made from as little as 25 a month or quarter.
Call free on 0800 832 832 for product information and guidance.
com for all the latest news and views and the opportunity to access plan application forms.
Please remember that the value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of market and currency uctuations and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc, Henderson Investment Management Limited and Henderson Administration Limited all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority provide investment products and services.
