Shareholder Information Points of Contact Nominee Share Code If you have any questions or need more information Where notification has been received in advance, Witan concerning Witan or Henderson Global Investors, you may will provide the operators of nominee accounts with copies of contact us in the following ways: shareholder communications for distribution to their customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings Freephone: and speak at them when invited to do so by the Chairman.
Henderson Investor Services on 0800 832 832 Capital Gains Tax Website: The calculation of the tax on chargeable gains will depend on www.
If you are in any doubt about your personal tax position, you are recommended to contact Post: your professional adviser.
For Share Plan Jump queries: The Share Plan Administrators Disability Act Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland Copies of this annual report and other documents PO Box 28448 issued by Witan Investment Trust plc are available from the FREEPOST KE 5906 Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in Edinburgh a variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger type EH4 1ZQ as appropriate.
For PEP ISA queries: You can contact our Registrar, Computershare Investor Henderson Investment Management Limited Services PLC, which has installed telephones to allow speech Block C and hearing impaired people who have their own telephone to Western House contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate Lynch Wood Business Park operator.
Specially trained operators are available during Peterborough normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
PE2 6BP Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator provided by The Royal National Institute for Deaf People, Points of Reference you should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish You can follow the progress of your savings through the to dial.
Witans share price appears daily in the national press stock exchange listings under Investment Trusts or For investors who hold shares through the Witan Share Plan, Investment Companies.
PEP or ISA a textphone telephone service is available on 020 7850 5406.
This service is available during normal The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL code is business hours.
If you invest through the Witan Share Plan, ISA or PEPs you will be sent a valuation of your Plan every April and October, together with a newsletter containing a comprehensive market review and general articles of interest.
Every February you will receive the annual report for Witan, together with an invitation to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting.
An interim report is despatched every September.
For details on the ways to invest and save in Witan, please see Witanwisdom on page 49 of this document.
Registrar Auditors Solicitors Stockbroker Computershare Investor Deloitte & Touche LLP Herbert Smith Cazenove Services PLC Stonecutter Court Exchange House 20 Moorgate PO Box 82 1 Stonecutter Street Primrose Street London EC2R 6DA The Pavilions London EC4A 4TR London EC2A 2HS Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Telephone: 0870 702 0010 52 Chemmy Alcott in action at Cortina dAmpezzo.
In January 2004 Miss Alcott announced herself at the elite level of alpine skiing when she finished ninth in the World Cup downhill at the Italian venue.
This was the best result by a British woman for more than 30 years.
Witan is her principal sponsor up to and including the Olympic Games in Turin in 2006.
Photograph: Reuters Stefano Rellandini Witan Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2003 HGI9232 2003 Witan Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2003 Printed by Park Communications, London
