Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninety-sixth Annual General Meeting of Witan Investment Trust plc will be held at The c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary British Museum, Great Russell Street, London WC1B 3DG on Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average middle Monday 29 March 2004 at 6.45 pm for the following purposes: market quotations for an Ordinary Share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Business Ordinary Share is purchased, or such other amount as may 1 To receive the directors report and the audited accounts for be specified by the UK Listing Authority from time to time: the year ended 31 December 2003. d the authority hereby conferred will expire at the 2 To approve the directors remuneration report for the year conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company ended 31 December 2003. in 2005 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 18 months from the 3 To declare a final dividend.
passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and 4 To re-elect Mr C G Clarke as a director of the Company.
5 To re-elect Mr R W C Colvill as a director of the Company.
e the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the 6 To re-elect Mr C S McVeigh III as a director of the Company.
expiry of such authority which will or may be executed 7 To re-elect Mr H M Henderson as a director of the Company.
wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any 8 To elect Mr J Horsburgh as a director of the Company.
9 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company.
By order of the Board 10 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of G S Rice the auditors.
For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Secretary Special Business 4 February 2004 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution: 11 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and Registered Office unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 166 4 Broadgate of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market London EC2M 2DA purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of Telephone: 020 7638 5757 ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Registered as an investment company in England and Wales Ordinary Shares, provided that: No.
101625 a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 51,073,640 representing approximately 14.99% of the Ordinary Shares in issue at 4 February 2004, the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 25p: 50 Notes 1 Only those ordinary shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company at 6.45 pm on 27 March 2004 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6.45 pm on 27 March 2004 will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
2 An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
Such proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Every ordinary shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting of the Company, and every person not being himself or herself a member entitled to vote who is present as proxy for a member entitled to vote, shall have one vote on a show of hands.
On a poll, every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every 1 nominal value of shares held by him or her.
Accordingly, on a poll each ordinary shareholder has one vote for every four shares held.
3 A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be valid the form of proxy must be completed and deposited at the office of the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
The return of the form of proxy duly completed will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person at the meeting.
4 This notice is sent for information only to holders of the preference shares and the debenture stock who are not entitled to attend or vote at the meeting.
5 The register of directors interests, kept by the Company in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, and the Chief Executive Officers service agreement will be available for inspection at the meeting.
6 By attending the meeting, members and their proxies and representatives are understood by the Company to have confirmed their agreement to receive any communications including communications relating to the Companys securities made at the meeting.
Annual General Meeting Venue Location of the British Museum The Annual General Meeting will be held in the BP Lecture Theatre at the British Museum on Monday 29 March 2004 at 6.45 pm.
The BP Lecture Theatre is part of the Clore Education Centre which is located beneath the Reading Room.
Shareholders arriving after the British Museum closes to the public at 6.00 pm are asked to enter through the main entrance in Great Russell Street from where they will be guided to the registration desks.
