Corporate Governance continued of risk.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of it did not directly employ any staff.
The Board will continue to internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, monitor its system of internal control in order to provide such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the assurance that it operates as intended and the directors will review risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and from time to time whether a function equivalent to an internal can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against audit is needed.
Going Concern The Board, assisted by the Manager, has reviewed the Companys The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the business risks and these are analysed and recorded in a risk map.
going concern basis in preparing the accounts, as the assets of the The Board receives each quarter from the Manager a formal report Company consist mainly of securities that are readily realisable which details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, and, accordingly, the Company has adequate financial resources to including those that are not directly the responsibility of the continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Manager, and which reports the details of any known internal control failures.
The Board receives each year from the Manager a Exercise of Voting Powers report on its internal controls a FRAG 21 report which includes The Board has approved a UK corporate governance voting a report from the Managers auditors on the control policies and policy which, in its opinion, accords with current best practice procedures in operation.
Steps will continue to be taken to embed whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
the system of internal control and risk management into the operations and culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
Statement of Compliance The directors consider that the Company has complied The Company does not have an internal audit function: it throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 with all the delegates to third parties most of its operations and, during 2003, relevant material provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare prepare the accounts on the going concern basis, unless it accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view is inappropriate to presume that the Company will of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the continue in business.
financial year and of the net revenue of the Company for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: The directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any select suitable accounting policies and then apply them time the financial position of the Company and enable them to consistently: ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. make judgements and estimates that are reasonable They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the and prudent: Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and 32
