AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements 66 Form 20-F Information 2003 Accounting Policies Basis of accounting calculated after charging the gross amount, transactions, except relevant foreign The Financial Statements are prepared under at current exchange rates, of any such currency loans, are taken to operating profit.
the historical cost convention, modified to goodwill.
In the consolidated Financial Statements include the revaluation to market value of exchange differences arising on certain current asset investments held by Intangible assets, including patents acquired, consolidation of the net investments in Group subsidiaries as described below, in are capitalised and amortised over their subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates accordance with the Companies Act 1985 estimated useful lives generally not together with those on relevant foreign and UK generally accepted accounting exceeding 20 years, in line with the benefits currency loans are taken directly to reserves principles UK GAAP.
If related products fail, the via the statement of total recognised gains significant differences to US GAAP these remaining unamortised amounts are and losses.
have been described in the US GAAP immediately written off to revenue expense.
The following Finance costs and internally developed Taxation paragraphs describe the main accounting intangible assets are not capitalised.
All The charge for taxation is based on the policies under UK GAAP.
The accounting intangible assets are reviewed for impairment profits for the year and takes into account policies of some overseas subsidiaries and when there are indications that the carrying taxation deferred because of timing associated undertakings do not conform value may not be recoverable.
differences between the treatment of certain with UK GAAP and, where appropriate, items for taxation and for accounting adjustments are made on consolidation in Post-retirement benefits purposes.
Full provision is made for the tax order to present the Group Financial The pension costs relating to UK retirement effects of these differences.
No provision is Statements on a consistent basis.
plans are assessed in accordance with the made for unremitted earnings of foreign advice of independent qualified actuaries.
subsidiaries where there is no commitment Critical accounting policies The amounts so determined include the to remit such earnings, nor is provision made AstraZenecas management considers the regular cost of providing the benefits under for rolled over capital gains.
The deferred tax following to be the most important the plans which it is intended should remain balances are not discounted.
accounting policies in the context of the as a level percentage of current and Groups operations.
expected future earnings of the employees Tangible fixed assets covered under the plans.
Variations from the AstraZenecas policy is to write off the Turnover regular pension cost are spread on a difference between the cost of each tangible Turnover excludes intercompany turnover systematic basis over the estimated average fixed asset and its residual value evenly over and value added taxes and represents net remaining service lives of current employees its estimated remaining life.
Reviews are invoice value less estimated rebates, returns in the plans.
Retirement plans of non-UK made periodically of the estimated remaining and settlement discounts.
Revenue is subsidiaries are accounted for in accordance lives of individual productive assets, taking recognised at the point at which title passes.
with local conditions and practice.
With account of commercial and technological minor exceptions, these subsidiaries obsolescence as well as normal wear and Research and development recognise the expected cost of providing tear.
Under this policy it becomes Research and development expenditure is pensions on a systematic basis over the impracticable to calculate average asset lives charged to profit in the year in which it is average remaining service lives of employees exactly.
However, the total lives range from incurred.
in accordance with the advice of approximately 13 to 50 years for buildings, independent qualified actuaries.
The costs of and three to 15 years for plant and Goodwill and intangible assets providing post-retirement benefits other than equipment.
All tangible fixed assets are On the acquisition of a business, fair values pensions, principally healthcare, are charged reviewed for impairment when there are are attributed to the net assets acquired.
to the profit and loss account on a consistent indications that the carrying value may not Goodwill arises where the fair value of the basis over the average service lives of be recoverable.
consideration given for a business exceeds employees.
Such costs are assessed in the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill accordance with the advice of independent Leases arising on acquisitions since 1998 is qualified actuaries.
AstraZeneca has adopted Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and amortised over its estimated the disclosure requirements of FRS 17. capitalised and included in tangible fixed useful life generally not exceeding 20 years.
Each asset is depreciated Goodwill is reviewed for impairment when Other accounting policies over the shorter of the lease term or its useful there are indications that the carrying value Foreign currencies life.
The obligations related to finance leases, may not be recoverable.
The Groups policy Profit and loss accounts in foreign currencies net of finance charges in respect of future up to and including 1997 was to eliminate are translated into US dollars at average periods, are included, as appropriate, goodwill arising upon acquisitions against rates for the relevant accounting periods.
under creditors due within, or creditors due reserves.
Such goodwill will remain Assets and liabilities are translated at after, one year.
The interest element of the eliminated against reserves until disposal or exchange rates prevailing at the date of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting termination of the previously acquired Group balance sheet.
periods during the lease term to reflect a business including the planned disposal or constant rate of interest on the remaining termination when there are indications that Exchange gains and losses on short term balance of the obligation for each accounting the value of the goodwill has been foreign currency borrowings and deposits period.
Rentals under operating leases are permanently impaired, when the profit or are included within net interest payable.
charged to the profit and loss account as loss on disposal or termination will be Exchange differences on all other incurred.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements Form 20-F Information 2003 67 Investments Stock valuation An associate is an undertaking, not being a Stocks are stated at the lower of cost or net subsidiary or joint venture, in which realisable value.
The first in, first out or an AstraZeneca has a participating interest and average method of valuation is used.
In over whose commercial and financial policy determining cost, depreciation is included decisions AstraZeneca exercises significant but selling expenses and certain overhead influence.
expenses principally central administration costs are excluded.
Net realisable value is A joint venture is an entity in which determined as estimated selling price less AstraZeneca holds an interest on a long term costs of disposal.
basis and which is jointly controlled by AstraZeneca and one or more other Principal financial instruments venturers under a contractual arrangement.
Forward foreign exchange contracts for existing transactions are revalued to year end AstraZenecas share of the profits less losses spot rates and the gains losses arising are of all significant joint ventures and associates recognised in the Group profit and loss is included in the Group profit and loss account.
Interest differentials are amortised account on the equity accounting basis or, in on a straight line basis over the life of the the case of joint ventures, the gross equity contract.
The holding value of significant associates and joint ventures in The gains losses on forward foreign the Group balance sheet is calculated by exchange contracts and currency option reference to AstraZenecas equity in the net contracts hedging anticipated exposures are assets of such associates and joint ventures, deferred until the date the underlying as shown by the most recent accounts transaction being hedged is completed.
available, adjusted where appropriate and including goodwill on acquisitions made Interest rate swaps are accounted for on an since 1 January 1998. accruals basis.
Cross-currency swaps are translated at year end exchange rates: Fixed asset investments are stated at cost gains losses arising are included in the and reviewed for impairment if there are measurement of the related liabilities and indications that the carrying value may not be dealt with in the Group profit and loss recoverable.
account or reserves as appropriate.
Current asset investments held by the Groups insurance company subsidiaries, to the extent that they are actively matched against insurance liabilities, are valued at market value and unrealised gains and losses are taken directly to reserves via the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Realised gains and losses are taken to the profit and loss account.
Contingent liabilities Through the normal course of business, AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes the settlement of which may involve cost to the Group.
Provision is made where an adverse outcome is probable and associated costs can be estimated reliably.
AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental liabilities relating to its past operations, principally in respect of soil and groundwater remediation costs.
Provisions for these costs are made when there is a present obligation, it is probable that expenditure on remedial work will be required and a reliable estimate can be made of the cost.
