AstraZeneca Annual Report and AstraZeneca Code of Conduct 138 Form 20-F Information 2003 AstraZeneca Code of Conduct Introduction situation that may confront employees in No employee should seek or accept a gift, We are committed to dealing with all our markets around the world.
In appropriate entertainment or personal favour which stakeholders with the highest ethical cases, guidance on the application of the might reasonably be believed to have any standards, integrity and as responsible Code to particular situations should be influence on business transactions.
The trust and confidence sought from management.
In addition, Legal of entertainment should not be accepted of all our stakeholders, together with our Department and Group Internal Audit are unless the offer is within the bounds of reputation, are among the most valuable available on a confidential basis as accepted business hospitality.
Gifts which assets of the Group.
Along with our independent sources of advice.
do not meet the above criteria should be commitment to competitiveness and reported to management who shall performance, we will continue to be led by It is the responsibility of each employee to determine how they shall be dealt with.
our values to achieve sustainable success.
report promptly any violations of the Code of Conduct of which they become aware.
AstraZeneca funds will not be used in Every AstraZeneca employee is required to Details of the procedures for raising integrity payments, direct or indirect, to government make a personal commitment to follow the concerns and relevant contact details are officials, people participating in government Companys Code of Conduct, as well as the given at the end of this document.
bodies, employees of state organisations or detailed standards issued in support of it, AstraZeneca assures individual employees representatives of political parties, for and uphold our commitment to our values, who raise issues that they will be protected unlawful or improper purposes.
from any adverse impact on their employment as a result.
AstraZeneca Equal opportunities We are all privileged to work for one of the actively encourages employees to raise All employees shall be treated with equal best companies in the world and to ensure issues of concern.
respect and dignity and shall be provided we leave a lasting legacy that we can be with equality of opportunity to develop proud of.
Nothing not the need to meet Standards of Conduct themselves and their careers.
targets, or direct orders from a superior Business practices should ever compromise our commitment AstraZeneca Companies, and their AstraZeneca is striving to achieve diversity to honesty and integrity.
employees, must comply with the laws of at all levels of the organisation and values the all countries in which they operate, with individuality, diversity and creative potential Sir Tom McKillop appropriate international and national that every employee brings to its business Chief Executive industry codes of practice and with the and supports the continuous development high ethical standards specified by of their skills and abilities.
Policy Judgements about people for the purpose of AstraZeneca requires its companies, and It is the responsibility of all employees to recruitment, development or promotion shall their employees, to observe the highest ensure, by taking advice where appropriate, be made solely on the basis of a persons standards of integrity and honesty and act that they are fully aware of all relevant laws, ability and potential in relation to the needs of with due skill, care, diligence and fairness in regulations, practices and codes of practice, the job and shall only take account of matters the conduct of business.
To this end all particularly as they relate to their job.
relevant to the performance of that job.
AstraZeneca Companies, and their Overall, success and advancement within employees, are required to comply with the Employees should ensure that, within their AstraZeneca shall depend solely on personal laws of all countries in which they operate sphere of business activity, AstraZeneca ability, behaviour and work performance.
and with the high ethical standards detailed Companies carry out their contractual by AstraZeneca in support of this policy.
obligations in a proper and timely manner In some countries these principles may be and are not in breach of contract.
modified by national legal requirements for Compliance affirmative action.
It is the responsibility of management to Business practice, and what amounts to ensure that the AstraZeneca Code of improper conduct, varies from country to Personal harassment Conduct and standards are communicated, country and from industry to industry.
All Personal harassment, such as verbal understood and acted upon.
They are employees will comply with a the high ethical abuse or sexual harassment, of any required to positively promote them by standards specified by AstraZeneca b any employee of AstraZeneca, its suppliers personal example and are not entitled to permit published overall AstraZeneca Code relating or customers is unacceptable in any form any exceptions to the required behaviour.
to business practices and c any international whatsoever.
and national codes of practice applicable to All employees should familiarise themselves the conduct of business in each environment.
Any person who believes they have been with the Code of Conduct and must comply personally harassed should report the with it.
Failure to act in compliance with the Gifts, entertainment and personal favours incident and circumstances to their Code will result in appropriate disciplinary may only be offered to a third party if modest immediate manager or HR manager or other action against both the employee committing in value and if they are consistent with senior manager who will arrange for it to be the breach and others who condone it.
No gifts, investigated impartially and confidentially.
entertainment or personal favour may be AstraZeneca is fully supportive of the The Standards set out in the Code are offered in contravention of any applicable law principles set forth in the UN Declaration of general and do not address each and every or code of practice.
These include freedom from AstraZeneca Annual Report and AstraZeneca Code of Conduct Form 20-F Information 2003 139 torture and arbitrary arrest, the right to a fair These examples do not extend to normal Policies, delegated authorities and trial and equality before the law.
and proper financial investments in publicly reserved powers quoted companies.
AstraZeneca employees are expected to Political contributions make themselves aware of and comply Any political contributions by AstraZeneca Insider information with the letter and spirit of all AstraZeneca Companies must be lawful and approved Employees must not use confidential policies and with the reserved powers and under procedures laid down by the board or information obtained through their delegated authorities established by the governing body of the company concerned.
Copies of these are available on the Companys intranet Approval should not be given to any political It is AstraZeneca policy, and in certain site s. contributions by AstraZeneca Companies countries a legal requirement carrying which, by their scale or affiliation, might be criminal sanctions, that employees in The freedoms which individuals have to carry seen as excessive or inappropriate.
possession of confidential price sensitive out their jobs must be exercised within both AstraZenecas accounting procedures information in relation to securities do not the letter and spirit of AstraZeneca policies require any political contribution to be make use of such information to deal in and procedures, reserved powers and reported to AstraZeneca headquarters as securities of AstraZeneca or provide such delegated authorities.
These are designed to part of the annual consolidation of results.
information to third parties for that purpose.
empower people to carry out their The same considerations apply in relation to responsibilities within a necessary framework Conflicts of interest confidential price sensitive information of corporate control and legal responsibility Employees dealing with AstraZenecas relating to other companies and dealing in but are not so voluminous as to prescribe business must act in the best interests of their securities.
appropriate action in every circumstance.
AstraZeneca and must disregard any personal preference or advantage.
Property and resources Records, disclosures and AstraZeneca resources should be kept communications Employees should avoid entering into securely and should only be used for the AstraZeneca PLC and all AstraZeneca situations in which their personal, family or proper advancement of its business and Companies and their employees are financial interests may conflict with those of not for personal gain.
required to keep proper accounting and AstraZeneca.
Where any potential conflict of other records which give a true and fair interest may arise, the employee shall declare Individuals expending AstraZeneca view of the financial position, results of that interest and seek advice from senior resources should recognise that they owe a operations, transactions, assets and management.
duty of care to the shareholders of liabilities so as to enable the Company to AstraZeneca, who are its ultimate owners.
make full, fair, accurate, timely and Examples of conflict to be declared and Commitments and expenditure should only understandable disclosures in all reports it resolved include: be such as could be justified to shareholders is required to publish, file or submit to if the facts were known.
This includes any shareholders and regulators and in all other having a family interest in a transaction expenses claimed and purchases made for communications which it publishes.
with AstraZeneca or one of its which reimbursement is sought.
subsidiaries the Company or any All accounting and other records will be supplier or customer: AstraZeneca resources include not only maintained in a manner that describes and tangible assets such as materials, equipment documents accurately the Companys true hiring of a family member in any capacity: and cash, but also intangible assets such as financial position and results of operations computer systems, trade secrets and and the true nature of its business having an interest, directly or through confidential information.
Employees should transactions, assets and liabilities.
family, in a competitor, supplier or observe global and local guidelines Accounting records will be kept in customer of the Company: concerning the classifying and handling of accordance with AstraZeneca policies, documents and electronic data.
The storage relevant accounting standards and having an interest, directly or through of personal data in an electronic medium appropriate generally accepted accounting family, in an organisation that has, or may be governed by laws with which relevant principles.
seeks to do business with the Company: employees should familiarise themselves and comply with.
Employees must ensure that all reports acquiring an interest in property such as published, filed or submitted to shareholders real estate, patent rights or securities Information generated within AstraZeneca, and regulators and all other communications where the Company has, or might have, including research and development and which are published by the Company are full, an interest.
manufacturing data, costs, prices, sales, fair, accurate, timely and understandable: profits, markets, customers and methods of they must not mislead the reader in any way doing business, is the property of nor omit anything necessary to make them AstraZeneca and must not, unless legally full, fair and accurate.
The Chief Executive required, be disclosed outside AstraZeneca and the Companys senior financial officers without proper authority.
have a particular responsibility in this regard.
