AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements 100 Form 20-F Information 2003 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities 2003 2002 2001 $m $m $m Assets pledged Mortgages and other assets pledged 90 118 Commitments Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in these accounts 421 500 515 Included in the above total are contracts related to certain product purchase and licence agreements with deferred consideration obligations, the amounts of which are variable depending upon particular milestone achievements.
Sales of the products to which these milestones relate could give rise to additional payments, contingent upon the sales levels achieved.
Guarantees and contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business, for which no security has been given, are not expected to result in any material financial loss.
Commitments In 1982 Astra AB set up a joint venture with Merck & Co. Inc. for the purposes of selling, marketing and distributing certain Astra products in the US.
In 1998, this joint venture was restructured the restructuring.
Under the restructuring, a US limited partnership, in which Merck is the limited partner and AstraZeneca is the general partner, was set up and AstraZeneca obtained control of the joint ventures business subject to certain limited partner and other rights held by Merck and its affiliates.
The restructuring agreements provide for the following ongoing payment and termination arrangements: Annual contingent payments Partial Redemption First Option Second Option In addition, included in the assets and liabilities covered by the restructuring is a loan note receivable by AstraZeneca from Merck with a face value of $1.4bn.
Each of these elements is discussed in further detail below.
Under the terms of the 1998 restructuring, the merger in 1999 between Astra and Zeneca triggered two one-time payments from AstraZeneca to Merck: a Lump Sum Payment of $809m, which was charged to the profit and loss account, as a result of which Merck relinquished any rights to Zeneca products: and an Advance Payment of $967m.
This Advance Payment was calculated as the then net present value of $2.8bn discounted from 2008 to the date of payment at a rate of 13% per annum and causes Merck to relinquish any rights, including contingent payments on future sales, to Astra products with no existing or pending US patents at the time of the merger.
As the Advance Payment provides AstraZeneca with relief from future payments, this amount has been capitalised as an intangible asset and is being amortised over 20 years.
The Advance Payment is subject to a true-up in 2008, as discussed under First Option below.
Annual contingent payments AstraZeneca makes ongoing payments to Merck based on sales of certain of its products in the US the contingent payments on the agreement products.
As a result of the 1999 merger, these contingent payments excluding those in respect of Prilosec and Nexium cannot be less than annual minimum sums between 2002 and 2007 ranging from $125m to $225m.
The payments have exceeded the minimum level in 2003 and 2002 and AstraZeneca has no reason to believe that the annual payments in the future will fall below the minimum obligations.
Partial Redemption In 2008, there will be a partial redemption of Mercks limited partnership interest which will end Mercks rights to contingent payments in respect of certain of the agreement products by distribution to Merck of an amount calculated as a multiple of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 on the relevant products, plus $750m.
First Option In 2008, a calculation will be made of the Appraised Value, being the net present value of the future contingent payments in respect of all agreement products not covered by the Partial Redemption, other than Prilosec and Nexium.
Payment of this amount to Merck in 2008 is, however, contingent on Mercks exercise of the First Option.
Exercise of the First Option will require AstraZeneca to re-purchase Mercks interest in these products.
Should Merck not exercise this option in 2008, AstraZeneca may exercise it in 2010 for a sum equal to the 2008 Appraised Value.
If neither Merck nor AstraZeneca exercise the option, the contingent payment arrangements in respect of these agreement products will continue and the Appraised Value will not be paid.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements Form 20-F Information 2003 101 31 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities continued In addition, in 2008 there will be a true-up of the Advance Payment.
The calculation of this will be based on a multiple of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 in respect of all the agreement products with the exception of Prilosec and Nexium subject to a minimum of $6.6bn, plus other defined amounts totalling $912m.
It is then reduced by the Appraised Value whether paid or not, the Partial Redemption and the Advance Payment at its undiscounted amount of $2.8bn to determine the true-up amount.
The true-up will be settled in 2008 irrespective of whether the First Option is exercised and this could result in a further payment by AstraZeneca to Merck or a payment by Merck to AstraZeneca.
Should Merck exercise the First Option in 2008, AstraZeneca will make payments in respect of the Partial Redemption, the First Option and the true-up totalling a minimum of $4.7bn.
If AstraZeneca exercises the First Option in 2010, the combined effect will involve a minimum aggregate amount payable to Merck in 2008 and 2010 of the same amount.
Loan Note Receivable In 2008, at the same time as the settlement of the Partial Redemption and the true-up, Merck will settle the loan note receivable by paying AstraZeneca $1.4bn.
Second Option A Second Option exists whereby AstraZeneca has the option to re-purchase Mercks interests in Prilosec and Nexium in the US.
This option is exercisable by AstraZeneca two years after the exercise of the First Option, whether the First Option is exercised in either 2008 or 2010.
Exercise of the Second Option by AstraZeneca at a later date is also provided for in 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount provided, in each case, that the First Option has been exercised.
The exercise price for the Second Option is the fair value of these product rights as determined at the time of exercise.
If the Second Option is exercised, Merck will have no further rights to contingent payments from AstraZeneca.
Environmental costs and liabilities The Groups expenditure on environmental protection, including both capital and revenue items, relates to costs which are necessary for meeting current good practice standards and legal and regulatory requirements for processes and products.
They are an integral part of normal ongoing expenditure for maintaining the Groups R&D and manufacturing capacity and product ranges and are not separated from overall operating and development costs.
There are no known changes in legal, regulatory or other requirements resulting in material changes to the levels of expenditure for 2001, 2002 or 2003.
In addition to expenditure for meeting current and foreseen environmental protection requirements, the Group incurs substantial costs in investigating and cleaning up land and groundwater contamination.
In particular, AstraZeneca and or its affiliates have environmental liabilities at some currently or formerly owned, leased and third party sites in the US and Europe.
In the US, the AstraZeneca affiliate, Zeneca Inc. and or its indemnitees, have been named as potentially responsible parties PRPs or defendants at approximately 13 sites where Zeneca Inc. is likely to incur future investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance costs under federal or state, statutory or common law environmental liability allocations schemes.
Similarly, the AstraZeneca affiliate, Stauffer Management Company LLC SMC, which was established in 1987 to own and manage certain assets of Stauffer Chemical Company acquired that year, and or its indemnitees, have been named as PRPs or defendants at approximately 29 sites where SMC is likely to incur future investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance costs under federal or state, statutory or common law environmental liability allocations schemes.
In Europe and other parts of the world outside the US, AstraZeneca is likely to incur costs at three currently owned sites and has given indemnities to third parties in respect of approximately 45 other sites.
These environmental liabilities arise almost entirely from legacy operations that are not part of our current pharmaceuticals business and, at most of these sites, remediation, where required, is either completed or nearing completion.
In the aggregate, however, significant expenditure on clean up and monitoring is likely to be required.
We have made provisions for the estimated costs of future environmental investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance activity beyond normal ongoing expenditure for maintaining the Groups R&D and manufacturing capacity and product ranges where it is probable that we will incur such costs and we can estimate such costs reliably.
With respect to such estimated, future costs, we had provisions at 31 December 2003 in the aggregate of approximately $145m, of which approximately $122m relates to the US.
These provisions do not include possible, additional costs that are not currently probable, nor do these provisions include costs that, by agreement, will be borne by viable third party indemnitors.
In addition, these provisions: 1 include, where appropriate, unasserted claims where future costs are nonetheless probable at owned sites, for example : 2 are based, where applicable, on liability allocation or cost sharing agreements that we believe are enforceable against viable third parties: 3 reflect expected insurance recoveries where an insurer has agreed to provide an indemnity: and 4 typically cover a time period of five years with the exception of operation and maintenance activity, which can last for decades.
We are not presently aware of any circumstances or uncertainties regarding the viability of liable third parties, indemnitors or insurers that would cause us to alter these provisions.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements 102 Form 20-F Information 2003 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities continued It is possible that the Company, or its affiliates, could incur future environmental costs beyond the extent of our current provisions.
The extent of such possible, additional costs is inherently difficult to estimate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: 1 the nature and extent of claims that may be asserted in the future: 2 whether the Company or any of its affiliates has or will have any legal obligation with respect to asserted or unasserted claims: 3 the type of remedial action, if any, that may be selected at sites where the remedy is presently not known: 4 the potential for recoveries from or allocation of liability to third parties: 5 the length of time that the environmental investigation, remediation and liability allocation process can take: and 6 the nature of any future environmental legal or regulatory changes that affect the operation of our pharmaceuticals business.
Notwithstanding and subject to the foregoing, we estimate that potential additional loss, for future environmental investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance activity above and beyond our provisions, could be, in the aggregate, in the order of $30m to $50m.
Legal proceedings AstraZeneca is involved in various legal proceedings considered typical to its businesses, including litigation relating to employment, product liability, commercial disputes, infringement of intellectual property rights and the validity of certain patents.
The more significant matters are discussed below.
Diprivan propofol In August 2002, AstraZeneca LP received a letter from ESI Lederle, a division of Wyeth, informing AstraZeneca of Wyeths intention to market a generic version of Diprivan prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents covering the current formulation.
AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Wyeth in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Through a series of transactions, the holder of the relevant abbreviated new drug application and now defendant in AstraZenecas suit is Mayne Pharma USA Inc. formerly called Faulding Pharmaceutical Co.. Faulding Mayne responded to AstraZenecas complaint and filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement and invalidity.
Discovery is scheduled to close in June 2004.
The trial is expected to be held no earlier than the fourth quarter of 2004.
Losec Prilosec omeprazole In June 1997, the German Federal Patent Court declared invalid a previously granted supplementary protection certificate which extended protection for omeprazole, the active ingredient contained in Losec, from 1999 to 2003.
The decision was appealed and in February 2000, at AstraZenecas request, the German Supreme Court decided to refer the case to the European Court of Justice ECJ for a preliminary ruling.
In December 2003, the ECJ ruled against AstraZeneca on all questions.
Consequently, the German omeprazole supplementary protection certificate is confirmed invalid.
The case did not involve any financial claims.
In March 2000, the German Federal Patent Court declared that AstraZenecas formulation patent for omeprazole was invalid.
The decision has been appealed to the German Supreme Court, which will hear the case in March 2004.
As a consequence, all pending infringement actions in Germany have been stayed awaiting the outcome of the appeal.
There is one interlocutory injunction in force against ratiopharm GmbH based on the formulation patent.
If the final decision on the validity of the formulation patent goes against AstraZeneca, ratiopharm may claim damages for lost sales due to the interlocutory injunction.
In 1998, Astra filed suits in the US against Andrx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Genpharm, Inc.
This followed the filing of abbreviated new drug applications by Andrx and Genpharm with the US Food and Drug Administration FDA concerning the two companies intention to market generic omeprazole products in the US.
During 1999, Astra also filed suits against Kremers Urban Development Company and Schwarz Pharma, Inc. and against Cheminor Drugs Ltd. Reddy-Cheminor Inc. and Schein Pharmaceuticals, Inc. During 2000, AstraZeneca filed further suits against Lek Pharmaceutical and Chemical Company d. d. Impax Laboratories Inc. Eon Labs Manufacturing Inc. and Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. During 2001, AstraZeneca filed further suits against Torpharm, Inc. and Zenith Goldline Pharmaceuticals, Inc. now known as Ivax Pharmaceuticals, Inc..
The basis for the proceedings is that the actions of all the companies infringe several patents relating to omeprazole Prilosec in the US.
The cases are proceeding under the US Hatch-Waxman legislation.
Anti-trust counterclaims have been filed by Andrx, Torpharm, Impax, Eon and Lek.
The trial against Andrx, Genpharm, Kremers Urban Development Company and Cheminor started in December 2001 and ended in July 2002.
In October 2002, the US District Court for the Southern District of New York ruled that two AstraZeneca patents 230 and 505 relating to the formulation of omeprazole are valid until 2007, that Andrx, Genpharm and Cheminor all infringed both patents but that Kremers Urban Development Company did not infringe either patent.
The court did not rule on the 281 patent relating to a manufacturing process for omeprazole formulations in respect of which AstraZeneca has sued Andrx only.
AstraZeneca appealed the judgement with regard to noninfringement and Kremers Urban Development Company, Andrx, Genpharm and Cheminor appealed the decision with regard to infringement and validity of the patents.
The appeal hearings took place in December 2003 and the original decision of the lower court was affirmed by the appeal court in all respects.
In April 2001, Andrx filed a case in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York against AstraZeneca, Merck & Co. Inc. and the FDA alleging that the listing of certain patents in the FDAs Orange Book was improper and constituted violations of certain provisions of the Sherman Act, the US federal anti-trust legislation, and a state statute analogous to the federal anti-trust laws.
Andrx seeks injunctive relief compelling the parties to delist omeprazole-related patents it claims were improperly listed in the Orange Book and prohibiting the defendants from using patents to delay the effective date of the FDAs approval of Andrxs ANDA for omeprazole.
AstraZeneca and Merck have filed motions to dismiss the case, which are pending.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements Form 20-F Information 2003 103 31 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities continued In October 2000, the Federal Court of Australia Full Court handed down a patent ruling pertaining to omeprazole in connection with a dispute between AstraZeneca and the generic company, Alphapharm Pty Ltd.
The court declared that AstraZenecas formulation patent was invalid.
In November 2001, AstraZeneca applied for special leave to appeal the decision to the High Court of Australia and this application was granted in December 2001.
The appeal was heard by the High Court in May 2002 and in December 2002 the High Court reversed the judgement of the lower court.
The High Court ruled that AstraZenecas formulation patent is valid and that the case should be returned to the lower court for determination of the remaining issues.
In July 2003, the case was settled.
During 2000, AstraZeneca was granted interlocutory injunctions based on certain of AstraZenecas omeprazole patents and supplementary protection certificates against the generic company, Scandinavian  AB Scand Pharm, in Denmark and Norway.
In October 2001, Oslo City Court in Norway found that Scand Pharm had infringed AstraZenecas formulation patent for omeprazole.
At the same time, the court declared AstraZenecas formulation patent valid.
As a result of the Norwegian case, Scand Pharm cannot sell its omeprazole product in Norway.
Furthermore, it is also prevented from selling its omeprazole product in Denmark pending the outcome of the main action in the Danish case.
If the final decisions in these cases are against AstraZeneca, Scand Pharm may claim damages for lost sales due to the interlocutory injunctions.
In the Netherlands, Pharmachemie BV filed a claim against two AstraZeneca companies in 2002 alleging that AstraZeneca had misused its exclusive rights in the Netherlands in relation to the expiration date for AstraZenecas supplementary protection certificate for omeprazole.
In February 2003, the case was withdrawn by Pharmachemie.
AstraZeneca has been and continues to be involved in numerous proceedings in Canada involving Genpharm, Reddy Cheminor, Rhoxalpharma and Apotex.
These cases relate to omeprazole capsules or omeprazole magnesium tablets and involve various patents.
AstraZeneca could potentially be liable for damages in some cases.
However, there are no financial claims currently being made against AstraZeneca in Canada in any litigation in respect of omeprazole capsules or omeprazole magnesium tablets.
In February 2000, the European Commission commenced an investigation relating to certain omeprazole intellectual property rights, and associated regulatory and patent infringement litigation.
The investigation is pursuant to Article 82 of the EC Treaty, which prohibits an abuse of a dominant position.
The investigation was precipitated by a complaint by a party to a number of patent and other proceedings involving AstraZeneca.
AstraZeneca has, in accordance with its corporate policy, co-operated with the Commission.
In July 2003, the Commission served a Statement of Objections on AstraZeneca, referring to alleged infringements regarding the obtaining of supplementary protection certificates for omeprazole in certain European countries: and regarding AstraZenecas replacement of omeprazole capsules by omeprazole MUPS tablets and withdrawal of capsule marketing authorisations in three European countries.
AstraZeneca has replied fully to the Commission, explaining why its actions were in AstraZenecas view lawful.
The Commission is considering AstraZenecas submission, and an oral hearing is scheduled to take place.
If, ultimately, and subject to any appeals to the Court of First Instance and the European Court of Justice it is held that Article 82 has been infringed, then there may be a liability to fines and or other measures which can be imposed by the Commission.
There could also be liability for alleged losses incurred by aggrieved third parties.
It is not possible, at the present time, to quantify any such liabilities as no fines have to date been imposed and no claims for damages have been received.
Moreover, bearing in mind the timescales of proceedings, including appeals, there may well be a considerable period before any such liabilities are finally established even if, which is denied, any such liabilities exist.
Nolvadex tamoxifen AstraZeneca is a co-defendant with Barr Laboratories, Inc. in numerous purported class actions filed in federal and state courts throughout the US.
All of the state court actions were removed to federal court and have been consolidated, along with all of the cases originally filed in federal court, in a federal multi-district litigation proceeding pending in the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
Some of the cases were filed by plaintiffs representing a putative class of consumers who purchased tamoxifen.
The other cases were filed on behalf of a putative class of third party payers including health maintenance organisations, insurers and other managed care providers and health plans that have reimbursed or otherwise paid for prescriptions of tamoxifen.
The plaintiffs allege that they paid supra-competitive and monopolistic prices for tamoxifen as a result of the settlement of patent litigation between Zeneca and Barr in 1993.
The plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, treble damages under the anti-trust laws, disgorgement and restitution.
In April 2002, AstraZeneca filed a motion to dismiss the cases for failure to state a cause of action.
In May 2003, the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York granted AstraZenecas motion to dismiss.
The plaintiffs have appealed the decision.
In August 2002, AstraZenecas US distribution agreement with Barr Laboratories, Inc. for non-branded tamoxifen expired, as did AstraZenecas patent for Nolvadex tamoxifen.
At the same time, a six month period of market exclusivity, awarded by the US Food and Drug Administration in connection with the successful completion of certain paediatric testing with the product, commenced.
Barr thereafter commenced litigation against the FDA in the US District Court for the District of Columbia, challenging the FDAs refusal to grant Barr final approval for its own generic tamoxifen prior to expiration of AstraZenecas exclusivity period.
Barr also declined AstraZenecas offer to extend the distribution agreement through the end of the exclusivity period.
Therefore, in October 2002, AstraZeneca began shipping its own nonbranded tamoxifen to customers to ensure an uninterrupted supply to patients.
In December 2002, the Court held that Barr could not obtain final FDA approval for its own generic tamoxifen prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas paediatric exclusivity for Nolvadex.
In January 2003, AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements 104 Form 20-F Information 2003 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities continued Barr made a claim that AstraZeneca improperly thwarted Barrs entry into the tamoxifen market and caused Barr monetary damages.
Plendil felodipine In August 2000, AstraZeneca LP received a letter from Mutual Pharmaceutical Co. Inc. informing AstraZeneca of Mutuals intention to market a generic version of AstraZenecas Plendil extended release tablets felodipine prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patent covering the extended release formulation.
AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Mutual in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Mutual responded and filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement and invalidity.
In March 2003, the District Court granted summary judgement in favour of AstraZeneca as to the infringement claim holding that Mutual infringed AstraZenecas formulation patent.
In August 2003, the District Court granted summary judgement in favour of AstraZeneca as to the validity claim holding that AstraZenecas patent is valid.
Mutual has filed a notice of appeal as to both of these decisions to the US District Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
Seroquel quetiapine fumarate AstraZeneca PLC and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP have been named as defendants in the case of Susan Zehel-Miller et al.
v. AstraZenaca [sic], AstraZenaca Pharmaceuticals, LP [sic], a putative class action suit filed in August 2003 in the US District Court for the Middle District of Florida.
The named plaintiffs are seeking damages and injunctive relief on behalf of a purported class consisting of all persons in the United States who purchased and or used Seroquel.
Although the scope of the allegations in the complaint is very broad, the primary focus appears to be the contention that the Company failed to provide adequate warnings in connection with an alleged association between Seroquel and the onset of diabetes.
AstraZeneca denies the material allegations of the plaintiffs complaint and is vigorously defending the litigation.
Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate In March 2003, AstraZeneca LP received a letter from KV Pharmaceutical Company informing AstraZeneca of KVs intent to market a generic version of Toprol-XL tablets in the 200mg dosage prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents covering the substance and its formulation, the latest of which expires in March 2008.
AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against KV in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri.
KV responded and filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement and invalidity.
Discovery is scheduled to close in August 2004.
The trial is scheduled for April 2005.
In July 2003, AstraZeneca received a similar letter from KV with respect to the 100mg dosage of Toprol-XL tablets.
AstraZeneca filed another patent infringement complaint against KV in the same court.
KV filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement and invalidity.
This case has been consolidated with the initial case.
In December 2003, AstraZeneca received a letter from Andrx Pharmaceuticals LLC with notification that Andrx has filed an abbreviated new drug application to market a generic form of Toprol-XL extended release tablets in the 50mg dose which it intends to sell prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents listed in the FDAs Orange Book, the latest of which expires in March 2008.
Andrx claims that each of the listed patents are invalid and or not infringed.
AstraZeneca is considering whether to file a suit for patent infringement against Andrx.
Zestril lisinopril In 1986, AstraZenecas predecessor company and Merck & Co. Inc. entered into licence agreements under which AstraZeneca was granted the right to make, use and sell lisinopril Zestril, in return for which AstraZeneca agreed to pay royalties to Merck.
In April 2002, AstraZeneca commenced arbitration proceedings against Merck under one of the licence agreements.
In the arbitration, AstraZeneca sought repayment of approximately $38m of prior royalty amounts and a prospective reduction in the royalty rate going forward.
The case was settled in May 2003.
Under the settlement agreement, Merck paid $37m to AstraZeneca and the parties agreed that the royalty rate going forward would not be reduced.
Zoladex goserelin acetate implant investigation In June 2003, AstraZeneca announced the settlement of a multi-year investigation into US sales and marketing practices for Zoladex, a treatment for prostate cancer.
Under the terms of the settlement, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP admitted to having violated the Prescription Drug Marketing Act by providing free samples of Zoladex to physicians during the period 1993 to 1996, with the understanding that these physicians would bill Medicare for reimbursement.
AstraZeneca also settled, without admitting liability, civil claims involving allegations that the Company provided inducements to physicians to purchase Zoladex and for improperly setting and reporting its price.
The total payment associated with the settlement was $355m.
This amount included funds set aside to cover individual settlement agreements with the states involving related claims.
As previously disclosed by the Company, in 2002 it accrued $350m to cover these settlement costs.
The settlement also provides for a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General OIG for the Department of Health and Human Services under which AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP is required, among other obligations, to keep in place its current compliance programme and provide periodic reports to the OIG on the status of compliance activities.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements Form 20-F Information 2003 105 31 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities continued Average wholesale price class action litigation In January 2002, AstraZeneca was named as a defendant along with 24 other pharmaceutical manufacturers in a class action suit, in Massachusetts, brought on behalf of a putative class of plaintiffs alleged to have overpaid for prescription drugs as a result of inflated wholesale list prices.
The suit seeks to recover unspecified damages.
AstraZeneca has also been named as a co-defendant with various other pharmaceutical manufacturers in similar suits filed in seven other states.
Most of these suits have been consolidated with the Massachusetts action for pre-trial purposes pursuant to federal multi-district litigation procedures.
AstraZeneca believes that it has meritorious defences to all of these claims.
Notice of state Attorneys General investigations into Medicaid price reporting In December 2003, AstraZeneca received notices from multiple US state Attorney General Offices requiring the Company to retain records relating to Medicaid average manufacturer price and best price calculations.
Similar notices have been received by other manufacturer codefendants in the average wholesale price class action litigation referred to above.
These notices appear to have been intended to address proposed regulations 42 CFR Part 447.534 h limiting a manufacturers record retention obligations for government price reporting data to a three year period.
The notices from the Attorneys General indicate that the states are investigating the accuracy of AstraZenecas average manufacturer price and best price disclosures and request that the Company retains relevant records beyond the three year limit of the proposed regulations.
US Federal Trade Commission Nexium investigation As previously disclosed by the Company, in January 2003 AstraZeneca received a Civil Investigative Demand from the US Federal Trade Commission FTC for certain information concerning AstraZenecas advertising and marketing of Nexium.
In July 2003, the FTC closed its investigation without action.
Retail pharmacies drug purchasers actions Since October 1993, several thousand retail pharmacies and certain retail drug purchasers have commenced purported class actions and individual actions in various federal and state courts throughout the US alleging that, with respect to brand name prescription drugs, manufacturers and wholesalers engaged in discriminatory pricing practices, discriminatory discounting and rebate practices, and or conspired with one another to fix prices and artificially maintain high prices to the plaintiffs in restraint of trade and commerce.
More than 20 brand name prescription drug manufacturers and eight wholesalers have been named defendants in some or all of these suits.
In January 2003, an Alabama state court granted AstraZenecas motion to dismiss the consumer action pending in Alabama.
The plaintiffs time to appeal that order of dismissal has expired.
AstraZeneca has settled or been dismissed from all of the cases except for a retail case pending in the Northern District of Illinois.
AstraZeneca has consistently denied liability and continues to believe it has meritorious defencesto the remaining claims.
Additional government investigations into drug marketing practices As is true for most, if not all, major prescription pharmaceutical companies operating in the US, AstraZeneca is currently involved in multiple additional US federal and state criminal and civil investigations into drug marketing and pricing practices.
AstraZeneca has received subpoenas from the US Attorneys Office in Boston requesting production of documents relating to the sale and promotion of Prilosec to the New England Medical Center in Boston.
A separate subpoena from the same office requests documents relating to the sale and marketing of products to an individual physician in Worcester, Massachusetts and certain physicians and entities affiliated with that physician.
AstraZeneca has also received a subpoena from the Massachusetts Attorney Generals Office seeking documents relating to the sale and promotion of five products Prilosec, Seroquel, Rhinocort Aqua, Toprol-XL and Zestril within Massachusetts.
AstraZeneca has received an investigative demand from the Missouri Attorney Generals Office seeking documents and information relating to agreements with drug retailers doing business within Missouri.
AstraZeneca is co-operating with these investigations.
It is not possible to predict the outcome of any of these investigations, which could include the payment of damages and the imposition of fines, penalties and administrative remedies.
General With respect to each of the legal proceedings described above, other than those which have been disposed of, we are unable to make estimates of the loss or range of losses at this stage.
We also do not believe that disclosure of the amount sought by plaintiffs, if that is known, would be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings.
This is due to a number of factors including for example, the stage of the proceedings in many cases trial dates have not been set and overall length and extent of legal discovery, the entitlement of the parties to an action to appeal a decision, clarity as to theories of liability, damages and governing law, uncertainties in timing of litigation, and the possible need for further legal proceedings to establish the appropriate amount of damages, if any.
However, although there can be no assurance regarding the outcome of any of the legal proceedings or investigations referred to in this Note 31 to the Financial Statements, we do not expect them to have a materially adverse effect on our financial position or profitability.
