AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2003 AZ AR OuterCovs.
com Annual R Form 20 2003 Contact information Registered office and corporate headquarters address: Registrar and transfer office: AstraZeneca PLC Lloyds TSB Registrars 15 Stanhope Gate The Causeway London W1K 1LN Worthing UK West Sussex Tel: 44 0 20 7304 5000 BN99 6DA Fax: 44 0 20 7304 5183 UK Tel in the UK : 0870 600 3956 R&D headquarters address: Tel outside the UK : 44 0 121 415 7033 AstraZeneca AB R&D Headquarters Swedish securities registration centre: SE-151 85 Sdertlje VPC AB Sweden PO Box 7822 Tel: 46 0 8 553 260 00 SE-103 97 Stockholm Fax: 46 0 8 553 290 00 Sweden Tel: 46 0 8 402 9000 Investor relations contacts: UK and Sweden: As above or e-mail: US depositary: IR@astrazeneca.
com JPMorgan Chase Bank US: PO Box 43013 Investor Relations Providence AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP RI 02940-3013 1800 Concord Pike US PO Box 15438 Tel toll free in the US : 888 697 8018 Wilmington Tel: 1 781 575 4328 fide 19850-5438 US Tel: 1 302 886 3000 Fax: 1 302 886 2972 On the path to growth Annual Review 2003 AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com Commitment The path to a new medicine is long and complex.
Success requires a major commitment of time, money and resource, backed by clear strategic objectives.
Here we describe what it takes to deliver and realise the full potential of the innovation that supports our continued growth.
Discovery Development Supply Marketing Inspiration Identification of Progressing Fast, flexible and Building strong Driving continued compounds with high potential cost-effective relationships in success and added the highest potential compounds along supply of our local markets, value for all our to become new the full length of the products wherever backed by our stakeholders.
Page 12 Page 4 Page 6 Page 8 Page 10 AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com 01 Key achievements Sales for the year were $18.8 billion.
Arimidex is moving rapidly towards At constant exchange rates, replacing tamoxifen as the standard sales were unchanged whilst of care in breast cancer.
Sales up absorbing the loss of $2.6 billion 46% to $519 million.
in US sales of Losec Prilosec, Zestril and Nolvadex following Rapid uptake of Iressa since first anticipated patent expiries.
launch in Japan in 2002 and in the US in 2003, with over 100,000 Operating profit was down 11% patients treated since launch.
at $4.1 billion, due to planned 2003 sales reached $228 million.
investments in R&D and other areas required to launch new products and Crestor sales reached $129 million.
complete the product portfolio We estimate that more than 1.5 transformation.
million prescriptions had been written for, and over 750,000 Dividend increased by 13.6% to patients had been treated with 79.5 cents for the full year.
Crestor by the end of January 2004.
Sales for key growth and launch Exanta received its first regulatory products increased by 45% to approval in France in December $8.2 billion and now represent 2003.
Regulatory submissions 44% of total sales.
were made in the US and Europe for key chronic indications, including Nexium sales reached $3.3 billion, prevention of stroke associated with up 62% atrial fibrillation.
Seroquel sales reached $1.5 billion, R&D investment totalled $3.5 billion.
Approvals for use of We now have 12 projects in phase 2 Seroquel in the treatment of acute development and 28 projects in bipolar mania were received in the phase 3.
Continued enhancement of supply Symbicort sales reached $549 million, and manufacturing processes led to up 61%.
Symbicort also gained first improved customer service levels approval in Europe for use in the and reduced manufacturing lead treatment of chronic obstructive times which consequently reduced pulmonary disease.
the requirement for stock build-up.
AstraZeneca is one of the worlds leading Contents Remuneration policy 19 Chairmans statement 02 Summary financial review 21 pharmaceutical companies.
Our strong Strategy 02 Summary financial statements 23 research base, backed by our extensive Chief Executives review 03 Group profit and loss account 24 manufacturing and commercial skills, Discovery 04 Group balance sheet 26 focuses on turning ideas into effective Development pipeline 07 Statement of Group cash flow 27 medicines that meet patient needs in Supply 08 Dividends 28 important areas of healthcare.
We Marketing 10 Earnings per share 28 encourage innovation in all areas of our Inspiration 12 Emoluments of Directors 29 business because the more good ideas Therapy area review 14 Group financial record 30 we have, the more we can add value for Board of Directors 16 Share information 31 our shareholders, customers, employees Summary Directors report 18 Shareholder information 32 and the wider community.
com 02 Accountability Five years ago, on the completion of the Property Rights TRIPs and the public health have also reviewed and strengthened the merger of the Astra and Zeneca businesses, benefits that will flow from this resolution.
In the US we the new Board had a clear vision.
have undertaken significant compliance In the context of this business environment training with our sales and other relevant AstraZeneca was to be a creative, fast and and recognising the specific challenges personnel pursuant to the Corporate Integrity effective, research-based pharmaceutical faced by the Company, AstraZenecas Agreement with the Office of Inspector company.
Its increased global marketing financial performance in 2003 has been General of the Department of Health and strength provided the platform to realise the excellent and the Board has recommended a Human Services.
full potential of its productive R&D and deliver second interim dividend of $0.54: 29.4 sustainable value to all its stakeholders.
pence: SEK3.91 per Ordinary Share bringing We welcome Michele Hooper and Joe the total dividend for the year to $0.795: 45.3 Jimenez, who joined the Board in July as Back in 1999, there were some substantial pence: SEK5.98, an increase of 13.6% in Non-Executive Directors.
Micheles hurdles to overcome before this vision could dollar terms.
The share re-purchase experience at Caremark International and be turned into reality.
The first of these was to programme continued in 2003 with 27.2 Baxter Healthcare in the US and Joes rapidly complete the merger, build on the million shares re-purchased for cancellation background as President and CEO of Heinz strengths of the two partners to create a at a total cost of $1,154 million.
The Board is Europe and earlier positions in the US bring single unified culture and realise the merger proposing a further share re-purchase additional strengths to the Board.
Hkan cost benefits without significantly disturbing programme of $4 billion to be completed by Mogren stepped down as Executive Deputy our day-to-day operations.
This was the end of 2005, subject to shareholders Chairman in August 2003 and continues as achieved in the first two years.
renewing the Companys authority to Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
In his re-purchase its own shares at the Annual executive capacity, Hkan Mogren served Our focus was then on another major General Meeting in April.
both Astra AB and AstraZeneca PLC with challenge: the transformation of our product distinction and I am delighted that the Board portfolio from its historic reliance on The AstraZeneca share price performed well will continue to benefit from his wise counsel.
successful but maturing products, such as in 2003 in both absolute terms and when Losec Prilosec and Zestril, into a range of compared with an international group of I am grateful to my colleagues on the Board newer high potential medicines.
Many leading pharmaceutical companies, for their support, to the Senior Executive commentators predicted a steep decline in reflecting the markets positive view of the Team and to all our employees worldwide sales and profit during this period.
By the end Companys future growth prospects.
for their impressive contributions to the of 2003, this transformation had largely been Companys success.
On behalf of the Board, achieved.
There have been some delays in During a busy year, the Board analysed I would like to thank them most warmly.
new product launches but also some of the trends in the pharmaceutical environment more mature brands have not declined as and reviewed the Companys overall strategy In 2004, we aim to deliver strong sales fast as expected.
AstraZeneca is now facing and performance.
I am happy to report good growth from our portfolio of important an exciting period of expansion with few progress in the productivity increase medicines while, at the same time, patent expiries and growth driven by the programmes that cover all parts of the progressing the next wave of novel products.
recently introduced products and by further Company.
In line with this culture of We will continue our investment strategy in new product launches.
Recent investments continuous improvement, the performance of developing regions to complement our in developing countries also add to the the Board, its committees and all individual strong presence in the major established potential for growth.
members were reviewed in a constructive markets.
Through strong sales growth discussion that identified areas for further coupled with productivity improvements Taking a wider perspective, the improvement.
across all our activities, we expect to deliver pharmaceutical sector continued to top tier financial performance in the years experience pricing pressures in major During the year the Board has reviewed its ahead.
markets during 2003 and the AstraZeneca already demanding compliance procedures Board reviewed the Companys approach to to respond to new laws and regulations in the product pricing and market access for our US, Sweden and the UK.
We support the World Trade Review, our Annual Report and Form 20-F Organisation WTO resolution of outstanding Information and Corporate Responsibility issues relating to the Doha Agreement on Summary Report have all been prepared in Percy Barnevik Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual accordance with the new requirements.
We Chairman We aspire to be the best in all areas of our Expansion of the Successful delivery AstraZeneca relative share performance business within a culture based on innovation development to market of the 31 December 1998 31 December 2003 combined with the disciplined and pipeline through next wave of AstraZeneca responsible approach required to achieve improved differentiated Major international pharmaceutical companies industry leading productivity.
By discovering, in-house discovery products currently 160 developing, manufacturing and marketing processes coupled in late stage differentiated medicines that make a real with complementary development.
130 contribution to human health, AstraZeneca external aims to create enduring value for collaborations 100 shareholders and society and deliver a and partnerships.
70 sustained financial performance that will Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec match the best in the industry.
Our strategy 98 99 99 00 00 01 01 02 02 03 03 for sustainable growth is: Abbott Labs, AHP, Aventis, BMS, Eli Lilly, GSK, JNJ, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Pharmacia, Roche, Sanofi-Synthelabo, Schering and Schering-Plough Source: Thomson Financial Datastream AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com 03 Performance In 2003, AstraZeneca made excellent after its first introduction in the US, making it Exanta met important milestones at the progress establishing itself as a world leading one of the most successful launches ever of a end of 2003.
In December we gained our pharmaceutical company focused on the new medicine.
first approval in France for this breakthrough research, development, manufacture and medicine in the prevention of blood clots marketing of valuable prescription medicines Seroquel continues to grow strongly in the following orthopaedic surgery.
As scheduled, and creating the platform for top tier financial anti-psychotic market where its attractive in December we also filed in the US, Canada performance in the coming years.
profile makes it the agent of choice for and Europe our largest ever regulatory increasing numbers of physicians and submission, this time for long term uses of First launches of Crestor, the further patients.
Sales in 2003 were $1.5 billion and Exanta in conditions such as the prevention development of marketed products such as now, with the approval of a major new of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation.
Iressa, Nexium and Seroquel, and the first indication, the treatment of mania associated approval for the revolutionary anti-coagulant, with bipolar disease, Seroquel looks set to In summary, 2003 has been an exciting Exanta, herald the passage into an exciting play a key part in our future growth.
I would like to new era for the Company.
acknowledge the tremendous support I AstraZenecas cancer portfolio also made have received from my executive team Our sales and marketing teams around the strong progress during the year with and to recognise the immense contribution world now have the opportunity to realise the excellent data supporting the use of Arimidex made by our creative, hardworking and full potential of our successful research and 2003 sales $519 million in the adjuvant committed employees around the world.
development and, through wise investment treatment of breast cancer, strong sales for Their combined efforts have already and a continuing drive for improved Faslodex $77 million which was launched achieved a great deal.
There is now much productivity, deliver enduring growth of in 2002 in the US, and the successful US to do to realise the potential for outstanding shareholder value.
launch of Iressa 2003 global sales $228 growth and financial performance from this million for the treatment of late stage strong base.
In addition to good progress with the new non-small cell lung cancer.
products, we have also expanded our global The external environment is changing presence with investments in research, The year also saw significant developments and our industry has to change with it.
development, manufacturing and marketing in AstraZenecas cardiovascular business Demographics and technology continue in important emerging markets.
As a result of including the launch in the US and 20 other to drive demand for healthcare and for our these and other initiatives, AstraZeneca has markets of the lipid-lowering drug Crestor products with the result that governments become one of the fastest growing 2003 sales $129 million.
The treatment of and payers face increasing pressure to pharmaceutical companies in, among others, lipid disorders is a major priority for control costs.
At the same time the disparity Japan, China and Mexico.
healthcare systems around the world and the of healthcare between the developed and the profile of Crestor, which allows physicians least developed nations continues to grow During 2003 the performance of the new and and patients to achieve guideline lipid levels and the industry finds itself at the centre of growth products in the Companys revitalised quickly and easily, gives us an opportunity to much of this debate.
It is in this environment portfolio $8.2 billion largely offset the decline build a major new franchise in one of the that AstraZeneca has to succeed if it is to in global sales of Losec Prilosec, Zestril and largest sectors of medicine.
Following create value for all its stakeholders.
This transformation, successful introduction into a number of work of the last five years has positioned us achieved without a decline in top-line sales, other markets, launch in the very important well.
We recognise and understand the from a company that faced the biggest threat US market has gone well and early sales challenges the future holds and we look from patent expiries in the industrys history, progress is encouraging.
An important new forward to meeting those challenges in into the one with perhaps the best growth study CHARM supporting the use of 2004 and beyond.
portfolio, is something of which our Atacand 2003 sales $750 million in heart employees are justifiably proud.
failure and the continued growth of Seloken Toprol-XL 2003 sales $1.3 billion Nexium, for gastrointestinal disorders, has have also helped to reinforce a leading maintained strong momentum despite an position in cardiovascular medicine.
In the US alone, Nexium achieved sales of After a lengthy development programme $2.5 billion in the year.
Globally annual sales involving more than 30,000 patients, I am Sir Tom McKillop reached $3.3 billion, less than three years pleased to report that the oral anti-coagulant Chief Executive Realising the full Further Enhancing our Pursuing Continuing Delivering our potential of our strengthening our presence in value creating to improve core values therapies through commercial skills important new, investment in productivity through a investment in to drive success emerging markets significant targeted in pursuit of responsible projects that will in our key markets.
through organic licensing and operational approach extend their use growth and acquisition excellence to business.
and bring benefits strategic regional opportunities.
in all our to new patient investments.
com 04 Discovery We use leading edge science and technology to identify the compounds with the highest potential to become new medicines.
In 2003, our We have over During 2003, We continue During the year, we entered into more than research and 11,500 people a further 15 to invest in our 200 new collaborations including with the development dedicated to the candidate drugs facilities and University of Dundee, the University of investment discovery and were selected and, in 2003, new Gratz, Sumitomo Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. totalled $3.5 billion development of in addition, 10 or upgraded NeoGenesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. up from $3.1 new medicines at early development laboratories Cytokinetics, Inc. Biosignal Inc.
11 R&D centres in projects reached were opened in Biopharma and Abgenix Inc. seven countries the stage of Sweden, the UK, the UK, the US, human testing.
Sweden, France, Canada, India and Japan.
com 05 AstraZeneca focuses its skills, experience We are continuously improving the and resources on six therapy areas: productivity and efficiency of our Cardiovascular, Gastrointestinal, discovery and development by Infection, Neuroscience, Oncology, simplifying our processes, speeding and Respiratory and Inflammation up decision making and investing in important areas of healthcare which areas directly linked to increasing the represent the majority of the worldwide quality and number of new products.
We have a powerful During 2003 we significantly increased range of products that meet patient the number of new discovery projects, needs in these areas and a commitment delivered a more consistent flow of to delivering more new, medically quality candidate drugs throughout the important and commercially successful year, increased the number of drugs products to the market every year.
reaching clinical testing and progressed a greater number of products that Medical research is more exciting than showed therapeutic potential.
ever as new technology is applied to understanding what causes disease On average, at least one quality CD now and how it may be prevented or treated.
enters pre-clinical development each month.
During 2003, a further 15 CDs We have six major joint discovery and were selected and, in addition, 10 early development facilities in the UK, the US development projects reached the stage and Sweden: a further four sites in the of human testing.
US, Canada, India and France which focus only on discovery, and a facility Our global Enabling Science and in Japan for development only.
These Technology group supports all research resources are complemented by clinical areas with skills in compound managedevelopment at 43 sites around the ment, natural product screening, world.
structural chemistry, bio-imaging, genetics, transgenics, protein science In AstraZeneca Discovery, our scientists and informatics.
New enabling techfocus on finding new compounds with nologies for drug searching have been high potential as new medicines in our introduced and a global compound chosen areas of activity, working across collection enhancement project is boundaries to exchange ideas, to share ongoing.
best practice and to make the most of the efficiencies that global working offers.
Broadening the approach In todays world of rapid scientific and Our efforts to improve the links between technological advance, no company can basic science and clinical medicine are rely exclusively on its own discovery and already proving valuable to the drug development.
We also work with leading discovery process, as we gain a better academic centres and biotechnology understanding of human diseases companies with skills that complement and how future medicines will work our own capabilities and broaden the to prevent and treat them.
We also base for disease research.
continue to introduce earlier in the process more stringent testing of drug safety and how a medicine gets distributed around, and out, of the human body.
This helps us to eliminate the candidate drugs CDs that are less likely to succeed earlier in the process.
com 06 Development We are continuously improving our development processes to ensure that we get life changing medicines to patients as quickly as possible.
AstraZeneca Our high quality As part of our drive to speed development, currently has 12 pipeline is geared we introduced a number of e-based clinical projects in phase 2 to continued and and regulatory systems during the year development and long term innovation which make data more quickly and easily 28 in phase 3. that meets the accessible worldwide.
needs of patients and the healthcare professionals who treat them.
com 07 Our aim is to develop better drugs Compound Areas under investigation Estimated filing date Stage of development MAA NDA PC 1 2 3 faster.
People in our Development Cardiovascular organisation work globally in therapy Exanta prevention of VTE Approved Filed area led product teams that bring Exanta together all the relevant functional skills SC formulation prevention of VTE Approved 2006 Galida diabetes metabolic syndrome 2006 2006 and experience needed for the robust, AZD6140 arterial thrombosis 2006 2006 rapid progress of new medicines.
AZD7009 atrial fibrillation 2006 2006 AZD9684 thrombosis 2006 2006 In 2003, we successfully completed AZD0837 thrombosis 2006 2006 the development programmes, and AZD7806 dyslipidaemia 2006 2006 AZD6610 dyslipidaemia 2006 2006 provided the regulatory support required AZD4619 dyslipidaemia 2006 2006 for the approval of Exanta and for the AZD0303 thrombosis 2006 2006 approval and launch of Crestor and Iressa.
AZD8294 dyslipidaemia 2006 2006 France, Reference Member State for the EU Mutual Recognition Procedure.
We also explore all the ways our Gastrointestinal launched products can be used AZD0865 acid related GI disease 2006 2006 or improved to get the most benefit for AZD3355 GERD 2006 2006 patients.
During the year, we delivered AZD7371 functional GI disorders 2006 2006 further product development designed AZD9343 GERD 2006 2006 to maximise the potential of key Neuroscience marketed brands, including Nexium, Cerovive Seroquel and Symbicort.
previously NXY059 stroke 2006 2006 The table on the right summarises ZD0947 overactive bladder 2006 2006 AR-A2 anxiety depression 2006 2006 the new chemical entities currently AZD4282 neuropathic pain 2006 2006 in development.
A fuller description AZD4750 multiple sclerosis 2006 2006 of our development pipeline, including AZD5455 anxiety disorders 2006 2006 line extensions, can be found in the AZD0328 Alzheimers disease 2006 2006 AZD2858 Alzheimers disease 2006 2006 separate AstraZeneca 2003 Annual AZD3102 Alzheimers disease 2006 2006 Report and Form 20-F Information or on our website.
Oncology Faslodex 2nd line advanced breast cancer Filed Launched IressaNSCLC FiledLaunched ZD6474 solid tumours 2006 2006 ZD4054 solid tumours 2006 2006 ZD6126 solid tumours 2006 2006 AZD2171 solid tumours and haematological malignancies 2006 2006 AZD3409 solid tumours 2006 2006 AZD0530 solid tumours 2006 2006 AZD5438 solid tumours 2006 2006 AZD4440 solid tumours 2006 2006 AZD9935 solid tumours 2006 2006 AZD0424 solid tumours 2006 2006 AZD1152 solid tumours 2006 2006 AZD6244 solid tumours 2006 2006 Respiratory and Inflammation AZD9056 rheumatoid arthritis 2006 2006 AZD8309 rheumatoid arthritis 2006 2006 Abbreviations used in pipeline table: AZD8309 COPD 2006 2006 COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease AZD9056 COPD 2006 2006 GERD gastro-oesophageal reflux disease AZD3342 COPD 2006 2006 GI gastrointestinal MAA marketing authorisation  2006 2006 Europe AZD0902 rheumatoid arthritis 2006 2006 NDA new drug application US AZD9056 osteoarthritis 2006 2006 NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer AZD8955 osteoarthritis 2006 2006 PC pre-clinical: candidate drug accepted for AZD3778 asthma rhinitis 2006 2006 development but not yet administered to man AZD6067 COPD 2006 2006 SC subcutaneous AZD2098 asthma 2006 2006 VTE venous thromboembolism AZD1981 asthma 2006 2006 2006 not earlier than 2007 AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com 08 Supply We aim to provide fast, flexible and reliable manufacturing and supply of all the products in our range, wherever they are needed.
We have 31 Around 16,000 We complement Our investment In the US, supplies manufacturing sites people worldwide our in-house in supply and of our new statin, in 20 countries.
work in supply and manufacturing manufacturing Crestor, were manufacturing, capabilities facilities in 2003 available to including some with strategic totalled $496 million.
wholesalers within 13,000 people in outsourcing three days of FDA formulation and to external approval of the packaging, and contractors.
therapy and the 1,750 in active majority of retail pharmaceutical stores were ingredient supply.
com 09 Cost management Customer service Safety, health and environment SHE Our supply chains are designed to The continued implementation of a operating standards are increasingly maximise our flexibility and ensure the new supply system across our global stringent with regulators placing fast, efficient introduction of new network achieved positive results in particular emphasis on environmental medicines.
Manufacturing lead times have issues and the safety of chemicals.
product launches, major products and been shortened, which has reduced the Our manufacturing sites operate under line extensions were successfully need for build up of stock and customer various licensing regimes and we are supported with supplies available to service levels have improved.
committed to meeting all regulatory meet market demand.
The new supply system has also There are currently no environmental As part of our overall risk management, enabled more effective management issues that constrain AstraZeneca from we carefully consider the timing of of the costs of a product, prior to making full use of its sites.
investment relating to the launch of new launch and throughout its lifecycle.
Secure supply chains are in Developments include the use of We are making steady progress against place for all the products currently in late e-based supply chain management our targets for the reduction of waste stage development.
systems to improve efficiencies with and energy usage and the level of suppliers and drive down costs.
accidents with injury has been reduced.
Supply capability Within AstraZeneca, we have active Cost efficiencies are also driven by our Our aim for continuous improvement ingredient manufacturing sites in the UK, continuous review of manufacturing includes learning from incidences of Sweden, France and Puerto Rico and a assets to make sure that they are being non-compliance and sharing best bulk drug purification plant in Germany.
used most effectively, whilst preserving practice to further promote high We also make strategic use of outthe flexibility we need to respond to standards.
We also work closely with sourcing to external specialty chemical fluctuations in demand.
In 2003, we our suppliers to encourage standards manufacturers to extend our in-house closed a number of obsolete units and similar to our own, share best practice capacity.
sold our facility in Sanda, Japan.
We will and where needed, stimulate continue to make further adjustments to improvements.
We make our various product formuour manufacturing base to ensure best lations tablets, capsules, injectable and use of production facilities.
More information about our SHE inhalation at sites in the US, the UK, performance can be found in the Sweden, France, Germany and Puerto Licence to operate separate 2003 Corporate Responsibility Rico.
Ensuring the quality, safety and efficacy Summary Report or on our website.
of our medicines is a core priority.
As Product packaging is done at a large part of this, reports from internal routine number of sites worldwide, both inspections as well as those by AstraZenecas and contractors regulatory authorities are rigorously all located close to our marketing reviewed and if required, actions taken companies to support rapid response to further enhance compliance.
results of all external inspections carried out during 2003 were satisfactory and New facilities opened during 2003 we did not experience any delays in included additional active ingredient product approvals due to regulatory capacity for Crestor in the UK, compliance issues at our sites or those formulation capacity for Crestor in of our contractors.
Puerto Rico and additional capacity for Pulmicort in the US.
Looking ahead, plans are in place to expand capacity in the US, France, Sweden and Puerto Rico to meet the growing demands of our product portfolio including Crestor, Pulmicort Respules and Symbicort.
com 10 Marketing We combine our global capabilities with high quality relationships in local markets and focus on responding quickly and effectively to our customers changing needs.
Key products: Cardiovascular Key products: Gastrointestinal Key products: Neuroscience 1 Atacand candesartan cilexetil angiotensin II Losec Prilosec omeprazole proton pump inhibitor Diprivan propofol intravenous general anaesthetic for antagonist for hypertension for acid related diseases induction maintenance of anaesthesia and sedation of intensive care patients 2 Crestor rosuvastatin HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor Losec MUPS omeprazole in tablet form statin for dyslipidaemia Naropin ropivacaine local anaesthetic for surgical Nexium esomeprazole proton pump inhibitor for anaesthesia and acute pain management Exanta ximelagatran oral direct thrombin inhibitor for acid related diseases prevention of thrombosis in association with major Seroquel quetiapine atypical anti-psychotic for orthopaedic surgery schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders Key products: Infection Plendil felodipine calcium antagonist for hypertension Xylocaine lidocaine local anaesthetic for use in 4 Merrem Meronem meropenem ultra broad and angina surgery and dentistry spectrum injectable antibiotic for serious bacterial Seloken Toprol-XL metoprolol beta blocker for Zomig zolmitriptan for the treatment of acute infection hypertension, angina, heart failure and other uses migraine with or without aura 3 Zestril lisinopril angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor for hypertension, heart failure and diabetic nephropathy AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com 11 Sales and marketing Product strategy and licensing We continued to be the fastest growing To ensure the success of our medicines, We have an extensive, high quality pharmaceutical company in Japan we must address unmet medical needs, sales and marketing network worldduring 2003, with sales of $1.2 billion.
find novel solutions, minimise technical wide, structured to anticipate and We now rank 14th by sales in this, the risk and make the most of our respond to local market needs.
We sell worlds second largest pharmaceutical commercial opportunities.
mostly through our own local marketing market.
companies and our products are Our product strategy and licensing marketed mainly to physicians and other In Europe, pharmaceutical cost control organisation, working closely with healthcare professionals.
We also pressure, generic substitution and the our R&D community and our major explain the economic as well as the movement of products from lower price marketing companies, leads the therapeutic advantages of our products countries, all contribute to creating commercial aspects of drug developto governments and healthcare buying another challenging environment for our ment and co-ordinates global market groups, such as managed care industry.
This includes selecting the right organisations in the US.
Crestor, coupled with our strong growth products and projects for investment, in central and eastern Europe, give us a developing effective marketing platforms Success in key markets is a priority solid platform for future growth in the in time for new product launches and objective.
We aim to retain and build on region.
Sales totalled $6.7 billion in 2003 directing the creation and delivery of our leading positions in major markets, and AstraZeneca ranks fifth in Europe.
product marketing strategies that especially the US, Europe and Japan successfully align global and national whilst increasing our strength through Elsewhere, significant growth in China plans.
strategic investment in the small but fast 37%, South Korea and India growing markets of the future the strengthened the platform for regional Our rigorous lifecycle management of emerging economies.
expansion plans and future growth.
key marketed brands aims to ensure that we maximise the commercial Continued success in the US, the E-marketing potential as well as the benefit that new worlds largest pharmaceutical market, To boost our marketing effectiveness, uses for our medicines bring to patients depends on effectively managing the we have integrated e-marketing into our lives.
increasing regulatory and cost control commercial activities worldwide and pressures whilst making the most of the have a broad range of internet-based In common with other leading opportunities presented by the growing physician resources in key therapy pharmaceutical companies, we also demand for innovative medicines.
In the US, we maximise the look to strengthen our portfolio with Our sales of $8.7 billion in the US in opportunities for direct communication attractive products or technologies from 2003 reflect our commitment to driving with patients and their carers, by external sources and we continuously growth in this key area.
With a 5% providing online information about our monitor the opportunities for licensing market share, AstraZeneca is the fifth medicines and the conditions for which partnerships.
largest pharmaceutical company in they are prescribed.
Asia, we have e-business pilot studies underway to improve interaction with healthcare professionals.
1 Key products: Oncology Key products: Respiratory & Inflammation Licensed from Takeda Chemical Industries Ltd. 2 Licensed from Shionogi & Co. Ltd. Arimidex anastrozole aromatase inhibitor for Accolate zafirlukast oral leukotriene receptor 3 Licensed from Merck & Co. Inc. breast cancer antagonist for control of asthma 4 Licensed from Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd. Casodex bicalutamide anti-androgen for prostate Oxis formoterol inhaled fast onset long-acting cancer bronchodilator for relief of asthma symptoms Faslodex fulvestrant oestrogen receptor antagonist Pulmicort budesonide inhaled anti-inflammatory with no agonist effects for breast cancer for asthma control Iressa gefitinib signal transduction inhibitor for nonRhinocort budesonide topical nasal small cell lung cancer anti-inflammatory for control of rhinitis Nolvadex tamoxifen anti-oestrogen for breast cancer Symbicort budesonide formoterol inhaled combination of anti-inflammatory and fast onset Zoladex goserelin LHRH agonist for prostate and long-acting bronchodilator in a single inhaler pre-menopausal breast cancer, certain benign gynaecological disorders and assisted reproduction AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com 12 Inspiration The success of our business is based on our commitment to new ideas ideas that are inspired by life and which in turn help to inspire the lives of our stakeholders.
We turn good We also focus We aim to stimulate We encourage Along with our Our core values are: ideas into effective on getting the continued creativity the sharing of commitment Integrity and high medicines most benefit for by maintaining knowledge and to competitiveness ethical standards designed to patients from every a culture in which ideas across and performance, Respect for the improve the health medicine we make our people feel functional and we will continue to individual and diversity and quality of by exploring all valued, energised territorial boundaries be led by our core Openness, honesty, life of patients the ways it can be and rewarded for to further stimulate values to achieve trust and support around the world.
their ideas and creativity and best sustainable for each other contribution to our practice across the success.
Leadership by success ideas Company.
example at all levels which can make a difference in all aspects of our business.
com 13 designed to take account of individual The path to growth We are a creative, fast and effective needs by introducing elements of company with a powerful range of personal choice and flexibility in how high quality products that will drive benefits are taken.
Inspiring leadership is key to stimulating In recent years, we have launched a high performance.
We have global range of important new medicines, programmes designed to strengthen including high potential therapies for leadership capabilities, enhance core treating cancer Casodex, Arimidex, management skills and help leaders Faslodex and Iressa, gastrointestinal develop good working relationships disease Nexium, asthma Symbicort, across the organisation.
These hypertension Atacand, high cholesterol programmes are complemented Crestor, migraine Zomig and schizoby local initiatives, which include phrenia Seroquel.
These and the first functional or country specific aspects approval of Exanta in France in of leadership development.
December 2003 mark the start of an exciting new era for the Company.
The sharing of information is essential to maintaining employee confidence in Making it happen AstraZeneca and its objectives.
We use a Without the creativity, energy and range of communications media, as well commitment of our people, our as face to face meetings, to ensure our business would not succeed.
We are people are kept up to date with business very proud of our 60,000 employees developments and are clear about their in 45 countries and value the diversity individual and team roles and targets.
of skills and abilities that they bring to our business.
Feedback is very important to us and opportunities for giving feedback are We encourage and support all our built in to all levels of communication.
people in developing their capabilities We also use a two-yearly global to the full with high quality learning and employee survey to identify areas development opportunities, backed by of both satisfaction and concern.
management responsibility for ensuring Priority attention is given to areas that individually tailored development for improvement highlighted in plans are in place for each member of these surveys.
their team, throughout their careers.
Equal opportunity for all is a cornerstone A responsible approach of our culture in which personal success With a global business comes a global is based solely on individual ability and responsibility for high standards of contribution.
We aim to manage that responsibility effectively The wellbeing of our people is a core to ensure that we continue to be priority and we have a broad range of welcomed as a trusted and valued initiatives aimed at promoting the health, member of the global community.
safety and welfare of all our employees worldwide.
These include behaviourYou can read more about our approach based safety and occupational health to corporate responsibility, and our 2003 programmes as well as initiatives that performance, in the separate 2003 encourage and support work life Corporate Responsibility Summary balance through flexible working hours Report or visit our website for full details.
and opportunities to work from home.
Looking to the future Rewarding people for their contribution We are committed to continued isnt, we believe, just about offering a achievement in all our activities competitive benefits package.
Our to ensure a healthy future for our integrated reward schemes are business and added value for all those who benefit from it.
com 14 Therapy area review Gastrointestinal Cardiovascular Infection Our world leading position in cardioWe are the world number one in the World demand for antibiotics remains vascular CV is based on over 40 years treatment of gastrointestinal GI disease high due to escalating resistance and experience in this field.
Backed by our and aim to maintain that leading position the increased risk of serious infections.
powerful range of products and quality through continued sales and further research, we aim to build on our strong development of Nexium, the latest Infectious diseases cause more than 11 position, focusing on important areas of addition to our GI range.
need such as hypertension and thrombosis.
40% of adults in the western world 2003 saw steady sales growth globally regularly experience heartburn and 10% for Merrem, our antibiotic for the CV diseases account for 17 million have gastro-oesophageal reflux disease.
treatment of serious hospital-acquired deaths worldwide each year, making it infections.
Clinical studies are in place the greatest risk to life for most adults.
Nexium continues to establish a new to support a supplementary new drug improved treatment standard and this application in the US in 2004 aimed at During the year, Crestor, our new statin was reflected in its global sales, which securing an indication for skin and skin for controlling high cholesterol levels, exceeded $3 billion in 2003. structure infections in 2005. gained regulatory approval in more than 40 countries.
By the end of January First launched in Sweden in August In June 2003, we opened our new 2004, it was launched in over 25 2000, it is now available in 100 markets, laboratories at our research facility countries including the US, Canada, including the US, Canada and all in Bangalore, India where work is the UK and the Netherlands, and we European countries.
It has been well focused on finding a new treatment estimate that more than 1.5 million received by patients and physicians alike for tuberculosis, the single largest prescriptions had been written for, and and over 145 million patient treatments cause of adult death from infectious over 750,000 patients had been treated had been administered by the end of disease in the world.
Its strong performance in the US makes Nexium one of the most We gained first approval in France for successful pharmaceutical launches Exanta, the first new oral anti-coagulant ever.
in almost 60 years for chronic indications.
We also made regulatory An injectable formulation of Nexium submissions in the US, Canada and was approved in Europe in late 2003, Europe towards the end of the year.
for use when an oral treatment of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease is Seloken Toprol-XL sales continued to not applicable.
grow strongly and Atacand increased its market share.
As anticipated, sales of Zestril continued to decline as patents expired in major markets.
com 15 Oncology Neuroscience Respiratory and Inflammation We aim to be a leader in neuroscience We aim to maintain our position as a Already a leader in the treatment of by continuing to deliver a range of life world leader in cancer treatment asthma, we plan to expand our range changing medicines in three key areas through continued growth for key through the introduction of new treatments of psychiatry, analgesia and neurology, products in our portfolio, continued and new uses for our key products in and by maintaining our world leading launches for our new products and the other areas of inflammatory disease, position in anaesthesia.
successful introduction of novel such as chronic obstructive pulmonary approaches currently in the pipeline.
disease COPD and rheumatoid Health problems related to the function arthritis.
of the central nervous system, including Over 12 million people are diagnosed the brain, are a complex area of with cancer each year.
It is predicted to The World Health Organisation significant medical need that touches be the leading cause of death in the US estimates that 100 million people many peoples lives.
by 2005. worldwide suffer from asthma and that COPD is the fourth greatest cause of Sales of Seroquel, our schizophrenia Sales of Casodex and Arimidex, for death worldwide.
therapy, have now exceeded $4 billion treating prostate and breast cancer since launch and in 2003, showed respectively, grew strongly in 2003.
Clinical data confirmed the efficacy and continued strong growth globally.
Arimidex is rapidly moving towards safety of Symbicort as an adjustable Seroquel is now widely approved in replacing tamoxifen as the standard of maintenance treatment for asthma.
Europe and the US, for the treatment of care in breast cancer.
During the year, we filed for approval in bipolar mania which affects over 17 Europe of Symbicort as a single inhaler million people in the major markets.
Good sales for Faslodex reflected a treatment for asthma.
Symbicort also steady increase in use for the treatment became the first fixed combination of Zomig Nasal Spray, a new formulation of advanced breast cancer in the US.
inhaled corticosteroid and fast onset, of our Zomig migraine therapy in a Approval for Faslodex in Europe is long acting bronchodilator approved for convenient device that delivers fast anticipated early in 2004 following a COPD in Europe.
pain relief, was successfully launched positive opinion from the Committee in Europe and the US.
for Proprietary Medicinal Products in In the US, growth of 32% in total late 2003. prescriptions for Pulmicort Respules Our leading range of anaesthetics reflected the products beneficial continued to perform well, despite the There has been rapid uptake of our new profile and strengthened its position anticipated slowing in sales growth for lung cancer therapy, Iressa over as the inhaled corticosteroid of choice Diprivan general anaesthetic following 100,000 patients have been treated for the treatment of children under five patent expiries.
since its first launch in Japan in 2002 with asthma.
com Board of Directors As at 31 December 2003 Percy Barnevik Sir Tom McKillop Jonathan Symonds Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director Executive Director Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Hkan Mogren Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Sir Peter Bonfield Dame Bridget Ogilvie Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Jane Henney Non-Executive Director Marcus Wallenberg Michele Hooper Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Karl von der Heyden Non-Executive Director John Buchanan Joe Jimenez Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Erna Mller Non-Executive Director AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com 17 Sir Tom McKillop 60 Jonathan Symonds 44 Percy Barnevik 62 Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director and Chief Executive Executive Director and Chief Financial Chairman of the Nomination Committee Appointed as a Director 1 January 1996.
Officer Appointed as a Director 6 April 1999.
Non-Executive Director of Lloyds TSB Group Appointed as a Director 1 October 1997.
Honorary Chairman of Sandvik AB.
President of the European Federation of Also has overall responsibility for Information Executive Director of General Motors Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations.
Non-Executive Director of QinetiQ Corporation.
Member of the Academies of Pro-Chancellor of the University of Leicester.
Member of the UK Accounting Engineering Sciences in Sweden and Finland Chairman of the British Pharma Group and Standards Board.
Chairman of The Hundred and Honorary Member of the Royal Academy the North West Science Council.
Group of Finance Directors in the UK.
Member of Advisory Councils in Korea, India and the Investment Sir Peter Bonfield CBE, FREng 59 Dame Bridget Ogilvie 65 Council advising the South African Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Government.
Member of the Business Chairman of the Remuneration Member of the Audit Committee and the Council of American CEOs.
Member of the Committee and Member of the Science Committee Advisory Board, Centre for European Nomination Committee Appointed as a Director 1 January 1997.
Also has responsibility for overseeing Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Non-Executive Hkan Mogren 59 Non-Executive Director of Director of the Manchester Technology Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson, Mentor Fund Limited.
Chairman of the Medicines Member of the Nomination Committee Graphics Corporation and Taiwan for Malaria Venture and the Association of Appointed as a Director 6 April 1999.
Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Medical Research Charities.
Trustee of Formerly CEO and a Director of Astra AB Ltd.
Vice-President of The British Quality Cancer Research UK.
Chairman of the appointed 18 May 1988.
Member of Citigroup Trustees of the AstraZeneca Science Affibody AB and the Sweden-America International Advisory Board.
Member of the Board of Directors of Investor Marcus Wallenberg 47 Michele Hooper 52 AB, Rmy Cointreau S. A. Groupe Danone Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Norsk Hydro ASA.
Director of the Member of the Audit Committee Appointed as a Director 1 July 2003.
Marianne and Marcus Wallenberg Appointed as a Director 6 April 1999.
President and Chief Executive Officer of Foundation.
Formerly a Director of Astra AB appointed Stadtlander Drug Company 1998-1999.
President and Chief Executive Corporate Vice-President and President, Jane Henney 56 Officer of Investor AB.
Non-Executive ViceInternational Businesses of Caremark Non-Executive Director Chairman of Saab AB, Skandinaviska International 1992-1998.
Non-Executive Member of the Audit Committee, the Enskilda Banken AB and Telefonaktiebolaget Director of PPG Industries, Inc. Target Nomination Committee and the Science LM Ericsson.
Non-Executive Director of Corporation and Davita Inc. Committee Scania AB, Stora Enso Oyj and the Knut and Appointed as a Director 24 September 2001.
Joe Jimenez 44 Senior Vice-President & Provost for Health Non-Executive Director Affairs, University of Cincinnati Medical John Buchanan 60 Member of the Nomination Committee Center.
Commissioner of Food and Drugs Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Director 1 July 2003.
1998-2001 and Deputy Commissioner for Member of the Audit Committee and the Executive Vice-President of H J Heinz Operations 1992-1994, US Food and Drug Remuneration Committee Company and President and Chief Executive Administration.
Deputy Director, US National Appointed as a Director 25 April 2002.
Officer of Heinz Europe since 2002.
Non-Executive Executive Director and Group Chief Financial Corporate Vice-President then Senior ViceDirector of AmerisourceBergen Corporation.
Member of President and President of Heinz North Member of the Board of Trustees of the the UK Accounting Standards Board 1997- America 1998-2002.
Non-Executive Director Commonwealth Fund and the Scripps 2001.
Senior Independent Non-Executive of Hain Celestial Group, Inc. Research Institute.
Member of the Medical & Director of BHP Billiton Plc and NonScientific Advisory Board of MPM Capital.
Executive Director of Vodafone Group Plc.
Other officers of the Company at 31 December 2003 included members of Karl von der Heyden 67 Erna Mller 63 the Senior Executive Team, as set out on Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director page 19, and: Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Appointed as a Director 1 October 1998. and the Science Committee Graeme Musker Executive Vice-President 1989-1992 and Appointed as a Director 6 April 1999.
Group Secretary and Solicitor Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Formerly a Director of Astra AB appointed 15 Appointed as Company Secretary 1993 of RJR Nabisco.
Executive Director of the Knut 6June 1993.
Executive Officer of Metallgesellschaft Corp. and Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
Vice-Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc. of Clinical Immunology and Member of the 1996-2001.
Non-Executive Director of Nobel Assembly and of the Nobel Federated Department Stores Inc. Committee, Karolinska Institutet.
Member of ARAMARK Inc. and Exult, Inc. the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences and the Royal Swedish Academy of Science.
com Summary Directors report subject to those provisions of the Act Board of Directors At its meeting in December 2003, the Board Details of the Board at 31 December 2003 applicable to foreign issuers.
reviewed and assessed how it operates.
This are set out on pages 16 and 17. included consideration and discussion of the The Company either already complies with or nature and level of its interaction with the Board changes will comply with those provisions of the Act Companys management: the quality, ke Stavling, Executive Director, left the applicable to foreign issuers as and when quantity and coverage of information which Company at the end of January 2003. they become effective.
The Board believes flows to the Board from management: the that, prior to the Act coming into force, the balance of the Boards time spent In July 2003, the Board appointed Michele Company already had a sound corporate considering strategic issues compared to Hooper and Joe Jimenez as Non-Executive governance framework, good processes for other matters: the content of Board meetings Directors.
the accurate and timely reporting of its and presentations to Board meetings: the financial position and results of operations composition of the Board: the practical At the end of August 2003, Hkan Mogren and an effective and robust system of internal arrangements for the work of the Board: and ceased to be Executive Deputy Chairman and controls.
Consequently, the Companys the work and operation of the Boards became Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
approach to compliance with the Act has committees.
Overall, Board members principally involved the development and concluded that the Board and its committees Election and re-election of Directors adjustment of its existing corporate were operating in an effective and All of the Directors will retire under Article 65 governance framework and associated constructive manner.
of the Companys Articles of Association at processes concerning reporting, internal the Annual General Meeting AGM in April controls and other relevant matters.
At the same meeting, the Chairman also 2004.
The Notice of AGM will give details of reported to the Board on his conversations those Directors presenting themselves for Board structure and processes with each Non-Executive Director about their election or re-election at the AGM.
Board composition, responsibilities and individual performance and that of the Board appointments as a whole, which took place during the Annual General Meeting The Board comprises Executive and Nonfourth quarter of 2003.
The Chairman then The Companys AGM will be held on 29 April Executive Directors.
In the view of the Board, left the meeting while Sir Peter Bonfield, 2004.
The principal meeting place will be in the majority of Board members excluding the senior Non-Executive Director, led a review London.
There will be a simultaneous satellite Chairman are independent Non-Executive of the Chairmans performance.
On the meeting in Stockholm.
The differing roles of Executive Chairmans return to the meeting, the Board Directors and Non-Executive Directors are reviewed the performance of the Chief Corporate governance clearly delineated, with both having fiduciary Executive and the Chief Financial Officer UK Combined Code on Corporate duties towards shareholders and all being who, in each case, left the meeting while Governance collectively responsible for the success of the review took place.
In July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council the Company.
However, Executive Directors in the UK issued the revised Combined Code have direct responsibility for business Chief Executive and the Senior on Corporate Governance which operations whereas the Non-Executive Executive Team superseded and replaced the Combined Directors have a responsibility to bring The Chief Executive, Sir Tom McKillop, has Code published by the Hampel Committee independent, objective judgement to bear on delegated authority from, and is responsible on Corporate Governance in 1998.
This includes constructively to, the Board for directing and promoting the for reporting years beginning on or after 1 challenging management and helping to profitable operation and development of the November 2003. develop the Companys strategy.
The NonCompany, consistent with the primary aim of Executive Directors scrutinise the enhancing long term shareholder value.
Although the Company is not strictly required performance of management and have to report against the revised Combined Code various responsibilities concerning the The Chief Executive is responsible to the until its Directors Report for 2004, the Board integrity of financial information, internal Board for the management and performance did review the revised Combined Code at its controls and risk management.
To help of the Companys businesses within the meeting in October 2003 and has prepared maintain a strong executive presence on the framework of Company policies, reserved this Directors Report with reference to the Board in addition to the two Executive powers and routine reporting requirements.
Directors the Chief Executive and the Chief He is obliged to refer certain major matters Financial Officer, Board meetings are defined in the formal delegation of the The Company is applying all of the main and attended by two members of the Senior Boards authority back to the Board.
The supporting principles of good governance in Executive Team.
roles of the Board, the Boards committees, the revised Combined Code.
The way in the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the which these principles are being applied is The Board sets the Companys strategy Senior Executive Team are documented, as described below.
and policies and monitors progress towards are the Companys delegated authorities and meeting its objectives.
It also assesses reserved powers, the means of operation of The Company is complying with all of the whether its obligations to the Companys the business and the roles of corporate provisions of the revised Combined Code.
shareholders and others are understood functions.
This includes regular reviews of The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the Companys financial performance and The Chief Executive has established and AstraZeneca PLC American Depositary critical business issues.
The Board met six chairs the Senior Executive Team.
While the Shares are traded on the New York Stock times in 2003.
Chief Executive retains full responsibility for Exchange NYSE and the Company is the authority delegated to him by the Board, subject to the reporting and other There is an established and transparent the Senior Executive Team is the vehicle requirements of the US Securities and procedure for appointments of new directors through which he exercises that authority in Exchange Commission SEC applicable to to the Board which is operated by the respect of the Companys business including foreign issuers.
The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act Nomination Committee.
All of the Directors Salick Health Care and Astra Tech.
came into force at the end of July 2002.
As a retire at each AGM and may offer themselves result of its NYSE listing, the Company is for re-election by shareholders.
com 19 Remuneration policy The members of the Senior Executive Team During the year, the Code of Conduct was Overall remuneration policy and purpose are Jonathan Symonds, Chief Financial reviewed and revised.
The amended version The Company is committed to maintaining a Officer: Bruno Angelici, Executive Vicewas approved by the Board in July 2003.
To dynamic performance culture in which every President, Europe, Japan, Asia Pacific and coincide with the launch of the new Code of employee champions the growth of ROW: David Brennan, Executive ViceConduct, the Company also updated and shareholder value, is clear about the President, North America: Jan Lundberg, extended its procedures for raising integrity Companys objectives, knows how their work Executive Vice-President, Discovery concerns which include a confidential impacts on those objectives and that they will Research: John Patterson, Executive Vicehelpline for employees worldwide.
benefit from achieving high levels of President, Product Strategy & Licensing and performance.
Business Development: Martin Nicklasson, Purchase of own shares Executive Vice-President, Development: The Companys stated distribution policy The Board has confirmed that the Barrie Thorpe, Executive Vice-President, contains both a regular dividend cash flow Companys overall remuneration policy and Operations: and Tony Bloxham, Executive and a share re-purchase component to give purpose is: Vice-President, Human Resources.
the Company more flexibility in managing its capital structure over time.
In August 1999, to attract and retain people of the quality Internal controls and management of risk the Company announced a $2 billion share necessary to sustain the Company as one of The Board has overall responsibility for the re-purchase programme to be completed the best pharmaceutical companies in the Companys system of internal controls which by the end of 2002.
This programme was world: and aims to safeguard shareholders investments completed ahead of schedule in the second to motivate them to achieve the level of and the Companys assets, ensure that quarter of 2002.
In January 2002, the performance necessary to create sustained proper accounting records are maintained Company announced an additional $2 billion growth in shareholder value.
and that the financial information used within re-purchase programme which was the business and for publication is accurate, completed on schedule by the end of 2003.
In order to achieve this, remuneration policy reliable and fairly presents the financial and practice is designed: position of the Company and the results of its During 2003, the Company purchased 27.2 business operations.
The Board is also million of its own Ordinary Shares with a to closely align individual and team responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of nominal value of $0.25 each for an aggregate reward with business performance at each the system of internal controls.
The system is cost of $1,154 million.
Following the level: designed to provide reasonable assurance of purchase of these shares, they were all to encourage employees to perform to effective operations and compliance with cancelled as required by applicable English their fullest capacity: laws and regulations, although any system of law.
This number of shares represents 1.6% to encourage employees to align their internal controls can only provide reasonable, of the Companys total issued share capital at interests with those of shareholders: not absolute, assurance against material 31 December 2003. to support managers responsibility to misstatement or loss.
achieve business performance through Since the beginning of the re-purchase people and for them to recognise superior The Company views the careful management programme in 1999, the Company has performance, in the short and longer term: of risk as a key management activity.
purchased for cancellation in total 92.8 to be as locally focused and flexible as is Managing business risks to deliver million of its own Ordinary Shares with a practicable and beneficial: opportunities is a key element of all activities.
nominal value of $0.25 each for an aggregate to be competitive and cost-effective in This is done using a simple and flexible cost of $3,959 million.
This number of shares each of the relevant employment markets: framework which provides a consistent and represents 5.5% of the Companys total and sustained way of implementing the issued share capital at 31 December 2003. to be as internally consistent as is Companys values.
These business risks, practicable and beneficial taking due account which may be strategic, operational, The Company continues to maintain robust of market need.
reputational, financial or environmental, controls in respect of all aspects of the share should be understood and visible.
The re-purchase programme to ensure The cost and value of the components of the business context determines in each compliance with English law and the Listing remuneration package are considered as a situation the level of acceptable risk and Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
In particular, whole and are designed: controls.
the Companys Disclosure Committee meets to ensure that the Company does not to ensure a proper balance of fixed and Code of Conduct purchase its own shares during prohibited variable performance-related components, The policy of the Company is to require all of periods.
At the AGM on 29 April 2004, the linked to short and longer term objectives: its subsidiaries, and their employees, to Company will seek a renewal of its current and observe the highest ethical standards of permission from shareholders to purchase its to reflect market competitiveness taking integrity and honesty and act with due skill, own shares.
account of the total value of all of the benefit care, diligence and fairness in the conduct of components.
The Companys management recognises that such standards make a The principal components contained in the significant contribution to the overall control total remuneration package, for employees environment and seeks, by its words and as a whole, are: actions, to reinforce them throughout the business.
In particular, all employees are annual salary based on conditions in required to comply with the letter and spirit of the relevant geographic market, with the the AstraZeneca Code of Conduct and with provision to recognise, in addition, the value the high ethical standards detailed by the of individuals sustained personal Company in support of it.
performance, resulting from their ability and experience: annual bonus a lump sum payment related to the targeted achievement of AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 20 astrazeneca.
com Remuneration policy continued of responsibility: the bonus payable is on corporate, functional and individual goals, pension element was $193,000: measured over a year within a specific plan: a scale of 0-100% of salary and 50% of the corporate goals are derived from the salary is payable for the achievement of Swedish Executive Directors pension annual budget set by the Board and take target business performance: 80% of the arrangements normally, Swedish into account external expectations of bonus relates to the achievement of the Executive Directors participate in the performance: the functional goals are agreed earnings per share target and 20% to the collectively bargained ITP pension plan, by the Remuneration Committee at the start other performance measures: which provides pensions, dependents of, and are monitored throughout, the year: pensions and lump sums on death in longer term incentive for selected longer term incentive Executive service: in respect of those Swedish groups, a longer term incentive targeted at Directors are also rewarded for improvement Directors or former Directors, namely the achievement of strategic objectives with in the share price performance of the Hkan Mogren and ke Stavling, whose close alignment to the interests of Company over a period of years by the grant pensionable earnings are or were in shareholders: of share options: the grant of options under excess of the earnings limit imposed by pension arrangements which are the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan is the Swedish Communal Tax Law appropriate to the relevant market: determined by the Remuneration Kommunalskattelagen, supplementary other benefits such as holidays and Committee, as are the performance targets pension commitments are made: the sickness benefit which are cost-effective and that will apply and whether they will apply to Company has agreed to pay 70% of compatible with the relevant national welfare the grant and or exercise of options: and pensionable salary from age 60 to age 65 arrangements: and and 50% of such earnings from age 65: share participation various plans pension arrangements: the ITP provisions are included in this provide the opportunity for employees to additional commitment: paid in pension take a personal stake in the Companys UK Executive Directors pension capital may also be used in the event of wealth as shareholders.
arrangements the Chief Executive is retirement or termination before the age a member of the Companys main UK of 60: on death in retirement the accrued The way in which these elements are defined benefit pension plan: the normal pension is payable to a surviving spouse combined and applied varies depending, pension age under this plan is 62: or other dependent.
for example, on market need and practice however, a members accrued pension in various countries.
is available from age 60 without any Other customary benefits such as a car and actuarial reduction: in addition the health benefits are also made available.
This For each Executive Director, the individual accrued pension is available, unreduced, happens by way of the Executive Directors components are: from age 57 if the Company consents participation in the Companys flexible to a request for early retirement and benefits arrangements, which apply to the annual salary the actual salary for each from age 50 if the retirement is at the vast majority of the Companys UK and of the Executive Directors is determined by Companys request: Swedish employees.
the Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board: these salaries reflect the On death in retirement, the accrued Graph showing total shareholder return experience and sustained performance of pension is guaranteed payable for the The UK Directors Remuneration Report the individuals to whom they apply, as judged first five years of retirement and then Regulations 2002 require the inclusion in the annually by the Remuneration Committee, reduces to two-thirds of this amount Annual Review of a graph showing total taking account also of market should there be a surviving spouse or shareholder return TSR over a five year competitiveness: other dependent: any member may period in respect of a holding of the choose higher or lower levels of survivors Companys shares, plotted against TSR in short term bonus: pensions at retirement, subject to respect of a hypothetical holding of shares of Inland Revenue limits, in return for an a similar kind and number by reference to The Chief Executive is eligible for an adjustment to their own pension of which a broad equity market index is annual bonus related solely to the equivalent actuarial value: pensions calculated.
This illustrates the Companys achievement of the targeted are also payable to dependent children: TSR performance against the broad equity performance of earnings per share: the pensions in payment are increased market index selected.
For the purposes of bonus payable is on a scale of 0-100% of annually in line with inflation, as this graph, set out below, we have selected salary and 50% of salary is payable for measured by the UK Retail Prices the FTSE 100 Index as the appropriate index.
the achievement of target performance: Index, up to a maximum of 5%: as referred to above, this is derived from the budget set by the Board and takes In respect of UK Executive Directors into account external expectations of whose pensionable earnings are capped performance: by the earnings limit imposed by the Finance Act 1989, unapproved defined The Deputy Chairman was also eligible contribution schemes are made Graph showing total shareholder return for this annual bonus related solely to available: currently, only the Chief 1 January 1999 31 December 2003 earnings per share for that part of 2003 Financial Officer is affected by this limit: AstraZeneca during which he served as an Executive the Company has agreed to pay annually FTSE100 Director 1 January 2003 until 31 August 50% of base salary in excess of the 140 2003 : statutory earnings cap for the pension 120 and associated tax liability, with the 100 The Chief Financial Officer is eligible intention of providing equivalence of for an annual bonus related to the benefits with non-capped UK Executive 80 achievement of both the targeted Directors: if this does not provide 60 performance of earnings per share equivalence, the Company has agreed to Jan 99 Jan 00 Jan 01 Jan 02 Jan 03 Dec 03 and the achievement of performance make up the difference: the Company Source: Thomson Financial Datastream measures relevant to his particular area contribution in 2003 in respect of the AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com 21 Summary financial review as Nexium, Crestor, Symbicort and Seroquel.
The purpose of the summary financial review, We continue to have operations through together with the therapy area review is to However, cost containment initiatives have Astra Tech medical equipment and Salick provide understanding and analysis of our restricted underlying cost growth in these Health Care healthcare services and results for the year 2003 and of the progress areas to just under 6%.
through our non-core joint venture, Advanta.
In the year we disposed of the Quorn Continued good performance from newer business, Marlow Foods.
Our operations are focused on prescription products should deliver strong sales and pharmaceuticals and more than 97% of our profit growth over the next several years as Geographic analysis sales are made in that sector.
Sales of the impact of generic erosion on the business In the US, sales declined by 6% for the full pharmaceutical products tend to be relatively diminishes.
We believe that our financial year but, excluding the three products which insensitive to general economic performance over this period is likely to rank faced generic erosion Losec Prilosec, circumstances in the short term.
They are amongst the best in the global peer group of Zestril and Nolvadex increased 36%.
more directly influenced by medical needs large pharmaceutical companies.
Growth products with strong performances and are generally financed by health included Nexium up 62%, Seloken insurance schemes or national healthcare Results of operations Toprol-XL up 47% and Seroquel up 22%.
Results described in this section exclude the addition, Iressa and Crestor were launched in effects of exchange rate movements unless the US in 2003.
Our operating results in the short term and otherwise stated to reflect underlying long term can be affected by a number of performance.
Sales in Europe increased 2% for the full year, factors other than normal competition: as strong sales growth for Nexium up 55%, Sales Symbicort up 53%, Seroquel up 40% and exposure to currency fluctuations: After the effects of changing product mix, the oncology products up 18% more than the risk of loss or expiration of patents and excluding the effects of exchange, our offset declines in Losec Prilosec, Zestril and and the potential adverse affect on sales underlying sales remained virtually Pulmicort.
Sales volumes increased by 5% volumes and prices from generic unchanged.
Our sales performance was but overall prices were lower by 3%.
competition: affected by the loss of $3.0 billion underlying Performance in Europe was also affected the rate of growth and costs associated sales in Losec Prilosec, Zestril and Nolvadex by the significant increase in movements of with new product launches, the timings which was compensated by strong products between countries, usually from of those launches and the risk that such performances elsewhere in the portfolio.
In southern Europe where prices tend to be new products do not succeed as particular, underlying sales for key growth lower than in northern Europe.
anticipated: and and launch products increased by $2.4 billion the adverse impact on pharmaceutical up 45% to $8.2 billion.
Sales in Japan were up 14% for the full year, prices as a result of the regulatory as a result of increases in Losec up 39%, environment.
Gastrointestinal is still our largest therapy Seroquel up 67% and a strong oncology area, accounting for over 31% of total sales portfolio up 16%.
Sales in the rest of the Over the longer term, the success of our down from over 37% in 2002 : continued world grew by 16%.
research and development is crucial.
In strong growth from Nexium, where sales common with other pharmaceutical grew by 62% to $3.3 billion, restricted the Operating margin and retained profit companies we devote substantial resources declines seen in the Losec Prilosec area.
Underlying operating profit declined by 11% to R&D, the benefit of which emerges over although exchange effects reduced the the long term and carries considerable In Cardiovascular, Crestor sales were $129 reported decline to 6%.
Operating margin uncertainty as to whether it will generate million for the full year and Seloken Toprol-XL fell from 24.4% to 21.8%.
sales exceeded the $1 billion mark for the improved primarily as a result of lower first time up 38% to $1,280 million : these payments to Merck.
Aggregate R&D and In the last two years, our key challenge has performances more than offset the 50% SG&A grew by just under 6% with spending been to effect a portfolio transformation decline in Zestril sales resulting in an overall including several up-front payments for whereby sales lost to patent expiries are underlying performance up 3%.
collaboration agreements, costs of the replaced by new products and a new launches of Crestor and some field force product portfolio created.
In 2003, the effect Despite the generic erosion of Nolvadex in increases in Europe and Japan.
of this product portfolio transformation and the US, Oncology sales increased by 8% with prioritisation is clearly demonstrated by the Arimidex up 46% to $519 million, Iressa up Other income was $43 million lower fact that an underlying $3.0 billion of sales 227% to $228 million and Casodex up 22% principally due to the gain on disposal lost to generic competition Losec Prilosec, to $854 million all mitigating the fall in of Sular in the first quarter of 2002.
Zestril and Nolvadex have been Nolvadex sales down 66% to $178 million.
Net interest and dividend income was compensated by the performance of our key Neuroscience growth was 12% driven by $91 million for the year, benefiting in growth and launch products.
Sales from a 27% increase in Seroquel sales whilst comparison with 2002 as several small these growth and launch products amounted Respiratory and Inflammation improved by exchange and market revaluation losses to $8.2 billion in 2003.
15%, with the most significant performance were absent in 2003. from Symbicort up 61%.
Increased investment has continued in R&D The effective tax rate for the year was 27.2% and in selling and marketing activities.
In both Although wholesaler stocking patterns compared to 26.8% in 2002.
In the fourth areas, prioritisation of resources across the continue to have an impact on the quarterly quarter we concluded a negotiated portfolio is actively managed to avoid phasing of sales, for the year as a whole we settlement with the UK and the US committing resources before opportunities estimate that changes in excess wholesaler governments in respect of ex-Zeneca are clear.
R&D spend was particularly focused inventories had little or no effect on sales products for the years 1987 to 2001. on completing the development programmes growth.
At the year end, we estimate that for Crestor, Iressa and Exanta.
Selling and excess wholesaler inventories were well Dividend and share re-purchases marketing resources were prioritised to under $100 million.
We paid a first interim dividend for 2003 on recently launched and growth products such 6 October 2003 of $0.255 per Ordinary AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 22 astrazeneca.
com Summary financial review continued Share.
A second interim dividend for 2003 Sales $m Cash flow of $0.540 per Ordinary Share has been All data in this section is on an actual basis declared, which the Annual General Meeting unless noted otherwise.
will be asked to confirm as the final dividend.
This, together with the first interim dividend, We continue to be a highly cash generative 03 18,849 makes a total dividend of $0.795 for the year.
We believe our cash resources will It is our intention that dividends will increase be sufficient for our present requirements and 02 17,841 broadly in line with earnings growth whilst includes sufficient cash for our existing 01 16,222 bringing dividend cover to around the middle capital programme, share re-purchases and of the 2-3 times range.
any costs of launching new products.
Profit $m In 2003, we re-purchased 27.2 million Cash generated from operating activities Ordinary Shares for cancellation at a total before exceptional cash outflows was $4,617 cost of $1,154 million bringing the total million compared with $5,686 million in 2002.
03 number of shares re-purchased since the This decrease was primarily a result of a start of the re-purchase programme in 1999 $1,101 million outflow on working capital 4,202 to 92.8 million at a cumulative cost of $3,959 $540 million in debtors, $430 million in 4,202 million.
The Board has approved a new recreditors and $131 million in stock.
This was 02 purchase programme of $4 billion to be principally a consequence of factors set out 4,387 completed by the end of 2005, assuming in the discussions on stocks and debtors and 4,037 continued market access and the absence of creditors above.
The stronger European and strategic needs for cash.
Japanese currencies also increased the cash 01 flow effect compared to 2002.
Cash 4,269 Financial position expenditure on exceptional items was $391 4,077 All data in this section is on an actual basis million compared with $93 million in 2002, unless noted otherwise.
following the payment of $355 million in Key settlement of the Zoladex investigation.
Tax Profit before exceptional items The net book value of our assets increased paid was $886 million and includes the Profit before tax from $11,226 million at 31 December 2002 transfer pricing settlement.
R&D investment $m Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets Capital expenditure, including new fixed asset totalled $1,239 million, with major investments and intangible assets, totalled investments in Nexium manufacturing and $1,597 million.
Although this is similar to cash Investment as % R&D facilities.
Additions to goodwill and expenditure in 2002, it reflects slightly lower of sales intangible assets amounted to $113 million expenditure on tangible fixed assets, offset by 03 3,451 18.3 and fixed asset investment expenditure exchange and higher fixed asset investments.
included a $100 million investment in The cash inflow in respect of the disposal of 02 3,069 17.2 Abgenix Inc. as part of an oncology Marlow Foods contributed $80 million in the collaboration agreement.
01 2,687 16.6 exchange effects and underlying increases support of newly launched and rapidly After accounting for dividends paid of $1,222 growing products offset by reductions in million, net share re-purchases of $1,107 Earnings per Ordinary Share $ holdings of mature products.
Underlying million and exchange of $82 million, there is a debtor balances increased through higher $348 million decrease in net cash funds, invoice sales in the US in December, a higher which totalled $3,496 million at 31 December 03 proportion of sales from Europe where 2003.
1.78 average credit terms are longer than in the 1.78 US and increased pension prepayments.
Creditors fell due to the settlement of the US 02 Department of Justice Zoladex investigation 1.84 provided for in 2002, the payment of certain 1.64 pension commitments and lower trade creditors offset by currency impacts.
01 1.73 1.65 Key Earnings per share before exceptional items Group earnings per share statutory FRS 3 AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com 23 Summary financial Auditors statement statements Auditors statement to the members of These summary Financial Statements are Basis of opinion a summary of information in the Groups AstraZeneca PLC, pursuant to section 251 We conducted our work in accordance with annual Financial Statements, Directors of the Companies Act 1985 Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on Report and Directors Remuneration Report We have examined the summary Financial the summary financial statement issued by and do not contain sufficient information to Statements set out on pages 24 to 29.
This the Auditing Practices Board for use in the allow for as full an understanding of the statement is made solely to the Companys UK.
Our report on the Groups full annual results and state of affairs of the Group members, as a body, in accordance with Financial Statements describes the basis of as would be provided by the full annual section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our our audit opinion on those Financial Financial Statements, Directors Report work has been undertaken so that we might Statements.
state to the Companys members those Shareholders requiring more detailed matters we are required to state to them in Opinion information have the right to obtain, free of such a statement and for no other purpose.
In our opinion the summary Financial charge, a copy of the Groups last full Annual To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Statements are consistent with the full annual Report and Form 20-F Information, available not accept or assume responsibility to Financial Statements, the Directors Report from the Secretary at the registered office of anyone other than the Company and the and the Directors Remuneration Report the Company.
Companys members as a body, for our of AstraZeneca PLC for the year ended work, for this statement, or for the opinions 31 December 2003 and comply with the The summary Financial Statements on we have formed.
applicable requirements of section 251 of pages 24 to 29 were approved by the the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations Board of Directors on 29 January 2004 Respective responsibilities of Directors made thereunder.
and were signed on its behalf by: and Auditor The Directors are responsible for preparing 29 January 2004 the Annual Review 2003 in accordance with applicable UK law.
Our responsibility is KPMG Audit Plc to report to you our opinion on the Chartered Accountants consistency of the summary Financial Registered Auditor Statements within the Annual Review 2003 8 Salisbury Square Sir Tom McKillop, Director with the full annual Financial Statements, the London EC4Y 8BB Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Jonathan Symonds, Director summary Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary Financial Statements.
com 24 Group profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December Before exceptional Exceptional 2003 items items Total $m $m $m Group turnover 18,849 18,849 Operating costs 14,938 14,938 Other operating income 200 200 Group operating profit 4,111 4,111 Share of operating profits of joint ventures and associates Profits on sale of fixed assets Dividend income 2 2 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 4,113 4,113 Net interest 89 89 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 4,202 4,202 Taxation 1,143 1,143 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 3,059 3,059 Attributable to minorities 23 23 Net profit for the financial year 3,036 3,036 Dividends to shareholders 1,350 Profit retained for the financial year 1,686 Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share before exceptional items $1.78 $1.78 Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share basic $1.78 $1.78 Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share diluted $1.78 $1.78 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 1,709 All activities were in respect of continuing operations.
There were no material differences between reported profits and losses and historical cost profits and losses on ordinary activities before taxation.
Group statement of total recognised gains and losses for the year ended 31 December 2003 $m Net profit for the financial year 3,036 Foreign exchange adjustments on consolidation 1,361 Tax on foreign exchange adjustments on consolidation 66 Translation differences on foreign currency borrowings Tax on translation differences on foreign currency borrowings Total recognised gains and losses relating to the financial year 4,463 $m means millions of US dollars AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com 26 Group balance sheet at 31 December 2003 2002 $m $m Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets 7,536 6,597 Goodwill and intangible assets 2,884 2,807 Fixed asset investments 220 46 10,640 9,450 Current assets Stocks 3,022 2,593 Debtors 5,960 4,845 Short term investments 3,218 3,962 Cash 733 726 12,933 12,126 Total assets 23,573 21,576 Creditors due within one year Short term borrowings and overdrafts 152 202 Current instalments of loans 314 Other creditors 7,543 7,699 7,695 8,215 Net current assets 5,238 3,911 Total assets less current liabilities 15,878 13,361 Creditors due after more than one year Loans 303 328 Other creditors 52 34 355 362 Provisions for liabilities and charges 2,266 1,773 Net assets 13,257 11,226 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 423 429 Share premium account 449 403 Capital redemption reserve 23 16 Merger reserve 433 433 Other reserves 1,401 1,440 Profit and loss account 10,449 8,451 Shareholders funds equity interests 13,178 11,172 Minority equity interests 79 54 Shareholders funds and minority interests 13,257 11,226 The summary Financial Statements on pages 24 to 29 were approved by the Board of Directors on 29 January 2004 and were signed on its behalf by: Sir Tom McKillop Jonathan Symonds Director Director AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com 27 Statement of Group cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2003 2002 2001 $m $m $m Cash flow from operating activities Net cash inflow from trading operations 4,617 5,686 4,130 Outflow related to exceptional items 391 93 368 Net cash inflow from operating activities 4,226 5,593 3,762 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Interest received 117 142 232 Interest paid 32 96 84 Dividends received 2 8 Dividends paid by subsidiaries to minority interests 11 11 76 35 156 Tax paid 886 795 792 Capital expenditure and financial investment Cash expenditure on tangible fixed assets 1,282 1,340 1,385 Cash expenditure on intangible assets 233 268 197 Cash expenditure on fixed asset investments 120 1 5 Disposals of fixed assets 38 66 44 1,597 1,543 1,543 Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions of subsidiaries and purchases of minority interests 44 Disposals of business operations 80 80 44 Equity dividends paid to shareholders 1,222 1,234 1,236 Net cash inflow before management of liquid resources and financing 677 2,056 303 Management of liquid resources and financing Movement in short term investments and fixed deposits net 771 806 260 Financing 345 118 35 Net share re-purchases 1,107 1,154 994 Decrease in cash in the year 4 22 396 Cash outflow inflow from decrease increase in loans and short term borrowings 345 118 35 Cash outflow inflow from increase decrease in short term investments 771 806 260 Change in net funds resulting from cash flows 430 902 691 Exchange movements 82 75 47 Movement in net funds 348 977 738 AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com 28 Dividends 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001 Per Per Per Share Share Share $m $m $m Interim, paid on 6 October 2003 $0.255 $0.23 $0.23 436 398 405 Second interim, to be confirmed as final, payable 6 April 2004 $0.540 $0.47 $0.47 914 808 820 $0.795 $0.70 $0.70 1,350 1,206 1,225 Earnings per share 2003 2002 2001 Net profit for the financial year before exceptional items $m 3,036 3,186 3,044 Exceptional items after tax $m 350 138 Net profit for the financial year $m 3,036 2,836 2,906 Earnings per Ordinary Share before exceptional items $1.78 $1.84 $1.73 Loss per Ordinary Share on exceptional items $0.20 $0.08 Earnings per Ordinary Share $1.78 $1.64 $1.65 Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share before exceptional items $1.78 $1.84 $1.73 Diluted loss per Ordinary Share on exceptional items $0.20 $0.08 Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share $1.78 $1.64 $1.65 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue for basic earnings millions 1,709 1,733 1,758 Dilutive impact of share options outstanding millions 3 23 Diluted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 1,712 1,735 1,761 There are no options, warrants or rights outstanding in respect of unissued shares except for employee share option schemes.
The earnings figures used in the calculations above are unchanged for diluted earnings per Ordinary Share.
Earnings per Ordinary Share before exceptional items have been calculated to eliminate the impact of exceptional items on the results of the business.
com 29 Emoluments of Directors The aggregate remuneration, excluding pension contributions, paid to or accrued for all Directors and officers of the Company for services in all capacities during the year ended 31 December 2003 was 11 million $18 million including 250,000 $403,000 to the Chairman.
Remuneration of individual Directors is set out below in sterling and US dollars.
Among those Directors who receive their remuneration in sterling are the Chairman, the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, the senior Non-Executive Director, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
Salary Taxable Total Total Total and fees Bonuses benefits Other 2003 2002 2001 Sterling 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Percy Barnevik 250 250 250 250 Hkan Mogren 461 450 51 284 1,246 1,347 1,104 Sir Tom McKillop 885 860 1 44 1,790 1,479 1,304 Jonathan Symonds 534 451 6 80 1,071 909 815 Sir Peter Bonfield 74 74 46 38 John Buchanan 53 53 33 Jane Henney 49 49 60 9 Karl von der Heyden 55 55 47 41 Michele Hooper 19 19 Joe Jimenez 19 19 Erna Mller49 49 62 55 Dame Bridget Ogilvie 49 49 62 55 Marcus Wallenberg 46 46 42 38 Former Directors ke Stavling 81 6 402 489 835 712 Others 621 702 Total 2,624 1,761 64 810 5,259 5,793 5,123 Relates to relocation allowances: Payment for pension related tax liabilities: Includes settlement on retirement of accrued holiday entitlement: Includes provision for accommodation in the UK: Compensation payment and for accommodation related tax liabilities: Part year only.
Salary Taxable Total Total Total and fees Bonuses benefits Other 2003 2002 2001 US dollars $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Percy Barnevik 403 403 373 368 Hkan Mogren 743 725 82 458 2,008 2,010 1,623 Sir Tom McKillop 1,427 1,387 1 71 2,886 2,208 1,918 Jonathan Symonds 861 727 9 129 1,726 1,357 1,199 Sir Peter Bonfield 119 119 68 56 John Buchanan 86 86 49 Jane Henney 79 79 90 13 Karl von der Heyden 89 89 70 60 Michele Hooper 31 31 Joe Jimenez 31 31 Erna Mller79 79 93 81 Dame Bridget Ogilvie 79 79 93 81 Marcus Wallenberg 74 74 63 56 Former Directors ke Stavling 131 9 648 788 1,246 1,047 Others 927 1,032 Total 4,232 2,839 101 1,306 8,478 8,647 7,534 Relates to relocation allowances: Payment for pension related tax liabilities: Includes settlement on retirement of accrued holiday entitlement: Includes provision for accommodation in the UK: Compensation payment and for accommodation related tax liabilities: Part year only.
Compensation payments to Hkan Mogren and ke Stavling were 225,000 $363,000 and 399,000 $643,000 respectively and are included within Other in the above tables.
com 30 Group financial record For the years ended 31 December 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 $m $m $m $m $m Turnover and profits Group turnover 18,257 17,882 16,222 17,841 18,849 Cost of sales 5,849 5,270 4,232 4,520 4,469 Distribution costs 343 286 122 141 162 Research and development 2,923 2,893 2,773 3,069 3,451 Selling, general and administrative expenses 6,585 5,691 5,509 6,348 6,856 Other income 189 266 368 243 200 Group operating profit 2,746 4,008 3,954 4,006 4,111 Group operating profit before exceptional items 3,908 4,330 4,156 4,356 4,111 Exceptional items charged to operating profit 1,162 322 202 350 Share of operating profit of joint ventures and associates 7 149 Exceptional items 776 150 Profits on sale of fixed assets 10 Dividend income 3 8 1 2 Net interest 4 135 105 30 89 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 1,959 3,847 4,077 4,037 4,202 Taxation 661 1,560 1,160 1,177 1,143 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 1,298 2,287 2,917 2,860 3,059 Attributable to minorities 1 10 11 24 23 Net profit for the financial year 1,297 2,277 2,906 2,836 3,036 Return on sales Group operating profit before exceptional items as a percentage of sales 21.4% 24.2% 25.6% 24.4% 21.8% Ratio of earnings to fixed charges UK GAAP 10.1 25.2 42.8 45.6 103.5 At 31 December 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 $m $m $m $m $m Balance sheet Fixed assets tangible and intangible and goodwill 9,717 7,908 8,109 9,404 10,420 Fixed asset investments 185 11 23 46 220 Current assets 10,393 10,938 10,364 12,126 12,933 Total assets 20,295 18,857 18,496 21,576 23,573 Creditors due within one year 7,019 6,897 6,480 8,215 7,695 Total assets less current liabilities 13,276 11,960 12,016 13,361 15,878 Creditors due after more than one year 1,202 927 787 362 355 Provisions for liabilities and charges 1,765 1,617 1,600 1,773 2,266 Minority equity interests 46 27 43 54 79 Shareholders funds equity interests 10,263 9,389 9,586 11,172 13,178 Shareholders funds and minority interests 10,309 9,416 9,629 11,226 13,257 For the years ended 31 December 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 $m $m $m $m $m Cash flow Net cash inflow from operating activities 3,113 4,183 3,762 5,593 4,226 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 3 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 29 19 156 35 76 Tax paid 1,020 648 792 795 886 Capital expenditure and financial investment 2,731 1,426 1,543 1,543 1,597 Acquisitions and disposals 1,978 740 44 80 Equity dividends paid to shareholders 1,216 1,220 1,236 1,234 1,222 Net cash inflow before management of liquid resources and financing 156 1,648 303 2,056 677 AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
In addition, shareholders received a distribution of shares in Syngenta AG as a dividend in specie in respect of the demerger of Zeneca Agrochemicals.
Zeneca 1999 Ordinary Shares in issue millions At period end 953 Weighted average for period 951 Stock market price per 25 pence Ordinary Share Highest pence 3037 Lowest pence 2406 At period end pence 3037 For the period from 1 January 1999 to 6 April 1999 Astra 1999 Ordinary Shares in issue millions At period end 1,643 Weighted average for period 1,643 Stock market price per Astra A Share Highest SEK 190 Lowest SEK 154 At period end SEK 190 Stock market price per Astra B Share Highest SEK 190 Lowest SEK 154 At period end SEK 190 For the period from 1 January 1999 to 6 April 1999 AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com 32 Shareholder information Percentage analysis at 31 December 2003 of issued share capital By size of account 2003 No.
In addition, there were approximately 41,000 holders of American Depositary Receipts ADRs representing 7.53% of the issued share capital and 161,000 holders of shares held under the VPC Services Agreement representing 22.13% of the issued share capital.
The ADRs, each of which is equivalent to one Ordinary Share, are issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank.
AstraZenecas largest shareholders Percentage of issued Shareholder Number of shares share capital The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 254,143,676 15.01% Investor AB 91,545,308 5.41% Putnam Investment Management, LLC and The Putnam Advisory Company, LLC 52,643,485 3.11% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 52,518,020 3.10% Financial calendar 2004 29 April 2004 Annual General Meeting and announcement of first quarter 2004 results 22 July 2004 Announcement of second quarter and half year 2004 results 13 August 2004 Record date for first interim dividend 2004 20 September 2004 First interim dividend payment date Dividend payments The record date for the second interim dividend for 2003 payable on 6 April 2004 in the UK, the US and Sweden is 20 February 2004.
Shares trade ex-dividend on the London and Stockholm Stock Exchanges from 18 February 2004 and ADRs trade ex-dividend on the New York Stock Exchange from the same date.
From 2004, dividends will normally be paid as follows: First interim: Announced end of July and paid in September Second interim: Announced end of January and paid in March The record date for the first interim dividend for 2004 payable on 20 September 2004 in the UK, the US and Sweden is 13 August 2004.
2003 dividend $ pence SEK Payment date First interim dividend 0.255 15.9 2.07 6 October 2003 Second interim dividend 0.540 29.4 3.91 6 April 2004 Total dividend 0.795 45.3 5.98 AstraZeneca Annual Review 2003 astrazeneca.
com Shareview The contents of this AstraZeneca Annual Review are derived wholly and exclusively from the AstraZenecas shareholders with internet AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F access may visit www.
co. uk and Information for the financial year ended register their details to create a portfolio.
31 December 2003, to which the reader is referred for additional analytical information.
Shareview is a free and secure on-line service from Lloyds TSB Registrars that Trade marks gives access to shareholdings including Trade marks of the AstraZeneca group of companies appear throughout this document in balance movements, indicative share prices italics.
AstraZeneca, the AstraZeneca logotype and information about recent dividends.
and the AstraZeneca symbol are all trade marks of the AstraZeneca group of companies.
ShareGift Use of terms AstraZeneca welcomes and values all its In this Annual Review 2003, unless the context shareholders, no matter how many or how otherwise requires, AstraZeneca, the Group, the Company, we, us and our refer to few shares they own.
However, AstraZeneca PLC and its consolidated entities.
shareholders who have only a small number of shares whose value makes it Cautionary statement regarding forwardlooking statements uneconomic to sell them, either now or at In order to utilise the safe harbour provisions of some stage in the future, may wish to the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act consider donating them to charity through 1995, we are providing the following cautionary statement: This Annual Review 2003 contains ShareGift, an independent charity share certain forward-looking statements about donation scheme.
One of the advantages of AstraZeneca.
Although we believe our expectations the scheme is that there is no gain or loss are based on reasonable assumptions, any forward-looking statements may be influenced by for capital gains tax purposes on gifts of factors that could cause actual outcomes and shares through ShareGift and it may now results to be materially different from those also be possible to obtain income tax relief predicted.
We identify the forward-looking statements by using the words anticipates, on the donation.
Further information about believes, expects, intends and similar ShareGift can be found on its website, expressions in such statements.
org, or by contacting looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.
Important factors that could ShareGift on 020 7337 0501 or at 46 cause actual results to differ materially from those Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN.
More contained in forward-looking statements, certain information about the tax position on gifts of of which are beyond our control, include, among other things: the loss or expiration of patents, shares to ShareGift can be obtained from marketing exclusivity or trade marks: exchange the Inland Revenue whose website address rate fluctuations: the risk that R&D will not yield is www.
The share new products that achieve commercial success: the impact of competition, price controls and transfer form needed to make a donation price reductions: taxation risks: the risk of may be obtained from the AstraZeneca substantial product liability claims: the impact of Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars whose any failure by third parties to supply materials or services: the risk of delay to new product address can be found on the back cover of launches: the difficulties of obtaining and this document.
ShareGift is administered by maintaining governmental approvals for The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, registered products: and the risk of environmental liabilities.
Statements of competitive position Except as otherwise stated, market information in The Unclaimed Assets Register this Annual Review 2003 regarding the position of our business or products relative to its or their AstraZeneca supplies unclaimed dividend competition is based upon published statistical data to the Unclaimed Assets Register data for the 12 months ended 30 September UAR which provides investors who have 2003, or the month of November 2003, obtained from IMS Health, a leading supplier of statistical lost track of shareholdings with an data to the pharmaceutical industry.
Except as opportunity to search the UARs database otherwise stated, this market share and industry of unclaimed financial assets on payment of data from IMS Health has been derived by comparing our sales revenue to competitors and a small, fixed fee.
The UAR donates part of total market sales revenues for that period.
the search fee to charity.
The UAR can be contacted at Leconfield House, Curzon Statements of growth rates Except as otherwise stated, growth rates in this Street, London W1J 5JA and at Annual Review 2003 are given at constant www.
AstraZeneca website Information on our website, astrazeneca.
com, does not form part of this document.
AstraZeneca PLC 2004 Designed by Addison Corporate Marketing Ltd astrazeneca.
com Contact information Registered office Registrar and transfer office: and corporate headquarters address: Lloyds TSB Registrars AstraZeneca PLC The Causeway 15 Stanhope Gate Worthing London W1K 1LN West Sussex UK BN99 6DA Tel: 44 0 20 7304 5000 UK Fax: 44 0 20 7304 5183 Tel in the UK : 0870 600 3956 Tel outside the UK : 44 0 121 415 7033 R&D headquarters address: AstraZeneca AB Swedish securities registration centre: R&D Headquarters VPC AB SE-151 85 Sdertlje PO Box 7822 Sweden SE-103 97 Stockholm Tel: 46 0 8 553 260 00 Sweden Fax: 46 0 8 553 290 00 Tel: 46 0 8 402 9000 Investor relations contacts: US depositary: UK and Sweden: As above or e-mail: JPMorgan Chase Bank IR@astrazeneca.
com PO Box 43013 US: Providence Investor Relations RI 02940-3013 AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP US 1800 Concord Pike Tel toll free in the US : 888 697 8018 PO Box 15438 Tel: 1 781 575 4328 Wilmington fide 19850-5438 US Tel: 1 302 886 3000 Fax: 1 302 886 2972 Delivering our values Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com At the heart of our commitment to corporate responsibility are AstraZenecas core values.
Our continuing challenge is to ensure that these high level values are translated into consistent and appropriate actions and behaviour worldwide.
This Summary Report is designed to capture the main points of our approach to managing this challenge and to present a brief overview of our 2003 performance in the three areas of sustainable development: economic, environmental and social responsibility.
Detailed statistics and further information about our policies, principles and commitment are provided on our website, astrazeneca.
com, which also provides a feedback facility.
AstraZeneca core values: Integrity and high ethical standards Respect for the individual and diversity Openness, honesty, trust and support for each other Leadership by example at all levels Chief Executives message 01 AstraZeneca in brief One of the worlds leading pharmaceutical companies Our commitment 02 Turns ideas into innovative, effective medicines for Our goals 04 important areas of healthcare Economic performance 06 Powerful product range including many world leaders Environmental performance 08 Spends over $14 million each working day on research and development Social performance 10 Corporate HQ London, UK: R&D HQ Sdertlje, Performance summary 16 Sweden: strong presence in key US market Sales in over 100 countries Manufacturing in 20 countries Research in 7 countries Over 60,000 employees worldwide AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com 01 Chief Executives message Respect for the individual and diversity of appropriate programmes in their areas We value the different backgrounds and of responsibility.
An important step in skills that our global workforce brings to 2003 was the inclusion in our annual our business and are committed to compliance report by senior management ensuring that diversity is appropriately to the AstraZeneca Board the letter of supported in the workplace at all levels.
assurance of a requirement to develop At the end of 2003, we had around 28 local CR implementation plans.
diversity programmes in place within the Group and a number of awareness Our business is focused on the discovery raising initiatives took place during the and development of life-saving and year, mainly within R&D and our US life-enhancing medicines.
Historically, Our reputation is built on the trust and business.
Further work is needed to the markets for these therapies have confidence of all our stakeholders and ensure that the benefits of diversity are been in developed countries but as the is one of AstraZenecas most valuable fully recognised across the Group.
economies of developing countries assets.
Along with our commitment grow, new markets for our prescription to competitiveness and performance, Openness, honesty, trust and support medicines emerge.
Our strategy for we will continue to be led by our core for each other expansion in these emerging markets is values to achieve sustainable success.
Our Code of Conduct has been revised designed to ensure that through timely and re-published during the year and a investment, we are well placed to meet Stakeholder expectations are constantly formal, confidential helpline procedure the needs of patients in these countries.
evolving and we continuously monitor our is now in place for employees wishing As part of this, we are committed to internal and external environment for to raise concerns on integrity issues or playing a role in targeting improved issues relating to our business that affect report inappropriate behaviour.
We also treatment of the highest priority or concern society today.
We use a formal concentrated on reviewing and refining diseases.
In June 2003, we opened risk assessment process to identify both our corporate governance controls and our new state of the art laboratories the opportunities and the challenges that reporting procedures to ensure that we in Bangalore, India.
Work there is these issues present, and to plan the are meeting new laws and regulatory dedicated to finding the first new actions needed to ensure our response is requirements.
This includes the ability treatment in 40 years for tuberculosis, appropriate and consistent.
Our current to meet the appropriate executive one of the worlds greatest causes of Priority Action Plan is shown on page 4. certification requirements of the death from infectious disease.
Sarbanes-Oxley legislation in the US AstraZeneca will make any treatment Corporate responsibility CR is not an and the changes introduced in 2003 invented in these laboratories available optional extra it must be integral by the revised Combined Code on for clinical development and supply to to all that we do.
Our strategy to Corporate Governance of the UK the worlds poorest countries at low include considerations of corporate Financial Reporting Council.
prices in partnership with governments, responsibility across all our activities is healthcare systems, international beginning to take effect.
In particular, Integrity and high ethical standards agencies and others all of whom have a relevant aspects are being increasingly During the year, we added sales and part to play in bringing essential medicines integrated into our risk assessments, marketing practices to the Priority Action to the patients who need them.
scenario planning, training, purchasing Plan to ensure they continue to get the practices and market access strategy.
In appropriate high level of attention and Good corporate responsibility enhances 2003, we made some good progress, that we develop ways of improving our the benefits of our medicines, the quality but recognise that there is more work to global reporting in this area.
The of our financial performance and the do to ensure that a sense of corporate settlement of the Zoladex investigation significance of our contributions to our responsibility is consistently embedded in the US see page 13 strengthened local communities.
I am committed to throughout the Group and actively our commitment to deliver high the high standards necessary for our interpreted and managed at a local level.
standards of ethical behaviour in the continued business success and for marketing of our medicines worldwide.
maintaining the value of our contribution Because corporate responsibility spans to society.
a wide range of issues, they cannot Leadership by example at all levels all be covered in this brief introduction.
Good corporate responsibility depends However, I will highlight under each on the right level of commitment from of our core values some areas of all employees, led by the AstraZeneca progress and some where further work Board, who approve the strategic is needed.
More information is available direction, and our Senior Executive Team in this Summary Report and on our and management, who are accountable Sir Tom McKillop website, astrazeneca.
for the development and implementation Chief Executive AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 02 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com Our commitment Making it happen We believe that good corporate We plan to build and extend these responsibility CR performance During 2003, we continued to drive activities to ensure that CR is depends on the effective managethe integration of CR into business consistently embedded at a local ment of the economic, environmental processes and consolidate the level throughout the Group.
and social priorities of sustainable framework for local implementation development.
This can only be of our global standards to ensure Improving understanding achieved through the successful consistent and appropriate behaviour Communication is essential to integration of CR considerations worldwide.
We continue into all of our business activities.
to communicate our CR objectives to Senior managers throughout the build awareness and commitment.
We Our Global CR Committee leads the Company are accountable for the have made progress but more work development of CR management development and implementation needs to be done.
The Committee reports to of CR programmes in their areas of communications focused on improving Dame Bridget Ogilvie, Non-Executive responsibility.
Based on the global CR the understanding of what corporate Director with responsibility for policy, these programmes are required responsibility means in practice for all overseeing CR in AstraZeneca.
to take account of regional, site or levels of the organisation.
In particular, in functional priorities and objectives.
todays demanding world, we need to Identifying the priorities Our CR Management Standards help continue to promote an understanding We use a risk assessment process to managers to understand the issues, that CR implementation does not help us identify the opportunities and outline the framework for managing necessarily depend on extra resource challenges associated with our our commitments and provide advice but on the consistent adoption and corporate responsibility.
Our Corporate on putting the standards into practice.
integration of CR considerations into Responsibility Priority Action Plan set everyday business thinking.
out on page 4 provides a framework The size and scale of AstraZeneca and for managing these in line with our core its business mean that developments To help build corporate skills in CR values, including defined objectives and, such as these take time to embed.
Local management, we are in the process of where possible, appropriate key CR committees in the US and Sweden integrating CR into our Leadership performance indicators KPIs.
have been established and one is Development programmes.
This planned for 2004 in the UK, representing includes using case studies to This year, we have added sales and three cornerstones of our global demonstrate the importance of good marketing practices and access to presence.
These cross-functional CR performance, to raise awareness medicines to the Plan and we continue committees have an ongoing role for and to stimulate discussion of how to monitor our internal and external setting, monitoring and reviewing CR we can all contribute to delivering environment for emerging issues that programmes that are relevant and our values.
may require attention and inclusion in appropriate for their areas.
work closely with the Global CR Committee to share best practice and ensure that local and global objectives are aligned.
AstraZeneca Corporate AstraZeneca safety, health and the individuality, ethical issues are Responsibility Policy aims to set, promote environmental diverse talent and dealt with in an Through the provision of innovative new and maintain considerations creative potential effective and medicines, AstraZeneca improves human high standards continue to be that every transparent way health and enhances peoples lives.
Our of corporate a fundamental employee brings activities impact not just on the patients responsibility company to the business our CR we serve and our investors but also on worldwide which consideration are fully valued commitments our employees and on society as a whole.
will ensure that: and respected are expanded Our continued long term success depends we make a positive by encouraging on our ability to integrate successfully our as a minimum, contribution to the sales and suppliers financial obligations with our social and we meet national communities in marketing to embrace environmental responsibilities.
and international which we operate practices are standards similar regulations reputable to our own AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com 03 We also plan to publish our first US CR Our rolling programme of AstraZeneca Stakeholder dialogue We encourage constructive dialogue Report in 2004 which will outline the site audits included 14 in 2003, 11 of with all our stakeholders and others who commitment and progress to date in which covered CR, helping us to have an interest in our activities.
monitor progress and identify areas Feedback opportunities are integrated for improvement in the consistent into our employee communication Measuring progress adoption of our standards.
Of the 11 programmes to help us identify areas of Measuring our performance is essential sites audited, five were marketing both satisfaction and concern.
We hold to understanding the progress we are companies, four were manufacturing face-to-face meetings with investors making and identifying potential areas sites and two were research facilities.
mainstream and ethical investor for improvement.
We have for some time In particular, the audits highlighted the groups.
Our site-based community had processes in place for monitoring need to continue to support managers liaison staff ensure that our local our economic, environmental, safety with clear guidance on what is required communities including local and health performance.
More recently, of them in these early days of local CR committees and politicians are kept we have been focusing on developing implementation.
informed of our business activities and KPIs in other areas of social plans and given the opportunity to raise performance.
These are listed in the A new CR Audit Handbook that provides any concerns.
The regular contact we Priority Action Plan and discussed guidance and support in the new areas have with customers in our day-to-day further in the narrative of this report for our internal auditors was published business activities provides them with and on our website.
Establishing KPIs during the year and we are now working opportunities to comment on CR issues.
in some areas of social responsibility to build on this with further guidelines is proving to be a challenge for industry and training to ensure an appropriate During 2003, our CR Committee in in general and AstraZeneca is no focus on CR in all of our audits.
Sweden held dialogue sessions with exception.
We are continually exploring internal and external stakeholders in the ways in which we can meaningfully Additionally, AstraZenecas Group their country to help them understand benchmark our performance.
Internal Audit function works to review, better the challenges of their local CR among other things, compliance with implementation programmes.
Issues Auditing compliance laws, regulations and Group policies.
raised by stakeholders included supply An important step in 2003 was the During 2003, a number of reviews were chain management, pharmaceuticals inclusion of a requirement to develop conducted and reported to the Audit in the environment and the extent to local CR implementation plans in our Committee of the Board.
Areas covered which our core values are reflected in annual compliance report by senior included our Code of Conduct and our our behaviour and strategic decisionmanagement to the AstraZeneca Code of Sales and Marketing Practices.
The Swedish CR Committee Board the letter of assurance.
is currently updating the Swedish CR Action Plan in the light of these Alongside this, we are building on the discussions.
experience of our long standing safety, health and environment audit In the US, the CR Committee has programme to include additional areas interviews with key stakeholders of CR, such as purchasing principles, scheduled for the first quarter of 2004, labour practices and community the outcomes of which will help shape support.
the US Priority Action Plan.
Dame Bridget Ogilvie Non-Executive Director with responsibility for overseeing CR in AstraZeneca AstraZeneca continues to make progress in the integration of CR into all its activities.
Staying in tune with the changing expectations of its stakeholders is an ever present challenge.
AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 04 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com Our goals Corporate Responsibility Priority Action Plan Issue Objective Action plan Integration of CR into all activities CR considerations are included in all relevant strategies Continued internal communication of policies, framework, and decisions management standards and guidelines Continued local implementation and global auditing Integration of CR into learning and development programmes Sampling employee understanding and opinion Corporate governance Deal with all stakeholders with the highest ethical standards Internal communication and training in our revised Code of Conduct for all employees Improve systems for reporting concerns To consider access to medicines when defining pricing and Communication of our framework for considering access Access to medicines market access strategies for new brands to medicines early in product development Monitor local alignment with global principles Share good practice High ethical standards of sales and marketing in all countries Further develop mechanisms for monitoring and reporting Sales and marketing practices of operation compliance Establish KPIs Compliance Global consistency of implementation of CR standards Continued development of audit processes to include CR including new governance laws and regulations Human rights Ensure that we consistently live up to our core values and our Establish a means of collecting Human Resources data commitment to the principles of the UN Declaration of Human on a consistent global basis Rights worldwide Establish KPIs based on the planned areas of data collection Diversity equal opportunity Ensure diversity is appropriately supported in our global Creation of diversity programmes workforce and reflected in our leadership Ensure recruitment processes are appropriate Establish a means of collecting Human Resources data on a consistent global basis Use of laboratory animals Minimise the number of animals used Continued adoption of alternative techniques where possible Animal welfare Ensure high standards of care for those that are used Continued monitoring using established procedures Suppliers Encourage our suppliers to embrace CR standards similar to Build CR into the external spend and supplier our own and working with them to share best practice and management processes that we are developing help them improve, if appropriate Community support Ensure optimum effectiveness of our commitment to Continued communication of our Community Support community support, which focuses on health, science Policy worldwide and education Monitoring activity and sharing best practice through Enable the sharing of best practice the global community support database Compliance with the SHE Policy Aim to eliminate all injuries and accidents Safety, health and environment SHE No hurt, harm or alarm Economise on the use of natural resources and work to minimise our impact on the environment Be among the industry leaders in SHE performance As part of the overall CR integration objective, ensure that SHE considerations continue to be integrated into all activities across the Group AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com 05 KPI where appropriate Progress in 2003 2 yearly global employee survey plus ad hoc pulse surveys CR implementation included in letter of assurance process CR included in global risk assessment Local CR committees established in the US and Sweden CR module approved for inclusion in leadership development programme See page 2 2 yearly global employee survey Code of Conduct revised and re-published International, confidential employee telephone helpline established See page 7 Candidate drug identified for development as a new tuberculosis Collective global approach agreed treatment Appointment of Access to Medicines Director Oncology and Infection See page 14 Under discussion Network of promotional standards experts established See page 13 Number of audits conducted 11 CR audits carried out by SHE auditors, complemented by Group Internal Audit reviews See page 3 Under discussion Human Resources global database project on track See page 11 Number of diversity programmes Around 28 diversity programmes in place Percent of women at senior levels 13% of our 200 most senior managers are women Human Resources global database project on track See page 12 Number of animals used 242,000 animals used in 2002 2003 figure not yet available See page 14 Number of business control meetings including CR 150 business control meetings included CR considerations CR built into contracts and master agreements See page 11 Percent of community programmes focused on our priorities of 90% of community programmes focused on our priorities health, science and education Inclusion in the UKs Business in the Community One Per Cent Club See page 15 Accidents with injury Target: 30% reduction by 2005 14% reduction in accidents with injury, relative to hours worked New cases of occupational illness Target: 30% reduction by 2005 52% reduction in new cases of occupational illness, relative to hours worked Unplanned releases to the environment not contained within site 18% reduction in unplanned releases boundary Target: 50% reduction by 2005 15% reduction in waste, relative to sales Total waste produced Target: 10% reduction by 2005 3% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions Global warming potential Target: 10% reduction by 2005 18% reduction in ODP emissions Ozone depletion potential ODP Target: 30% reduction by 2005 See pages 9, 12 and 16 Against 2001 2002 reference point AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 06 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com Economic performance Our business is focused on delivering value for our shareholders and for society by maintaining a flow of new medicines designed to meet the needs of patients and the healthcare professionals who treat them.
Jonathan Symonds AstraZeneca is listed Chief Financial Officer in the 2004 Dow You can read regularly in the newspapers Jones Sustainability about companies that have lost value Indexes World through failing to manage some aspects and European.
These aspects Participation in this can be far more important to the market type of survey is than decisions that directly affect a an important means companys profits.
of evaluating our performance and understanding better the demands of sustainable development.
AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com 07 Shareholders naturally look for a We also reviewed and re-published our good return on their investment but Code of Conduct to make sure that it increasingly people want assurance continues to be appropriate.
Compliance that they are investing in a company with the Code is mandatory and is that delivers a return in a responsible monitored through the annual letter way.
The establishment of ethical of assurance process and Group investment indices such as Dow Internal Audit reviews.
The revised Jones Sustainability reflects these version is being widely circulated to rising expectations.
employees and communication tools provided to managers to support Failure to deliver our core values could discussions with their teams about seriously impact our reputation, which what is expected of them.
we recognise is an important driver of the Companys worth.
The Code of Conduct includes procedures for employees to raise Managing risk integrity concerns, including a AstraZenecas Risk Advisory Group, confidential telephone helpline number.
led by our Chief Financial Officer, Jonathan Symonds, looks at the risks Contributing to economic the Company faces and how they are development being addressed.
Increasingly we are Our medicines are designed to improve integrating reputational risk, including health and quality of life.
They also bring CR, into our risk management processes other benefits to society.
Reducing the and aim to ensure that managers build it incidence of disease or the time needed into their everyday thinking.
Appropriate for treatment relieves pressure on tools are available in the form of a shared healthcare systems and helps to risk management philosophy, principles improve productivity.
and a framework that all managers can use to reflect on behaviours, assess As the economic burden of funding risks and positively shape their decision therapies grows, we are increasingly making.
including explanation of the economic, as well as the therapeutic, advantages Corporate governance of our medicines to help ensure that the An essential part of our corporate full benefit to healthcare providers and responsibility is to continue to operate to society is understood.
high standards of corporate governance.
Our business activities also benefit the During the year, we reviewed and communities around us through local refined our corporate governance employment and wages, taxes, controls to ensure that we are meeting community support and local and new laws and regulatory requirements.
national sourcing of materials and This includes the ability to meet the services.
appropriate executive certification requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Investing in innovation legislation in the US and the changes AstraZeneca spends around $14 million introduced in 2003 by the revised each working day on research and Combined Code on Corporate development which is an important Governance of the UK Financial contribution to the combined commitReporting Council.
ment of the pharmaceutical industry, which is the source of the vast majority AstraZenecas senior Non-Executive of medical innovation, researching and Director, Sir Peter Bonfield, was developing over 90% of new medicines.
nominated in 2002 as the contact for investors wishing to raise high level concerns about any potential corporate governance issues.
AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 08 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com Environmental performance We continue to pursue sustained improvement in areas where we believe our global business has the greatest potential impact on the environment: climate change, ozone depletion and waste production.
The installation Leading by In Sweden, as part An energy efficient At our US headquarters in Wilmington, of two new large example in the of our commitment HVAC heating, Delaware, our employees have formed energy efficient use of alternatives to ensuring correct ventilation and an environmental awareness team, which combined heat and to business disposal of preair conditioning participated in a range of projects during power CHP plants in travel, our 2003 scribed treatments, system has been the year including the re-forestation of the UK and Puerto Senior Managers we supported installed at our 10,000 acres of biologically critical habitat Rico will reduce our Conference, a major campaign, new research in the state of Delaware.
CO2 emissions by an involving over in partnership with laboratories in estimated 50,000 200 AstraZeneca other interested Bangalore, India, tonnes each year.
leaders from parties, to encourage opened in 2003.
CHP is the simularound the world, patients to return taneous generation took place as a surplus medicines of heat and power video-conference.
com 09 A detailed analysis in 2001 of the potential expected to be maintained, we are Unplanned releases environmental impacts of our business, committed to maximising other ways of Unplanned releases can cause damage combined with stakeholder discussions, reducing our reliance on air and road both to the environment and to our helped us to identify our priority action transport, including rationalising our relationships with our local communities areas.
We have clear targets for reducing product distribution networks and using and regulators.
We aim to eliminate such our impact, as set out on page 5, and alternatives to business travel, such as incidents by ensuring that our processes here we summarise our progress.
In 2003, we had information and detailed statistics are nine unplanned releases that were not available on our website.
Ozone depletion contained within the site boundary Some of our products, such as asthma compared to 10 in 2002.
Our challenge is to sustain improvement therapies, are presented in a pressurised, as we grow our business.
There is no metered dose inhaler that uses non-toxic, Pharmaceuticals in the environment completely satisfactory measure that can stable gases to propel the treatment Traces of pharmaceuticals can somebe used to relate resource consumption safely and effectively to a patients times be found in the environment.
to the size of a complex global business airways.
The most commonly used Studies in recent years by industry, such as ours.
In common with other propellants have been CFCs, which academic and regulatory bodies suggest similar companies and in line with the contribute to ozone depletion as well as that the concentrations being found in Global Reporting Initiative, we use being greenhouse gases.
watercourses are many times less than reported sales to calculate our resource those that would pose significant risk to efficiency.
This is because reported sales AstraZeneca has been very active in humans and are not high enough to is a transparent, audited number that the development of alternatives to cause immediate or short term harm to enables comparison over time, as shown CFC-driven inhalers such as dry powder aquatic life.
Nevertheless, we recognise on page 16 but it should be noted that inhalers and pump sprays.
We have that stakeholders may be concerned exchange rate fluctuations can have an also now begun the regulatory approval about longer term effects and this is one effect on reported sales.
process for a new generation of of our priority areas of study.
We continue respiratory HFC inhalers that do not to work alongside other pharmaceutical Climate change damage the ozone layer.
However, companies and regulatory bodies to Our global warming emissions arise CFC-driven inhalers continue to be used provide further improvement to the primarily from the use of energy at our by patients who cannot tolerate, or do existing techniques used to assess the facilities, transport and the propellant gas not have the choice of, alternatives.
In environmental risk associated with used in some of our inhalation products.
2003, decreased sales of our CFC-driven pharmaceuticals.
inhalers resulted in an 11% decrease in During the year, we completed a strategic our overall release of ozone depleting Consistent with our commitment to strengthening of our product portfolio substances.
We are still planning to reach product stewardship, we also aim to with a range of new high quality medicines our target of reducing CFC emissions by minimise the amounts of any of our that will drive AstraZenecas future 30% against the 2001 2002 reference products being released into the success.
Planning for the new products point by 2005.
Exact timing will depend environment from our facilities.
We are has included making necessary changes on gaining regulatory approvals for the improving our effluent treatment processes to our manufacturing processes and new inhalation devices.
globally including the installation of a $36 increasing the size of our sales forces million state of the art biological treatment and consequently the distance travelled Our use of ozone depleting substances facility at our plant in Bristol, UK.
Despite these changes, for refrigeration and fire suppression has improvements in efficiency and lower been substantially reduced and is being Proposed EU chemicals policy carbon intensity of our fuel sources, phased out completely.
In October 2003, the EU Commission coupled with a reduced use of our CFCpublished draft legislation regarding the driven inhalers, led to total emissions from Minimising waste approval of chemicals in Europe, a key all sources decreasing by 2% in 2003.
We aim to use materials efficiently and component of which is the introduction of We are still working hard to meet our maximise re-use and re-cycling.
Where a new regulatory system called REACH target of a 10% reduction in our global possible, we avoid the use of the most Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation warming potential over the 2001 2002 hazardous substances and are of Chemicals.
AstraZeneca supports the reference point by the end of 2005. developing avoidance and substitution Commissions efforts to overhaul the strategies to assist this process.
regulatory framework for approval of We continue to implement programmes Approaches to reducing the amount of chemicals in Europe and through EFPIA, to maximise energy efficiency.
We are waste we generate include the improved the pharmaceutical industrys trade also working to increase the amount of operation of existing production association in Europe, we are actively energy purchased from renewable processes and the better design of new contributing to the dialogue on this issue.
resources and most of our sites around ones, improved purchasing processes We agree with the principles of the the world have local programmes in place and internal waste awareness proposal but, working with EFPIA and to improve energy efficiency.
In 2003, we reduced our other industry trade associations, we total waste by 3% including a 9% seek to ensure that the eventual Whilst the current level of travel activity reduction in hazardous waste.
regulation is not only effective but also of our sales forces up 10% in 2003 is workable and avoids obstacles that may unnecessarily harm our competitiveness.
AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 10 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com Social performance Managing our business in a constructive and responsible way means understanding and responding appropriately to the issues relating to our activities that affect or concern society.
During 2003, we Our overall We continue to As part of our We strengthened developed a new contribution to our make progress, commitment our commitment automated system local communities but recognise to employee to high ethical for collecting through charitable there is still work wellbeing, at least standards in Human Resources donations and to do in ensuring 60% of our staff the sales and data globally.
sponsorships that diversity worldwide now marketing of our totalled $22 million is appropriately have access medicines globally.
in 2003. supported in to confidential our workforce.
com 11 Here we describe our approach to some We have been working to improve our of the social issues relating to our global reporting processes, building business.
You can read more about on our long standing systems for these and other areas of our social monitoring compliance wherever we performance on our website.
During 2003, we developed a new automated information system for Human rights collating, reporting and analysing With over 60,000 people working in employee demographics globally.
By 45 countries, AstraZeneca is a major the end of the year, this was operational employer worldwide.
Our core values across the UK, the US and Sweden reflect our commitment to ensuring that where more than 60% of our employees all of our people are treated with integrity are located and the rest of the world is and respect within a working environexpected to be brought into the system ment that recognises the freedom of the during 2004. individual.
Working with suppliers AstraZeneca supports the principles set In 2003, we published a revised CR out in the UN Declaration of Human Principles in Purchasing guide which Rights.
Our Code of Conduct and our included further guidance for our Global Human Resources policies detail purchasing community in working with the high standards of ethical behaviour suppliers to encourage similar standards with which everyone in AstraZeneca is to our own, share best practice and expected to comply, both in spirit and stimulate improved CR performance.
Time will be required to fully implement these guidelines.
This includes only employing adults, as defined by the labour laws in the During the year, we continued our countries in which we operate and, programme of priority audit of main as a minimum, compliance with national suppliers.
In total, 14 sites were audited legal requirements regarding wages and at our major chemical suppliers.
All our employees have potential new chemical suppliers were the right to be a member of a trade also audited and at one of these, we union.
We have agreements with trade identified the need for an improvement unions in a number of countries where in standards before any work could be collective bargaining is customary commissioned by AstraZeneca.
practice within a countrys legal framework and where employees CR is also being integrated into the support it.
regular business control meetings that are being introduced into our purchasing We also work closely with our major practice.
In 2003, approximately 150 suppliers and use purchasing practices meetings that took place included CR to encourage similar standards to our considerations.
We do not think it is appropriate for AstraZeneca to promote individual rights and freedoms more widely in society, but we believe that we can and do influence others through leading by example.
AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 12 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com Social performance continued To that end, we are increasing the Employee safety, health and particularly encouraging decrease in the wellbeing emphasis on the management of driving two major areas of work-related upper We believe that if we are to expect activities in our marketing companies limb disorder and work-related stress peoples continued energy and around the world.
commitment at work, we must provide a common cause for concern for many the right environment in which they feel companies and we are working together Diversity safe and well and positive and with other organisations to share Our approach to diversity takes account enthusiastic about what they are doing.
of all the ways in which our employees Our broad range of occupational safety are different not just in terms of gender and health programmes is focused on In 2003, our overall frequency rate for and race, but also culture, age, ability continuous improvement in the accidents with fatal and serious injuries to and family situation.
We value the frequency rates for accidents with injury AstraZeneca employees and contractors creative energy that these differences and for new cases of occupational fell by 13%.
This is largely due to an bring to our business.
illness, with a target for achieving a 30% improvement in contractor performance.
reduction against the 2001 2002 In 2002, we identified that we had reference point by the end of 2005.
To Our wellbeing programmes are designed work to do to ensure that diversity is help us meet this target, we continue to to promote physical and psychological appropriately supported in our workdevelop behaviour-based safety and welfare and include physical fitness force and reflected in our leadership.
health programmes and make them activities, nutrition advice and stress We made some progress during 2003. widely available.
When accidents occur, management courses.
Examples of good Our R&D community, which has been we investigate thoroughly to ensure we practice from Europe, Asia, North and active for some time in this area, understand the root causes, take steps South America feature prominently in our introduced an innovative, interactive to avoid repetition in the future and improvement plans and are shared diversity programme which is being communicate to build awareness and worldwide through our Wellbeing in rolled out to the R&D workforce.
Programmes vary depending on country, In addition, diversity improvement plans Although our overall accident frequency culture and need.
They include flexible were created and implemented for the rate for employees improved by 5% in working arrangements, access to fitness six major areas of R&D.
Our Operations 2003, we are disappointed that we and social activities and support for staff group included as one of their three showed little improvement in our vehicle experiencing stress.
Communications to global people targets the requirement accident record.
Around a third of the help ensure that employee wellbeing that each of our 20 manufacturing sites total accidents reported including one remains high on the agenda include faceshould prepare priority action plans fatal accident in Germany were related to-face discussions with the top 200 addressing their diversity needs.
This remains the greatest managers in the Company, addressing the year, around 15 plans were cause of accidents with injury to their personal wellbeing and that of their completed.
With seven diversity plans in AstraZeneca employees.
place in the US, our total is now around has always been a core feature of our 28 programmes.
safety education programmes, but we In 2003, our overall frequency rate of recognise, and take seriously, the need occupational illnesses per million hours Our challenge is to build on this work and to improve our performance in this area.
worked improved by 47%, with a continue to drive improvement in other Pilot projects that aim In the US, our to build understanding senior managers of the causes of minor and their direct vehicle accidents to reports all reduce the likelihood attended diversity of more serious ones training and occurring will be started work implemented in on developing Europe, Asia Pacific diversity action and the Americas.
plans for their This is in addition to functional areas.
the defensive driver Seven plans were training programmes completed by the that are already end of the year.
com 13 we added sales and marketing practices areas of our organisation, at all levels.
For example, direct to Senior Executive Team has responsibility to the Corporate Responsibility Priority consumer advertising of prescription for reviewing the diversity among the top Action Plan to ensure they continue to medicines is illegal in many countries, management of the Company, including get the appropriate high level of attention yet it is not only legal in the US but also the percentage of women at a senior globally.
Our AstraZeneca Code of Sales considered by many to have a positive level.
In 2003, 13% of our 200 most and Marketing Practices outlines the influence on patient welfare.
During senior managers were women.
high standards of ethical behaviour we 2003, we tested draft reporting criteria demand in the marketing of our which we hope will lay a basis for a Sales and marketing practices medicines.
It is based on the global meaningful global promotional During 2003, AstraZeneca settled an industry code of conduct the IFPMA regulatory monitoring system which investigation into US sales and Code of Pharmaceutical Marketing takes account of the different national marketing practices for Zoladex prostate Practice, as well as the codes of environments.
We have established a cancer treatment, admitting violation of marketing practice, laws and regulations global network of promotional standards the Prescription Drug Marketing Act by applicable in each of the countries in contacts in our marketing companies providing free samples of the product to which we operate.
The IFPMA Code and known as Nominated Signatories and physicians between 1993 and 1996, our own Code of Practice embody the have begun to share experience and with the understanding that these principles proposed in the World Health best practice amongst this group.
physicians would bill Medicare for Organisations Ethical Criteria for reimbursement.
AstraZeneca also Medicinal Drug Promotion, although the Clinical trials settled civil claims, without admitting WHO suggestion that advertising of A potential new medicine enters clinical liability, involving allegations that the prescription medicines to the public studies only after its potential efficacy Company provided inducements to should not generally be permitted is not and adequate safety has been confirmed physicians to purchase Zoladex and for consistent with the law or self-regulatory in pre-clinical trials, which include animal improperly setting and reporting its standards in certain countries notably testing.
All proposed clinical trials are price.
The settlement provides for a five the US.
reviewed and approved including year Corporate Integrity Agreement with consideration of the pre-clinical data, the Office of the Inspector General OIG Compliance with our Code is the safety of the trial and the nature and for the Department of Health and mandatory.
Whilst we have local amount of information given to trial Human Services under which monitoring systems in place, including volunteers.
We have strict guidelines to AstraZeneca is required to keep in place auditing of our marketing companies ensure that volunteers and patients taking its current compliance programme and by Group Internal Audit, we are now part in trials understand their purpose provide periodic reports to the OIG on looking to establish KPIs in this area and are not exposed to unnecessary risks the status of compliance activities.
The that will enable improved reporting of and that the privacy of health information total payment associated with the our global performance.
A variety of of individuals taking part is protected.
legal, regulatory and self-regulatory mechanisms are applied to pharmaWe continue to monitor the safety of our We are committed to ensuring that ceutical marketing activities around products after they have been approved improper practice such as this is not the world and different interpretations as new medicines, including collection repeated.
In addition to the strong US of what constitutes acceptable practice of data on any adverse reactions to a compliance programme, during the year exist according to national cultures and treatment.
Within the UK During 2003, FTSE100, an employee AstraZeneca is one assistance of two companies programme, CALM with the highest Counselling and representation of Life Management women on the was made available Board four out to staff in Japan.
of 13 Board members are women.
Jane Henney Dame Bridget Ogilvie Erna Mller Michele Hooper AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 14 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com Social performance continued reduction include our commitment to Animal welfare our products whilst continuing our Laboratory animals continue to play a adopting alternative techniques.
investment in research and ensuring vital and necessary role in the research that wherever possible medicines are and development of new medicines for The welfare of the animals we use is available to those that need them.
important areas of human healthcare.
Our research sites are This includes early testing of the effects of subject to formal inspections by our Although essential medicines are new compounds and the requirement by own staff every two years in addition to becoming increasingly available to those regulatory authorities for the submission the mandatory visits by government that need them in developing countries, of safety data from animal studies before authorities around the world.
Meeting there are still many other factors such a new medicine can be tested in healthy local regulatory requirements is a as basic hygiene, healthcare infravolunteers and then patients.
minimum baseline and we have our structure and training and education own strict guidelines on animal welfare that are also pre-requisites before As we continue to expand our R&D as outlined in our Bioethics Policy and significant progress can be made in activity, we aim to manage the potential supported by programmes such as delivering medicines to patients in increase in use of animals by adopting animal care training for our laboratory these countries.
alternative techniques such as technicians.
computer simulations, informatics and Each of our development products is high throughput screening, which Where we outsource animal studies to reviewed independently in relation to eliminate the use of animals or reduce give us access to additional expertise pricing and access in all markets, so the number needed.
As well as or capacity, inspections to ensure that plans can be put in place early for developing our own alternatives, we also compliance with our own standards those which may be regarded as adopt those successfully developed by are a significant part of our animal essential medicines either because others and we continue to work, welfare programme.
they address diseases prevalent in alongside the rest of the pharmaceutical developing countries or because they industry, with regulatory authorities to Access to medicines are potentially a leading or unique agree reductions wherever possible in The increasing demand for new product in their class, offering the animals required by their protocols.
medicines that improve and extend lives significant patient benefit in a serious is driven both by the ageing population or life threatening condition.
In these In 2002, we used around 242,000 and advances in technology.
At the circumstances, we aim to make animals, a small reduction on 2001 same time infectious diseases such as arrangements to ensure patient access 248,000.
Some 98% of these were HIV AIDS are threatening to overwhelm to these medicines through charitable rodents and fish.
Approximately 4% were the populations of some of the least donation, expanded access used by external contractors.
Governments are programmes or differential pricing.
number of animals we use each year will responding in different ways to balance continue to fluctuate.
Increases can result healthcare budgets against the ever The appointment in January 2004 of from a rise in the number of compounds increasing demand for wider access an Access to Medicines Director, a new in development and from our further to medicines.
The challenge for position in the Company, strengthens adoption of tests using genetically AstraZeneca is to address the continued our commitment.
Working in the modified animals.
Factors influencing a downward pressure on the costs of Oncology and Infection therapy areas, In the UK, AstraZeneca supports the Prior to its launch, we implemented an Brightside Trust, a charity that aims to help expanded access programme for Iressa, underprivileged young people enter the our new treatment for lung cancer, which medical and healthcare professions.
This made the therapy available to patients with addresses a particular issue for modern lung cancer for whom no other treatment medical practice that most disadvantaged had been successful.
During 2002 and communities do not have access to 2003, over 42,000 patients in 70 countries doctors with a similar background.
Our received Iressa through this route.
support includes a one year secondment to the charity as well as a $160,000 financial contribution over three years.
com 15 In all cases of facilitating access to our the role will initially focus on Iressa, our In 2003, our spend on community new lung cancer treatment, and other medicines, we can only be successful sponsorships and charitable donations emerging treatments for cancer.
if we can ensure that the product is not totalled $22 million.
diverted away from those who need it Whilst we support the concept of and that we retain intellectual property Improving data collection differential pricing in this context, we rights which enable us to protect our In 2002, we introduced a central continue to seek safeguards that core business and provide for future database to improve our processes differentially priced products are not investment in the discovery and for capturing the full extent of our diverted from the patients who need development of new medicines for community support initiatives, product them, to be sold and used in more a wide range of diseases.
donations and patient access affluent markets.
Differential pricing can programmes around the world and only be of benefit in countries where Product donations and patient to ensure the information can be healthcare systems can deliver assistance programmes shared internally to promote best medicines to the patients that need Our product donations and patient practice.
In 2003, over 1,000 projects them and ensure that they are used assistance programmes make products were entered into the database, appropriately.
available free of charge or at reduced covering activities in 34 countries.
In 2003, our expanded patient Research into neglected diseases of the assistance programmes in the US For the first time, in 2003 AstraZeneca developing world is essential to the contributed to a total spend of was included in the UK Business in the effective treatment of these diseases in $724 million in this area, at average Communitys One Per Cent Club, an the future.
AstraZeneca has recently wholesale price.
index of companies that contribute 1% made a substantial investment in new or more of their annual operating profit research facilities in Bangalore, India, that Community support to community support.
are focused on finding a new treatment Wherever AstraZeneca is located for tuberculosis a major and increasing worldwide, we aim to make a positive threat to life in developing countries.
contribution to our local communities through charitable donations, sponsorShould we be successful in identifying ships and other initiatives that help to a potential new medicine, a key priority make a difference.
In particular, we will be to develop it in partnership with focus on bringing benefits in ways that governments, local organisations and are consistent with our business of international bodies in order to achieve improving health and quality of life the earliest possible approval according and on promoting the value of science to global standards.
We hope that we among young people.
can then again work in partnership with the relevant global and local organisations to ensure that any new treatment reaches the patients who need it.
The Together Rx programme in the US, run In December 2003, AstraZeneca announced by AstraZeneca and six other pharmaa $360,000 three-year partnership with ceutical companies, provides eligible Peking Universitys Guanghua School Medicare patients with up to 40% savings of Management to fund the China Center on medicines used to treat a range of for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes common conditions that affect older people.
Research in a series of research and educational programmes aimed at supporting Chinas continued reform of its healthcare system.
In particular, the programmes will focus on building research skills and expertise in health economics.
Sir Tom McKillop AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 16 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com 2003 performance summary 2001 2002 2003 2005 target Economic $m where relevant Sales 16,222 17,841 18,849 Operating profit 4,156 4,356 4,111 Dividends 1,225 1,206 1,350 Ratio of market capitalisation to book value of net assets 8.0 5.5 6.1 R&D investment 2,687 3,069 3,451 Total wages 3,542 3,993 4,745 Taxation 1,214 1,177 1,143 Environmental 1 Greenhouse gases CO2-equivalents million tonnes 1.87 1.77 1.72 1.59 Index tonnes $m sales 115 99 92 Energy GWh 2,170 2,240 2,440 Index MWh $m sales 134 126 129 CFCs Total ozone depletion potential CFC11 equivalent tonnes 110 99 88 75 Index kg $m sales 7.0 5.6 4.7 Waste Hazardous waste kte 36.7 31.1 28.3 Total waste kte 65.5 60.3 58.4 Index total waste tonnes $m sales 4.04 3.38 3.10 3.26 Unplanned releases Contained within site boundary 24 17 8 Not contained within site boundary 12 10 9 6 Social Safety and health: AstraZeneca employees Number of accidents with injury per million hours 4.16 3.84 3.64 Number of accidents with injury and days lost per million hours 2.86 2.84 2.66 Cases of occupational illnesses per million hours 3.83 3.15 1.67 2.44 Safety and health: AstraZeneca employees and contractors Number of accidents with injury per million hours 4.18 4.11 3.57 2.90 2 Number of animals used in research 248,000 242,000 Site audits that included CR 11 Community support $m Sponsorships n a 9.7 16.4 Charitable contributions n a 3.3 5.6 Total n a 13.0 22.0 Product donations and patient assistance programmes at average wholesale price $m n a 303.0 724.0 Regulatory infringements safety, health and environment Prosecutions 1 1 1 Legal sanctions 4 7 4 Failures to obtain correct permits 1 0 0 Infringements of operating permits 7 6 12 Total 13 14 17 1 2 Figures are calculated in line with the Greenhouse Gas GhG Protocol guidance ghgprotocol.
org 2003 figure not yet available n a Not applicable AstraZeneca Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2003 For more information visit astrazeneca.
com During 2003, AstraZeneca sold its Marlow Foods operation.
Although no changes have been made to the absolute performance figures, the SHE improvement targets and their reference points have been modified in line with the WRI WBCSD protocol.
This avoids incorporating the reduction in emissions resulting from the divestment as part of our improvement process.
With the exception of the economic data, the above represents preliminary figures only.
Final statistics will be published on our website, astrazeneca.
com Designed by Addison Corporate Marketing Ltd astrazeneca.
