Additional information for shareholders The additional information is divided into the following sections: 142 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 142 Background 143 Listings 143 Share and ADS prices 143 Capital gains tax CGT Rights issue Demerger of mmO 2 144 Analysis of shareholdings 144 Dividends 145 Dividend mandate 145 Dividend investment plan 145 Global Invest Direct 146 Total shareholder return 146 Results announcements 146 Individual savings accounts ISAs 146 ShareGift 146 Unclaimed Assets Register 147 Exchange rates 147 Memorandum and Articles of Association Memorandum Articles 150 Material contracts Airtel Yell Demerger agreement Separation agreement Property sale and leaseback Concert Unwind Agreement Cegetel 152 Taxation US Holders Taxation of dividends Taxation of capital gains US information reporting and backup withholding UK stamp duty UK inheritance and gift taxes in connection with ordinary shares and or ADSs 154 Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders 154 Documents on display 154 Publications 155 Electronic communication 155 Shareholder communication Private shareholders Institutional investors and analysts BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 141 Additional information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements Certain statements in this annual report are forward-looking and are made in reliance on the safe harbour provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements relate to analyses and other information which are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable.
These statements include, without limitation, those concerning: BTs strategy and its ability to achieve it: BTs debt reduction plans: growth of, and opportunities available in, the communications industry and BTs positioning to take advantage of those opportunities: expectations regarding competition, market shares, prices and growth: expectations regarding the convergence of technologies: BTs network development and expansion plans: plans for the launch of new products and services: network performance and quality: the impact of regulatory initiatives on operations, including the regulation of the UK xed wholesale and retail businesses: BTs possible or assumed future results of operations and or those of its associates and joint ventures: BTs future dividend policy: capital expenditure and investment plans: adequacy of capital: nancing plans: demand for and access to broadband and the promotion of broadband by third-party service providers: and those preceded by, followed by, or that include the words believes, expects, anticipates, intends or similar expressions.
Although BT believes that the expectations reected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct.
Because these statements involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause differences between actual results and those implied by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: material adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by BT and its lines of business: future regulatory actions and conditions in its operating areas, including competition from others in the UK and other international communications markets: selection by BT and its lines of business of the appropriate trading and marketing models for its products and services: technological innovations, including the cost of developing new products and the need to increase expenditures for improving the quality of service: the anticipated benets and advantages of new technologies not being realised: developments in the convergence of technologies: prolonged adverse weather conditions resulting in a material increase in overtime, staff or other costs: the timing of entry and profitability of BT and its lines of business in certain communications markets: significant changes in market shares for BT and its principal products and services: uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates: to the extent that BT chooses to sell assets or minority interests in its subsidiaries, prevailing market levels for such sales: and general financial market conditions affecting BTs performance.
Certain of these factors are discussed in more detail elsewhere in this annual report including, without limitation, in Risk factors.
Background Telephone services in almost all of the UK were, until 1981, provided by the Post Ofce, which was a government department until 1969 when it was established as a state public corporation.
In 1981, the postal and telecommunications services of the Post Ofce became the responsibility of two separate corporations, with British Telecommunications under the trading name of British Telecom taking over the telecommunications business.
As a result of the Telecommunications Act 1984, British Telecommunications plc was incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Acts 1948 to 1981 on 1 April 1984 as a public limited company wholly owned by the UK Government.
The transfer of property, rights and liabilities of the corporation to British Telecommunications plc was made on 6 August 1984.
In November 1984, the UK Government offered 3,012 million ordinary shares 50.2% of the total issued ordinary shares to the public.
The share sale was fully subscribed.
British Telecom shares made their debut on the London Stock Exchange on 3 December 1984.
From April 1991, British Telecommunications plc traded as BT.
In December 1991, the UK Government sold over half its remaining shares in BT, retaining a holding of about 22%.
It sold this residual holding in July 1993.
Subsequently, in September 1997, the UK Government redeemed at par a special rights redeemable preference share to which certain special rights attached.
In 1985, Cellnet was launched as a joint venture between British Telecom and Securicor, which held 40% of the company.
BT acquired full control of Cellnet now O UK part of mmO plc by acquiring Securicors 2 2 minority holding in November 1999.
In January 2000, BT and AT&T established Concert as a 50 50 joint venture serving customers around the world and transferred their trans-border assets and operations to Concert.
On 1 April 2002, BT completed the unwind of Concert, which involved the return of Concerts businesses, customer accounts and networks to the two parent companies.
BT Group was formed when the mmO business, comprising what had been BTs mobile activities in the UK, 2 the Netherlands, Germany and the Republic of Ireland, was demerged on 19 November 2001.
British Telecommunications plcs shares ceased trading on the London, New York and Tokyo stock exchanges on 16 November 2001.
BT Group plcs shares commenced trading on the London and New York stock exchanges on 19 November 2001.
BT Group was incorporated in England and Wales on 30 March 2001 as Newgate Telecommunications Limited with the registered number 4190816.
The company changed its name to BT Group plc on 11 September 142 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Additional information for shareholders 2001.
Following the demerger of mmO in November 2001, the continuing activities of BT were transferred to 2 BT Group.
BT Groups registered ofce address is 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ.
Listings The principal listing of BT Groups ordinary shares is on the London Stock Exchange.
American Depositary Shares ADSs, each representing 10 ordinary shares, have been issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Depositary for the American Depositary Receipts ADRs evidencing the ADSs, and are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
ADSs also trade, but are not listed, on the London Stock Exchange.
Trading on the New York Stock Exchange is under the symbol BTY.
The prices are the highest and lowest closing middle market prices for BT ordinary shares, as derived from the Daily Ofcial List of the London Stock Exchange and the highest and lowest sales prices of ADSs, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar affect the dollar equivalent of the pound sterling price of the companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange and, as a result, are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange.
Capital gains tax CGT The rights issue in June 2001 and the demerger of mmO in November 2001 adjusted the value for capital gains 2 tax purposes of BT shares.
Rights issue An explanatory note on the effects of the rights issue on the CGT position relating to BT shareholdings is available from the Shareholder Helpline see page 155.
BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 143 Additional information for shareholders Demerger of mmO capital gains tax calculation 2 The confirmed ofcial opening prices for BT Group and mmO shares on 19 November 2001 following the 2 demerger were 285.75p and 82.75p, respectively.
This means that, of the total combined value of 368.50p, 77.544% is attributable to BT Group and 22.456% to mmO.
Accordingly, for CGT calculations, the base cost 2 of your BT Group shares and mmO shares is calculated by multiplying the acquisition cost of your 2 BT shareholding by 77.544% and 22.456%, respectively.
b Under the BT Employee Share Ownership Scheme and the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan, 15 million and 12 million shares respectively were held in trust on behalf of 115,757 and 89,529 participants respectively who were beneficially entitled to the shares.
137 million shares were held in the corporate nominee BT Group EasyShare on behalf of 122,628 beneficial owners.
c 185 million shares were represented by ADSs.
Analysis by size of holding is not available for this holding.
d 16 million shares were held in trust by The Royal Bank of Scotland Trust Company Jersey Limited for allocation to employees under the employee share schemes.
e 14.5% of the shares were in 1,618,274 individual holdings, of which 142,206 were joint holdings, and 85.5% of the shares were in 36,256 institutional holdings.
So far as the company is aware, the company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by the UK Government or any other foreign government or by any other natural or legal person severally or jointly.
There are no arrangements known to the company the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the company.
At 15 May 2003, there were 8,670,849,554 ordinary shares outstanding.
At the same date, approximately 18.5 million ADSs equivalent to 185.2 million ordinary shares, or approximately 2.1% of the total number of ordinary shares outstanding on that date were outstanding and were held by 2,346 record holders of ADRs.
At 31 March 2003, there were 3,460 shareholders with a US address on the register of shareholders.
Dividends Since shortly after its incorporation in 1984, British Telecommunications plc paid interim dividends annually in February and final dividends in September.
However, as part of BTs debt reduction and restructuring plans, neither a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2001 nor an interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2002 was paid to shareholders.
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2002, was paid on 9 September 2002 to shareholders on the register on 9 August 2002, and an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2003 was paid on 10 February 2003 to shareholders on the register on 31 December 2002.
The dividends paid or payable on BT shares and ADSs for the last five years are shown in the following table.
The dividends on the ordinary shares exclude the associated tax credit.
The amounts shown are not those that were actually paid to holders of ADSs.
For the tax treatment of dividends paid on or after 6 April 1999 see Taxation of dividends below.
The dividends on the ADSs paid before 5 April 1999 include the associated UK tax credit available to certain beneficial owners who are resident in the United States or Canada for tax purposes, but before deduction of UK withholding taxes.
Dividends have been translated from pounds sterling into US dollars using exchange rates prevailing on the date the ordinary dividends were paid.
The US dollar amount of the final dividend of 42.5 pence per ADS to be paid to holders of ADSs will be based on the exchange rate in effect on 8 September 2003, the date of payment to holders of ordinary shares.
As dividends paid by the company are in pounds sterling, exchange rate uctuations will affect the US dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion by the Depositary of such cash dividends.
Dividend mandate Any shareholder wishing dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account should contact the Registrar for a dividend mandate form.
Dividends paid in this way will be paid through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
Alternatively, a form may be downloaded from the internet at www.
Dividend investment plan The dividend investment plan replaced the share dividend plan for shareholders following the 1999 interim dividend.
Under the dividend investment plan, cash from participants dividends is used to buy further BT Group shares in the market.
Shareholders could elect to receive additional shares in lieu of a cash dividend for the following dividends: Date paid Price per share pence 1999 final 20 September 1999 970.1 2000 interim 14 February 2000 991.5 2000 final 18 September 2000 809.6 2001 interim 12 February 2001 621.8 2002 final 9 September 2002 191.19 2003 interim 10 February 2003 178.23 Global Invest Direct Details of the direct purchase plan run by the ADR Depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, Global Invest Direct, including reinvestment of dividends, are available from JPMorgan Chase Bank on 1 800 749 1687 toll free within the USA or 1 781 575 4328 from outside the USA, or on written request to the ADR Depositary.
BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 145 Additional information for shareholders Total shareholder return Total shareholder return TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
It is, therefore, a good indicator of a companys overall performance.
Over the last five years as shown in the TSR chart below, BT initially performed very strongly, but, like many stocks in the telecoms, media and technology TMT sector, suffered falls in its share price during the decline of the past three years.
BTs TSR as adjusted for the rights issue and demerger over the last five years was negative 63% compared to a FTSE 100 TSR fall of negative 32%.
Substantially all of the five-year negative FTSE performance has occurred over the past year negative 29% whereas BTs TSR in the last 12 months was negative 43%.
In the period between the demerger on 19 November 2001 and 31 March 2003, BTs share price was roughly in line with the European telecommunications sector after outperforming for most of the period.
BT and the European telecommunications sector have both under-performed the FTSE 100 index by around 10% as shown in the share price performance chart, over the 16 month period.
BT and European Telco Sector BTs total shareholder return TSR performance Performance vs FTSE 100 since Demerger over five financial years to 31 March 2003 15 250 10 BT BT European Telco Sector FTSE 100 5 200 0 5 150 10 15 100 20 25 50 30 0 35 98 99 99 00 00 01 01 02 02 03 Nov Mar Mar 2001 2002 2003 1 April 1998 100.
Source: Datastream Source: Bloomberg The graph shows our TSR performance adjusted for the rights issue and demerger of our The graph shows relative price performance of BT and European Telco Sector using the mobile business in the 2002 financial year relative to the FTSE 100.
Results announcements Expected announcements of results: 1st quarter 31 July 2003 2nd quarter and half year 13 November 2003 3rd quarter and nine months February 2004 4th quarter and full year May 2004 2004 annual report and accounts published June 2004 Individual savings accounts ISAs Information about investing in BT Group shares through an ISA may be obtained from Halifax Share Dealing Limited, Trinity Road, Halifax, W. Yorkshire HX1 2RG telephone 0870 242 5588.
ISAs are also offered by other organisations.
ShareGift The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme are available from ShareGift at www.
org or telephone 020 7337 0501, or can be obtained from the Shareholder Helpline.
Unclaimed Assets Register BT is among a growing number of companies who subscribe to the Unclaimed Assets Register, which provides a search facility for financial assets, such as shareholdings and dividends which have become separated from their owners.
The Register donates a proportion of its public search fees to charity via ShareGift.
For further information on the Unclaimed Assets Register, visit www.
146 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Additional information for shareholders Exchange rates BT publishes its consolidated financial statements expressed in pounds sterling.
The following tables detail certain information concerning the exchange rates between pounds sterling and US dollars based on the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers in pounds sterling as certied for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate.
On 16 May 2003, the most recent practicable date for this annual report, the Noon Buying Rate was US$1.63 to 1.00.
Memorandum and Articles of Association The following is a summary of the principal provisions of BTs memorandum and articles of association Memorandum and Articles, a copy of which has been led with the Registrar of Companies.
Memorandum The Memorandum provides that its principal objects are, among other things, to carry on any business of running, operating, managing and supplying telecommunication systems and systems of any kind for conveying, receiving, storing, processing or transmitting sounds, visual images, signals, messages and communications of any kind.
Articles In the following description of the rights attaching to the shares in the company, a holder of shares and a shareholder is, in either case, the person entered on the companys register of members as the holder of the relevant shares.
Shareholders can choose whether their shares are to be evidenced by share certicates i. e. in certicated form or held in electronic i. e. uncerticated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
a Voting rights Subject to the restrictions described below, on a show of hands, every shareholder present in person or by proxy at any general meeting has one vote and, on a poll, every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share which they hold.
Voting at any meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by at least five shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their proxies, or by one or more shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their proxies and who have, between them, at least 10% of the total votes of all shareholders who have the right to vote at the meeting.
No person is, unless the Board decide otherwise, entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he or any person appearing to be interested in those shares has been sent a notice under section 212 of the Companies Act 1985 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he or any interested person has failed to supply to the company the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
These restrictions end seven days after the earlier of the date the shareholder complies with the request satisfactorily or the company receives notice that there has been an approved transfer of the shares.
b Variation of rights Whenever the share capital of the company is split into different classes of shares, the special rights attached to any of those classes can be varied or withdrawn either: i with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class: or ii with the consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of that class.
At any separate meeting, the necessary quorum is two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal amount of the issued shares of the class in question but at any adjourned meeting, any person holding shares of the class or his proxy is a quorum.
BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 147 Additional information for shareholders The company can issue new shares and attach any rights and restrictions to them, as long as this is not restricted by special rights previously given to holders of any existing shares.
Subject to this, the rights of new shares can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or existing shares can take priority over them, or the new shares and the existing shares can rank equally.
c Changes in capital The company may by ordinary resolution: i consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger amount: ii divide all or part of its share capital into shares of a smaller amount: iii cancel any shares which have not, at the date of the ordinary resolution, been taken or agreed to be taken by any person and reduce the amount of its share capital by the amount of the shares cancelled: and iv increase its share capital.
The company may also: i buy back its own shares: and ii by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital redemption reserve and any share premium account.
d Dividends The companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution provided that no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Dividends must be paid out of profits available for distribution.
If the directors consider that the profits of the company justify such payments, they can pay interim dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide.
Fixed dividends will be paid on any class of shares on the dates stated for the payments of those dividends.
The directors can offer ordinary shareholders the right to choose to receive new ordinary shares, which are credited as fully paid, instead of some or all of their cash dividend.
Before they can do this, the companys shareholders must have passed an ordinary resolution authorising the directors to make this offer.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for 10 years after it was declared or became due for payment will be forfeited and will belong to the company unless the directors decide otherwise.
e Distribution of assets on winding up If the company is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, under supervision of the court or by the court the liquidator can, with the authority of an extraordinary resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company.
This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or different kinds.
For this purpose, the liquidator can place whatever value the liquidator considers fair on any property and decide how the division is carried out between shareholders or different groups of shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same authority, transfer any assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of shareholders which the liquidator decides.
The liquidation of the company can then be nalised and the company dissolved.
No past or present shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other property under the Articles which could give them a liability.
f Transfer of shares Certicated shares of the company may be transferred in writing either by an instrument of transfer in the usual standard form or in another form approved by the Board.
The transfer form must be signed or made effective by or on behalf of the person making the transfer.
The person making the transfer will be treated as continuing to be the holder of the shares transferred until the name of the person to whom the shares are being transferred is entered in the register of members of the company.
The Board may refuse to register any transfer of any share held in certicated form: & which is in favour of more than four joint holders: or & unless the transfer form to be registered is properly stamped to show payment of any applicable stamp duty and delivered to the companys registered ofce or any other place the Board decide.
The transfer must have with it the share certicate for the shares to be transferred: any other evidence which the Board ask for to prove that the person wanting to make the transfer is entitled to do this: and if the transfer form is executed by another person on behalf of the person making the transfer, evidence of the authority of that person to do so.
Transfers of uncerticated shares must be carried out using a relevant system as dened in the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 1995 the Regulations.
The Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncerticated share in the circumstances stated in the Regulations.
If the Board decide not to register a transfer of a share, they must notify the person to whom that share was to be transferred no later than two months after the company receives the transfer or instruction from the operator of the relevant system.
The Board can decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of shareholders.
The register must not be closed without the consent of the operator of a relevant system as dened in the Regulations in the case of uncerticated shares.
148 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Additional information for shareholders g Untraced shareholders BT may sell any shares after advertising its intention and waiting for three months if the shares have been in issue for at least 10 years, during that period at least three dividends have become payable on them and have not been claimed and BT has not heard from the shareholder or any person entitled to the dividends by transmission.
The net sale proceeds belong to BT, but it must pay those proceeds to the former shareholder or the person entitled to them by transmission if that shareholder, or that other person, asks for them.
h General meetings of shareholders Every year the company must hold an annual general meeting.
The Board can call an extraordinary general meeting at any time and, under general law, must call one on a shareholders requisition.
i Limitations on rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders The only limitation imposed by the Articles on the rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders is that a shareholder whose registered address is outside the UK and who wishes to receive notices of meetings of shareholders or documents from BT must give the company an address within the UK to which they may be sent.
j Directors Directors remuneration Excluding remuneration referred to below, each director will be paid such fees for his services as the Board decide, not exceeding 50,000 a year and increasing by the percentage increase of the UK Retail Prices Index as dened by Section 833 2 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for any 12-month period beginning 1 April 1999 or an anniversary of that date.
The company may by ordinary resolution decide on a higher sum.
This resolution can increase the fee paid to all or any directors either permanently or for a particular period.
The directors may be paid their expenses properly incurred in connection with the business of the company.
The Board can award extra fees to a director who holds an executive position: acts as chairman or deputy chairman: serves on a Board committee at the request of the Board: or performs any other services which the Board consider extend beyond the ordinary duties of a director.
The directors may grant pensions or other benets to, among others, any director or former director or persons connected with them.
However, BT can only provide these benets to any director or former director who has not been an employee or held any other ofce or executive position in the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, or to relations or dependants of, or people connected to, those directors or former directors, if the shareholders approve this by passing an ordinary resolution.
Directors votes A director need not be a shareholder, but a director who is not a shareholder can still attend and speak at shareholders meetings.
Unless the Articles say otherwise, a director cannot vote on a resolution about a contract in which the director has a material interest this will also apply to interests of a person connected with the director.
The director can vote if the interest is only an interest in BT shares, debentures or other securities.
A director can, however, vote and be counted in a quorum in respect of certain matters in which he is interested as set out in the Articles.
Subject to the relevant legislation, the shareholders can by passing an ordinary resolution suspend or relax, among other things, the provisions relating to the interest of a director in any contract or arrangement or relating to a directors right to vote and be counted in a quorum on resolutions in which he is interested to any extent or ratify any particular contract carried out in breach of those provisions.
Directors interests If the legislation allows and the director has disclosed the nature and extent of the interest to the Board, the director can: i have any kind of interest in a contract with or involving BT or in which BT has an interest or with or involving another company in which BT has an interest : ii have any kind of interest in a company in which BT has an interest including holding a position in that company or being a shareholder of that company : iii hold a position other than auditor in BT or another company in which BT has an interest on terms and conditions decided by the Board: and iv alone or through some rm with which the director is associated do paid professional work other than as auditor for BT or another company in which BT has an interest on terms and conditions decided by the Board.
A director does not have to hand over to BT any benefit received or profit made as a result of anything permitted to be done under the Articles.
When a director knows that they are interested in a contract with BT they must tell the other directors.
BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 149 Additional information for shareholders Retirement of directors Provisions of the legislation which, read with the Articles, would prevent a person from being or becoming a director because that person has reached the age of 70 do not apply to the company.
At every annual general meeting any director who was elected or last re-elected a director at or before the annual general meeting held in the third year before the current year, shall retire by rotation.
Any director appointed by the directors automatically retires at the next following annual general meeting.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election.
Directors borrowing powers To the extent that the legislation and the Articles allow, the Board can exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge its business, property and assets present and future and to issue debentures and other securities, and give security either outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the company or another person.
The Board must limit the borrowings of the company and exercise all the companys voting and other rights or powers of control exercisable by the company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to ensure that the aggregate amount of all borrowings by the group outstanding, net of amounts borrowed intra-group among other things, at any time does not exceed 35 billion.
Material contracts The following contracts not being contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business have been entered into in the two years preceding the date of this document by BT or another member of the group and are, or may be, material to the group or have been entered into by BT or another member of the group and contain a provision under which a member of the group has an obligation or entitlement which is, or may be, material to BT or such other member of the group.
Airtel A sale and purchase agreement dated 2 May 2001 between BT Netherlands Holdings BV, a subsidiary of BT and Vodafone, under which the BT subsidiary agreed to sell its entire interest in Airtel Movil, S. A. to Vodafone.
The sale was completed on 29 June 2001 for a consideration of 1.1 billion paid in Euros.
Yell On 25 May 2001, the following agreements were entered into, under which BT agreed to sell its classied advertising directory businesses in the UK and the USA: i umbrella agreement between Yell Ltd, BT Holdings Ltd, Yellow Pages BV, Marchprobe Ltd, Castaim Ltd, Yasmin Two US Inc. and BT: ii UK share sale agreement between BT Holdings Ltd and Marchprobe Ltd under which BT Holdings Ltd agreed to sell the share capital of Yellow Pages Sales Ltd to Marchprobe Ltd: iii UK business sale agreement between Yell Ltd, Castaim Ltd and Yasmin Two US Inc. under which Yell Ltd agreed to sell Yell Ltds business and assets to Castaim Ltd and to sell Yell Ltds US intellectual property rights to Yasmin Two US Inc: and iv US share sale agreement between Yellow Pages BV and Yasmin Two US Inc. under which Yellow Pages BV agreed to sell the share capital of Yellow Book USA, Inc. to Yasmin Two US Inc.
The umbrella agreement sets out the common terms which apply to the UK share sale agreement, the UK business sale agreement and the US share sale agreement.
The umbrella agreement contains covenants restricting any member of the group from carrying on a competing printed classied directories business for twelve months from completion.
The share sale and business agreements contain standard warranties and indemnities in favour of Marchprobe Ltd, Castaim Ltd and Yasmin Two US Inc.
The warranties expired on 30 June 2002.
As part of the consideration under the UK business sale agreement, Castaim Ltd also assumed responsibility for certain liabilities and obligations of the Yell business.
The sale of Yell was completed on 22 June 2001 for a consideration of 2.14 billion, comprising i 2 million as consideration for the issued shares of Yellow Pages Sales Ltd: ii 1,288 million in cash plus 100 million in interest bearing vendor loan notes and 100 million in deferred consideration subject to reduction on ascertainment of the net assets as consideration for the assets of Yell Ltd: iii 1 as consideration for the US intellectual property rights: and iv 650 million as consideration for the issued shares of Yellow Book USA, Inc. subject to adjustment in respect of certain intra-group indebtedness and pursuant to the terms of the first amending agreement.
Following completion, Yell Ltd agreed a net asset adjustment with Castaim Ltd in respect of the assets of Yell Ltd, and Yellow Pages BV agreed a net asset adjustment with Yasmin Two US Inc. in respect of Yellow Book USA, Inc, which together resulted in the total purchase consideration received being reduced by approximately 140 million.
150 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Additional information for shareholders Demerger Agreement On 18 September 2001, BT Group plc, British Telecommunications plc and mmO plc entered into a demerger 2 agreement the Demerger Agreement which set out the obligations of the parties in implementing the steps to achieve the demerger of mmO the Demerger.
2 Under this agreement, mmO agreed to transfer BT Group Investments to BT Group plc and, in exchange for 2 that transfer, BT Group agreed to allot and issue BT Group shares to the mmO shareholders in satisfaction of the 2 Demerger dividend being the dividend declared by mmO of an amount equal to the book value of its 2 shareholding in BT Group Investments so that each mmO shareholder at the Demerger record time was entitled 2 to receive one BT Group share for each mmO share then held.
No party to the Demerger Agreement gave any 2 representation, warranty or indemnity to the others and no party had any right to rescind the agreement.
Separation Agreement On 18 September 2001, British Telecommunications plc, BT Group plc, mmO plc and O Limited entered into a 2 2 separation agreement the Separation Agreement relating to the Demerger.
Under the Separation Agreement, it was agreed that mmO would have net debt excluding trading balances of approximately 500 million on 2 19 November 2001 the Demerger Effective Date, including loan indebtedness to BT Group.
BT Group and mmO also agreed to allocate certain assets and liabilities and rights and obligations, in each 2 case relating to the mmO business, between their respective groups and agreed, subject to certain limited 2 exceptions, to indemnify each other against certain actual and contingent liabilities to the extent arising directly or indirectly out of their respective businesses.
Furthermore, BT Group and mmO agreed to indemnify one 2 another against certain liabilities arising from certain incomplete, false or misleading information provided by either of BT Group or mmO, or their respective groups, for inclusion in public documents.
These indemnities 2 apply indefinitely and are not subject to any financial limit.
The Separation Agreement sets out the parties agreement for the separation of the pensions arrangements of the BT Group and the mmO Group and also sets out an informal, non-binding dispute resolution procedure 2 which BT Group and mmO have agreed shall be applied to resolve key disputes which may arise between them 2 and their respective groups in connection with their continuing relationship and the Demerger.
Under the Separation Agreement, BT Group and mmO agreed that certain costs of the Demerger would be 2 apportioned between them as they may agree in writing.
Under a separate arrangement, BT Group and mmO agreed that mmO would pay the remaining amount of 2 2 approximately US$20 million in respect of the 1,500,000 non-voting shares in Esat Digifone Limited now called O Communications Ireland acquired in April 2000.
2 Property Sale and Leaseback On 13 December 2001, BT sold to Telereal Group Limited Telereal a substantial part of BTs property portfolio together with the BT property division.
Around 6,700 properties comprising ofces, telephone exchanges, vehicle depots, warehouses, call centres and computer centres were transferred.
The transaction also included the transfer of approximately 350 employees from BT to Land Securities Trillium Telecom.
Telereal will be responsible for providing accommodation and estates management services to BT.
In return, we pay Telereal around 190 million of annual rental, increasing at 3% a year, for use of the freeholds.
In addition, BT has transferred the economic risk on a large portion of its leased properties to Telereal in return for an annual rental commencing at approximately 90 million per annum.
BT will have the exibility to vacate approximately 35% by rental value of the estate over the contract term at no extra cost.
Telereal, dened above, is a 50 50 joint venture between Land Securities Trillium Limited a wholly-owned subsidiary of Land Securities plc and William Pears Family Holdings Limited.
The transaction raised approximately 2.38 billion for BT.
Concert Unwind Agreement On 15 October 2001, AT&T, BT and Concert entered into binding agreements to terminate the Concert joint venture.
The termination was completed on 1 April 2002, whereupon Concert ceased to exist as a joint venture.
In connection with the termination, the assets, liabilities, contracts, customers and other operational items were allocated between BT and AT&T with appropriate true up payment mechanisms to reect the allocation of assets.
The assets and liabilities were allocated between AT&T and BT with the majority of items originally contributed by each of AT&T and BT in connection with the formation of the Concert joint venture being returned to the relevant parent.
Following termination of the joint venture, Concert BV was renamed BT Global Networks Holdings Netherlands BV.
BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 151 Additional information for shareholders BT has entered into a number of ongoing commercial agreements with AT&T in order to allow it to continue its global operations, and offer telecommunication services, in various geographic regions where BT may no longer have infrastructure as a result of the transfer of certain assets to AT&T.
In connection with the termination of the Concert joint venture, AT&T has acquired BTs minority interest in AT&T Canada and BT no longer has any interest or obligation in relation to AT&T Canada.
Cegetel On 5 December 2002, Vivendi Universal Vivendi served a notice exercising its pre-emption rights under the Shareholders Agreement in respect of Cegetel Groupe SA Cegetel to acquire BTs entire shareholding a 26% interest in Cegetel from Cegetel Holdings I BV Sarl Cegetel Holdings, a BT group company for e4.0 billion 2.6 billion in cash.
This pre-emption right became exercisable as a result of Cegetel Holdings having entered into a share purchase agreement for the sale of its shareholding in Cegetel to Vodafone AG for e4.0 billion in cash, in October 2002.
Vivendi paid e2.7 billion of the consideration to Cegetel Holdings on 17 January 2003 and the transaction was completed when Vivendi paid the balance of e1.3 billion on 22 January 2003.
Taxation US Holders This is a summary only of the principal US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs by US Holders as dened below who hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
It does not address all aspects of US federal income taxation and does not address aspects that may be relevant to persons who are subject to special provisions of US federal income tax law, including US expatriates, insurance companies, tax-exempt organisations, financial institutions, securities broker-dealers, persons subject to alternative minimum tax, investors that actually or constructively own 10% or more of our outstanding share capital, persons holding their shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, hedging transaction or conversion transaction, persons who acquired their shares or ADSs pursuant to the exercise of options or similar derivative securities or otherwise as compensation, or persons whose functional currency is not the US dollar, amongst others.
Those holders may be subject to US federal income tax consequences different from those set forth below.
For purposes of this summary, a US Holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that, for US federal income tax purposes, is: an individual citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation or certain other entities created or organised in or under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, an estate whose income is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
If a partnership holds ordinary shares or ADSs, the tax treatment of a partner generally will depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership.
If a US Holder is a partner in a partnership that holds ordinary shares or ADSs, such Holder is urged to consult its own tax adviser regarding the specic tax consequences of owning and disposing of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
In particular, this summary is based on i current UK tax law and UK Inland Revenue practice and US law and US Internal Revenue Service IRS practice, including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the Code, Treasury regulations, rulings, judicial decisions and administrative practice, all as currently in effect, ii the United KingdomUnited States Income Tax Convention that entered into force on 25 April 1980 as in effect on 1 January 2003 the 1980 Convention, and iii the United KingdomUnited States Convention relating to estate and gift taxes as in effect on the date of this Annual Report, all of which are subject to change or changes in interpretation, possibly with retroactive effect.
US Holders should be aware that a new United KingdomUnited States Income Tax Convention entered into force on 31 March 2003 the New Convention and generally will have effect in respect of dividends paid on or after 1 May 2003.
However, a US Holder entitled to benets under the 1980 Convention may elect to have the provisions of the 1980 Convention continue for an additional twelve months if the election to apply the 1980 Convention would result in greater benets to the Holder.
If a US Holder were to make an effective election, the discussion below with respect to dividend payments made pursuant to the 1980 Convention would continue to apply to dividends paid by BT prior to 1 May 2004.
The discussion below notes instances where the relevant provisions of the New Convention will produce a materially different result for a US Holder.
US Holders should note that certain articles in the New Convention limit or restrict the ability of a US Holder to claim benets under the New Convention and that similar provisions were not contained in the 1980 Convention.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisors as to the applicability of the Conventions and the consequences under UK, US federal, state and local, and other laws, of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs.
Taxation of dividends For dividends paid on or before 5 April 1999, US Holders were generally entitled to receive the cash dividend plus a Treaty payment from the Inland Revenue of one quarter of the dividend, subject to a UK withholding tax of 15% of the aggregate amount paid.
As an example for illustration purposes only, a US Holder who was entitled to a dividend of 80 was also entitled to a Treaty payment of 20, reduced by the withholding tax of 15% on 152 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Additional information for shareholders the gross amount of 100, i. e. 15, leaving a net cash payment of 85.
The full dividend plus the full Treaty payment including the UK tax withheld was taxable income for US purposes, and the UK tax withheld generally was available as a US credit or deduction.
For dividends paid on or after 6 April 1999 and subject to the 1980 Convention as described above, the Treaty payment reduces to one ninth of the dividend i. e. one tenth of the gross payment.
As a result of the UK withholding tax which cannot exceed the amount of the hypothetical Treaty payment, US Holders will no longer receive any Treaty payment.
In the above example, the cash dividend would be 80, and the hypothetical Treaty payment would be 8.89 one ninth of 80.
However, since the UK withholding tax 15% of 88.89, would exceed the amount of the hypothetical Treaty payment, no Treaty payment will be made and the US Holder will receive only the cash dividend here, 80.
A US holder will be taxable in the US on the full dividend and full hypothetical Treaty payment 88.89, and will be treated as having paid a foreign tax equal to the hypothetical Treaty payment here, 8.89.
The foreign tax deemed paid generally will be available as a US credit or deduction.
A US Holder could elect to receive a foreign tax credit or deduction with respect to any UK withholding tax on IRS Form 8833 TreatyBased Return Position Disclosure Under Section 6114 or 7701 b.
A US Holder will be denied a foreign tax credit and instead allowed a deduction for the hypothetical Treaty payment unless the US Holder has held the shares upon which the dividend was received for at least 16 days during the 30-day holding period beginning on the date which is 15 days before the ex-dividend date.
Any days during which a US Holder has a substantially diminished risk of loss on the shares are not counted toward meeting the 16-day holding period requirement.
Also, a US Holder that is under an obligation to make related payments with respect to the shares or substantially similar or related property is not entitled to claim a foreign tax credit with respect to a foreign tax imposed on a dividend.
For purposes of calculating the foreign tax credit, dividends paid on the ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as income from sources outside the United States and generally will constitute passive income or, for certain holders, financial services income.
The rules relating to the determination of the foreign tax credit are very complex.
US Holders who do not elect to claim a credit with respect to any foreign taxes paid in a given taxable year may instead claim a deduction for foreign taxes paid.
A deduction does not reduce US federal income tax on a dollar for dollar basis like a tax credit.
The deduction, however, is not subject to the limitations described above.
There will be no hypothetical Treaty payment and no notional UK withholding tax applied to a dividend payment made under the New Convention.
Therefore, it will not be possible for US Holders to claim a foreign tax credit in respect of any dividend payment made by BT on or after 1 May 2003 or 1 May 2004 in the case of a Holder who effectively elects to extend the applicability of the 1980 Convention as described above.
The UK does not currently apply a withholding tax on dividends under its internal tax laws.
For US federal income tax purposes, a distribution including any additional dividend income arising from a foreign tax credit claim as described above will be treated as ordinary dividend income to the extent paid out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US tax purposes, based on the US dollar value of the distribution calculated by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date the distribution is actually or constructively received by a US Holder of ordinary shares, or by the Depositary, in the case of ADSs.
Distributions by us in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits will be treated first as a tax-free return of capital to the extent of the US Holders basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs, and thereafter as capital gain.
Dividends paid by us will not be eligible for the US dividends received deduction.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisors to determine whether the US Holder is eligible for benets under the 1980 Convention and the New Convention, whether, and to what extent, a foreign tax credit will be available with respect to dividends received from BT, whether it may be advisable in light of the Holders particular circumstances to elect to have the provisions of the 1980 Convention continue in force until 1 May 2004, and the treatment of any foreign currency gain or loss on any pounds sterling received with respect to ordinary shares that are not converted into US dollars on the date the pounds sterling are actually or constructively received.
Taxation of capital gains Unless a US resident carries on a trade through a branch or agency in the UK, and the disposal of ordinary shares and or ADSs is related to the activities of that trade, UK capital gains tax is not charged on US residents who dispose of ordinary shares and or ADSs.
For US federal income tax purposes, a US Holder generally will recognise capital gain or loss on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs in an amount equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised on the disposition and the US Holders adjusted tax basis determined in US dollars in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Such gain or loss generally will be US source gain or loss, and will be treated as long-term capital gain or loss if the ordinary shares have been held for more than one year at the time of disposition.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
Capital gains of an individual US Holder are subject to US federal income tax at preferential rates if specified holdings periods are met.
BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 153 Additional information for shareholders US information reporting and backup withholding Dividends paid on and proceeds received from the sale or disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject to information reporting to the IRS and backup withholding at a current rate of 30%.
Certain exempt recipients such as corporations are not subject to these information reporting requirements.
Backup withholding will not apply, however, to a Holder who provides a correct taxpayer identication number or certicate of foreign status and makes any other required certication or who is otherwise exempt.
US persons who are required to establish their exempt status generally must furnish IRS Form W-9 Request for Taxpayer Identication Number and Certication.
Non-US Holders generally will not be subject to US information reporting or backup withholding.
However, such Holders may be required to provide certication of non-US status in connection with payments received in the United States or through certain US-related financial intermediaries.
Amounts withheld as backup withholding may be credited against a Holders US federal income tax liability.
A Holder may obtain a refund of any excess amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by ling the appropriate claim for refund with the IRS and furnishing any required information.
UK stamp duty A transfer of an ordinary share will generally be subject to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5% of the amount or value of any consideration provided.
A transfer of an ordinary share into a clearance service or American depository system gives rise to a 1.5% charge of either the amount of the consideration provided or the value of the share issued.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of an ADS assuming it is not registered in the UK, provided that the transfer documents are executed and always retained outside the UK.
UK inheritance and gift taxes in connection with ordinary shares and or ADSs Where an individual holder, who is not a UK national, of ordinary shares and or ADSs falls within the scope of the UK US Estate and Gift Tax Convention, US-domiciled holders of ordinary shares and or ADSs will not generally be subject to UK inheritance tax on a gift of ordinary shares and or ADSs if the gift is subject to US federal gift tax.
Similarly, ordinary shares and or ADSs passing on the death of a US-domiciled shareholder, who is not a UK national, will not generally be subject to UK inheritance tax if the estate is subject to US estate tax.
The rules and scope of domicile are complex and action should not be taken without advice specic to the individuals circumstances.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders There are currently no government laws, decrees or regulations in the United Kingdom that restrict the export or import of capital, including, but not limited to, UK foreign exchange control restrictions, or that affect the remittances of dividends or other payments to non-resident holders of the companys ordinary shares, except as otherwise described in Taxation US Holders above and except in respect of the government of, or any resident of, Iraq or any person treated as so resident.
There are no limitations under the laws of the United Kingdom restricting the right of non-residents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
Documents on display All reports and other information that BT les with the US Securities and Exchange Commission may be inspected at the SECs public reference facilities at Room 1200, 450 Fifth Street, Washington, DC, USA.
These reports may be accessed via the SECs website at www.
Publications BT produces a series of reports on the companys financial, economic, social and environmental performance.
Most of these reports, which are available to shareholders on request, can be accessed on the internet at www.
More detailed disclosures on BTs implementation of social, ethical and environmental policies and procedures are available online through our fully and independently veried social and environment report at www.
Document Publication date Annual Review including summary financial statement June Annual Report and Form 20-F June Quarterly results releases July, November, February and May Current Cost Financial Statements for the Businesses and Activities and Statement of Standard Services as required by Oftel December Social and Environment Report June Statement of Business Practice September 2002 For printed copies, when available, contact the Shareholder Helpline on Freefone 0808 100 4141 or, alternatively, contact the Registrar in the UK, at the address on page 155.
154 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Additional information for shareholders Electronic communication Shareholders can now choose to receive their shareholder documents electronically rather than by post.
Shareholders may elect to receive documents in this way by going to www.
com signup and following the online instructions, or by calling the Shareholder Helpline.
Shareholder communication BT is committed to communicating openly with each of its stakeholder audiences in the manner most appropriate to their requirements.
All investors can visit our Investor Centre at www.
com investorcentre for additional information regarding quarterly results and major announcements.
An electronic copy of this document is available at www.
Private shareholders If private shareholders have any enquiries about their shareholding, they should contact the Registrar the address can be found below.
Lloyds TSB Registrars maintain BT Groups share register and the separate BT Group EasyShare and BT Employee Share Ownership Scheme registers.
They also provide a Shareholder Helpline service on Freefone 0808 100 4141.
Institutional investors and analysts Institutional investors and equity research analysts may contact Investor Relations on: Tel 020 7356 5065 Fax 020 7356 5270 e-mail: investorrelations@bt.
com Industry analysts may contact: Tel 020 7356 5378 Fax 020 7356 6630 e-mail: industryenquiry@bt.
co. uk The Registrar ADR Depositary Lloyds TSB Registrars 2450 JPMorgan Chase Bank The Causeway JPMorgan Service Centre Worthing, West Sussex P. O.
Box 43013 BN99 6DA Providence, RI 02940-3013 United Kingdom United States Website: Tel 1 800 634 8366 toll free www.
co. uk or 1 781 575 4328 from outside the USA e-mail: adr@jpmorgan.
com General enquiries BT Group plc BT Centre 81 Newgate Street London EC1A 7AJ United Kingdom Tel 020 7356 5000 Fax 020 7356 5520 From overseas: Tel 44 20 7356 5000 Fax 44 20 7356 5520 A full list of BT contacts, and an electronic feedback facility, is available at www.
BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 155
