shareholder information Analyses of shareholdings The following tables analyse the holdings of Ordinary Shares at the end of 2003: By size of account Number By category of Ordinary Number shareholders of shares Size of holding accounts millions % % 1-250 69,144 8 1 UK 251-500 35,975 13 1 Pension funds 18 501-1,000 29,677 22 2 Life assurance 13 1,001-5,000 25,835 51 4 Mutual funds 7 5,001-10,000 1,548 11 1 Individuals 15 10,001-50,000 851 18 1 Others 7 50,001-1,000,000 527 130 11 60 Over 1,000,000 158 938 79 Overseas 40 All holdings 163,715 1,191 100 100 In addition to the number of registered shareholders shown, there are approximately 17,000 holders of ADRs.
The ADRs, each of which evidences one ADS, which represents four Ordinary Shares, are issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank.
Control of Company a So far as the Company is aware, it is neither directly nor indirectly owned or controlled by one or more corporations.
b i Set out below is information regarding interests in the Companys Ordinary Shares appearing in the Register of Interests in Shares maintained by the Company: As at 8 March 2002 As at 10 February 2003 As at 9 February 2004 Identity of Group Amount Per cent Amount Per cent Amount Per cent owned of class owned of class owned of class number number number of shares of shares of shares millions millions millions Barclays PLC n a n a n a n a 112.5 9.45 JPMorgan Chase Bank 95.6 13.13 110.9 9.31 107.4 9.01 Brandes Investment Partners LLC 88.3 12.13 103.7 8.71 102.0 8.56 Franklin Resources Inc 35.4 4.86 44.9 3.77 n a n a Artisan Partners LP n a n a 37.4 3.14 82.0 6.89 Standard Life Investments Ltd n a n a n a n a 44.7 3.75 Legal & General Investment Management n a n a n a n a 44.3 3.72 This interest relates to ADRs issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Depositary, which evidence ADSs.
No other person held an interest in shares, comprising 3% or more of the issued Ordinary Share Capital of the Company, appearing in the Register of Interests in Shares maintained under the provisions of Section 211 of the Companies Act 1985.
The voting rights of the major shareholders, listed in the table above, do not differ from those of any other shareholder of the Companys Ordinary Shares.
ii As of 9 February 2004 the total amount of the Companys voting securities owned by Directors and Officers of ICI, as a group, was: Title of class Amount Per cent owned of class number of shares Ordinary Shares 386,792 0.032 iii During the period from 31 December 2003 to 9 February 2004 there were no changes in the beneficial or non-beneficial interests of the Directors in the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company.
c The Company does not know of any arrangements the operation of which might result in a change in control of the Company.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders a There are no governmental laws, decrees or regulations in the UK restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to non-resident holders of the Companys Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
However, a 1.5% stamp duty reserve tax is payable upon the deposit of ICI Ordinary Shares in connection with the creation of, but not subsequent dealing in, ADRs.
This is in lieu of the normal 0.5% stamp duty on all purchases of Ordinary Shares.
b There are no limitations under English Law or the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association on the right of non-resident or foreign owners to be the registered holders of and to vote Ordinary Shares of the Company.
114 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Taxation Taxation on capital gains The following discussion is intended as a general guide only.
In certain circumstances, when a shareholder in the UK sells shares, Shareholders who are in any doubt with regard to tax matters, or liability to tax in respect of capital gains is computed by reference to who are resident in countries other than the USA should consult the market value of the shares on 31 March 1982.
The market value their tax adviser.
of ICI Ordinary Shares at 31 March 1982, for the purposes of capital gains tax, was 309p.
The Double Taxation Income Convention of 1975 the Old Convention between the United Kingdom and the United States ICI and Zeneca demerged on 1 June 1993.
Post-demerger ICI shares has been renegotiated and a new Convention the New Convention inherited a base cost for capital gains equivalent to 0.50239 of their signed on 24 July 2001 has been ratified by the US and UK pre-demerger base cost.
The New Convention has come into force.
US resident For the purposes of UK taxation of capital gains CGT, the issue shareholders may elect to apply the Old Convention to dividends of new ICI shares in the rights issue was regarded as a reorganisation received on or prior to 30 April 2003.
The Old Convention ceased to of the share capital of ICI.
New shares acquired by taking up an apply to any dividends paid after 1 May 2003. entitlement under the rights issue were treated as the same asset The following summary of the principal UK and certain US tax as, and having been acquired at the same time as and at the same consequences of ownership of Ordinary Shares or ADSs, held as aggregate cost as, the prior holding of ICI shares.
The subscription capital assets by US resident shareholders is based on current UK money for the new shares was added to the base cost of the existing and US Federal tax law and practice and in part on representations holding.
In the case of shareholders within the charge to corporation of JPMorgan Chase Bank as Depositary for ADSs and assumes that tax, indexation allowance applies to the amount paid for the new each obligation in the deposit agreement among the Company, the shares only from the date the amount was paid or liable to be paid.
Depositary and the holders from time to time of ADSs and any related Under the New Convention each contracting state may, in general, agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
The US tax capital gains in accordance with the provisions of its domestic Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to whom ADSs are prelaw.
Under present UK law, individuals who are neither resident nor released may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the claiming, ordinarily resident in the UK, and companies which are not resident in by US holders of ADSs, of foreign tax credits for US federal income tax the UK will not generally be liable to UK tax on capital gains made on purposes.
Accordingly, the analysis of the creditability of UK taxes the disposal of their Ordinary Shares or ADSs, unless such Ordinary described below could be affected by future actions that may be taken Shares or ADSs are held in connection with a trade, profession or by the US Treasury.
vocation carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
However, Taxation of dividends paid to US Shareholders an individual who is temporarily resident outside the UK may, in certain An individual shareholder who is resident in the UK for UK tax circumstances, be subject to tax on gains realised whilst he or she is purposes and who receives a dividend from the Company is entitled to resident outside the UK.
claim a tax credit in the UK against its income tax liability attributable A US resident shareholder will recognise capital gain or loss for US to the dividend.
Under the Old Convention, certain US resident federal income tax purposes on the sale or exchange of the Ordinary shareholders that receive a dividend from the Company are entitled Shares or ADSs in the same manner as on the sale or exchange of any to a payment equal to this UK tax credit the Tax Credit Amount, other shares held as capital assets.
Any gain or loss will generally be subject to a UK withholding currently in an amount equal to the Tax US source income or loss.
US resident shareholders should consult Credit Amount the UK Withholding.
For US federal income tax their own tax advisers about the treatment of capital gains.
purposes, the sum of the dividend paid and any associated Tax Credit Amount, for US resident shareholders who elect to apply the Old UK inheritance tax Convention to dividends received on or prior to 30 April 2003, is Under the current Double Taxation Estates Convention the Estate includible in gross income by US resident shareholders as ordinary Tax Convention, between the US and the UK, Ordinary Shares or dividend income.
For foreign tax credit limitation purposes, such ADSs held by an individual shareholder who is domiciled for the dividend is foreign source passive income or, in the case of certain purposes of the Estate Tax Convention in the US, and is not for holders, financial services income.
The UK withholding is treated the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention a national of the United as a foreign income tax which may, subject to certain restrictions and Kingdom, nor resident in the UK for the last seven out of ten tax limitations, be eligible for credit against a US resident shareholders years, will generally not be subject to the UK inheritance tax on the US federal income tax liability or deductible by such shareholder in individuals death nor on a chargeable gift of the Ordinary Shares or computing taxable income.
ADSs during the individuals lifetime provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate tax liability is paid, unless the Ordinary Shares or Shareholders should note that under the New Convention no foreign ADSs are part of the business property of a permanent establishment tax credit is available in respect of any associated tax credit or UK of the individual in the UK or, in the case of a shareholder who withholding with respect to any dividend payment.
performs independent personal services, pertain to a fixed base No dividends received deduction is allowed to US resident corporate situated in the UK.
Where the Ordinary Shares or ADSs have been shareholders with respect to dividends paid by the Company.
placed in trust by a settlor who, at the time of settlement, was a US resident shareholder, the Ordinary Shares or ADSs will generally not Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon a be subject to UK inheritance tax unless the settlor, at the time of US resident shareholders individual circumstances, dividends paid settlement, was not domiciled in the US or was a UK national.
In the to non-corporate US resident shareholders in taxable years beginning exceptional case where the Ordinary Shares or ADSs are subject both before 1 January 2009 will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate Non-corporate US resident shareholders should consult their own tax Tax Convention generally provides for double taxation to be relieved advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special rules by means of credit relief.
that limit their ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 115 shareholder information continued RISK FACTORS events impeding or increasing the cost of transporting products: ICI operates in competitive markets.
If the Group does not continue natural disasters: and to compete in its markets effectively by developing innovative products and responding effectively to the activities of its terrorist attacks.
competitors, it could lose customers and its results of operations While the Group maintains insurance at levels that it believes are could be adversely affected.
typical for its industry, some of these operational risks and problems ICI has a wide portfolio of business units competing across a diverse could result in uninsured losses or liabilities or in losses and liabilities range of geographic and product markets.
The Groups business may in excess of its insurance coverage.
The occurrence of major be adversely affected if it does not continue to develop innovative operational problems resulting from the above or other events may products that satisfy customer needs and preferences, develop new have an adverse effect on the results of operations of a particular technology or enhance existing technology that supports product manufacturing facility, or with respect to certain of these risks, the development or provides cost or other advantages over its results of operations and cash flow of the Group as a whole.
competitors, and attract and retain skilled employees that are key to ICI derives a significant percentage of its revenue in some of its creating new products.
Because the Group is subject to price businesses from sales to major customers, and if it is unable to retain competition from its competitors, it must also continue to satisfy these these customers, its results of operations could be adversely affected.
objectives while maintaining a competitive cost base.
While no single customer accounted for more than 10% of Group sales In addition, some of ICIs competitors in certain markets are larger in 2003, sales to major customers in some of its businesses, particularly and have greater financial resources than the Group, which may in the Paints and Quest businesses, are significant.
ICI believes that the enable them to deliver products on more attractive terms or to invest wide selling range and nature of the specialty products it supplies reduce larger amounts of capital into their businesses, including expenditures the potential adverse consequences of the loss of business from any for research and development.
If any of the Groups current or future one customer for any one of its products or in any one of its businesses.
competitors develop proprietary technology that enables them to Nevertheless, the loss of major customers, without replacement, could produce new products or services or to deliver existing products have an adverse effect on results of operations.
or services at a significantly lower cost, the Groups products and services could be rendered uneconomical or obsolete.
The Groups reliance on key suppliers in some of its businesses could result in an adverse effect on results of operations.
While some of the Groups product range comprises products and services that are protected by proprietary knowledge or patents, some Some of the Groups business units rely on a small number of of its businesses use technology that is widely available.
Accordingly, suppliers for their key raw materials.
If any of these suppliers is unable certain product segments of the Groups business may be vulnerable to meet its obligations or increases its prices, the Group may not be to new competitors and may be adversely affected by increased able to find a replacement supplier that is able to provide such raw price competition.
Any of these developments could lead to a loss materials on similar terms.
Consequently, the Group may be forced to of customers and could adversely affect the Groups results pay higher prices to obtain raw materials, which it may not be able to of operations.
pass on to its customers in the form of increased prices for its finished products.
In addition, some of the raw materials used may become The price volatility of some of the raw materials ICI uses could unavailable, and there can be no assurance that the Group will be adversely affect its results of operations able to obtain suitable and cost effective substitutes.
Furthermore, ICI uses significant amounts of various chemicals and other materials any consolidation in the industries that supply the Groups raw as raw materials in manufacturing its products.
Prices for some of these materials could further reduce the number of available suppliers.
raw materials are volatile and are affected by cyclical movements Any interruption of supply or price increases caused by these or in commodity prices, availability of such raw materials, demand for other factors, which the Group is not able to mitigate by securing a variety of products which are produced using these raw materials, satisfactory replacement suppliers, could have an adverse effect on levels of price competition among local and global suppliers and general its results of operations.
The Groups diverse portfolio of value added ICIs indebtedness and resulting leverage could reduce its products provides some ability to pass on higher input prices to its operational and competitive flexibility, increase its vulnerability to customers, but this ability is, to a large extent, dependent upon market adverse economic and industry conditions, increase its interest conditions.
There may be periods of time in which the Group is not able costs and adversely affect results of operations and cash flow.
to recover increases in the cost of raw materials for some products due to weakness in demand for such products or the actions of its competitors.
ICIs outstanding net indebtedness amounted to 1.33bn as of This may adversely affect the Groups results of operations.
ICIs indebtedness could affect the Group in adverse ways, in particular by requiring the Group to dedicate a The occurrence of major operational problems could have an significant portion of its operational cash flow to service payments adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and cash flow.
on such indebtedness, and by limiting its ability to borrow additional The Groups revenues are dependent on the continued operation of funds or refinance existing indebtedness on attractive terms.
Operational risks include: Furthermore, its indebtedness could increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit its ability to fund equipment and systems failures: future capital expenditures, research and development and other failure to comply with applicable regulations and standards and general corporate requirements and limit its flexibility to react to to maintain necessary permits and approvals: changes in its business and the industries in which the Group operates.
raw material supply disruptions: labour force shortages or work stoppages: 116 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 RISK FACTORS continued and which currently remain in place for certain pipeline capacity and In addition, like many other companies, ICI is dependent on its gas purchase contracts.
While the two businesses for which ICI have ability to obtain short-term financing to fund a portion of its financing provided these guarantees continue to operate normally, Enron Corp. requirements.
While ICI has access to 877m in committed and has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States.
As undrawn bank facilities as of 31 December 2003, limitations on ICIs of 31 December 2003, the estimate of the Groups maximum potential ability to access short-term financing could increase its interest costs liability under these guarantees was 393m.
and could adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow.
The extent to which ICI will be required in the future to incur costs A decision by the rating agencies to downgrade ICIs credit rating under any of the indemnifications, warranties, guarantees or contracts would reduce its funding options, increase its cost of borrowings discussed above or any similar contractual provision which the Group and have an adverse impact on results of operations and cash flow.
entered into in connection with its disposal programme, is not predictable and, if the Group should incur such costs, the costs A number of factors, some of which are not within the Groups control, could have an adverse effect on results of operations, cash flow and may, individually or in combination, affect the rating agencies view of financial condition.
the Groups credit profile and lead them to place the Group on credit watch or downgrade its credit rating, including: Risks associated with the Groups international operations could adversely affect its results of operations.
the absence of an upturn in global economic activity in 2004: ICI is an international business with operations located in over 50 a significant deterioration in the Groups trading position: countries and conducts business in many currencies.
These a significant deterioration in the economic environment in which operations are subject to the risks associated with international the Group operates: operations which include: the incurrence of substantial costs arising from the Groups slowdown or recession in global, regional or national economic contingent liabilities: growth: the inability of the Group to generate free cash flow by 2005: or tariffs and trade barriers: the occurrence of any of the events described in the other risk exchange controls: factors contained in this Annual Report and Accounts.
fluctuations in national currencies: Although the Group is currently rated investment grade by the major social and political risks: US rating agencies, its ratings were lowered by Moodys in 2003.
Any further downgrade of the Groups credit rating would reduce its national and regional labour disputes: funding options including a loss of access to the major commercial required compliance with a variety of foreign laws, regulations and paper and money markets, would significantly increase its cost of standards: and borrowings and would have an adverse effect on results of operations and cash flow.
the difficulty of enforcing legal claims and agreements through some foreign legal systems.
Recently disposed businesses may expose ICI to costs that could have an adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flow and Furthermore, some of ICIs businesses are subject to cyclical financial condition.
fluctuations in the industries and economies in which they operate.
Finally, like all international businesses, ICI faces the risk of exposure In recent years, ICI has carried out a programme of strategic when costs arise in a different currency than sales and the risk arising disposals, in the course of which it has given to other parties in from the need to translate foreign currency denominated profits into those transactions certain indemnities, warranties and guarantees, pounds sterling, the Groups reporting currency.
Any of the risks including indemnities, warranties and guarantees relating to known discussed above could adversely affect its results of operations.
and potential latent environmental, health and safety liabilities.
There are also a number of contracts relating to businesses that ICI exited Economic, social and political conditions in developing economies as part of its disposal programme which have not been novated to could adversely affect the Groups results of operations and future the purchasers of these businesses.
ICIs original disposal of the Chlor-Chemicals business to Ineos Chlor ICI has operations in many developing economies in Asia and Latin included an agreement for ICI to provide Ineos Chlor with a 100m America, and its strategy includes continuing to expand its business loan facility.
As part of an overall refinancing package for Ineos Chlor, in these regions.
However, many developing economies have recent ICI agreed on 31 July 2003 to make available new funding of 60m histories of economic, social and political instability brought about alongside 45m of new funding from the Ineos Group and 50m of by a number of factors, including unexpected changes in local laws, Regional Selective Assistance RSA from the UK Government.
regulations and standards, substantial depreciation and volatility in The new funding from ICI comprises a 30m cash contribution and national currencies, the imposition of trade barriers, and wage and additional loan finance of 30m.
The terms of the 100m loan having price controls.
In particular, ICIs businesses in Argentina and Brazil been restructured, loan repayments are due by the end of 2010. have been, and may continue to be, affected by recent economic conditions in those countries.
Any of these factors could adversely As a consequence of this, the 65m claim previously notified to ICI affect ICIs results of operations and future growth.
by Ineos Chlor in connection with the original sale of the business has been withdrawn.
ICIs exposure to consumer markets exposes it to legal risks, regulation and potential liabilities from product liability claims In connection with the sale of the Groups 50% interest in Teesside asserted by consumers which could have an adverse effect on Gas Transportation Ltd and Teesside Power Ltd, the Group received results of operations and financial condition.
counter guarantees from Enron Corp. for guarantees that it had given ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 117 shareholder information continued A significant proportion of the Groups products is sold directly or ICI has established provisions in respect of future environmental, indirectly to end-user consumers, even if the Group does not itself health and safety liabilities that are not covered by enforceable provide these products directly to consumers.
This exposure to indemnities from third parties, for which expenditure is probable consumer markets exposes the Group to legal risks, regulation by and the cost of which can be estimated within a reasonable range relevant authorities and potential liabilities to consumers of these of outcomes.
These actual and potential liabilities, however, are products, which may not be covered by the Groups existing insurance inherently difficult to predict and to quantify.
Existing provisions could coverage or may exceed its insurance coverage.
Any of these factors therefore be inadequate to cover these liabilities, and additional costs could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and to meet such actual and potential obligations could have an adverse financial condition.
effect on the Groups results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.
Certain companies in the Group are defendants in various lawsuits which, if successfully asserted against them, could have an adverse ICI has given undertakings and guarantees relating to pension funds, effect on its results of operations and financial condition.
including the solvency of the ICI UK Pension Fund, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations and cash flow.
Certain companies in the Group are defendants in various lawsuits.
These lawsuits concern issues such as alleged product liability, ICI provides retirement benefits for the majority of its former and contract disputes and property damage matters.
For a more detailed current employees through a variety of defined benefit and defined discussion of these lawsuits, see note 39 to the consolidated financial contribution schemes.
These include the ICI UK Pension Fund, which statements.
is ICIs largest defined benefit scheme and which, at 31 December 2003, had liabilities of approximately 6.8bn.
This fund accounts for The Glidden Company Glidden, a wholly owned subsidiary of ICI, approximately 85% of ICIs retirement benefit schemes by asset value is a defendant, along with other former lead paint and pigment and projected benefit terms and covers approximately 78,000 former producers as well as other lead product manufacturers and their trade and current employees in the UK.
The Group currently has 35,030 associations, in a number of lawsuits in the United States.
ICI has guaranteed the solvency of the ICI UK seek damages for alleged personal injury caused by lead-based paint Pension Fund.
or the costs of removing lead-based paint.
An alleged predecessor of Glidden manufactured lead pigments until the 1950s and lead-based On 16 October 2003, ICI announced the completion of the triennial consumer paint until the 1960s.
Glidden is unable to quantify the valuation of the ICI UK Pension Fund Fund.
The valuation amount being claimed although the suits are likely to involve concluded that as of 31 March 2003, the ICI UK Pension Fund had substantial claims for damages.
Rulings adverse to Glidden or other a deficit for funding purposes of 443m and a solvency ratio of 93%, defendants could lead to additional claims.
compared with a deficit of 148m and a solvency ratio of 98% as of 31 March 2000.
The successful assertion of claims made under these or other current or future lawsuits could have an adverse effect on the Groups results ICI has agreed to make top-up contributions to the Fund of 62m of operations and financial condition.
per year for nine years from 2004, and to provide an asset-backed guarantee, via a wholly owned subsidiary specifically incorporated Violations of environmental, health and safety and other laws, to provide the guarantee, for 250m to support its commitments to regulations and standards could restrict the Groups operations, the Fund.
Such asset backed guarantee will be secured by way of expose it to liability, increase its costs and have an adverse effect fixed and floating charge over the assets of the subsidiary.
These on its results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.
arrangements replace the previous schedule of six annual top-up ICI is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and standards in payments of 30m that was agreed in 2000. each of the jurisdictions where it operates, relating to pollution, the At 31 December 2003, over 75% of the Funds assets were invested health and safety of employees, protection of the public, protection of in fixed-income securities.
The balance of the Funds assets were the environment and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, invested almost exclusively in equities.
treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials.
These regulations and standards are becoming Accordingly, ICI is exposed to the financial performance of its retirement increasingly stringent.
benefit schemes and particularly to the financial performance of the ICI UK Pension Fund.
In certain circumstances, ICI may be required In the ordinary course of business ICI is subject to inspections and to increase its top-up contributions to the ICI UK Pension Fund.
This monitoring by the appropriate enforcement authorities.
ICI also could have an adverse impact on the Groups results of operations and requires relevant permits and approvals for its operations which cash flow.
require compliance with their terms and which may be subject to renewal, modification and, in some circumstances, revocation.
It is the Groups policy to require that its subsidiaries comply with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
However, violations of applicable laws, regulations and standards, in particular provisions of environmental, health and safety laws including spills or other releases of hazardous substances to the environment or of permit or approval requirements, could result in restrictions on the operation of the Groups facilities, damages, fines or other sanctions, increased costs of compliance as well as reputational damage.
ICI is also subject to environmental laws and regulations, principally in respect of soil and groundwater remediation, that in the future may require it to take action to correct effects on the environment of prior disposal or release of chemical substances by the Group or other parties.
118 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Incorporation of the Company Imperial Chemical Industries PLC was originally incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England, under the Companies Acts, 1908 to 1917 on 7 December 1926 as a limited company.
It was re-registered under the Companies Acts, 1948 to 1980 as a public limited company on 30 June 1981.
Memorandum and Articles of Association A summary of certain provisions of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association was filed with the Companys report to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Registered Office 20 Manchester Square London W1U 3AN Telephone 44 0 20 7009 5000 Annual Report on Form 20-F 2004 The information in this report comprises the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company in accordance with United Kingdom requirements, certain portions of which will be included in the Annual Report on Form 20-F that will be filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission SEC for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Unless specifically otherwise indicated, this report has been prepared as at 11 February 2004, the date on which the Directors presented their Annual Report and Accounts and on which the independent auditors issued their opinion in compliance with UK requirements.
When the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2003 is filed with the SEC, certain information contained in this report may be updated or supplemented.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 119 shareholder information continued Quarterly results The ADSs representing ICIs Ordinary Shares are listed on the New Unaudited trading results of the ICI Group for 2004 are expected to be York Stock Exchange and ICIs Ordinary Shares are listed on the announced as follows: Official List of the Financial Services Authority and traded on the First quarter 29 April 2004 London Stock Exchange.
Reports and other information about the Half year 29 July 2004 Group that ICI has filed pursuant to the rules of the New York Stock Nine months 28 October 2004 Exchange, the Financial Services Authority and the London Stock Full year 10 February 2005 Exchange may be consulted at those bodies.
Dividend payments A copy of each report filed within the preceding 12 months can also A second interim dividend for the year 2003, which the Annual General be inspected by any shareholder or ADR holder during normal Meeting will be asked to confirm, is payable on 16 April 2004 to business hours at the offices of the Company at 20 Manchester Ordinary shareholders registered in the books of the Company on Square, London, W1U 3AN.
Dividends are normally paid as follows: Exchange rates First interim: Announced with the Half year results and paid in The following table sets forth, for the years, months and dates early October: indicated, the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers in Second interim: Announced with the Full year results and paid in pounds sterling as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York midto late April.
for customs purposes the noon buying rate : Highest Lowest Average At Registrar and Transfer Office rate rate rate 31 Dec Lloyds TSB Registrars during during during US$ to pound sterling 1 period period period The Causeway Year 2 3 2 Worthing 1999 1.68 1.55 1.62 1.62 West Sussex BN99 6DA 2000 1.65 1.40 1.51 1.50 Telephone: 0870 600 3993 2001 1.50 1.37 1.44 1.45 Dividend mandate 2002 1.61 1.41 1.50 1.61 Any shareholder wishing dividends to be paid directly into a bank or 2003 1.78 1.55 1.64 1.78 building society account should contact the Registrar for a dividend 2003 mandate form.
Dividends paid in this way will be paid through the August 1.62 1.57 Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
September 1.66 1.57 Low-cost share dealing service October 1.70 1.66 The Company has arranged a share dealing service through The Share November 1.72 1.67 Centre Limited, a member of the London Stock Exchange, under December 1.78 1.72 which existing and new shareholders may buy or sell ICI shares at an attractive commission rate.
Further information may be obtained by 2004 contacting The Share Centre Limited: January 1.85 1.79 February as of 9 February 1.86 1.82 The Share Centre Limited PO Box 2000 The noon buying rate on 9 February 2004 was $1.86 1 Aylesbury 1 All figures have been taken directly or derived from figures released Buckinghamshire HP21 8ZB through the Public Information Office of the Federal Reserve in Telephone: 01296 414 144 Washington, D. C. or New York City.
The publication of the information above in relation to the share 2 The noon buying rate on such dates differed from the rates used in dealing service has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 preparation of the Groups financial statements as of such dates.
of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by The Share Centre Limited, which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
3 The average is the average of the noon buying rate on the last day of each month during the period indicated.
ADR Depositary JPMorgan Chase Bank is Depositary for ICIs American Depositary Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and Receipts.
Shareholder enquiries may be directed to: the US dollar will affect the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling prices of the Ordinary Shares of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC on JPMorgan Chase Bank the London Stock Exchange and, as a result, will affect the market ADR Service Centre prices of ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange.
Cash dividends, PO Box 43013 if any, will be paid by the Company in respect of Ordinary Shares in Providence, RI 029403013 pounds sterling, and exchange rate fluctuations will affect the US USA dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion by the Telephone: 781 575 4328 Depositary of such dividends.
Documents on display Securities and Exchange Commission A substantial proportion of the Groups assets, liabilities, revenues ICI files annual, semi-annual and special reports and other information and expenses are denominated in currencies other than pounds with the SEC.
Any document that ICI files may be read and copied sterling.
Accordingly, fluctuations in the value of the pound sterling at the SECs public reference room at 450 Fifth Street, N. W. Washington, relative to other currencies can have a significant effect on the D. C. 20549, USA.
Please call the SEC at 18007320330 for translation into sterling of non-sterling assets, liabilities, revenues further information or view reports filed since 4 November 2002 online and expenses see Operating and financial review, pages 22 and 23. at www.
120 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003
