accounting policies As used in the financial statements and related notes, the term currency borrowings and deposits are included with net interest Company refers to Imperial Chemical Industries PLC: the terms payable.
Exchange differences on all other balances, except relevant ICI and Group refer to the Company and its consolidated foreign currency loans, are taken to operating profit.
In the Group subsidiaries but not to its associates.
accounts, exchange differences arising on consolidation of the net investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings and associates are The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost taken to reserves, as are differences arising on equity investments convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and denominated in foreign currencies in the Company accounts.
Accounting policies conform with Differences on relevant foreign currency loans are taken to reserves UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
The and offset against the differences on net investments in both Group Group has elected to adopt the provisions of UITF 38 Accounting for and Company accounts.
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies.
The accounting policies of some Financial derivatives overseas subsidiaries do not conform with UK Accounting Standards Hedge accounting and, where appropriate, adjustments are made on consolidation in The Group uses various derivative financial instruments to reduce order to present the Group financial statements on a consistent basis.
exposure to foreign exchange risks.
These include currency swaps, Note 41 describes the significant differences between UK GAAP forward currency contracts and currency options.
The Group also and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP and uses interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and interest rate presents a reconciliation of net income and shareholders equity from caps derivatives to adjust interest rate exposures.
The Group considers UK GAAP to US GAAP as a result of each difference.
its derivative financial instruments to be hedges i. e. an offset of foreign exchange and interest rate risks when certain criteria are met.
Turnover Under hedge accounting for currency options, the Group defers the Turnover excludes Intra-Group sales and value added taxes.
Revenue instruments impact on profit until it recognises the underlying hedged is recognised at the point at which title passes.
Other material instruments do not involve deferral since Depreciation the profit impact they offset occurs during the terms of the contracts.
The Groups policy is to write-off the book value of each tangible fixed Foreign currency derivative instruments: asset excluding land to its residual value evenly over its estimated The Groups criteria to qualify for hedge accounting are: remaining life.
Reviews are made annually of the estimated remaining The instrument must be related to a foreign currency asset or liability lives of individual productive assets, taking account of commercial and that is probable and whose characteristics have been identified: technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear.
Under this policy it becomes impracticable to calculate average asset lives It must involve the same currency as the hedged item: and exactly: however, the total lives approximate to 31 years for buildings It must reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on and 13 years for plant and equipment.
Depreciation of assets qualifying the Groups operations.
for grants is calculated on their full cost.
No depreciation has been Interest rate derivative instruments: provided on land.
Impairment reviews are performed where there is The Groups criteria to qualify for hedge accounting are: an indication of potential impairment.
If the carrying value of an asset exceeds its discounted estimated future cashflows the impairment is The instrument must be related to an asset or a liability: and charged to the profit and loss account.
It must change the character of the interest rate by converting a variable rate to a fixed rate or vice versa.
Pension costs The pension costs relating to Group retirement plans are assessed Derivative financial instruments reported in the financial statements: in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
The unamortised premium paid on purchased currency options is The amounts so determined include the regular cost of providing the included in debtors in the balance sheet.
benefits under the plans which should be a level percentage of current Cash flows related to foreign currency derivative transactions are and expected future earnings of the employees covered under the reported along with related transactions in net cash inflow from plans.
Variations from the regular pension cost are spread on a systematic operating activities or returns on investments and servicing of finance, basis over the estimated average remaining service lives of current as appropriate, in the Statement of Group cash flow.
Currency swaps Research and development Principal amounts are revalued at exchange rates ruling at the date Research and development expenditure is charged to profit in the year of the Group balance sheet and included in the sterling value of loans.
In accordance with SSAP20 and FRS 3 exchange gains losses are Exceptional items included in the Statement of Group total recognised gains and Exceptional items are material items which derive from events or losses along with similar movements in the values of the investments transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group and being hedged.
which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, need to be Forward currency contracts disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence if the financial statements Those forward currency contracts hedging transaction exposures are to give a true and fair view.
purchases and sales held in the books of account are revalued to Foreign currencies balance sheet rates with net unrealised gains losses being shown as Profit and loss accounts in foreign currencies are translated into debtors creditors.
Both realised gains and losses on purchases sales sterling at average rates for the relevant accounting periods.
Assets and unrealised gains losses on forward contracts are recognised in and liabilities are translated at exchange rates ruling at the date of the operating profit.
Exchange differences on short-term foreign 52 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Financial derivatives continued Environmental liabilities Forward currency contracts continued The Group is exposed to environmental liabilities relating primarily Those contracts used to change the currency mix of net debt are to its past operations, principally in respect of soil and groundwater revalued to balance sheet rates with net unrealised gains losses being remediation costs.
Provisions for these costs are made when shown as part of the debt they are hedging.
The difference between expenditure on remedial work is probable and the cost can be spot and forward rate for these contracts is recognised as part of estimated within a reasonable range of possible outcomes.
net interest payable over the period of the contract.
Realised and Disposal provisions unrealised exchange gains losses are shown in the financial statements The Group is exposed to certain liabilities when businesses are in the same place as the underlying borrowing deposit.
divested and disposal provisions are created as part of the gain Currency options or loss on disposal calculation.
Typical costs include pension liabilities, Option premia are recognised at their historic cost in the Group environmental costs, transaction costs and separation costs.
balance sheet as other debtors.
At maturity, the option premia net Provisions are only established when the Group has a present of any realised gains on exercise, are taken to the financial statements obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is as operating profit.
probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the Interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements amount of the obligation.
The Group reviews its disposal provisions Interest payments receipts are accrued with net interest payable.
regularly to determine whether they accurately reflect the present They are not revalued to fair value or shown on the Group balance obligations of the Group based on the latest available facts.
If they are terminated early, the gain or loss is spread over the remaining maturity of the original instrument.
Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that arise from past Interest rate caps events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence The option premia are recognised on the Group balance sheet as of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the Groups other debtors.
The option premia, net of any realised gains on control or are present obligations arising from past events that are not individual caplets, are taken to net interest payable and spread recognised as it is not probable a transfer of economic benefits will evenly over the lifetime of the cap.
occur or the amount cannot be measured with sufficient certainty.
The Associates Group reviews its obligations regularly and provides disclosures of its Associates are undertakings in which the Group holds a long-term contingent liabilities in note 39. interest and over which it actually exercises significant influence.
Goodwill The Groups share of the profits less losses from associates are On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to included in the Group profit and loss account on the equity accounting the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of basis.
The holding value of associates in the Group balance sheet the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of is calculated by reference to the Groups equity in the net assets of such net assets.
For purchased goodwill arising on acquisitions after such undertakings, as shown by the most recent accounts available.
31 December 1997 goodwill is capitalised and amortised through the Interests in joint arrangements that are not entities are included profit and loss account over a period of 20 years unless the Directors proportionately in the accounts of the investing entity.
consider it has a materially different useful life, either on acquisition Investments or subsequently, if a shorter life is indicated.
For goodwill arising Investments are held at cost less provisions for impairment.
on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 purchased goodwill was charged directly to reserves in the year of acquisition.
On subsequent Taxation disposal or termination of a previously acquired business, the profit or Full provision for deferred tax is made for timing differences between loss recognised on disposal or termination is calculated after charging the recognition of gains and losses in the consolidated financial the amount of any related goodwill previously taken to reserves.
statements and their recognition in the tax computation, using current Impairment reviews are performed where there is an indication of tax rates except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
The Group does potential impairment.
If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds it not discount these balances.
No deferred tax is provided in respect of estimated recoverable amount, any impairment is charged to the profit any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries or associates and loss account.
The estimated recoverable amount of goodwill is where no commitment has been made to remit such earnings.
Taxation determined based on discounted projected future operating cash flows.
on exchange differences on relevant foreign currency loans used to finance net investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates is Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP taken to reserves to be consistent with the treatment of the underlying The financial statements of the Group include the assets and related exchange differences on the loans and net investments.
liabilities of the Imperial Chemical Industries PLC Employee Benefits Trust and Impkemix Trustees Limited, a subsidiary company of the Stock valuation Group, which acts as trustee for the Groups employee share Finished goods, raw materials and other stocks are stated at the lower ownership plan.
The Group has elected to adopt early the provisions of cost and net realisable value, the first in, first out or an average of UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts in these financial statements.
method of valuation is used.
In determining cost for stock valuation Under the requirements of UITF 38 the shares held by the ESOP are purposes, depreciation is included but selling expenses and certain stated at cost and deducted from shareholders funds.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 53
