definitions In this document the following words and expressions shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the following meanings: ADR American Depositary Receipt evidencing title to an ADS ADS American Depositary Share representing four underlying Ordinary Shares of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC bn billion 1,000 million Company Imperial Chemical Industries PLC Comparable performance References to comparable performance excludes the effect of currency translation differences and the impact of acquisitions and divestments on the results reported by the International Businesses.
Performance is measured on a consistent basis over two or more financial periods.
Comparable results for both 2003 and 2002 are translated at constant exchange rates, which equate to the annual average exchange rates for 2002 and exclude the results of divested businesses and the impact of acquired businesses from the relevant periods.
Demerger The Demerger of Zeneca Limited and its subsidiaries from the ICI Group Depositary JPMorgan Chase Bank, as depositary under the deposit agreement pursuant to which the ADRs are issued Directors The Directors of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC EBIT Profit on ordinary activities before interest and taxation Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA ICI defines EBITDA as operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation and goodwill amortisation.
ICIs total depreciation before exceptional asset write-downs was 191m 2002 196m: 2001 209m.
Management believes EBITDA and related measures of cash flow serve as important financial indicators.
However, EBITDA should not be considered in isolation, or as an alternative to operating or net income or cash flows from operating activities, in each case, determined in accordance with UK or US GAAP as appropriate.
Effective tax rate Effective tax rate is calculated as taxation excluding tax on exceptional items divided by profit before tax, before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
ESOP Employee Share Ownership Plan FRS Financial Reporting Standard UK ICI, ICI Group or the Group Imperial Chemical Industries PLC and its subsidiaries Interest cover Calculations of interest cover are based on the sum of ICIs operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation and net associate company income associate trading profit less associate interest divided by ICIs interest cost excluding associate interest.
London Stock Exchange London Stock Exchange plc m million Ordinary Shares Ordinary shares of 1 each in the capital of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC pound sterling, pence or p Refers to units of UK currency SEC The United States Securities and Exchange Commission SFAS Statement of Financial Accounting Standards US Trading profit ICI defines trading profit as operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Trading margin Trading margin is calculated as trading profit, expressed as a percentage of sales.
UK or United Kingdom United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland US dollar, dollar, US$ or $ Refers to units of US currency USA or US or United States United States of America Zeneca a in relation to the period prior to the Demerger becoming effective, the pharmaceuticals, agricultural chemicals, seeds, specialty chemical and biological products businesses and companies transferred by the ICI Group to Zeneca Limited: and b in relation to the period after the Demerger becoming effective, Zeneca Group PLC and its subsidiaries Figures in parentheses in tables and financial statements are used to represent negative numbers.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 121 definitions continued Definitions used in computation of Group Financial Targets Comparable sales Group Group sales excluding the effects of currency translation differences and the impact of acquisitions and divestments.
Trading margin Group Group trading profit expressed as a percentage of sales.
Group earnings per Ordinary Share Group profit after tax and minority interests before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue less the weighted average number of shares held by the Groups employee share plans during the period.
Return on average net assets RONA Trading profit as a percentage of average net operating assets excluding goodwill.
Return on capital employed ROCE Group trading profit after goodwill amortisation, before exceptional items, after restructuring amortisation and after tax divided by average net operating assets net operating exceptional items : expressed as a percentage.
Notes: i Cash expenditure on restructuring is capitalised in each year that expenditure occurs and is then amortised over three years starting on 1 January following the year of the expenditure.
ii A tax charge is applied to the Group trading profit before goodwill amortisation and after restructuring amortisation using the Groups effective tax rate for the year 2003: 29%, 2002: 29%.
The Groups effective tax rate is calculated as taxation excluding tax on exceptional items divided by profit before tax, before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Net operating assets Tangible fixed assets plus goodwill on acquisitions plus operating working capital.
i Goodwill on acquisitions relates to goodwill capitalised on the Group balance sheet and, therefore, excludes goodwill arising prior to 31 December 1997 largely that arising on the acquisition of the Unilever Speciality Chemical businesses which has been charged directly to reserves.
Net operating exceptional items For financial ratio calculation purposes only, this is defined as: Asset write downs arising on restructuring plus cash cost of restructuring before tax and after amortisation: for financial ratio purposes only, cash expenditure is capitalised in each year that expenditure occurs and is then amortised over three years starting on 1 January following the year of expenditure.
Group cash flow before acquisitions Group cash flow before use of liquid resources and financing and add back cash flow on acquisitions less cash loans to associates and other investments.
122 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 index Notes Pages Notes Pages Notes Pages Accounting Directors Operating assets net policies 52-53 retirement benefits 45 by class of business 4 64 standards 1 58 share options 43-44 by geographic area 4 65 UK US GAAP 41 103 shareholdings 46 Operating costs 5 66 Acquisitions 28 87 Disposals 30 53, 88 Operating profit loss 5 66 American Depositary Receipts 113-114 Dividends Paints business 13, 14, 28 Annual General Meeting 37 paid, payable 9 70 Payment to suppliers 37 Asset lives 52 payment dates 9 70 Pension costs Associates Earnings per Ordinary Share 10 71 accounting policy 52 accounting policy 53 Employee share ownership charge provision 36 93 principal associates 14 75 plan accounting policy 53 Performance Specialties business 13, 27 share of profits 6 18, 67 Employees Political donations 37 Audit Committee membership numbers and costs 35 92 Post-retirement benefits 36 93 Auditor Independent Auditor pensions 36 93 Profit and loss account 54-55 remuneration 38 37, 100policies 37 Profit report 50 Environment by class of business 4 62 Balance sheets 56 accounting policy 53 by geographic area 4 63 Board committees 34 commentary 16 Provisions for liabilities Board of Directors 30-31 contingencies 39 101 and charges 21 80 Borrowings, short-term 18 77 creditors 19 77 Quest business 12, 13, 27 Business provisions 21 80 Raw materials 14 description 9-17 Exceptional items 3 60 Recognised gains and losses 54 reviews 2003 26-29 Executive management team 32 Regional and Industrial 14, 29 Capital Financial Registrar 120 expenditure 27 15, 87 highlights 3 Related party transactions 40 102 commitments 39 101 objectives 9 Remuneration Committee expenditure by business 4 15, 62 review 18-24membership 34, 47 expenditure and financial selected data 4-6report 38-48 investment cash 27 87 Financial derivatives Research and development 5 15, 52, 66 Capital gains tax, shareholders 115 accounting policy 52-53 Reserves 24 85 Cash and short-term borrowings 33 90 hedging 20, 37 21, 22, Restructuring 22 81 Cash flow 78, 96 Returns on investments 26 87 commentary 20-21 Financial risk management 37 21, 96 Safety, health, environment 16-17 group statement 57 Financing 31 89 Seasonality 14 inflow from operating 25 86 Fixed assets Share capital 23 83 US GAAP 41 108 intangible 11 72 Shareholders funds 21, 57 Chairmans and the Chief tangible 12 73 Shareholders information 114 Executives statement 7-8 Going concern 37 Shareholdings analysis 114 Charitable donations 37 Goodwill Share options 23 83-84 Competition 15 accounting policy 53 Share premium account 24 85 Contingent liabilities 39 53, 101 reserves, charge to 24 85 Stocks Corporate governance 33-36 Government regulations 16-17 accounting policy 53 Counterparty credit risk 23 Intellectual property 15 analysis 15 76 Creditors 19 77 Interest payable net 7 67 Subsidiaries Critical accounting policies 24 Internal control investment 13 74 Currencies corporate governance 35 principal undertakings 112 accounting policy 52 Investments Substantial interests 114 Debt net analysis 32 90 current assets 17 77 Taxation Debtors 16 76 participating, other 14 75 accounting policy 53 Deferred taxation 8, 21 70, 80 short-term deposits 17 77 analysis 8 68 Depreciation subsidiaries 13 74 commentary 19 accounting policy 52 Leases 34 91 Treasury policies 21 by class of business 4 62 Liquid resources 29 87 Turnover Directors Loans 20 78 accounting policy 52 biographies 30-31 Markets and distribution 14 by class of business 4 62 long-term incentive plan 39, 42 National Starch business 11, 12, 26 by geographic area 4 63 remuneration 2 38-48, 59 Notes to accounts 58-111 by customer location 4 65 report 37 Operating and financial review US GAAP 41 103 responsibilities 49 financial review 18-24 US GAAP 25 business review 2003 26-29 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 123 Auditor: KPMG Audit Plc, 8 Salisbury Square, London EC4Y 8BB Registered Office: 20 Manchester Square, London W1U 3AN Telephone: 44 0 20 7009 5000 DESIGN: www.
com PRINTED IN ENGLAND: St Ives Westerham Press The Vital Ingredient www.
com our group contents Our vision is to develop genuine leadership in formulation 02 statement by the chairman science.
We have, and will continue to build, a portfolio of and the chief executive 05 chief financial officers review businesses that are leaders within their respective industries, 08 business review bringing together outstanding knowledge of customer needs 12 leadership team 13 summary corporate governance with leading edge technology platforms in materials report 14 summary remuneration report technology, molecular science and bioscience.
16 summary financial statement 20 shareholder information We create products that provide superior performance the vital ingredients for our customers.
financial highlights Throughout this Annual Review, unless Turnover continuing operations millions otherwise indicated: 2001 6,425 References to comparable 2002 6,125 performance exclude the effect of 2003 5,849 currency translation differences and the impact of acquisitions and divestments note 1, p18 on the results reported by the International Businesses.
Group profit before tax before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Trading profit is defined as operating millions profit before exceptional items and 2001 401 goodwill amortisation.
400 2002 Profit before tax and earnings per share 2003 341 figures are quoted before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Earnings per 1 Ordinary Share Group earnings per share are quoted on an undiluted basis.
before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Pence per 1 Ordinary Share International Businesses comprise 2001 29.8 the Groups National Starch, 2002 23.7 Quest, Performance Specialties and Paints businesses.
2003 18.5 Group earnings per share after exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Pence per 1 Ordinary Share 2001 11.7 2002 16.1 2003 1.7 sales by market sector NATIONAL STARCH food 24% 13% personal & home care 16% 24% National Starch has an immense product diverse industrial products 16% 11% range.
It markets to sectors as diverse as food, paper & packaging 20% electronics 11% healthcare, personal care and construction.
construction 13% Four divisions are grouped around adhesives, 16% 20% Sales 1,866m specialty starches, specialty synthetic polymers Trading profit 199m and electronic and engineering materials.
Net operating assets 1,317m 16% Employees 9,670 Headquarters in the USA, with manufacturing and customer service centres in 37 countries.
sales by market sector QUEST food 60% personal & home care 40% Quest creates and markets flavours, food ingredients and fragrances for the fast moving 40% consumer goods industries including foods, snacks, beverages, personal care, fine 60% Sales 691m fragrance and home hygiene products.
Trading profit 45m Headquarters in the Netherlands and the UK, Net operating assets 437m Employees 4,590 with operations in 36 countries.
sales by market sector PERFORMANCE SPECIALTIES diverse industrial products 65% 7% personal & home care 28% Performance Specialties concentrates on food, agriculture, paper & packaging 7% products which deliver specific effects that 28% influence how customers products feel or perform.
The business helps to make everyday 65% Sales 669m products from shampoos and refrigerators, Trading profit 8m to cars and babies diapers work better.
Net operating assets 431m Employees 2,950 Headquarters in the Netherlands, with manufacturing in 12 countries.
sales by market sector ICI PAINTS decorative & architectural 91% 9% paper & packaging 9% ICI Paints has some of the worlds top paint and decorative product brands.
It aims to inspire consumers to transform their surroundings with performance products and Sales 2,163m colour, and it makes products to prepare and Trading profit 203m 91% care for all building materials, as well as can Net operating assets 835m Employees 15,610 and packaging coatings.
Headquarters in the UK, with manufacturing in 26 countries.
1 statement by the chairman and the chief executive At the beginning of 2003, when we looked ahead we believed it would be another challenging year for business.
Certainly markets in quarter one were difficult, and in ICI we also faced particular business issues.
Now, at the beginning of 2004, we believe we have made progress on a number of fronts.
We also are cautiously optimistic of an upturn in the business climate but wary of predicting its timing.
2003 PERFORMANCE 2003 has been challenging indeed, and while we experienced success in some areas, the results for the year overall were less than satisfactory.
We are determined to change that.
Trading conditions in 2003 were generally tough, and we take no comfort from knowing that peer companies were also finding it difficult to make much progress.
Although demand for our products grew in China and other large Asian markets, it was generally weak elsewhere in the world.
Sales and profits during quarter one were particularly affected by a combination of sharp increases in raw material and energy costs, which especially hit National Starch, and lower sales by Quests European food business, mainly as a result of business lost following the customer service problem in 2002.
It became plain that quarter one profits would fall well below expectations, prompting the ICI Board to issue a trading statement in March 2003.
National Starch raised prices, which has since helped partially to offset the sharp cost increases.
In Quest we have seen no obvious sign of a further significant erosion of business in its European foods unit during 2003, although equally, no obvious improvement in sales.
However, in quarter one it was also clear that far-reaching changes were needed.
Beginning within the senior management team, the Board appointed a new Chief Executive in April and also named Charles Knott, formerly National Starchs Chief Operating Officer, to lead Quest.
David Hamill joined the Board from Royal Philips Electronics in December as the new Chairman and Chief Executive of ICI Paints.
Fulfilling the succession plan the Company had announced in June, Lord Trotman retired as ICI Chairman on 31 December 2003.
We also decided on a course of action to improve ICIs performance, starting with measures to reduce costs and rebuild margins in order to deliver long term income growth.
These included a worldwide restructuring programme aimed to achieve more than 100 million of benefit to the profit and loss account in 2005.
This included planned productivity upgrades in ICI Paints, which we brought forward, and a series of operating efficiency improvements in the specialty chemicals businesses.
Thanks to the determined efforts of our people and the tentative economic upturn in the USA in the third and fourth quarters, performance improved after the first quarter.
Nevertheless, only the Paints business achieved profit growth for the full year, and Group profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation for the year, at 341 million, was 15% below last year, underlining the need for change.
2 ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 Peter B Ellwood CBE, Chairman left and John D G McAdam, Chief Executive right The price of restructuring has been high for both employees and shareholders.
And we cannot ignore the possibility that other tough decisions may yet be necessary.
But significant uncertainties that faced the Group 12 months ago have been resolved, or at least quantified.
The triennial review of the ICI UK Pension Fund by far the Groups largest was completed.
We also completed a refinancing agreement with Ineos Chlor and completed the sale of ICIs remaining interests in Huntsman International Holdings.
ICIs debt, which stood at 2.9 billion at the end of 2001, has been reduced to 1.3 billion following the rights issue and the Synetix and Huntsman International divestments, and as a consequence of strong cash generation.
It is time to look forward.
RENEWED PERFORMANCE With our third quarter results, we offered shareholders an updated strategy for profitable growth and set out new financial targets.
Our objective is to become the genuine leader in formulation science.
We aim to achieve this by combining our outstanding knowledge of customer needs with our leading edge technology platforms to develop products that provide improved performance for customers and consumers.
We have, and will continue to build, a portfolio of businesses which are leaders in their respective industries.
We do not believe, at this time, that shareholders best interests would be served by a major divestment.
This doesnt mean never, and we will continue to consider small bolt-off divestments.
But it does mean that shareholder value needs to be delivered in the nearterm by achieving substantial performance improvement throughout todays ICI.
We must continue to strive for ever-increasing levels of effectiveness, not rely on favourable market conditions to drive profit growth.
We will concentrate on growth regions and markets in order to maximise shareholder value creation.
Our review of the Groups businesses and the opportunities available to them showed we must strengthen our capabilities in crucial areas, improve the allocation of our resources to ensure we invest in markets with the greatest potential for profitable growth, and drive cost and capital effectiveness harder than ever.
It is essential to be competitive on cost, but not enough.
Of course we must be efficient in managing procurement, manufacturing and distribution.
But we must also improve our marketing, pricing and customer relationship skills in order to maximise shareholder value.
Continuous innovation is essential to create commercially successful products.
Our customers will buy elsewhere unless we command their loyalty with innovative, superior or unique formulations that create competitive advantage for their goods.
ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 3 Our specific financial targets for the next four years, announced with our strategic plan, are: to achieve average comparable sales growth at or better than real growth in gross domestic product: to improve trading margins before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation steadily by an average of 0.5% each year: and to improve after tax returns on capital employed by an average of 1% each year.
Successful delivery of these targets should lead to average annual earnings per share growth before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation of more than 10%.
TALENTED, COMMITTED PEOPLE Inspired product renewal and refreshment is the key to our future growth, and it will require all our research and development, manufacturing expertise, consumer insight and process understanding to achieve our objectives.
Innovations result from relentless effort by everyone, every day, from the laboratory to the production line to the support staff.
There is great talent within ICI and our challenge is to make sure that ICI is a place where people feel proud to work and a business which is totally committed to success, never rationalising failure, but always striving to perform.
Some might think our task is a daunting one but we know first hand the quality, dedication and stamina of ICIs staff and do not doubt their commitment to deliver success.
Behind the disappointing numbers, there were significant successes during 2003, such as growth in Asia, a number of successful product launches in Paints, growing sales for Nationals nutritional modified starches, and key wins in fine fragrances, among others.
The teams that faced tough times with determination and resolve deserve congratulations as much as those who achieved sales growth in Asia.
We remain committed to the highest standard of corporate governance, financial control and reporting.
Our responsibilities as Chairman and Chief Executive of ICI are principally to the owners, employees and customers who have put their trust in us.
We thank them for their support and hope to report substantial progress next year.
Peter B Ellwood CBE Chairman John D G McAdam Chief Executive LORD TROTMAN Alex Trotman, who retired as Chairman in December, served ICI with distinction during a tumultuous period.
Lord Trotman joined ICIs Board as a Non-Executive Director in 1997 as ICI completed the acquisition of the Speciality Chemicals businesses from Unilever.
He became Chairman at the start of 2002 and led the campaign to reduce ICIs debt, strengthen its balance sheet and ensure continued adherence to good corporate governance.
His experience, wisdom and integrity have been invaluable to his colleagues on the Board, and to the entire ICI Group.
4 ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 summary financial statement chief financial officers review The Groups overall profit performance for 2003 was unsatisfactory, although results improved as the year progressed.
In a generally challenging economic environment, sales on a comparable basis for the International Businesses were 2% ahead of last year, with growth in Asia, North America and Latin America more than offsetting lower sales in Europe.
However, comparable trading profit for the International Businesses was 10% below last year.
Paints delivered 10% trading profit growth but National Starch, Quest and Performance Specialties were all below last year.
Profits for the Regional and Industrial business were also lower, significantly impacted by higher pension costs.
Group profit before tax was 341m, 15% below 2002, and earnings per share at 18.5p were 22% lower, both measured before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Net profit after exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was 20m, including 201m of Tim Scott Chief Financial Officer exceptional charges related to the Groups 2003 restructuring programme.
Despite the poor profit performance, cash flow was strong and net debt at the year-end reduced by 341m, to 1,326m.
Interest cover also improved to 4.7 times for the year, from 4.3 for 2002 and 3.5 for 2001.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The Groups sales, profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation and net profit for 2003 compared with 2002 are summarised below.
Actual Comparable increase increase 2003 2002 decrease decrease m m % % Sales International Businesses National Starch 1,866 1,841 1 4 Quest 691 716 3 3 Performance Specialties 669 804 17 2 Paints 2,163 2,182 1 2 5,389 5,543 3 2 Regional and Industrial 481 615 22 Inter-class eliminations 21 33 36 Total 5,849 6,125 5 Trading profit International Businesses National Starch 199 224 11 10 Quest 45 82 45 36 Performance Specialties 8 49 84 71 Paints 203 188 8 10 455 543 16 10 Regional and Industrial 25 10 150 Group trading profit 430 533 19 Income from associates 3 10 130 Group net interest charge 92 123 25 Group profit before tax 341 400 15 Net profit Before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 219 264 17 After exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 20 179 89 References to comparable performance exclude the effect of currency translation differences and the impact of acquisitions and divestments on the results reported for the International Businesses.
Performance Specialties trading results for 2002 include the results of the Synetix and Security Systems businesses which were sold in the second half of that year.
The 2003 results comprise only those of the Uniqema business.
Before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 5 Profit before tax Profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation for the year was 341m, 59m below 2002.
Lower trading profits for the International Businesses, and an increased trading loss for Regional and Industrial were partly offset by lower interest costs and the absence of losses from associates that are no longer part of the Group.
Profit before tax, but after exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was 85m compared with 317m for 2002.
Divestments in Performance Specialties accounted for 21m of the trading profit shortfall for the International Businesses.
Regional and Industrial was impacted by a 26m increase in the charge for UK pension costs compared with 2002, resulting from the triennial valuation of the ICI UK Pension Fund.
The adverse currency translation effect on the Groups reported profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation in 2003 compared with 2002 was 9m.
The Groups net interest charge for the year was 92m compared with 123m in 2002, benefiting from lower average net debt levels and lower interest rates.
Taxation Taxation on profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was 99m, 16m lower than last year, reflecting the reduction in trading profits.
The effective tax rate for the Group remained at 29%.
Exceptional items Exceptional items charged against trading profit for the year were 200m, mainly relating to restructuring programmes to improve cost effectiveness across the International Businesses and the Corporate Centre.
The plans focus on manufacturing and supply chain rationalisation, and reductions in administrative support.
Exceptional items included after trading profit comprised a 32m profit from the sale or closure of businesses, a 5m profit on the disposal of fixed assets and 57m written off investments.
The pre-tax profit from the sale or closure of operations included a 50m profit on the completion of the sale of the Groups interests in Huntsman International Holdings LLC, a profit on the sale of the Groups explosives business in India and a number of provision releases in relation to prior year divestments.
These were partially offset by a 19m loss on the divestment of National Starchs Permabond business, a charge of 30m in relation to a refinancing package for Ineos Chlor, and some increased provisions in relation to the divestment of the Polyurethanes, Tioxide and selected Petrochemicals businesses.
The 57m written off investments related to a provision to write-down the value of ICI Ordinary Shares which the Group is committed to buy under forward contracts to hedge employee share options.
Return on average net assets Net profit and earnings per share Trading profit before exceptional items Net profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was 219m 2002 264m.
and goodwill amortisation as % of average net operating assets excluding goodwill Basic earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation for the year National Starch were 18.5p, compared with 23.7p for 2002.
Net profit after exceptional items and goodwill 03 17.7 amortisation was 20m, compared with 179m in 2002.
Basic earnings per share after 02 18.1 exceptional items and goodwill amortisation were 1.7p compared with 16.1p for 2002.
Quest Capital effectiveness and returns 03 10.6 Improved utilisation of both fixed and working capital remained a focus during 2003.
02 20.4 Capital expenditure was significantly reduced across the Group, and average working Performance Specialties capital as a percentage of sales for the International Businesses reduced by 0.5% on a 03 1.9 comparable basis.
Nevertheless, the lower trading profits for the International Businesses 9.8 02 resulted in the return on average net assets RONA for the International Businesses falling Paints by 2% to 18%.
ICI adopted a new performance measure at the end of 2003, return on 03 34.2 capital employed ROCE, with targets for improvement.
In future, the Group intends to 02 29.9 measure both ROCE and RONA.
6 ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 Dividend and dividend policy Statement of Group cash flow management format The Groups dividend policy is that dividends should represent about one third of net profit 2003 2002 before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
In line with this policy, the Board has m m Operating cash flow recommended a second interim dividend of 3.5p, to bring the total dividend for 2003 to management format 6.25p 2002 7.5p.
Trading profit 430 533 Depreciation 191 196 Group cash flow management format Earnings before interest, tax, The following analysis of Group cash flow, which relates to the table on the right, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA 621 729 distinguishes between cash flows relating to operating activities and those related to Movement in working capital 16 13 portfolio reshaping and legacy issues.
Included within reshaping and legacy are gross Capital expenditure 154 219 proceeds from divestments, cash expenditures following divestments including tax paid Other items including exceptional and payments against divestment provisions which, in some cases, will continue for a outflows against restructuring provisions 36 89 number of years, and the top-up payments to the ICI UK Pension Fund.
Operating cash inflow after capital expenditure 415 434 Operating cash flow management format Interest and tax, excluding tax Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and goodwill amortisation for the year, at on divestments 112 191 621m, were 108m below 2002, as a result of the lower trading profit for the Group.
Dividends paid 100 127 Despite good fourth quarter sales growth, the working capital outflow for the year was Acquisitions 10 17 limited to 16m 2002 13m inflow.
Capital expenditure, at 154m was 65m lower than Net operating cash inflow 193 99 2002, and together with other cash items of 36m 2002 89m, including exceptional Reshaping and legacy outflows against restructuring provisions, resulted in the Group delivering an operating cash flows cash inflow after capital expenditure of 415m, only 19m below 2002.
Divestment proceeds from sale of assets and businesses 231 458 Net interest and tax payments excluding tax on divestments for 2003 amounted to Tax paid on divestments 7 8 112m, 79m lower than 2002, mainly as a result of lower average net debt across the Payments against divestment provisions 111 133 year.
Tax payments were broadly in line with 2002. Dividend payments, at 100m, were Special top-up pension payment 30 30 27m lower than last year, and acquisition expenditure was 10m, 7m below 2002.
Loans to associates and other investments 10 37 Overall for 2003, the Group generated a significantly improved net operating cash inflow Net cash inflow due to reshaping of 193m, which was 94m better than for 2002. and legacy items 73 250 Reshaping and legacy cash flows Movement in net debt Reshaping and legacy cash flows benefited from the completion of the divestment of Net debt at beginning of year 1,667 2,917 ICIs interests in Huntsman International Holdings LLC, with gross proceeds of 173m Net operating cash inflow 193 99 Net cash inflow due to reshaping received.
Overall, 2003 divestment proceeds of 231m were 227m below 2002, which and legacy items 73 250 had included proceeds from the sale of the Synetix business.
Tax payments resulting from Cash inflow before financing 266 349 divestments were 7m, similar to last year, while payments against divestment provisions Net proceeds from were 22m lower than for 2002, at 111m.
The top-up payment to the ICI UK Pension Rights Issue 807 Non-cash movements in net Fund for the year was maintained at 30m, and a further 10m was advanced under the debt mainly arising on foreign existing loan facility to Ineos Chlor.
currency translations 75 94 Total movement in net debt in year 341 1,250 Following the triennial actuarial review of the ICI UK Pension Fund in 2003, the annual topNet debt at end of year 1,326 1,667 up payment to the Fund will increase to 62m for nine years from 2004, subject to future Notes reconciling this presentation to the UK GAAP actuarial reviews.
cash flow statement are included in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts 2003.
Overall, the 2003 cash inflow due to reshaping and legacy items was 73m, 177m less than for 2002.
Movement in net debt Net debt at the end of 2003 was 1,326m, a 341m reduction from the 1,667m at the start of the year.
The movement in net debt benefited from a favourable non-cash exchange rate translation impact of 75m.
The summary financial statement continues on page 16.
ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 7 The Vital Ingredient competing hard for profitable markets ICIs strategy is to concentrate on growth regions and markets, in addition to implementing its restructuring and efficiency measures.
The key markets include architectural coatings, home and personal care, food, electronics and packaging markets and, geographically, Asia.
Since the late 1990s, countries in the Asia-Pacific region, with their huge and youthful populations, have provided a focus for investment and represent a rising proportion of ICI sales.
China is forecast by some commentators to replace the USA as the worlds largest economy within 10 years: India to rank in the top 10 before 2015.
Both countries are already home to substantial ICI operations, and our businesses are growing across the region.
Progress has been strong in China where National Starch, Quest Food and Paints achieved double-digit sales increases in India and across Southeast Asia, Capturing especially in Thailand and Vietnam.
We also are seeing signs of an upturn in Japan.
National Starch is expanding its presence in China with the construction of a state of the the dragon art starch manufacturing plant and technical centre near Shanghai.
The new plant, opening in mid-2004, will produce starches modified from maize, waxy maize, tapioca, potato and ICI Paints success in China has been other starch bases for Chinas food industry and for export.
The technical centre will house a four-year journey, during which the labs and a pilot plant for food and industrial starches to support customer needs.
business has tripled volumes, and A second phase will add a technical centre for Nationals adhesives business in China.
The turnaround began with market research to confirm Interpreting the messages from the global economy, our efforts are focused on ensuring that there was indeed an opportunity to that ICI resources are directed to opportunities with the greatest likelihood of delivering become a major force in Chinas paint profitable growth.
Our strategic business units will be segmented, depending on our market, and continued with investment likelihood of delivering profitable growth in each, and investment in technological and in people, products, brands and market capabilities heavily skewed towards growth categories, although we still expect distribution.
Project Dragon has built the profitable growth from business units outside these categories.
infrastructure, systems and processes to support expansion in a market Across the board, we are also focused on reducing costs, managing cash flow and averaging 7% to 8% growth annually deriving best value from marketing and research investments.
Two examples of this are and where consumer habits are changing in ICI Paints Europe and Uniqema.
Moving on from more affluent ICI Paints Europe has begun implementing a programme to restructure its supply chain, coastal cities and premium products, reduce manufacturing costs and improve processing times and reliability plant by plant.
ICI Paints is targeting the interior cities As well as improving customer service and standardising product quality, the Paint Plant with products and marketing adapted of the Future involves site-specific improvements, organisation changes and investment in for local conditions to build a market upgrading operators skills.
The prize for the business is operating costs significantly below position of lasting strength.
2002 levels, enabling us to maintain investment in brand and product innovation.
Uniqema tackled a series of successful projects to contain costs and enhance efficiency during 2003.
The largest of these was to standardise finance, supply and procurement systems in a single pan-European IT system, replacing more than 80 computer systems.
This action, together with a number of manufacturing initiatives, is aimed at ensuring Uniqema is ready for strong recovery when market conditions improve.
Increased operational effectiveness is the key to making best use of ICIs technological and marketing capabilities.
Achieving our looked-for step changes in cost and capital efficiency through better plant utilisation and product mix will be matched by best practices in procurement, IT, human resources, technology, manufacturing and finance.
8 ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 The Vital Ingredient focus on innovation Faster, fresher, safer, lighter, cooler, sweeter, smaller is the customer mantra and ICIs brief, whatever the application or function.
As a specialty products company, innovation is essential to sustain ICIs long-term growth.
Only by solving our customers challenges and helping them to fulfil their marketing goals and satisfy consumer aspirations do we succeed.
Restarting growth demands that we get closer to our customers and understand better what it is they need to achieve their own sales and volume targets.
ICIs customers typically are industry experts whose job it is to develop and improve their companies products and the processes involved in manufacturing them in everything Seize the from cars to personal care, and food to painting and decorating.
Customers require us to improve on the state of the art because competitive advantage is a moving target moment for their companies and for ICI.
We help them succeed by developing products and processes that are new and more cost-effective to produce.
With todays procurement Quests Freezeframe technology experts focused on driving down costs a trend ICI actively pursues in its own supply creates true-to-life impressions of the chain, margins must be protected by demonstrating added value in the products we sell.
first burst freshness of fruits and spices.
The potent sparkle and zesty The annual ICI award scheme for excellence in science and technology recognises smell of just-grated lemon or ginger innovation around the business and its contribution to our Group.
The seven 2002 award can now be captured in their ultimate finalists are already on the way to delivering new business and significant savings each intensity.
Some fruits particularly juicy, year.
Among them, Diamond Glaze, quick-drying alkyd paints that deliver the high-gloss watery ones oxidise when cut, finish prized by professional decorators and allow contractors to apply two coats on one generating mouldy or sour, off-smelling day, and Uniqemas Solaveil Clarus, super fine particles that allow formulation chemists notes when sampled.
to create transparent sunscreens that have been successful even in Japans exacting skincare market.
Freezeframe is just one of the technologies within Quests Biocaptive COMBINING HEALTH WITH CONVENIENCE Programme, which sets out to capture The global processed food industry, representing about 16% of ICIs sales in 2003, is the finest, rarest, freshest, fullest, most hungry for innovative ingredients.
Nutrition is currently a hot topic.
With nutritionists calling fascinating fragrance ingredients.
for more fibre in the diet and consumers switching to high-protein, low carbohydrate diets, Freezeframe uses novel technology to National Starch fulfils both groups needs with Hi-Maize resistant starches.
Sixty percent control the release of scent molecules fibre, these have significantly lower impact on blood sugar levels than flour while delivering from juicy specimens, the first to the taste and texture qualities of conventional carbohydrates in many foods.
National harness a truer, richer and absolutely Starchs Novation organic food starches enable manufacturers to create appealing fresh representation of a fruit or spice by organic, ready-prepared and snack foods to take advantage of rising customer demand freezing it in an instantaneous moment in North America and Europe for healthy foods.
ICIs industrial customers are varied but their priorities are consistent.
Their requirement is for improved solutions to simplify or accelerate the manufacturing process or to make products lighter, safer or more effective.
The electronics industry is recovering from the recession of 2001 with a flurry of new and improved products, from camera-equipped mobile phones to faster processors for personal computers and games consoles.
ICIs adhesives, encapsulants and coatings are essential to product performance, cost and reliability.
ICI is intent on identifying growth markets and delivering what customers want, quickly and efficiently.
ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 9 The Vital Ingredient marketing innovation ICIs goal is to combine close knowledge of customers needs with leading edge technology platforms to develop products that provide improved performance for customers and consumers.
The ability to predict what consumers might want next, and to get it right, is a key value creating skill for all ICI businesses.
ICI Paints EasyCan design won a 2003 Good Housekeeping Innovative Product award.
Magic White is another ICI product that helps decorators get good results.
On application the paint is pink, so its obvious if patches have been missed, but it dries bright white.
Launched first in the UK, Magic White has since rolled out into Europe, the USA, Canada and Brazil.
Understanding which innovations consumers will really value strengthens brand reputations and protects ICI Paints retail relationships.
CUSTOMERS RATE QUESTS CREATIVITY Amaze-ing Quests proprietary tools like MIRIAD and GALILEO distil consumer scent and taste preferences and inform the creation of best-selling flavours and fragrances, including fine The Amaze XT styling polymer, a fragrances such as Still Jennifer Lopez, the successful follow up to Glow.
The fragrance natural xanthan gum-based product, worlds next trend, according to beauty editors, is perfumed oils, and ICI is leading promises to be the star ingredient when commercialisation of the trend, Quest having developed the debut fragrance for New York the next generation of hair gels and fashion designer Narcisco Rodriguez in both oil and eau fide toilette forms.
other styling products starts reaching the market in 2004 2005.
The industry For Quests European Flavours and Food Ingredients business at Naarden, the main goal expects consumers to experience a of 2003 was to rebuild customer relationships, sales and profits after a systems setback revelation.
Using technology developed in its European supply chain operations in 2002.
Although there is still much more work by National Starch for its foods to be done, progress was made with customer relationships: new product briefs are back business, Amaze XT is a hair-care to early 2002 levels, supply schedules are being met and the organisation has been breakthrough: it holds styles 40% longer, streamlined.
A new $25 million Research & Development laboratory has opened in resists high humidity much better, and Naarden, and elsewhere Quest Food enjoyed considerable success with an innovation reduces manufacturing process time by centre for chefs near Chicago and expanded production facilities in China.
Ensuring all 80% compared with standard synthetic aspects of Quests service match its creative reputation is essential to realising its ingredients.
According to product performance potential.
testers it also combs more easily, feels better, virtually eliminates flaking and FUELLING PERFORMANCE washes away easily.
Fuel economy lubricants have grown to represent some 20% of the automotive lubricant market.
As better-lubricated engines, axles and transmissions move more freely, the Hair gels are the second largest, and the vehicle consumes less petrol or diesel, thus minimising emissions and saving costs.
Just fastest growing, styling product category a small amount of Uniqemas ashless friction modifier Perfad added to many types of in the USA and Europe.
Since the 1990s, National Starch has been the automotive lubricants improves fuel economy significantly on cold engines and short trips, industry leader in starch fixatives for hair and can reduce wear by up to 50%.
Much more resistant to oxidation than other product sprays, the largest styling category.
additives, Perfad is easily incorporated into standard base stocks and does not damage Amaze XT promises to play an catalytic converter systems that treat exhaust gases.
important role in new formulations as MAPPING THE GROUPS TECHNOLOGY ingredients and technology evolve.
Looking beyond this years product successes, a key task in 2003 was to evaluate ICIs science and technology investments and align them with the businesses growth plans to establish the most promising platforms for future technology development.
It is this targeted strategic product development, rooted in deep understanding of consumer trends and how industrial processes might be improved, that sustains ICIs customer relationships to mutual advantage.
10 ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 The Vital Ingredient successful and responsible ICI believes its business activities should create opportunities to improve the quality of life, respect the environment, and provide positive benefits to neighbouring communities, as well as being profitable.
Our policy is to conduct business responsibly, with integrity and with respect for the interests of all those affected by our operations.
Achieving success in 2003 against the triple bottom line of sustainability financial, social and environmental was difficult.
In light of the disappointing profit performance, ICI announced a restructuring plan to achieve more than 100 million of benefit to the profit and loss account in 2005.
This means more than 2,100 people will leave the Group.
Change on such a scale can be painful and unsettling.
So we have focused on essentials, particularly keeping people motivated and informed to minimise uncertainty, and providing opportunities for people to take on extra responsibilities and learn new skills.
We are Saving energy progressing plans to make ICI an attractive and diverse employer, for example, by introducing an internal pan-European job vacancies listing and broadening access to the is cool Groups graduate recruitment programme.
As well as being good internal practice, investing in training and development forms part Uniqema received the UK Queens of the sustainability agenda for our businesses.
In Brazil, for example, our paint business Award for Enterprise in the sustainable Tintas Coral provides professional training for decorators, helping people to join the job development category for its market.
In Indonesia, where Quest has enjoyed strong growth, it reinvests by funding development of synthetic lubricants education and health care for disadvantaged rural children.
that have contributed significantly to improving refrigerators energy efficiency In 2003, for the first time, we collected data on our total community contribution: initial and reducing noise-in-use and results show that the Company and our 35,000 employees contributed, in volunteer time greenhouse gas emissions.
More than and money, the equivalent of one working day per employee worldwide.
Sponsored 400 million fridge motor compressors community programmes include ICI Paints new relationship in the USA with Habitat for have been filled with EMKARATE RL Humanity, a charity that builds homes for low income families.
ICI donated over 20,000 lubricants, designed for use with nongallons of paint in 2003, primarily from discontinued lines, helping make the new homes ozone depleting refrigerants.
The attractive while saving on storage and costs of paint disposal.
efficiency improvement in electricity use by these refrigerators is estimated SAFETY, HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT SHE to have reduced CO emissions by Midway through our current five-year SHE programme, Challenge 2005 is on plan to meet 2 23 million tonnes globally.
the majority of our objectives.
Although we have not seen the improvement we wanted in reducing injuries, in absolute terms our safety performance is among the industry leaders.
This is the 70th Queens Award received We have made good progress with environmental objectives, with notable improvements by ICI businesses since the programme on energy efficiency and water conservation.
Finding renewable resources, safer or better production processes and reducing or eliminating waste are important aspects of R&D as ICI scientists pursue our ambitions for environmental stewardship.
ICI Argentina, which processes the residues from pressed grapes, developed a technique of transforming smelly but non-hazardous effluent into an irrigation fluid that now sustains a eucalyptus tree plantation.
Quest used non-invasive biocaptive technology in the Eden Project in Cornwall, UK, to help a top cosmetics house incorporate rare floral scents in a perfume launched globally in 2003.
Achieving economic viability with environmental stewardship and social responsibility is a balancing act.
Our ability to meet the aspirations of all stakeholders, especially shareholders, customers, employees and communities, is an important measure of success for ICI.
ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 11 leadership team 1 PETER B ELLWOOD, CBE He is a past Chairman and 9 DAVID C M HAMILL Chairman.
current member of the US-Japan Director.
Appointed Deputy Chairman Business Council and has served Appointed a Director on on 27 June 2003, he became on the Boards of the US-China 8 December 2003.
He is Chairman on 1 January 2004. Business Council and The Prince Chairman and Chief Executive He was formerly Group Chief of Wales Business Leaders of ICI Paints.
He joined the Executive of Lloyds TSB Group Forum.
He is active in numerous Company from Royal Philips plc.
He is Chairman of the UK business and community Electronics where he was a 1 2 Royal Parks Advisory Board organisations.
Aged 66. member of the Group Manageand Chairman of The Work ment Committee.
10 CHARLES F KNOTT Appointed a Non-Executive Appointed a member of the 2 JOHN D G McADAM Director in 2001.
He is a Director Executive Management Team on Chief Executive.
of Hesse-Noord Natie, Port of 28 March 2003.
He is Chairman Appointed a Director in 1999 and Antwerp: Wolters Kluwer N. V. : and Chief Executive of Quest Chief Executive on 9 April 2003.
ASM International N. V. : Koninklijke International.
He joined National He was previously Chairman and Volker Wessels Stevin N. V. : Starch and Chemical Company Chief Executive of ICI Paints.
International Power plc: the in 1984 where he has held a 3 4 He joined the Company in 1997 Trust Ofce of KAS BANK N. V. : number of senior positions in the following the acquisition of the OCE N. V. : and AFM the Authority UK, Germany, the Netherlands, Speciality Chemicals businesses for Financial Markets in the Asia Pacic and the US.
Prior from Unilever, where he held a Netherlands.
Until his retirement to his appointment with Quest number of senior positions.
He is in March 2001, he was Executive International he was President also a Non-Executive Director of Vice-President of Royal Philips and Chief Operating officer of Severn Trent Plc and a member Electronics and Member of the National Starch and Chemical of the University of Surrey Management Board.
7 RICHARD N 11 LEONARD J BERLIK 56 HAYTHORNTHWAITE Appointed a member of the 3 TIMOTHY A SCOTT Non-Executive Director.
Executive Management Team Chief Financial officer.
He is Executive Vice Appointed a Director and Chief Director in 2001.
He is Chairman President Performance Financial officer in 2001.
He is of the ICI Remuneration Specialties.
He also has regional Chairman of the ICI Charity Trust Committee.
He is Group Chief oversight responsibilities for and Appeals Committee.
He Executive of Invensys plc and a Group activities in Europe, the joined Unilever in 1983 and held Director of the National Museum Middle East and Africa.
He joined a variety of senior roles in their of Science and Industry, the National Starch and Chemical Speciality Chemicals businesses British-American Arts Association Company in 1972 and, prior to 7 8 and group headquarters.
He Limited and The British Council his appointment with Industrial worked subsequently for ICI as Board.
He previously held senior Specialties now Performance Chief Administrative officer for positions with BP plc, Premier Oil Specialties in 2000, served as ICI Paints in North America and plc, Blue Circle Industries plc and Executive Vice President of the as Vice President, Strategy and Lafarge S. A.
He is also Chairman Adhesives Division.
Aged 41. of the Centre for Creative Communities and the Almeida 12 MICHAEL H C HERLIHY 4 RT.
LORD BUTLER OF Theatre Company Limited.
Appointed a member of the BROCKWELL, KG, GCB, CVO Aged 47.
Executive Management Team in Senior Independent Director.
He was appointed General Appointed a Non-Executive 8 WILLIAM H POWELL Counsel in 1996, Executive Vice 910 Director in 1998.
He is the Senior Director.
President Mergers and Acquisitions Independent Director of ICI.
He Appointed a Director in 2000. in 2000 and Company Secretary is Master of University College, He is Chairman and Chief on 1 November 2003.
He joined Oxford, a Non-Executive Director Executive officer of National the Company in 1979.
Aged 50. of HSBC Holdings plc and is a Starch and Chemical Company member of the Advisory Panel to and has Board responsibility 13 ROLF DEUSINGER the UK Management Group of for Sustainability which includes Appointed a member of the Marsh & McLennan.
He has been Group Safety, Health and the Executive Management Team appointed to chair the Review of Environment.
He is Executive Vice Intelligence on Weapons of Mass Company in 1997 following President Human Resources.
He was formerly the acquisition of the Speciality joined the Company in October Secretary of the Cabinet and Chemicals businesses from 1999 as Senior Vice President Head of the Home Civil Service.
Unilever, where he held a number Human Resources for ICI Paints.
He is a past Previously he was Head of Chairman of the Corn Reners International Human Resources 5 JOSEPH T GORMAN Association and currently an for Messer Griesheim GmbH Non-Executive Director.
He has nearly Appointed a Non-Executive member of the Institute of Food 20 years international experience Director in 2000.
He is Chairman Technologists and the American in the eld of Human Resources, of the ICI Audit Committee.
He Institute of Chemical Engineers.
predominantly in consumer 13 was formerly Chairman and Chief He is also a member of the Board businesses, including PepsiCo Executive officer of TRW Inc.
He of Overseers of the New Jersey covering the Americas, Europe is also a Director of Alcoa, Inc. Institute of Technology and a and Central Asia.
The Procter & Gamble Company member of the Board of Trustees and National City Corporation.
of the State Theater of New Jersey.
12 ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 summary corporate governance report Corporate governance Company Chairmanship and succession Executive Directors performance is appraised The Group is committed to high standards arrangements.
The Chairman does not at least annually by the Chief Executive who of corporate governance.
Throughout 2003, participate in these discussions.
consults the Chairman for feedback from the and to the date of this Annual Review, the NEDs.
Remuneration Committee Company has been in compliance with the The Remuneration Committee recommends With effect from 2004 the Chairman will be applicable provisions of the Combined Code to the Board the remuneration policies for meeting each NED at least once a year on on Corporate Governance adopted in 1998.
Executive Directors, the Chairman and the a one to one basis for a formal performance In addition the Company is implementing most senior management of the Company.
procedures to ensure that it will comply with It also determines the remuneration of these the revised Combined Code issued by the The Board conducts periodic reviews of executives.
Financial Reporting Council in July 2003. its effectiveness and the effectiveness of its The Committee comprises the independent principal committees.
Historically these have The Board Non-Executive Directors under the been undertaken internally but in 2004 a formal Currently the Board comprises the Chairman, chairmanship of Mr R N Haythornthwaite.
externally facilitated review will take place.
Mr P B Ellwood, the Chief Executive, Dr J D G McAdam, three Executive Directors The Remuneration Report on pages 14 to 15 US corporate governance compliance and four independent Non-Executive Directors includes details of remuneration policy and As a consequence of its US listing, the NEDs including the Senior Independent practices, and on the remuneration of Company is required to comply with the Director, Lord Butler.
provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 as independent NED, Baroness Noakes, will be it applies to foreign issuers.
The Company has Audit Committee joining the Board with effect from 1 March taken action to be compliant with those rules The Audit Committee assists the Board in the 2004.
Biographical details of the Directors that have already become effective.
discharge of its responsibilities for corporate are set out on page 12. governance, financial reporting and corporate Principles of business conduct All Directors are equally accountable under control.
ICIs reputation for high ethical standards is the law for the proper stewardship of the central to its business success.
A Code of The Committee comprises the independent Companys affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors Business Conduct which provides guidance in Non-Executive Directors under the however, have a particular responsibility to this area has been communicated throughout chairmanship of Mr J T Gorman.
challenge constructively the strategy proposed the Group.
The Code is published on the by the Chief Executive and Executive Directors, Audit and internal control Companys website www.
com and is to scrutinise performance, assess risk and the In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance available in paper form from the Company integrity of financial information and controls, on internal control, the Board confirms that Secretariat on request.
and ensure appropriate remuneration and there is a process for identifying, evaluating Communications with shareholders succession planning arrangements are in place and managing the significant risks to the Communications with shareholders are given in relation to Executive Directors and other achievement of the Groups strategic a high priority.
The Annual Review is sent to senior executive roles.
The process has been in place shareholders and a full Annual Report and throughout 2003 and up to the date of approval All Directors are subject to re-election by Accounts is available by election or on request.
of the Annual Report and Accounts, and shareholders at least every three years.
Subject At the half year, an interim report is sent to accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The to satisfactory performance, NEDs are normally shareholders and the quarterly results are effectiveness of this process has been reviewed expected to serve two three-year terms published via the London Stock Exchange regularly by the Audit Committee which reports commencing with the first Annual General and the New York Stock Exchange and by its findings for consideration by the Board.
Meeting after the date of their appointment.
Shareholder views The principal Board Committees are the Individual shareholders have the opportunity Responsibility for ensuring that there is effective Nomination Committee, the Remuneration at the Annual General Meeting to question the communication with investors rests with the Committee and the Audit Committee, which Chairman or to leave written questions for Chairman who regularly makes himself available report to the Board.
The Remuneration and response by the Company.
There is regular to meet major shareholders.
On a day to day Audit Committee meet at least quarterly and dialogue with individual institutional shareholders basis the Boards primary contact with major the Nomination Committee as and when as well as presentations to analysts after the shareholders is via the Chief Executive and required.
Summary remits of these committees quarterly results.
The Companys website Chief Financial officer.
The Senior Independent are set out below and full terms of reference www.
com provides financial and other Director and other members of the Board are, are available on the Companys website at information about ICI.
however, available to meet major investors www.
com and in paper form from the on request.
The Board commissions an independent Nomination Committee survey of investor views covering both the The Nomination Committee comprises the UK and US on a biennial basis which provides independent Non-Executive Directors under valuable feedback from investors.
the chairmanship of Mr Ellwood and is responsible for proposing new appointments Board effectiveness of Directors to the Board.
All new Directors receive a formal induction Copies of the full Corporate Governance report tailored to their particular needs.
Lord Butler, in his capacity as the Companys can be found in the Annual Report and Senior Independent Director, promotes Accounts 2003 and on the Companys web discussion at appropriate times about the site at www.
ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 13 summary remuneration report The following is a summary of the full profit, cash ow and key strategic objectives.
A new executive share option plan the Plan Remuneration Report that is contained on The Remuneration Committee retains will be recommended for approval by pages 38 to 48 in the ICI 2003 Annual Report discretion when determining final awards to shareholders at the 2004 Annual General and Accounts.
The full Report can be found take into account broader Company Meeting AGM.
Full details of this plan are on the Companys website www.
com or performance as well as the specic targets.
contained in the 2004 Chairmans letter to copies may be obtained on request from the shareholders.
Subject to approval, the Plan Long-term incentives Company Secretariat as noted on page 17. will allow for option grants made in 2004 ICIs long-term incentives focus Executive to become exercisable provided that a Remuneration policy for Executive Directors Directors on sustainable longer-term business challenging performance condition is met.
The Companys remuneration policy for performance and strengthen the alignment The performance will be tested in 2006, and Executive Directors seeks to attract, retain, with shareholders.
Long-term incentives are if threshold level is not achieved, no further motivate and reward high calibre individuals, provided through a Performance Growth Plan testing will take place in subsequent years whilst maintaining a clear focus on shareholder PGP and an Executive Share Option Plan.
and the options will lapse.
This requires that ICIs reward plans Together, these plans are designed to deliver reect the scale and the structure of reward competitive rewards, for improved and It is intended, subject to shareholder approval available at those organisations with whom sustainable long-term financial performance.
at the 2004 AGM, to make option grants to ICI competes for talent.
Executive Directors shortly after that meeting.
The PGP makes conditional awards of ICI Options under the Plan must be held for a To achieve this, the remuneration package is shares to Executive Directors that are linked minimum of three years from date of grant based upon the following principles: to performance over a xed three-year period before they can be exercised and lapse if not measured as follows: Incentives should align the interests of executives exercised within ten years.
The shares to meet and shareholders, and reward the creation of for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial options exercised will be either bought in the long-term value within a framework which officer, the number of shares earned under market or provided by a new issue of shares.
enables risk to be assessed and managed.
the PGP will depend wholly on the Total Retirement and other benets Shareholder Return TSR for ICI relative to the There should be a clear link between required The nature and scale of benets are positioned TSRs of a group of competitor and comparable performance and achievable reward.
Performance around the median of the relevant national organisations.
TSR is the change in share price related elements should form a significant market.
The major element is the retirement plus reinvested dividends: proportion of the total package.
Except where dened benefit plans for the other Executive Directors, 50% of their already exist for current Executive Directors, The total package for on-target performance award will depend on the Economic profit retirement benets are provided on a dened should be fully competitive in the relevant market.
performance over three years of the Business contribution basis so that the costs to ICI will There should be exibility, within clearly dened for which the Executive Director is responsible.
Where possible, parameters, to meet critical resource needs Economic profit is based on profit after tax, plans enable executives to make their own and to retain key executives.
less a charge for the use of capital.
The other contributions in addition to those made by ICI.
50% of their award will be based on the TSR It is ICIs policy, where this is in line with local Reward components performance of the Company relative to the practice, to fund retirement benefit liabilities.
Base salary Peer Group: Performance graph The base salary for each Executive Director is in addition, the Remuneration Committee reviewed against the market median for similar must be satisfied that the underlying profit Five-year cumulative positions in large, international companies in Total Shareholder Return: performance of ICI is sufficient to justify the relevant national market.
Individual salaries ICI and FTSE 100 Indices the receipt of shares under the PGP, are reviewed each year and adjusted where 1 January 1999 100 notwithstanding the relative TSR achieved.
necessary to recognise the individuals role, ICI FTSE 100 performance and experience, as well as The maximum conditional award to be made 150 developments in the external market.
in 2004 will be 100% of base salary 200% in the case of US Directors.
For the maximum Annual Incentive Plan awards to be paid on the TSR element, 100 The Annual Incentive Plan motivates Executive performance must be at position three or Directors towards achievement of the annual higher out of the seventeen companies in financial and strategic goals of ICI and its 50 the Peer Group.
For achieving median TSR businesses.
The level of annual reward performance position nine out of seventeen, opportunity for target bonus is set around 40% of this maximum award will be paid.
the market median in the relevant national 0 Awards are pro-rated between positions nine markets.
The financial targets are derived 1 Jan 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 01 and three.
No award will be paid for below 99 99 00 02 03 from the Companys planning processes, so median performance.
The Economic profit Source: Thompson Financial Datastream providing alignment between critical annual targets for each Business are designed to business targets and reward.
The targets are be as demanding as the TSR measure.
approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Personal shareholdings The shares required to make awards under Executive Directors and senior executives are The target bonus opportunity for 2004 will be the PGP are provided via a trust funded by ICI.
expected to build up personal shareholdings 50% of salary.
A maximum opportunity of There is no dilution of the Companys issued of ICI Ordinary Shares through the retention of 100% of salary will be possible for significant share capital as the shares are purchased in shares acquired via Company share-based plans.
over-achievement of the pre-set targets.
Targets for 2004 are focused on the delivery of 14 ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 Compensation for loss of ofce Directors and the most senior management Directors service agreements and letters Dr B R ONeill and Mr P J Drechsler resigned as of the Company.
of engagement Executive Directors of the Company on 8 April It is the Remuneration Committees policy The Committee is comprised exclusively of 2003 and 24 March 2003, respectively.
Both that Executive Directors are employed on independent Non-Executive Directors of the were on contracts terminable on 12 months contracts subject to no more than 12 months Company.
The constitution and operation of notice, and with no express provisions for notice, in accordance with current corporate the Committee comply with The Combined compensation payable upon early termination.
The Remuneration Code on Corporate Governance appended to Committee strongly endorses the principle of Departure terms were agreed that include the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
mitigation of damages on early termination of phased payments, with associated mitigation, Chairman and Non-Executive Directors a service agreement.
in compliance with ICIs remuneration policy.
The remuneration policy for the Chairman is These terms are considered consistent with Directors share interests determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Further details Full details of Directors share interests, share The remuneration policy for Non-Executive are contained in the full Remuneration Report options and other share-based awards are Directors is determined by the Board, within that is available on request see across.
contained in the full Remuneration Report that the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
is available on request see below.
Remuneration Committee role and The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are membership not eligible to participate in incentive plans.
Full Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee determines, on The full Remuneration Report can be found behalf of the Board, the Companys policy on on the Companys website www.
com and the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive paper copies may be obtained, on request, from the Company Secretariat as noted on page 17.
Directors emoluments audited Base salary Annual Benets Compensation Dened and fees incentive and other for loss contribution note 1 payments emoluments of ofce Dened benefit pension note 2 note 3 Total pension plans plans Accrued Transfer Contpension value of ributions note 4 accrued pension note 5 31 Dec 31 Dec 2003 2003 2003 2003 2003 2002 2003 2003 2003 notes 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Lord Trotman 6 200 200 200 P B Ellwood 1,6 51 51 Dr J D G McAdam 1,6, 7 522 252 18 792 632 362 5,276 D C M Hamill 1,6 25 6 31 2 W H Powell 435 97 16 548 760 299 4,051 15 T A Scott 7 355 139 22 516 563 143 1,032 A Baan 30 30 30 Lord Butler 40 40 38 J T Gorman 40 40 40 R N Haythornthwaite 40 40 40 Directors who resigned during 2003 Dr B R ONeill 1,6, 7 178 12 645 835 1,015 89946 P J Drechsler 1,6, 7 79 8 342 429 422 144 1,204 Total 1,995 488 82 987 3,552 3,740 1 Salaries for Executive Directors were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2003 and the gures shown for 2003 include increases paid from 4% to 10%.
In addition, Dr J D G McAdam received an increase on his promotion to the role of ICI Chief Executive.
For 2003 the gures reported are the annual base salary or fee in payment at 31 December 2003 except in respect of Dr J D G McAdam whose annual base salary at that date was 600,000, Mr P B Ellwood whose annual fee at that date was 100,000, and Mr D C M Hamill whose annual base salary was 390,000.
For Dr B R ONeill and Mr P J Drechsler the gures relate to the part year prior to their resignations.
2 The annual bonus opportunity available to Executive Directors for 2003 for achievement of on-target performance was 50% of base salary with a maximum opportunity of 100% of base salary for significant over-achievement.
During 2003, bonus targets focused on the delivery of Economic profit, cash generation and the achievement of key strategic objectives.
Bonus payments for 2003 performance are shown in the table above.
Further detail on performance achieved is contained in the full Remuneration Report that is available on request.
3 Includes all amounts paid or payable at 31 December 2003.
Subject to mitigation, future payments may be required to be made to Dr B R ONeill amounting to 296,000 and to Mr P J Drechsler amounting to 100,000.
4 Accrued pension payable at normal retirement age or date of retirement.
5 A transfer value is the present value lump sum equivalent to the accrued pension benefit.
6 Mr P J Drechsler and Dr B R ONeill resigned as Executive Directors on 24 March 2003 and 8 April 2003 respectively.
Dr J D G McAdam was appointed as Chief Executive on 9 April 2003, Mr P B Ellwood was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman on 27 June 2003 and Mr D C M Hamill was appointed as an Executive Director on 8 December 2003.
Lord Trotman retired on 31 December 2003 and Mr Ellwood was appointed Chairman with effect from 1 January 2004.
All amounts reported for these individuals are in respect of the part of the year for which they were employed as Directors.
7 On 24 February 2003 the Company provided matched shares under the Bonus Conversion plan to the following executives in respect of their 1999 annual bonus: Dr J D G McAdam 28,024 matching shares, with a market value of 43,998 2002 nil : Dr B R ONeill 51,043 matching shares with a market value of 80,138 2002 nil : Mr P J Drechsler 25,447 matching shares with a market value of 39,952 2002 9,450 shares with a market value of 29,200 : and Mr T A Scott 8,340 matching shares with a market value of 13,094 2002 4,621 shares with a market value of 14,279.
8 No gains were realised on the exercise of share options during 2003 2002 nil.
During 2003 Dr J D G McAdam received shares under the Performance Growth Plan in respect of performance of the ICI Paints business to the value of 43,792 2002 33,779.
ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 15 summary financial statement summary group profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2003 2003 2002 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items items items notes m m m m m m m m Turnover 2 5,849 5,849 6,125 6,125 Operating profit loss 2 394 200 194 496 496 After deducting goodwill amortisation 36 36 37 37 Share of operating profits less losses of associates 2 2 18 18 396 200 196 514 514 profits less losses on sale or closure of operations 41 9 32 40 10 50 profits less losses on disposals of xed assets 5 5 3 3 Amounts written off investments 57 57 99 99 profit loss before interest 2 396 211 9 176 514 56 10 468 Net interest payable receivable Group 92 92 123 123 Associates 1 1 28 28 91 91 151 151 profit loss before taxation 305 211 9 85 363 56 10 317 Taxation 99 52 6 41 115 1 3 111 profit loss after taxation 206 159 3 44 248 55 13 206 Attributable to minorities 23 1 24 21 6 27 profit loss for the year 183 160 3 20 227 61 13 179 Dividends 3 74 88 profit loss retained for the year 54 91 Earnings loss per 1 Ordinary Share After amortisation of goodwill & exceptional items 15.5p 13.5 p 0.3 p 1.7p 20.4p 5.5 p 1.2p 16.1p Before amortisation of goodwill & exceptional items 18.5p 23.7p Note: Directors remuneration is set out in the Summary remuneration report on pages 14 and 15. summary group cash ow for the year ended 31 December 2003 2003 2002 m m Net cash inow from operating activities 539 623 Interest payments and dividends to minorities, less dividend income 96 185 Taxation 37 35 Capital expenditure and financial investment 138 184 268 219 Acquisitions 20 54 Disposals 104 290 Dividends paid 86 106 Cash inow before use of liquid resources and nancing 266 349 Management of liquid resources 194 13 Financing 84 344 Decrease in cash 12 8 16 ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 summary group balance sheet as at 31 December 2003 2003 2002 as restated note 1 notes m m Assets employed Fixed assets 2,383 2,568 Current assets 2,825 2,898 Total assets 5,208 5,466 Creditors due within one year 2,226 2,418 Net current assets 599 480 Total assets less current liabilities 2 2,982 3,048 Financed by Creditors due after more than one year 1,371 1,395 Provisions for liabilities and charges 1,092 1,121 Minority interests equity 69 69 Shareholders funds equity Called-up share capital 1,191 1,191 Reserves 741 728 Total shareholders funds 4 450 463 2,982 3,048 This Summary Financial Statement was approved by the Directors on 11 February 2004 and signed on their behalf by: P B Ellwood CBE Director T A Scott Director statement of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made summary financial thereunder.
We also read the other information independent auditor statement contained in the Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware to the members of Imperial Chemical Industries The Summary Financial Statement in this Annual of any apparent misstatements or material PLC pursuant to Section 251 of the Companies Review does not contain sufficient information inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Act 1985 to allow as full an understanding of the results Statement.
of the Group and of the state of affairs of the We have examined the Summary Financial Company or of the Group and of their policies Statement set out on pages 5 to 7, and 16 to 19.
Basis of opinion and arrangements concerning Directors We conducted our work in accordance with This statement is made solely to the Companys remuneration, as would be provided in the Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the members, as a body, in accordance with full Annual Report and Accounts.
summary financial statement issued by the Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our For further information, the full Annual Accounts, Auditing Practices Board for use in the United work has been undertaken so that we might state the Auditors Report on those accounts and the Kingdom.
Our report on the Groups full Annual to the Companys members those matters we Directors Report should be consulted.
Copies Accounts describes the basis of our audit opinion are required to state to them in such a statement of the Annual Report and Accounts may be on those financial statements.
To the fullest extent obtained free of charge from: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Opinion responsibility to anyone other than the Company Company Secretariat In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement and the Companys members as a body, for our Imperial Chemical Industries PLC is consistent with the full Annual Report and work, for this statement, or for the opinions we 20 Manchester Square Accounts, the Directors Report and the Directors have formed.
London Remuneration Report of Imperial Chemical W1U 3AN Industries PLC for the year ended 31 December Respective responsibilities of Directors 2003 and complies with the applicable and Auditor requirements of Section 251 of the Companies The Directors are responsible for preparing the Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
Annual Review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to KPMG Audit Plc report to you our opinion on the consistency of Chartered Accountants the Summary Financial Statement within the Registered Auditor Annual Review with the full Annual Report and London Accounts, the Directors Report and the Directors 11 February 2004 Remuneration Report and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 17 summary financial statement notes relating to the summary financial statements 1 Basis of presentation Continuing and discontinued operations Trading results have been analysed between the Groups continuing operations and discontinued operations.
New Accounting Standards: UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts UITF 38 has been adopted for the first time in these financial statements.
Where applicable, the financial statements of prior periods have been restated.
This has resulted in a decrease in shareholders funds at 31 December 2002 of 36m 31 December 2001 decrease 30m.
2 Segment information profit profit before interest before taxation and taxation after Total assets exceptional items and exceptional items and less current Turnover goodwill amortisation goodwill amortisation liabilities 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 as restated note 1 m m m m m m m m Classes of business Continuing operations National Starch 1,866 1,841 199 224 108 206 1,317 1,441 Quest 691 716 45 82 15 75 437 447 Performance Specialties 669 804 8 49 30 152 431 459 Paints 2,163 2,182 203 188 136 171 835 864 Regional and Industrial 481 615 25 10 11 65 239 297 Inter-class eliminations 21 33 5,849 6,125 430 533 240 539 3,259 3,508 Discontinued operations 9 10 Associate Share of profits less losses 2 18 2 18 Interest payable receivable 1 28 Group net interest payable 92 123 Amounts written off investments 57 99 Net operating assets 3,259 3,508 Net non-operating liabilities 277 460 5,849 6,125 341 400 176 468 2,982 3,048 Goodwill amortisation included in the Goodwill above results included above 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m Goodwill National Starch 17 18 237 266 Quest 1 1 17 19 Performance Specialties 1 1 12 14 Paints 17 17 252 260 Regional and Industrial 14 15 36 37 532 574 18 ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 2 Segment information continued Turnover by Net customer operating location assets 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m Geographic areas Continuing operations United Kingdom 681 825 850 912 Continental Europe 1,300 1,306 670 690 USA 1,803 1,992 995 1,029 Other Americas 625 622 198 250 Asia Pacic 1,324 1,265 533 615 Other countries 116 115 13 12 5,849 6,125 3,259 3,508 3 Dividends 2003 2002 2003 2002 pence per pence per 1Ordinary 1 Ordinary Share Share m m First interim, paid 3 October 2003 2.75 3.00 32 36 Second interim, payable 16 April 2004 3.50 4.50 42 52 6.25 7.50 74 88 4 Movements in equity shareholders funds during the year 2003 2002 as restated note 1 m m Shareholders funds at beginning of the year 463 394 Movements in funds during the year profit loss retained for the year 54 91 Goodwill movement 27 22 Other recognised losses in the year 9 57 Issue of ICI Ordinary Shares 807 Movement in respect of own shares 5 6 13 857 Shareholders funds at end of the year 450 463 Originally 499m 2002 364 m restated for prior year adjustment of 36 m 2002 30 m note 1.
5 Auditors Report The Auditors Report on the full accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 was unqualied and did not include a statement under Sections 237 2 accounting records or returns inadequate or accounts not agreeing with records and returns or 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information and explanations of the Companies Act 1985.
ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 19 shareholder information Quarterly results Set out below is information regarding interests Annual Report and Accounts Unaudited trading results of the ICI Group in the Companys Ordinary Shares appearing, as Any shareholder who received only the Annual for 2004 are expected to be announced at 9 February 2004, in the Register of Interests Review this year will continue to do so in future as follows: in Shares maintained by the Company: years.
To receive the full Annual Report and Amount Accounts shareholders should write to the First quarter 29 April 2004 owned number of Company Secretariat at the Registered Ofce.
Half year 29 July 2004 shares Per cent Identity of Group millions of class Nine months 28 October 2004 Barclays PLC 112.5 9.45 Full year 10 February 2005 JPMorgan Chase Bank 107.4 9.01 Registrar and Transfer Ofce Brandes Investment Dividend payments Lloyds TSB Registrars Partners LLC 102.0 8.56 A second interim dividend for the year 2003, The Causeway Artisan Partners LP 82.0 6.89 which the Annual General Meeting will be Worthing Standard Life Investments Ltd 44.7 3.75 asked to confirm, is payable on 16 April 2004 West Sussex Legal & General Investment to Ordinary shareholders registered in the BN99 6DA Management Ltd 44.3 3.72 books of the Company on 5 March 2004.
Telephone: 0870 600 3993 This interest relates to ADRs issued by JPMorgan Dividends are normally paid as follows: Chase Bank, as Depositary, which evidence American Depositary Shares.
Dividend mandate First interim: announced with the Half year Any shareholder wishing dividends to be paid results and paid in early October: No other person held an interest in shares, directly into a bank or building society account Second interim: announced with the Full comprising 3% or more of the issued Ordinary should contact the Registrar for a dividend year results and paid in midto late April.
Share Capital of the Company, appearing in mandate form.
Dividends paid in this way will be the Register of Interests in Shares maintained Analysis of shareholdings paid through the Bankers Automated Clearing under the provisions of Section 211 of the The following tables analyse the holdings of System BACS.
Ordinary Shares at the end of 2003: Low-cost share dealing service Stock Exchange listings and US lings By size of Number The Share Centre Limited provides a simple share ICI Ordinary Shares are listed on the London account of Ordinary Number shareholders of shares dealing service which allows existing and potential Stock Exchange and in the form of ADSs on Size of holding accounts millions % shareholders to purchase or sell ICI Ordinary the New York Stock Exchange.
1-250 69,144 8 1 Shares at an attractive commission rate.
251-500 35,975 13 1 The Company from time to time les reports Further information can be obtained from: 501-1,000 29,677 22 2 with the United States Securities and The Share Centre Limited 1,001-5,000 25,835 51 4 Exchange Commission.
Reports led since PO Box 2000 5,001-10,000 1,548 11 1 4 November 2002 can be viewed online at Aylesbury www.
A copy of each report led 10,001-50,000 851 18 1 Bucks within the preceding 12 months can be 50,001-1,000,000 527 130 11 HP21 8ZB inspected by any shareholder or ADR holder Over 1,000,000 158 938 79 Telephone: 01296 414144 during normal business hours at the ofces of: All holdings 163,715 1,191 100 ADR Depositary Imperial Chemical Industries PLC By category % JPMorgan Chase Bank is Depositary for 20 Manchester Square, London W1U 3AN.
UK ICIs American Depositary Receipts.
Pension funds 18 Capital Gains Tax Shareholder enquiries may be directed to: Life assurance 13 In certain circumstances, when a shareholder Mutual funds 7 JPMorgan Chase Bank in the UK sells shares, liability to tax in respect ADR Service Centre Individuals 15 of capital gains is computed by reference to PO Box 43013 Others 7 the market value of the shares on 31 March Providence, RI 029403013 1982.
The market value of ICI Ordinary Shares 60 USA at 31 March 1982, for this purpose was 309p.
Overseas 40 Telephone: 781 575 4328 100 ICI and Zeneca demerged on 1 June 1993.
The base cost of shares held pre-demerger In addition to the number of registered is split between the post-demerger ICI shares shareholders shown, there are approximately and the Zeneca shares.
Post-demerger ICI 17,000 holders of American Depositary shares inherit a base cost of 0.50239 of their Receipts ADRs.
The ADRs, each of which pre-demerger base cost.
evidences one American Depositary Share For the purposes of UK taxation of capital ADS which represents four Ordinary Shares, gains, the issue of new ICI Ordinary Shares are issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank.
under the Rights Issue, in February 2002, is regarded as a reorganisation of the share capital of ICI.
Annual General Meeting Shareholders who are in any doubt as to their The Notice convening the Companys Annual tax position should seek specic advice from General Meeting in 2004 is set out on pages 4 to 6 of the Chairmans letter to shareholders their financial advisers.
20 ICI ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 Company means Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
ICI, ICI Group or Group means Imperial Chemical Industries PLC and its subsidiary companies.
Words within single quotation marks, the letters ICI, the Roundel Device, The Vital Ingredient, the Face Logo, Dulux, Glidden, National Starch, Permabond, Quest and Uniqema are all trademarks of the ICI Group of companies.
Still Jennifer Lopez and Glow are non-ICI trademarks.
Certain statements provided in this Annual Review may be forward-looking statements as that term is dened in the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, among other things, the impact of competitive products and pricing, changes in the price of raw materials, the occurrence of major operational problems, the loss of major customers, limitations imposed by ICIs indebtedness and resulting leverage, a credit rating downgrade by the ratings agencies, contingent liabilities including those arising in connection with recently disposed businesses, risks associated with ICIs international operations, risks of litigation and other factors described in the Companys lings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission including its reports on Form 6-K.
Accordingly readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
Auditor: KPMG Audit Plc 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB Registered Ofce: 20 Manchester Square London W1U 3AN Telephone: 44 0 20 7009 5000 DESIGN: www.
