Ancillary information Additional information In addition to the regulatory framework described above, our operating Exchange Rates units are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies concerning such matters as zoning, environmental and health The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the average noon and safety compliance.
In addition, numerous governmental permits and buying rates in US dollars per 1 to the nearest cent, calculated by using approvals are required for our operations.
We believe that our operating the average of the exchange rates on the last day of each full calendar units are currently operating in substantial compliance with, or under month during the period.
approved variances from, various national, state and local regulations.
Average We do not believe that such compliance will materially adversely affect Year ended December 31, 1999 1.61 our business or results of operations.
In the past, our subsidiaries have Year ended December 31, 2000 1.51 made significant capital and maintenance expenditures to comply with Year ended December 31, 2001 1.44 zoning, water, air and solid and hazardous waste regulations and these subsidiaries may be required to do so in the future.
From time to time, Year ended December 31, 2002 1.51 various agencies may serve cease and desist orders or notices of violation Year ended December 31, 2003 1.65 on an operating unit or deny its applications for certain licences or permits, Year ending December 31, 2004 through February 17, 2004 1.84 in each case alleging that the practices of the operating unit are not consistent with the regulations or ordinances.
In some cases, the relevant The following table sets forth the high and low noon buying rates for the operating unit may seek to meet with the agency to determine mutually last six months in US dollars per 1 to the nearest cent.
acceptable methods of modifying or eliminating the practice in question.
High Low We believe that our operating units should be able to achieve compliance with the applicable regulations and ordinances in a manner which should August 2003 1.62 1.57 not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition September 2003 1.66 1.57 or results of operations.
October 2003 1.70 1.66 Approximately 95 present and former US operating sites, or portions November 2003 1.72 1.67 thereof, currently or previously owned and or leased by current or former December 2003 1.78 1.72 companies acquired by Hanson responsibility for which remains with a January 2004 1.85 1.79 member of the Hanson group are the subject of claims, investigations, monitoring or remediation under the US federal Comprehensive February 2004 through February 17, 2004 1.90 1.82 Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act CERCLA, the US federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act or comparable Business overview US state statutes or agreements with third parties.
These proceedings Seasonality are in various stages ranging from initial enquiries to active settlement Seasonality is a significant factor affecting all of our operations.
negotiations to implementation of response actions.
In addition, a number In our major markets in the USA, the UK and northern Continental of present and former Hanson operating units responsibility for which Europe, activity is very much concentrated during the period between remains with a member of the Hanson group have been named as March and November, while the winter in Australia and the rainy season Potentially Responsible Parties PRPs at approximately 40 off-site and Chinese New Year in Asia Pacic cause a material slow-down in landlls under CERCLA or comparable state statutes.
In each of these operations during these periods.
Unusual weather patterns, in particular matters the Hanson operating unit is working with the governmental heavy and sustained rainfall, during peak construction periods can cause agencies involved and other PRPs to address environmental claims in significant delays and have an adverse impact on our businesses.
A substantial majority of these Sources and availability of raw materials operating and landll sites are covered by the environmental insurance We generally own or lease the real estate on which the raw materials, policy referred to under the heading Material Contracts referred to below.
namely aggregates and clay reserves, essential to our main businesses We do not believe that any of the proceedings relating to operating sites are found, although in the case of the marine businesses of Hanson and off-site landlls not covered by the environmental insurance policy Continental Europe & Marine and Hanson Aggregates North America, will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results we operate under licences from the relevant national and local authorities.
At December 31, 2003, we had accrued 196.9m for We are also a significant purchaser of certain important materials such environmental obligations, including legal and other costs, at such sites as as cement, bitumen, gas, fuel and other energy supplies, the cost of which are not covered by the above-mentioned environmental insurance policy.
can uctuate by material amounts and consequently have an adverse Costs associated with environmental assessments and remediation efforts impact on our businesses.
We are not generally dependent on any one are accrued when determined to represent a probable loss and to be capable source for the supply of these products, other than in certain jurisdictions of being reasonably estimated.
There can be no assurance that the ultimate with regard to the supply of gas and electricity.
Competitive markets resolution of these matters will not differ materially from our estimates.
generally exist in the jurisdictions in which we operate for the supply We cannot predict whether future developments in laws and regulations of cement, bitumen and fuel.
In 2003, percentage price changes in the concerning environmental and health and safety protection will affect cement market ranged from a decrease of 12.8% in Asia to an increase our earnings or cash ow in a materially adverse manner or whether our of 7.5% in Australia.
Bitumen prices are affected by general oil price operating units will be successful in meeting future demands of regulatory changes which in 2003 rose across our operations, ranging from agencies in a manner which will not materially adversely affect our 10% in Europe to 19.6% in Asia.
business, financial condition or results of operations.
Sales and marketing For other legal proceedings against Hanson, see note 27 of the notes Although sales and marketing activities are more important in connection to the accounts of the Annual Report and Form 20-F. with our brick business in both the USA and the UK, where branding of the product is a factor, in general the nature of our major products, i. e. Patents and trademarks rock, sand, gravel and ready-mixed concrete, and the cost of transportation Our operating units have various patents, registered trademarks, trade means that marketing and selling is conducted on a more localised basis, names and trade secrets and applications for, or licences in respect with an emphasis on service and delivery.
Sales and marketing costs tend of, the same that relate to various businesses.
We believe that certain to be relatively low in relation to the overall delivered price of our products.
of these intellectual property rights are of material importance to the businesses to which they relate.
We believe that the material patents, Governmental regulation including environmental trademarks, trade names and trade secrets of our operating subsidiaries Many products produced by our operating units are subject to and divisions are adequately protected and that the expiration of patents government regulation in various jurisdictions regarding production and and patent licences will not have a material adverse effect upon our sale.
We believe that our operating units have taken, and continue to take, business, financial condition or results of operations.
measures to comply with applicable laws and government regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate so that the risk of sanctions does Employees not represent a material threat to any of the operating units individually As at December 31, 2003, Hanson PLC employed 24,300 employees.
We also believe that compliance with these An analysis of employee numbers by business and geographical area is regulations does not substantially affect the ability of our subsidiaries found in note 4 of the notes to the accounts of the Annual Report and to compete with similarly situated companies.
Form 20-F. We believe that in general our relationship with our employees and trade unions or other bodies representing our employees is good.
100 Ancillary information Ancillary information continued Property, plants and equipment The discussion does not consider the tax treatment of beneciaries As of December 31, 2003, our operating units owned 1,062 plants and of trusts or estates, partnerships or other pass-through entities or other freehold properties, of which 423 were located in North America, persons who hold ordinary shares or ADSs through a partnership 309 were located in the UK, 278 were located in Australia and 52 were or other pass-through entity.
located in Continental Europe and Asia.
The remaining properties of our This discussion does not address all aspects of US federal income operating units throughout the world, including other manufacturing taxation, such as US federal gift or estate tax, nor state or local taxation.
facilities, warehouses, stores and ofces, were leased.
None of the It does not address the tax consequences for financial institutions, individual properties is considered to have a value that is significant in financial services entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities relation to our assets as a whole.
For a description of certain environmental or foreign currencies, persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, issues that may affect our utilisation of our assets, see under the heading persons owning directly, indirectly or by attribution five per cent.
Governmental regulation including environmental referred to above.
or more of the total combined voting power of the stock of Hanson, Material contracts persons carrying on a trade or business in the UK through a permanent For details relating to the Deposit Agreement under which the Hanson establishment, persons who acquired ordinary shares or ADSs as ADSs were issued, the indentures under which the groups public bonds compensation, persons who elect mark-to-market accounting, were issued and various agreements and indemnities relating to the tax-exempt entities or private foundations, persons that hold the ordinary Demergers, see under the heading Exhibits included in Hanson PLCs shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, hedge, constructive sale or 2003 Form 20-F led with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
conversion transaction or other integrated transaction, persons whose functional currency is other than the US dollar, or certain expatriates In August 1998, an agreement was reached under which the funding or former long-term residents of the USA.
and risk of the environmental liabilities relating to the former Koppers company operations of Beazer plc Beazer acquired by Hanson in US shareholders and holders of Hanson ADSs should consult their 1991 was undertaken by the subsidiaries of two leading reinsurance tax advisers with regard to the application of the US federal income tax companies, Centre Solutions a member of the Zurich Group and laws to their particular situation, as well as any tax consequences arising Swiss Re.
The one-off premium, together with related transaction costs, under the laws of any state, local or foreign taxing jurisdiction.
amounted to $275.0m and provides $800.0m of insurance cover without Considerations Relevant to the ADSs and ordinary shares time limit after payment by Beazer of the first $100.0m of remediation US shareholders of ADSs are not members of the Company but may costs arising since January 1998.
Administration of the environmental instruct Citibank N. A. the Depositary, as to the exercise of voting rights remediation programme will continue to be carried out by Beazer.
pertaining to the number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
On March 29, 2001, we entered into a 900.0m as subsequently However, US shareholders of ADSs are generally treated as the owners of reduced to 829.1m multi-currency revolving credit facility arranged the underlying ordinary shares for purposes of the US-UK double taxation by Barclays Capital and J P Morgan PLC with a syndicate of banks.
conventions relating to income and gains the UK-US income tax treaty Tranche A of the facility is now available in an amount of up to 569.2m, and to estate and gift taxes the Estate and Gift Tax Convention and is available for cash advances in various currencies, incorporates a generally for purposes of US federal income tax law, and for purposes US$646.8m swingline advance facility and a sub-limit of up to 300.0m of the US federal tax laws.
for Australian dollar loan note advances, and matures on March 28, 2006.
Taxation of Dividends Tranche B of the facility is now available in an amount of 259.9m, Subject to the discussion below under the heading Passive Foreign is available for cash advances in various currencies and matures on Investment Company Considerations, a US shareholder will be required March 25, 2004, but incorporates an option to extend for a further to include in gross income as ordinary income the amount of any dividend year at Hansons discretion.
paid on the ordinary shares or ADSs on the date the dividend is received Exchange controls to the extent the dividend is paid out of our current or accumulated There are no UK restrictions on the import or export of capital including earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
foreign exchange controls that affect the remittances of dividends or other Dividends in excess of these earnings and profits will be applied against, payments to non-resident holders of ordinary shares except as otherwise and will reduce, the US shareholders basis in the ADSs or ordinary shares set forth in Taxation information for US shareholders below and except and, to the extent in excess of such basis, will be treated as gain from the for certain restrictions imposed from time to time by HM Treasury pursuant sale or exchange of such ADSs or ordinary shares.
For dividends paid prior to legislation such as The United Nations Act 1946 and the Emergency to May 1, 2003 or May 1, 2004, if as described below the US Laws Act 1964 against the Government or residents of certain countries.
shareholder has elected to extend the former UK-US income tax treaty which entered into force in 1980 the Prior Treaty, the amount of Except for the general limitations contained in the Companys dividend includable in income of a US shareholder includes any UK Memorandum and Articles of Association and in the Deposit Agreement tax withheld from the dividend payment and amounts in respect of the governing the Companys ADSs, and certain restrictions that may be UK tax credit as discussed below.
In addition, dividends of current or imposed from time to time by HM Treasury under legislation as described accumulated earnings and profits will be foreign source passive income above, under English law and Hansons Memorandum and Articles of for US foreign tax credit purposes and will not qualify for the dividendsAssociation, persons who are neither residents nor nationals of the UK received deduction otherwise available to corporations.
may freely hold, vote and transfer ordinary shares in the same manner as UK residents or nationals.
Dividends paid out of current or accumulated earnings in foreign currency to a US shareholder will be includable in the income of a US shareholder Taxation information for US shareholders in a US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on The following paragraphs are intended as a general guide only and do the date the dividend is received, regardless of whether the dividend is not purport to be a complete technical analysis or listing of all potential in fact converted into US dollars on such date.
A US shareholder that tax effects relevant to the ADSs or the ordinary shares.
The statements receives a foreign currency dividend and converts the foreign currency of US federal tax laws set forth below are based on provisions of the into US dollars subsequent to receipt will have foreign exchange gain US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, current and proposed or loss based on any appreciation or depreciation in the value of the US Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, and administrative foreign currency against the US dollar, which will generally be US source and judicial decisions, all of which are subject to change, possibly on ordinary income or loss.
Under recently enacted US federal income tax legislation, an individual This discussion addresses only US shareholders that beneficially own US shareholders qualied dividend income is subject to tax at a and hold ADSs or ordinary shares as capital assets and use the US dollar reduced rate of tax of 15%.
For this purpose, qualied dividend income as their functional currency, and that are either a citizen or resident of the includes dividends from foreign corporations if a the stock of such USA for US federal income tax purposes, or a corporation, or other entity corporation with respect to which such dividend is paid is readily tradable treated as a corporation for US federal income tax purposes, created or on an established securities market in the USA, including NASDAQ, or b organised under the laws of the USA or any political subdivision thereof, such corporation is eligible for the benets of a comprehensive tax treaty or an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation with the USA that includes an information exchange programme and regardless of its sources, or a trust, if a court within the USA is able to is determined to be satisfactory to the US Secretary of the Treasury.
exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one The US Secretary of the Treasury has indicated that the UK-US income or more USA persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions tax treaty which came into effect on March 31, 2003 the New Treaty of the trust each a US shareholder for the purposes of this discussion.
is satisfactory for this purpose.
Dividends will not however qualify for the Ancillary information 101 Ancillary information continued reduced rate if such corporation is treated for the tax year in which Any days during which a US shareholder has diminished its risk dividends are paid or in the prior year as a foreign investment company, of loss on the ordinary shares or ADSs are not counted towards meeting a foreign personal holding company, or a passive foreign investment the 16-day holding period requirement.
company for US federal income tax purposes.
Based on the nature of Taxation of Capital Gains Hansons operations, Hanson does not believe that it would be treated Upon a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs, a US as a foreign investment company, or a foreign personal holding company.
shareholder will recognise gain or loss for US federal income tax Although Hanson does not believe it is a passive foreign investment purposes in an amount equal to the difference between the US dollar company, see the discussion below under the heading Passive Foreign value of the amount realised and the US shareholders tax basis Investment Company Considerations.
Accordingly, if Hansons beliefs are determined in US dollars in such ordinary shares or ADSs.
Generally, correct, dividend distributions with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs such gain or loss will be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital should be treated as qualied dividend income and subject to the US gain or loss if the US shareholders holding period for such ordinary shareholders satisfaction of the holding period requirements described shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
Any such gain or loss generally will be below, should be eligible for the reduced 15% US federal income tax rate.
income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation A US shareholder will not be entitled to the reduced rate: a if the US purposes.
Long-term capital gain of a non-corporate US shareholder is shareholder has not held the ordinary shares or ADSs for at least 61days generally subject to a maximum tax rate of 15%.
The deductibility of a of the 120-day period beginning on the date which is 60 days before capital loss recognised on the sale or exchange of ordinary shares or the ex-dividend date: or b to the extent the US shareholder is under an ADSs is subject to limitations.
obligation to make related payments on substantially similar or related property.
Any days during which a US shareholder has diminished its risk If the ordinary shares or ADSs are publicly traded, a disposition of such of loss on the ordinary shares or ADSs are not counted towards meeting ordinary shares or ADSs will be considered to occur on the trade date, the 61-day holding period required by the statute.
Based on IRS New regardless of the US shareholders method of accounting.
A US Release 2004-22, the IRS intends to give current effect to proposed shareholder that uses the cash method of accounting calculates the US legislation changing the forementioned 120-day period to a 121-day dollar value of the proceeds received on the sale as of the date that the period.
The UK does not currently apply a withholding tax on dividends sale settles.
However, a US shareholder that uses the accrual method of under its internal laws.
However, if such a withholding tax were introduced, accounting is required to calculate the value of the proceeds of the sale the UK would be entitled, under the New Treaty, in certain circumstances as of the trade date and, therefore, may realise foreign currency gain or to impose a withholding tax at a rate of up to 15% on dividends paid loss, unless such US shareholder has elected to use the settlement date to a US shareholder.
Subject to applicable limitations, a US shareholder to determine its proceeds of sale for purposes of calculating such foreign who was subject to any such withholding should be entitled to claim a currency gain or loss.
In addition, a US shareholder that receives foreign deduction for withheld tax or, subject to the holding period requirements currency upon the sale or exchange of the ordinary shares or ADSs and mentioned below, a credit for such withholding tax against such holders converts the foreign currency into US dollars subsequent to receipt will US federal income tax liability.
The US foreign tax credit limitation may have foreign exchange gain or loss based on an appreciation or be reduced to the extent that dividends are eligible for the reduced rate depreciation in the value of the foreign currency against the US dollar.
Foreign exchange gain or loss will generally be US source ordinary income or loss.
A US shareholder who is a US person for US federal income tax purposes and who was eligible for benets under the Prior Treaty each A US citizen who is resident or in certain circumstance has been such US shareholder, an eligible US shareholder may elect to continue resident within the previous five UK years of assessment for tax or to apply the provisions of the Prior Treaty with respect to dividends paid ordinarily resident in the UK or a US corporation which is resident in the through April 30, 2004.
The Prior Treaty also will apply to dividends paid UK by reason of being managed and controlled in the UK or a US citizen prior to May 1, 2003 to eligible US shareholders that did not elect to who, or US corporation which, is trading in the UK through a branch or extend the Prior Treaty.
An eligible US shareholder electing to apply the agency and has used, held or acquired ADSs or ordinary shares for the provisions of the Prior Treaty with respect to Hansons dividends will be purposes of such trade, branch or agency, may be liable for both UK and required to apply all of the provisions of the Prior Treaty for an entire US tax on any gain on the disposal of ADSs or ordinary shares.
Subject 12 month period ending April 30, 2004 or the UK taxable year ending to certain limitations, such a person will generally be entitled to a tax credit in 2004 with respect to income, capital gains and corporation taxes.
against any US federal tax liability for the amount of any UK tax namely, Under the Prior Treaty, an electing eligible US shareholder who is a capital gains tax in the case of an individual and corporation tax on beneficial owner of an ADS or an ordinary share and of any cash dividend chargeable gains in the case of a corporation which is paid in paid with respect thereto should be entitled to a foreign tax credit for respect of such gain.
UK withholding tax in an amount equal to one-ninth of any dividend paid Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations through April 30, 2004, which, subject to applicable limitations, would Adverse tax rules apply to shareholders in a passive foreign investment be creditable against such US shareholders US federal income tax liability.
Hanson will be a PFIC for US federal income tax This additional tax credit amount would give rise to additional dividend purposes if 75% or more of its gross income in a taxable year, including income.
Thus, for example, an eligible US shareholder that elects the the pro rata share of the gross income of any US or foreign company benets of the Prior Treaty and receives an 8 dividend should be in which it is considered to own 25% or more of the shares by value, considered to receive a dividend of 8.89 8 dividend plus a 0.89 is passive income.
Hanson will also be considered to be a PFIC if at least gross tax credit and to have paid 0.89 of UK tax.
An eligible US 50% of its assets in a taxable year, averaged over the year and ordinarily shareholder makes an election to apply the provisions under the Prior determined based on fair market value and including the pro rata share of Treaty with respect to a dividend by indicating on Line 5 of Form 8833 the assets of any US or foreign company in which Hanson is considered Treaty Based Return Disclosure Under Section 6114 or 7701 b and to own 25% or more of the shares by value, are held for the production ling Form 8833 with the US shareholders US federal income tax return of, or produce, passive income.
Pursuant to this election, the US shareholder will be treated as having paid the UK tax on the date of distribution.
In such The Directors believe that Hanson was not a PFIC in 2003 and that circumstances, a US shareholder may be required to satisfy certain holding Hanson will not be a PFIC in 2004.
However, the tests for determining period requirements with respect to an ADS or ordinary share in order to PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate claim the foreign tax credit for the UK tax, as discussed below.
US predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to this shareholders should consult their tax advisors concerning their eligibility determination.
Accordingly, there can be no assurance that Hanson and the procedures for claiming the UK tax credit amount under the will not become a PFIC.
In particular, depending upon the composition Prior Treaty.
A US shareholder will not be eligible to claim a foreign tax of Hansons assets and other factors, including Hansons market credit for the UK tax credit amount with respect to dividends received capitalisation, there is a possibility that Hanson may become a PFIC on the ordinary shares or ADSs: a if the US shareholder has not held for 2004.
If Hanson was a PFIC, a US shareholder would be required the ordinary shares or ADSs for at least 16 days of the 30-day period to complete IRS Form 8621 with the US shareholders US federal beginning on the date which is 15 days before the ex-dividend date: income tax return each year.
If Hanson was a PFIC and a US shareholder or b to the extent the US shareholder is under an obligation to make did not make an election to treat Hanson as a qualied electing fund, related payments on substantially similar or related property.
as described on the following page: 102 Ancillary information Ancillary information continued excess distributions by Hanson to a US shareholder would be taxed the provisions of the Estate and Gift Tax Convention to inheritance tax.
Excess distributions are amounts received by a US On this assumption, an ADS or ordinary share held by an individual who is shareholder in respect of the shares in a PFIC in any taxable year that domiciled in, or a citizen of, the United States and is not a national of exceed 125% of the average distributions received by that shareholder or domiciled in the United Kingdom will not be subject to UK inheritance from the PFIC in the shorter of either the three previous years or the tax on the individuals death or on a transfer of the ADS or ordinary share US shareholders holding period for the PFIC shares before the present during the individuals lifetime except in the exceptional case where the taxable year.
Excess distributions must be allocated ratably to each day ADS or ordinary share is part of the business property of a UK that a US shareholder has held shares in the PFIC.
A US shareholder permanent establishment or an enterprise or pertains to a UK xed base must include in gross income amounts allocated to the current taxable of an individual used for the performance of independent personal year and amounts allocable to certain years prior to Hanson becoming services.
Special rules apply where an ADS or ordinary share is held a PFIC, as ordinary income for that year.
A US shareholder must pay tax in trust.
The Estate and Gift Tax Convention generally provides a credit for on amounts allocated to other taxable years when Hanson was a PFIC the amount of any tax paid in the United Kingdom against the US federal at the highest rate in effect for that year on ordinary income, and the tax tax liability or for tax paid in the US to be credited against the United is subject to an interest charge at the rate applicable to deficiencies Kingdom liability according to rules set out in the Convention in a case for income tax: where the ADS or ordinary share is subject both to UK inheritance tax the entire amount of gain that was realised by a US shareholder upon and to US federal gift or estate tax.
the sale or other disposition of shares in a PFIC will also be treated as an excess distribution and will be subject to tax as described above: Stamp Duty and Stamp Duty Reserve Tax a US shareholders tax basis in shares in a PFIC that were acquired Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable at the rate from a decedent would not receive a step-up to fair market value of 1.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5, on any instrument transferring as of the date of the decedents death but would instead be equal ordinary shares to the Custodian of the Depositary on the value of to the decedents basis, if lower.
In accordance with the terms of the Deposit The special PFIC rules described above will not apply to a US Agreement, any tax or duty payable by the Depositary or the Custodian shareholder if an election is made to treat Hanson as a qualied electing of the Depositary on future deposits of ordinary shares may be charged fund a QEF, in the first taxable year in which a the US shareholder by the Depositary to the party to whom ADRs are delivered against holds either ADSs or ordinary shares, b Hanson is a PFIC, and c such deposits.
Hanson complies with certain reporting requirements.
Instead, a shareholder of a QEF is required for each taxable year to include in No UK stamp duty will be payable on any transfer of an ADR evidencing income a pro rata share of the ordinary earnings of the QEF as ordinary an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer income and a pro rata share of the net capital gain of the QEF as longis executed and retained at all times outside the UK and is not required term capital gain, subject to a separate election to defer payment of to be admitted in evidence in any proceedings in the United Kingdom.
taxes, which deferral is subject to an interest charge.
A transfer of an ADR evidencing an ADS in the United Kingdom could A US shareholder of PFIC stock that is publicly traded could elect to attract stamp duty at a rate of 0.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5. mark the stock to market annually, recognising as ordinary income or loss Any transfer which will include a transfer from the Depositary to an ADS each year an amount equal to the difference as at the close of the taxable holder of the underlying ordinary shares could result in a stamp duty year between the fair market value of the PFIC stock and the adjusted liability at the rate of 0.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5.
On a transfer basis of the PFIC stock.
Losses would be allowed only to the extent of from a nominee to the beneficial owner the nominee having at all times net mark-to-market gain previously included by the US shareholder under held the ordinary shares on behalf of the beneficial owner under which the election for prior taxable years.
If the mark-to-market election were no beneficial interest passes and which is neither a sale nor arises under made, then the rules set forth above would not apply for periods covered a contract of sale nor is in contemplation of sale, a xed 5 stamp duty by the election.
The amount of stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax The Directors can give no assurance that Hanson will have timely payable is generally calculated at the applicable rate on the purchase knowledge of its future status as a PFIC.
In this regard, Hanson does price of the ordinary shares.
not assume any obligation to make timely disclosure with respect to such Stamp duty reserve tax at a rate of 0.5% will be payable on any status.
Moreover, the Directors do not plan to provide US shareholders agreement to transfer ordinary shares or any interest therein unless with the necessary information to make a QEF election.
Consequently, an instrument transferring the ordinary shares is executed and stamp as a practical matter, US shareholders should assume that they will not duty at a rate of 0.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5 has been paid.
be able to make a QEF election.
A US shareholder who holds ADSs or Stamp duty reserve tax will not be payable on any agreement to transfer ordinary shares during a period in which Hanson is a PFIC will be subject to the foregoing rules, even if Hanson ceases to be a PFIC.
US shareholders ADRs representing ADSs.
should consult their tax advisors about the PFIC rules, including the Incorporation of the Company consequences to them of making a mark-to-market or QEF election Hanson PLC is a public limited company incorporated on December 31, with respect to ADSs or ordinary shares in the event that Hanson 2002 in England and Wales.
Memorandum and Articles of Association US Information Reporting and Backup Withholding A summary of certain provisions of the Companys Memorandum and A US shareholder is generally subject to information reporting Articles of Association and a summary description of certain provisions requirements with respect to dividends paid in the USA on ADSs of the Deposit Agreement relating to the Companys ADSs was included or ordinary shares.
In addition, a US shareholder is subject to backup in the Report on Form 6-K dated November 11, 2003 which was led withholding currently at a rate of 28% on dividends paid in the USA with the SEC.
The information set forth in the Report on Form 6-K dated on ADSs or ordinary shares unless the US shareholder provides an November 11, 2003 which was incorporated by reference in certain IRS Form W-9 or otherwise establishes an exemption.
A US shareholder Registration Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
is subject to information reporting and backup withholding currently at a rate of 28% on proceeds paid from a sale, exchange, redemption or Registered ofce other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares unless the US shareholder 1 Grosvenor Place provides an IRS Form W-9 or otherwise establishes an exemption.
London SW1X 7JH Telephone 44 0 20 7245 1245 Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
The amount of any backup withholding will be allowed as a credit against a US shareholders US Documents on display federal income tax liability and may entitle such holder to a refund, provided Hanson furnishes annual and special reports and other information that certain information is furnished on a timely basis to the IRS.
These documents may be read and copied at the SECs Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N. W. Washington DC 20549.
Inheritance Tax Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on The United Kingdom imposes inheritance tax, broadly, on transfers the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
Filings with the of capital which occur on death and in the preceding seven years.
SEC are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval The UK Inland Revenue is known to consider that the Estate and Gift Tax services and on the website maintained by the SEC at www.
Convention applies to inheritance tax and it is understood that, in practice, both the UK Inland Revenue and the US Internal Revenue Service apply Ancillary information 103
