Accounting policies Accounting convention The accounts have been prepared in accordance with UK accounting principles including applicable accounting standards, using the historical cost convention.
These differ in certain respects from accounting principles in the USA, a reconciliation to which is included in note 33 to the accounts.
A summary of the groups key accounting policies is set out below.
Basis of accounting Hanson PLC the Company was incorporated on December 31, 2002 as Broadcast Sales Limited.
On June 4, 2003 it changed its name to Hanson Building Materials Limited and on July 10, 2003, was re-registered as a public limited company and changed its name to Hanson Building Materials PLC.
In order to maintain continuity following implementation of a Scheme of Arrangement, the Company changed its name to Hanson PLC on October 14, 2003 and Old Hanson re-registered as a private limited company as Hanson Building Materials Limited.
On October 14, 2003, the effective date of the Scheme, the Company acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Hanson Building Materials Limited by the issue of one new share in New Hanson for each issued share in Old Hanson.
This group reconstruction has been accounted for using merger accounting principles since the new shareholders of the Company are the same as the former shareholders and the rights of each shareholder, relative to the others, are unchanged.
The consolidated accounts are presented as if the Scheme had been effective on January 1, 2003 except for the effect of the capital restructuring and subsequent reduction of capital which took place on October 21, 2003.
The consolidated accounts reect the results of the group for the year ended December 31, 2003 with those of the Company since its incorporation to December 31, 2003.
The Company accounts of Hanson PLC relate to New Hanson dened as the Company above and are for the year ended December 31, 2003 and its comparative period ended December 31, 2002.
The comparative amounts in note 19 to the accounts relate to Old Hanson, in order to provide the reader with a better understanding of the Scheme and its effect on the share capital of Old Hanson and the Company.
Basis of consolidation The accounting reference date of the Company is December 31.
The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries together with the groups share of the results of associated undertakings associates and joint-ventures using the equity and gross equity methods respectively.
Acquisitions and disposals The results of companies and businesses acquired during the year are dealt with in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition.
Upon the acquisition of a business the fair values that reect their condition at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Adjustments are also made to bring the accounting policies of businesses acquired into alignment with those of the group.
Where the consideration paid for a business exceeds the fair value of the net assets, the difference is treated as goodwill.
Since the adoption of FRS10 on January 1, 1998, goodwill has been carried on the balance sheet and is amortised over the estimated economic life to a maximum of 20 years.
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to January 1, 1998 has not been reinstated.
On disposal of a business the profit or loss on disposal is determined after incorporating the attributable amount of any purchased goodwill, including any previously written off directly to reserves.
Turnover Turnover is recognised when all of the following conditions are met: evidence of a binding arrangement exists generally, purchase orders, products have been delivered or services have been rendered, there is no future performance required and amounts are collectable under normal payment terms.
Turnover represents the net amounts charged or chargeable in respect of services rendered and goods supplied, excluding inter company sales, value added tax and other sales taxes.
Turnover is recognised net of any discounts agreed with the customer.
Turnover on long-term construction contracts is recognised as the value of measured works, claims and variations on contracts in the year, which have been invoiced.
Claims and variations are only valued where they have been agreed with the client.
Where it is foreseen that a loss will arise to the group on a long-term contract, full provision is made for that loss during the year.
Assets held under leases Assets held under finance leases are included within xed assets at the capitalised value of the future minimum lease payments and are depreciated over the shorter of their lease period and their useful life.
The capital element of the future payments is treated as a liability and the interest element is charged to the profit and loss account so as to reect a constant annual rate of interest on the remaining balance of the outstanding obligation.
Rentals paid on operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the shorter of the lease period and the useful life of the leased asset.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future.
Deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint-ventures is recognised only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, on a first in first out basis.
Cost includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses, and an appropriate proportion of production and other overheads.
Tangible xed assets Tangible xed assets are shown at cost less depreciation, depletion and any impairments.
The cost of a tangible xed asset comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
Costs to develop new commercial aggregate deposits and for major development programmes at existing sites are capitalised and amortised over the life of the quarry.
Repair and maintenance costs are charged to costs and overheads as incurred.
Accounting policies 51 Accounting policies continued Tangible xed assets continued No depreciation is provided on freehold land except for mineral reserves which are depleted on the basis of tonnage extracted.
Depreciation of other xed assets is calculated to write off their cost over their expected useful lives allowing for estimated residual value.
The majority of xed assets are written off on a straight line basis over the following periods: Plant and equipment 2-30 years Land, building and natural resources up to 50 years Asset impairment Intangible and tangible assets are reviewed for potential impairment where there is some indication that impairment may have occurred, to ensure that assets are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying amount is not covered by the discounted cash ows resulting from continued use of the assets, or from their disposal, and is charged to the profit and loss account.
Research and development Expenditure on development and improvement of new and existing products is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Pensions and other post-retirement benets The cost of providing pension and other post-retirement benets is charged to the consolidated profit and loss account over employee service lives.
Variances arising from actuarial valuations are charged or credited to profit over the estimated remaining service lives of the employees, to the extent that any resulting credit does not exceed the regular cost.
FRS17 Retirement Benets requires the assets of a dened benefit pension scheme to be measured at their market value and the liabilities to be measured using a specified actuarial valuation method and discounted using a corporate bond rate.
Any pension scheme surplus or deficit arising is required to be recognised immediately on the group Balance Sheet.
Any resulting actuarial gains and losses must be recognised immediately in the group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses.
Adoption of the standard in full is not currently required, however transitional disclosures have been complied with in note 29 to the accounts.
Provisions Provisions for long-term obligations except deferred taxation are discounted at rates of up to 6.75% on current prices.
Asset retirement obligations A provision is recognised for the fair value of legally enforceable asset retirement costs in the period in which the obligation is incurred.
An asset representing the cost of future benets to be received is recorded and depreciated over its useful life.
Other reclamation costs associated with the restoration of extracted aggregates are expensed as incurred.
Derivatives and financial instruments Financial instruments, in particular, forward currency contracts and currency swaps, are used to manage the financial risks arising from the business activities of the group and the nancing of those activities.
There is no trading activity in financial instruments.
The group considers its financial instruments to be hedges when certain criteria are met.
The groups criteria for an instrument to qualify for hedge accounting are that the instrument must be related to an asset or a liability, it must involve the same currency as the hedged item and it must control the effect of movements in foreign exchange and interest rates on the relevant asset, liability or reported results of the group.
A discussion of how the financial risks are managed is included in the Financial Review on pages 27 and 28.
Financial instruments are accounted for using hedge accounting as follows: Forward exchange contracts are used as balance sheet hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency investments and borrowings.
The difference between the spot and forward rate for these contracts is recognised as part of the net interest payable over the period of the contract.
The spot rate of foreign currency hedges is revalued to the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and aggregate unrealised gains or losses arising on revaluation are included in other debtors other creditors.
Both realised and unrealised gains and losses on these contracts are taken to reserves to the extent that those contracts relate to foreign currency investments.
Cross currency interest rate swaps currency swaps are used to hedge foreign currency assets and borrowings.
The future currency exchange within such contracts is revalued to the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and any unrealised gain or loss is matched with that on the underlying asset or liability in reserves.
The interest coupon on such swaps is accrued in the same way as that on borrowings and deposits.
Currency options are occasionally used as balance sheet hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency investments and borrowings.
Option premiums paid received are recognised at their historic cost in the group balance sheet as prepayments and amortised over the life of the option.
Interest rate swaps are used to hedge the groups exposure to movements in interest rates.
The interest payable or receivable on such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value prior to maturity.
Interest rate options are occasionally used to hedge the groups exposure to movements in interest rates.
Option premiums paid are recognised in the group balance sheet as prepayments and amortised over the life of the contract.
The aggregate fair values at the balance sheet date of the hedging instruments described above are disclosed in note 30 to the accounts.
Foreign currencies Average rates of exchange ruling during the year have been used to translate the profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint-ventures.
52 Accounting policies Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies continued The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and associates are translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences on translation arising from changes in the sterling value of overseas net assets, related foreign currency loans, foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps at the beginning of the accounting year, or at the date of any later capital currency conversions, together with the differences between profit and loss accounts translated at average rates and at balance sheet rates, are shown as a movement on reserves and in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Other exchange rate differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account for the year.
The currencies which have principally affected the groups results and the relevant exchange rates over the past three years are: 2003 2002 2001 Average rates $ US 1.6324 1.5016 1.4403 Euro 1.4466 1.5921 1.6082 $ AUS 2.5211 2.7664 2.7841 Year end rates $ US 1.7738 1.6016 1.4484 Euro 1.4243 1.5391 1.6425 $ AUS 2.3871 2.8553 2.8423 Use of estimates This preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Advertising costs Expenditure on advertising is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
Reclassications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassied to conform with current period presentation.
International Financial Reporting Standards The group is required under European legislation to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, also known as International Accounting Standards from January 1, 2005.
As a global business the group is supportive of moves to harmonise international accounting standards and will use the transition process as an opportunity to review its existing accounting policies and estimates.
The group has developed a transition plan to manage the conversion to IFRS and the project will be overseen by an IFRS Steering Committee.
The adoption of IFRS may have a material impact on the groups results and its financial position: however, it is currently too early to quantify the impact accurately.
The adoption of IFRS will first apply to the groups financial statements for the half year ending June 30, 2005.
The key differences between UK GAAP and IFRS are set out below: Derivative instruments and hedging activities The group enters into derivative instruments to limit its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
Under UK GAAP, these instruments are measured at cost and accounted for as hedges, whereby gains and losses are deferred until the underlying transaction occurs.
Under IFRS, derivative instruments can be recognised on the balance sheet at fair value, although in order to achieve hedge accounting, certain criteria must be established regarding documentation, designation and effectiveness of the hedge.
Pensions and other post-retirement benets Under UK GAAP, the cost of providing pension and other post-retirement benets is charged to the consolidated profit and loss account over employee service lives in accordance with SSAP24.
Under IFRS, pensions and other post-retirement benefit plan assets and liabilities are carried at their fair value, at the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation Under UK GAAP, deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences, except those that relate to revaluations where no sale is in process, or where it is probable that rollover relief or losses will be applied to the gain and also to the remittance of retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, except where no dividends have been accrued as receivable at the balance sheet date.
Under IFRS, deferred taxation is provided on all differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities except those arising from goodwill that is not deductible for tax purposes, or the initial recognition of assets and liabilities from a transaction that is not a business combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit when the transaction occurs.
Goodwill and asset impairment Under UK GAAP, goodwill is carried on the balance sheet and amortised on a straight line basis over its estimated economic life, normally assumed to be no more than 20 years.
Under current IFRS proposals, goodwill will not be amortised, but will be reviewed both annually and where an indicator of impairment exists.
Goodwill deemed to be impaired will be required to be written down to its implied value, as stipulated in the proposals.
Assets are reviewed for impairment under UK GAAP, where there is some indication that impairment may have occurred.
As far as is reasonably practicable, the smallest group of assets that generate independent income streams should be considered, after apportioning a share of the assets and liabilities of the entity.
Under IFRS, assets and groups of assets are also reviewed for impairment where there is some indication that impairment may have occurred, at the level of the smallest identiable group of assets that generates independent cash ows and after apportioning a share of centrally held assets.
Unlike UK GAAP, IFRS requires that internal factors, such as budgets, cash ow projections and other evidence that an asset has declined in value, should also be considered as potential evidence of impairment.
