GLOSSARYOF TERMS Unless the context indicatesotherwise, the followingterms have the meaningsshownbelow: Term Meaning 510kClearance FDA grants 510 k clearance for a device once it is determined that the device is substantially equivalent to another device on the market.
To be substantially equivalent, the device must have the same indicationsfor use and be mechanically equivalent to another device cleared for sale in the US.
Once the device has 510 k clearance, the device can be legally placed onthe US market.
ADR In the US, The Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the term of ADSs evidenced by  ADRs.
ADS In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the term of  ADSs.
Access A product group within endoscopy comprising fluid management and  surgicalaccess.
Advanced woundmanagement A product group comprising products associated with the treatment of skin products wounds, ranging from products that provide moist wound healing using breathable films and polymers to products providing active wound healing .
AGM Annualgeneral meetingof the Group.
Arthroscopy Endoscopy of the joints is termed arthroscopy, with the principal applicationsbeingthe kneeand shoulder.
Casting A product group comprising products that are used externally to immobilise a bone fracture or damaged joint, usually made of plaster of paris orsyntheticmaterials.
 Chronic wounds are those with long or unknown healing times including leg ulcers, pressure sores and diabetic foot ulcers.
Acute wounds are those for which healing times can be reasonably predicted such as surgicaland post-operative wounds.
Company Smith & Nephew plc or, where appropriate, the Companys Board of Directors, unless the context otherwiserequires.
Class III medicaldevice A medical device that requires pre-market approval by the relevant regulatorybodyinthe US orEurope.
CompaniesAct CompaniesAct 1985, as amended, of Great Britain.
Debridement A medical treatment or surgical procedure to remove necrotic tissue and  froma woundto aid healing.
Endoscopy Endoscopy allows surgeons to operate through coin-sized openings in the body, rather thanlarge incisions.
Endoscopyproducts A product group comprising specialised viewing and access devices, surgical instruments and powered equipment used in minimally invasive surgical procedures.
Through a small incision surgeons are able to see insidethe bodyusinga monitorand identifyand repairdefects.
Euroor References to the common currency used in the market states of the EuropeanUnion.
External fixation The use of wires or pins transfixed through bone to hold the position of a fracture.
142 Term Meaning FRS A  whichispart ofUK GAAP.
GrouporSmith& Nephew Used for convenience to refer to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwiserequires.
HA Hydroxyapatite, HA is a ceramic material that is similar in composition to bone.
DeviceswithHAare implanted withoutthe use ofbonecement.
IDETprocedure Intradiscal Electrothermal Therapy IDET is a thermal procedure intended for the shrinkage and decompression of the spinal disc to treat patients .
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International AccountingStandards Board.
Image guidedsurgery The use of computer-tracking in orthopaedics surgery to give surgeons real-time precise feedback on the positioning of surgical instruments relative toa patients anatomy.
Internalfixation The use of plates, nails, rods, pins, bands, screws, bolts and staples in the correctionofskeletal defects.
Metal-on-metal A less invasive surgical approach to treating arthritis in younger patients hipresurfacing whereby only the surfaces of the hip joint are replaced leaving the hip head substantially preserved.
Necrotictissue Dead tissue withthe bed ofa wound, usuallycrustlike.
OrthopaedicProducts Products that comprise implants, devices and systems to replace diseased or injured hip, knee and shoulder joints, and trauma devices such as rods, pins, screws, plates andexternal frames used totreat bonefractures.
Papainurea Papain urea is a compound of an enzyme extracted from papaya and an .
Porouscoated knee Porous knee replacement parts are components that are coated with small beads.
When several layers of beads are applied to the parts the bone can grow into the holes between the beads which provide additional  bone.
PoundSterling, Sterling, References toUK currency.
penceorp Rehabilitation A business segment comprising products equipment and systems used to increase, maintain or improve patient functional capabilities after surgery, .
Repair A product group within endoscopy comprising specialised devices, fixation systems and bioabsorbable materials to repair joints and associated tissue.
Resection Products that cut or ablate tissue within endoscopy comprising mechanical blades, radio frequency wands, electromechanical and hand instruments forresectingtissue SSAP A Statement ofStandard  ofUK GAAP.
Traditionalwoundcare Products group comprising medical textile products, adhesive tapes and fixative sheets  body UK United KingdomofGreat .
143 Term Meaning UK GAAP  inthe United Kingdom.
US United States of America.
US Dollars, US $ orcents References to US currency.
1 centis equivalent to onehundredthof US$1.
US GAAP  inthe United States of America.
Visualisation Products within endoscopy comprising digital cameras, light sources, monitors, scopes, image capture, central control and multimedia broadcastingsystems foruse .
Woundbed Anarea of healthydermal and epidermal tissue of a wound 144 2003 Annual Report smith&nephew Smith & Nephew plc www.
com 15 Adam Street London WC2N 6LA England 2003 Annual Report demonstrates that innovative and differentiated T 44 0 20 7401 7646 technologies from smith&nephew continue to provide excellent long-term F 44 0 20 7960 2350 growth prospects for our business.
