Chairmens statement Our mission is to add vitality to life.
We meet everyday needs for nutrition, hygiene, and personal care with brands that help people feel good, look good and get more out of life.
2003 in context In addition, we have seamlessly integrated 30 billion of In a difficult year, we are pleased to have achieved 11% growth acquisitions, managed over 7 billion of disposals and in earnings per share BEIA.
We have now met or exceeded our implemented a divisional structure to harness our global scale target of low double-digit earnings per share growth in every year yet retain a spirit of local enterprise.
of the Path to Growth programme and this years performance places our three-year Total Shareholder Return TSR in the top We are on track to reduce the brand portfolio from 1 600 to 400 third of our peer group.
We fully intend to continue this leading brands.
They now account for 93% of sales as against performance as we enter the final year of Path to Growth.
We have signicantly increased investment behind these brands and we now have twelve brands with sales Leading brands grew by 2.5%, and operating margin BEIA rose of over 1 billion compared with four at the start of the strategy.
Naturally, we are disappointed with revenue growth, but the shortfall against our The exception of course is top-line growth where, after excellent top-line growth target is mainly due to specic issues in a small performances in 2001 and 2002, we have this year fallen short number of businesses and a slow start to the year in North against our aspirations in testing market conditions.
Nevertheless, America caused by sharp fide-stocking in the retail trade.
In Europe leading brands have grown at an average of over 4% per year consumer confidence dropped to levels not seen in recent years.
during Path to Growth to date.
Nevertheless, we have continued to increase investment in our Overall the business today is lean, sharply focused, high margin, brands and have maintained our market position.
Once again, strongly cash generating and delivering significant incremental we have been extraordinarily well served by skilled and dedicated value each year.
people in all parts of the business and we extend our thanks to them on behalf of all shareholders.
Foods division In Foods, leading brand growth was 1.2%.
Operating margin A review of Path to Growth BEIA improved by 1.8% to 16.0%.
We made significant Path to Growth was designed to simplify the business and release progress on reducing the tail and on migrating and rationalising resources to be put behind fewer, bigger brands.
It is all too easy the brands.
to lose sight of what we have achieved.
By the close of 2004, with one exception, we intend to have met or substantially Lipton had an outstanding year, boosted by new launches exceeded the very challenging milestones we set the business.
and a good summer in Europe which also benefited ice cream.
At the same time the hot summer also reduced market growth The rationalisation of our manufacturing capacity and our supply in savoury, but Knorr held position.
Bertolli and Hellmanns chain is nearing completion.
We have charged 5.4 billion of continue to make good progress.
restructuring costs, which is in line with our 6.2 billion target.
With one year still to go we have comfortably exceeded our Slim Fast declined by 21% and the focus is now on restoring the promised Path to Growth savings of 3.9 billion and our brand to growth.
In frozen foods we continue to make gains in operating margin BEIA has already risen from 11.1% to 15.7%.
profitability, but have yet to see a consistent pattern of growth.
Becel Flora grew strongly once again, but the family spreads had Capital efficiency has improved by almost 9%, 3% more than a tough year in a market affected by price competition and low target.
Ungeared free cash ow has totalled 16.4 billion since butter prices.
the start of Path to Growth and net debt reduction is ahead of plan having reduced from 26.5 billion at the end of 2000 to 12.6 billion at the end of 2003 at current rates of exchange.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 07
