Remuneration report policy The minimum price payable for each share, on the exercise of the Other benets allowances options, is not less than the market price of the shares as at the Directors enjoy similar benets to many other employees of date of grant.
Normally, an option granted under the Executive the Unilever Group.
These include subsidised medical insurance, Plans may not be exercised earlier than three years from the date the use of company cars or cash in lieu and assistance with of grant.
It cannot be exercised any later than ten years from the relocation costs when moving from one country to another.
They also receive an allowance to cover small out-of-pocket expenses not covered by the reimbursement of their business Premium Options entertaining expenses.
For options granted between 1997 and 2000, rights to further options known as premium options arise five years after the In addition, certain UK based Directors receive an allowance to date of the original option grant.
These premium options will compensate for the fact that some of their remuneration is paid amount to 20% of the original number of options granted in the Netherlands.
provided that: Directors service contracts During the relevant five-year period, both the Group and the The Directors have service contracts with both NV and PLC.
The individual Director have performed well, and notice period under the service contracts for Directors is one year.
The Director has not exercised the original options granted If they choose, NV and PLC may pay a Director a sum equal to five years previously or, if he has, he retains all profit of the twelve months salary in lieu of notice.
exercise in the form of shares.
NVs and PLCs Articles of Association require that all Directors This incentive of premium options was discontinued in 2001, as retire from ofce at every Annual General Meeting.
Directors part of the changes in the remuneration package of the Directors, contracts of service with the Unilever Group are generally approved by shareholders at that time.
No further rights to terminated no later than the end of the month in which the premium options arise on grants made from 2001 onwards.
Annual General Meeting closest to their 62nd birthday is held.
All-Employee Share Plans Directors are able to participate in the UK Employee ShareSave The Directors are long-serving Unilever executives who can Plan, the UK Share Incentive Plan ShareBuy and the reasonably expect, subject to satisfactory performance, to be Netherlands Employee Option Plan.
These arrangements are employed by Unilever until retirement.
The Committee takes known as All-Employee plans.
The US based Director is able to the view that the entitlement of the Directors to the security participate in the North American Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
of twelve months notice of termination of employment is in line both with the practice of many comparable companies and the Details of all the plans are shown in note 29 on page 116. entitlement of other senior executives within Unilever.
Directors pensions The Remuneration Committees aim is always to deal fairly with Directors are provided with dened benefit final salary pensions.
cases of termination while taking a robust line in minimising any This is consistent with the pension provision for all UK and compensation.
This provides Directors with a pension of up to two-thirds of final pensionable pay from age 60, which In both 2003 and 2002, all eight Directors served for the whole is in line with market practice in continental Europe and the UK.
Final pensionable pay includes the average annual performance Other items bonuses paid in the last three years, up to a maximum of 20% of base pay.
This is similar to the current Group practice for longStatement of Compliance serving senior executives.
It is the view of the Committee that a This report sets out the policy and disclosures on Directors significant part of Directors remuneration should be , as required by legislation in the Netherlands related, and that therefore part of the annual performanceand the United Kingdom.
It also takes into account: related bonus should be pensionable.
The Committee reconsiders this topic from time to time in the light of the recommendations The Dutch Corporate Governance Code: of the Combined Code and continues to take the view that, at The Combined Code of the United Kingdom Listing Rules present, these arrangements should be kept in place.
the Combined Code : and The requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report The tables on page 65 give details of the Directors pensions Regulations 2002. values for the year ended 31 December 2003.
58 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
