Corporate governance Requirements the United Kingdom Requirements the United States PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the United Both NV and PLC are listed on The New York Stock Exchange and Kingdom and listed on the London Stock Exchange, to state how must therefore comply with such of the requirements of US it has applied the principles and how far it has complied with the legislation, such as The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued in regulations and the Listing Rules of The New York Stock Exchange 1998 the Combined Code appended to the United Kingdom as are applicable to foreign listed companies.
In some cases the Listing Rules.
requirements are mandatory and in other cases the obligation is to comply or explain.
As already explained, the Boards exercise control through the Executive Committee.
Responsibilities are shared by the Chairmen Unilever has complied with these requirements concerning of NV and PLC, while the Advisory Directors perform many of the corporate governance that were in force during 2003.
Attention functions of the supervisory board members or non-executive is drawn in particular to the Report of the Audit Committee on directors, although they were not formally members of the Boards page 69.
Actions taken to ensure compliance that are not in 2003.
For the purposes of the Combined Code, the Boards had specically disclosed elsewhere or otherwise clear from reading not appointed a senior independent director during 2003, on the this document include: basis that issues for the Boards can be raised with whichever Advisory Director is the Chairman of the relevant Board the issue of a Code of Ethics for senior financial ofcers: Committee and the Advisory Directors are entitled to meet as a the issue of instructions restricting the employment of former body and appoint a senior member as their spokesman.
A senior employees of the audit rm: and independent director will be appointed as a consequence of the establishment of standards of professional conduct for US proposals put to the Annual General Meetings in 2004. attorneys.
Unilevers remuneration policy is contained within the report on In each of these cases, existing practices have been revised and or the directors remuneration and interests on pages 54 to 68.
This documented in such a way as to conform to the new also deals with aspects of non-compliance with the Combined requirements.
Members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions at The Code of Ethics applies to the senior executive, financial and the Annual General Meetings of both NV and PLC.
The members accounting ofcers and comprises the standards prescribed by attending each meeting will not necessarily include the Chairman the SEC, and a copy has been posted on Unilevers website at of the Committee, since these meetings take place at about the www.
The Code of Ethics comprises same time in Rotterdam and London respectively.
an extract of the relevant provisions of Unilevers Code of Business Principles and the more detailed rules of conduct that implement A description of Unilevers compliance with Internal Control it.
The only amendment to these pre-existing provisions and rules Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code is given on that was made in preparing the Code of Ethics was made at the page 71. request of the Audit Committee and consisted of a strengthening of the explicit requirement to keep proper accounting records.
NV and PLC are separate legal entities, each subject to its own No waiver from any provision of the Code of Ethics was granted national traditions and practices and each with responsibilities to to any of the persons falling within the scope of the SEC different sets of shareholders.
Unilever has, since its inception, requirement in 2003. adopted the principle that it is good practice that the most senior roles in NV and PLC are shared and not concentrated in one Unilever has also taken into account the US requirements taking person.
As a consequence it is a principal tenet of its governance effect in 2004 and 2005 applicable to both foreign and US listed philosophy, which nds expression in two people who each companies in preparing the changes in its corporate governance combine the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive and who arrangements that will be effective from the NV and PLC Annual meet regularly for joint decision making.
This carefully balanced General Meetings on 12 May 2004.
Further information will be arrangement has served Unilevers unique constitutional placed on Unilevers website at www.
com investorcentre arrangements very well for many years and the Boards believe following those meetings, and will be reported in the Annual that to separate these roles would only introduce undesirable and Report & Accounts and Form 20-F for 2004. unnecessary complexity.
Auditors In all other respects, PLC has complied with the Combined Code Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the throughout 2003. shareholders and in addition to our ongoing process of monitoring the auditors performance, we undertake a formal For Unilever, the revisions made to the Combined Code in 2003 review every three years.
The most recent review was completed apply as from 1 January 2004.
Unilever has had the new in November 2002 and resulted in the re-appointment of requirements in mind in making the changes in its corporate .
On the recommendation of the Audit governance arrangements that will, subject to shareholder Committee, the Directors will be proposing the re-appointment approval, be effective from the Annual General Meetings in 2004. of  at the Annual General Meetings on See page 47.
It will therefore report formally on its compliance in 12 May 2004 see pages 148 and 151. next years Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F. Before then, further information will be placed on Unilevers website www.
50 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
