Corporate governance Both the Executive Committee and the auditors have for many See note 2 on page 85 for the actual fees payable to years had safeguards to avoid the possibility that the auditors .
objectivity and independence could be compromised.
In overview, our procedures in respect of services provided by Relations with shareholders and other investors  are: We believe it is important both to explain the business developments and financial results to investors and to understand Statutory audit Procedures in respect of statutory audit their objectives.
Within the Executive Committee, the Financial services are detailed on page 50.
This category includes fees for Director has lead responsibility for investor relations, with the the statutory audit of Unilevers financial statements and those active involvement of the Chairmen.
They are supported by of its subsidiaries.
an Investor Relations Department which organises presentations for analysts and investors.
Such presentations are generally made Other audit services This is audit and similar work that available on our website.
Briengs on quarterly results are given regulations or agreements with third parties require the via teleconference and are accessible by telephone or via our auditors to undertake.
These services include formalities relating website.
For further information visit our website at to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and various www.
Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective shareholders Audit-related services This is work that, in their position as through the Annual General Meetings.
At the Annual General the auditors, they are best placed to undertake.
It includes Meetings, each Chairman gives a full account of the progress of internal control reviews, other reports and work in respect of the business over the last year and a review of the current issues.
A summary of their addresses is published on our website and released to stock exchanges and media.
Copies are freely Tax services In cases where they are best suited, we use available on request.
All other significant tax consulting work is put to tender.
Our Chairmen, both in communications about the Annual General Meetings and at the actual meetings, encourage General consulting and other services Since early 2002, our shareholders to attend and to ask questions.
Question and policy has been that our external auditors may not tender for answer sessions form an important part of the meetings in both any new general consulting work.
We use our auditors to the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
We are committed perform a limited number of other services, including risk to efforts to establish more effective ways of shareholder management advisory work and training, where these are communication.
We actively participate in the Shareholders compatible with their work and subject to the appropriate level Communication Channel which facilitates proxy voting in of pre-approval.
the Netherlands and make CREST electronic proxy voting available to institutional shareholders in the UK.
The Audit Committee has approved a policy regarding the above three non-audit categories.
This lists in detail the Electronic communication is becoming an important medium for particular services which  is and is not shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder information permitted to provide.
In the case of the types of work which and reports, and for voting purposes.
Shareholders of PLC in the  is allowed to perform, the policy United Kingdom can now choose to receive electronic notication provides that they are only appointed to an assignment if that the Annual Review, Annual Report & Accounts and Form proper consideration has been given to other potential service 20-F and Notice of Annual General Meeting have been published providers, there must be bona fide advantages in using on our website, instead of receiving printed copies, and can , and, in addition, if the fee is over also electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf 100 000, the engagement must be specically approved in at the Annual General Meeting.
Registration for electronic advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
communication by shareholders of PLC can be made at www.
Potential engagements for any services not already covered by this policy must be referred to the Chairman of the Audit We publish the proxy vote at the meetings and the outcome of Committee for specic pre-approval to be ratied at the next the vote, including the proxy vote, on our website.
meeting of the Audit Committee before  can be appointed.
Reporting to shareholders The Directors responsibilities are set out formally on page 71.
The policy is regularly reviewed and updated in the light of The report to shareholders on Directors remuneration and internal developments, external developments and best practice.
interests is set out on pages 54 to 68.
The report of the Audit Committee is set out on page 69.
The external auditors report to the Directors and the Audit Committee on the actions they take to comply with The responsibility of the auditors to report on these matters is set the professional and regulatory requirements and best out on page 72. practice designed to ensure their independence from Unilever, including, for example, the periodic rotation of key team members.
The lead partner in charge of the audit changed in 2001.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 51
