Remuneration report policy Base salary Share Matching Plan linked to annual bonus Each Director receives a base salary which is xed in the currency As noted above, the Directors receive 25% of the annual bonus appropriate to the country in which the individual is based.
in the form of NV and PLC shares, known as bonus shares.
The company then awards an equivalent number of matching shares, There is one overall salary framework for all Directors.
Each year, which will vest three years after the award provided that: the Committee agrees separate salary ranges for Directors based in continental Europe, the UK and the US.
Each Directors salary The original number of bonus shares have been retained for is reviewed annually within the agreed salary ranges.
that three-year period: and The Director has not resigned or been dismissed.
When granting pay rises, the Committee looks at a range of factors including individual and company performance.
The The necessity to hold the bonus shares for a minimum of three Committee also uses independent expert advice to compare years during which time the share price of NV and PLC will be Unilevers remuneration for executives of this calibre with inuenced by the performance of the companies is consistent competitors.
with the shareholding requirements described on page 55.
Annual performance bonus The Committee believes that the three-year vesting period for The annual performance bonus aims to focus the Directors on the matching shares supports, as far as is possible, the retention of business priorities for the coming financial year, in accordance key executives.
It also encourages the Directors to build up a with Unilevers annual plan.
The bonus can range between 0% significant shareholding in the business, so that their interests are and 100% of base salary.
However, the maximum level is payable aligned with those of other shareholders.
Moreover, a three-year only in the case of exceptional performance.
vesting period is consistent with international practice.
To receive a bonus, Directors must achieve demanding corporate The Committee considers that there is no need for further and personal targets, set by the Committee at the beginning of performance conditions on the vesting of the matching shares each year: because the number of matching shares is directly linked to the annual bonus which is itself subject to demanding Corporate targets: based on a combination of the increase performance conditions.
in earnings per share BEIA at current rates of exchange and sales growth of the leading brands.
A Director can receive a TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan performance bonus of up to 80% of base salary in respect of Directors receive annual conditional awards in the form of rights these corporate targets.
These awards vest after three years.
Personal targets: based on agreed key objectives relative to However, the number of shares that vest depends on how the Directors specic responsibilities.
A Director can receive Unilevers Total Shareholder Return TSR compares with the a performance bonus of up to 20% of base salary in respect TSR results from a dened peer group.
The awards made, on a conditional basis, in March 2003 were At the end of each financial year, the Committee reviews the as follows: results against the targets set.
Number Number of NV of PLC The Directors receive 75% of the annual bonus in cash, with the shares shares remaining 25% paid in NV and PLC shares.
The Directors are then Chairmen 7 260 46 198 awarded, on a conditional basis, an equivalent number of European based Directors 4 537 28 877 matching shares.
These form part of the long-term incentive US based Director 3 646 23 284 arrangements described below.
For the US based Director the conditional NV shares were Long-term incentive arrangements awarded in the form of NV New York shares and the conditional The long-term incentive arrangements for Directors consist of PLC shares were awarded in the form of American Depositary three main elements: Receipts 1 ADR equivalent to 4 PLC shares.
Share Matching Plan linked to annual bonus TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan Share options, which includes: Executive Option Plans All-Employee Share Plans 56 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
