Control of Unilever If you are a holder of NV New York shares or PLC American value of PLC ordinary shares, or 5 445 in nominal value of NV Depository Receipts of shares, you will receive a proxy form ordinary shares.
However, a proposal to remove this from PLCs enabling you to authorise and instruct ABN AMRO N. V. or Articles of Association will be put to the shareholders at the JPMorgan Chase Bank respectively to vote on your behalf at the Annual General Meeting in 2004.
The remuneration shareholders meeting of NV or PLC.
arrangements applicable to Directors as employees contain requirements for the holding and retention of shares see Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder Remuneration report on page 66. meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are other requirements under the law or the NV or PLC Articles of Mutual guarantee of borrowings Association.
There are special requirements for resolutions relating There is a contractual arrangement between NV and PLC under to the alteration of NV or PLCs Articles of Association or the which each will, if asked by the other, guarantee the borrowings Equalisation Agreement, or to the liquidation of NV or PLC.
They can also agree jointly to guarantee the borrowings of their subsidiaries.
We use this arrangement, According to NVs Articles of Association, shareholders who as a matter of financial policy, for certain significant public together represent at least 10% of the issued capital of NV can borrowings.
The arrangements enable lenders to rely propose resolutions for inclusion in the agenda of any General on our combined financial strength.
They can also requisition Extraordinary General Meetings to deal with specic resolutions.
Combined earnings per share Because of the Equalisation Agreement and the other In addition, shareholders may propose resolutions if: arrangements between NV and PLC, we calculate combined earnings per share for NV and PLC see note 7 on page 89. they individually or together hold 1% of the issued capital in the form of shares or depositary receipts: or We base the calculation on the average amount of NV and PLCs they individually or together hold shares or depositary receipts ordinary capital in issue during the year.
For the main calculation worth at least 50 million.
we exclude shares which have been purchased to satisfy employee share options.
We also calculate a diluted earnings per They must submit the request at least 60 days before the date share gure, where we include these shares, as well as certain of the General Meeting, and it will be honoured unless, in the PLC shares which may be issued in 2038 under the arrangements opinion of the Board, it is against a substantive interest of the for the variation of the Leverhulme Trust see below.
The process by which we calculate earnings per share Under United Kingdom company law, is as follows.
First, we convert the average capital of NV and PLC into units using the formula contained in the Equalisation shareholders who together hold shares representing at least Agreement: one unit equals 10.7 NV shares or 71.4 PLC shares.
5% of the total voting rights of PLC: or We add these together to nd the total number of units of at least 100 shareholders who hold on average 100 each in combined share capital.
Then the amount of net profit in euros nominal value of PLC capital which is attributable to ordinary capital is divided by this total number of units to nd the amount per combined unit.
Finally, can require PLC to propose a resolution at a General Meeting.
we convert the combined unit back into NV and PLC ordinary shares, to show the amount per one share of each.
The amount There are no limitations on the right to hold NV and PLC shares.
per unit is divided by 10.7 to nd the amount per 0.51 share, and by 71.4 to nd the amount per 1.4p share.
Directors The Directors of NV are able to vote on transactions in which they Despite the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC are independent are materially interested so long as they are acting in good faith.
corporations, and are subject to different laws and regulations In general, PLC Directors cannot vote in respect of contracts in governing dividend payments in the Netherlands and the United which they know they are materially interested, unless, for Kingdom.
We assume in our combined earnings per share example, their interest is shared with other shareholders calculation that both companies will be able to pay their dividends and employees.
out of their part of our profits.
This has always been the case in the past, but if we did have to make a payment from one to The borrowing powers of NV Directors are not limited by the other it could result in additional taxes, and reduce the Articles of Association of NV.
PLC Directors have the power our combined earnings per share.
to borrow up to three times the Adjusted Capital and Reserves of PLC without the sanction of an ordinary resolution.
Leverhulme Trust The first Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require Directors which became PLC.
When he died in 1925, he left in his will a of NV, or full-time employed Directors of PLC, to hold shares in large number of PLC shares in various trusts.
The High Court of NV or PLC.
Directors of PLC who are not employed full-time by Justice in England varied these trusts in 1983, and established two NV or PLC are currently required to hold either 1 000 in nominal independent charitable trusts: 154 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
