General information In our reporting, Turnover comprises Group turnover plus the Cautionary statement Group share of turnover of joint ventures, net of the Group share This Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F may contain of any sales to the joint ventures already included in the Group forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US gures, but does not include our share of the turnover of Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Operating profit comprises Group operating profit as expects, anticipates, intends and other similar expressions plus our share of operating profit of joint ventures.
This measure of future performance or results are intended to identify such does not include our share of the operating profit of associates.
These forward-looking statements References to turnover growth include the effects of acquisitions are based upon current expectations and assumptions regarding and disposals.
Underlying sales growth reects the change in anticipated developments and other factors affecting the Group.
revenue excluding the effects of acquisitions and disposals.
We Because of the risks and uncertainties that always exist in any believe this measure provides valuable additional information on operating environment or business, the Group cannot give any the underlying performance of the business.
assurance that the expectations expressed in these statements will prove correct.
Actual results may differ materially from those Leading brand growth is a subset of underlying sales growth included in these statements due to a variety of factors, including, and measures the change in revenue arising from our leading among others, competitive pricing and activities, consumption brands.
Leading brand growth is a key metric used to measure levels, costs, the ability to maintain and manage key customer the progress of the Path to Growth programme.
relationships and supply chain sources, currency values, interest rates, the ability to integrate acquisitions and complete planned Return on invested capital is profit after tax but excluding divestitures, physical risks, environmental risks, the ability to net interest on net borrowings excluding joint ventures and manage regulatory, tax and legal matters and resolve pending associates interest and amortisation of goodwill and intangible matters within current estimates, legislative, scal and regulatory assets excluding joint ventures and associates amortisation developments, and political, economic and social conditions in both net of tax, divided by average invested capital for the year.
the geographic markets where the Group operates.
The Group Invested capital is the sum of tangible xed assets and xed undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking investments, working capital stocks, debtors and trade and other statement, whether as a result of new information, future events creditors due within one year, goodwill and intangible assets at or otherwise, and you are cautioned not to place undue reliance gross book value and cumulative goodwill written off directly to on these forward-looking statements.
reserves under an earlier accounting policy.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary Ungeared free cash ow is dened as cash ow from group from those described in our forward-looking statements include operating activities, less capital expenditure and financial those given under the sections entitled About Unilever on pages investment and less a tax charge adjusted to reect an 9 to 14, Financial review on pages 15 to 20, Operating review ungeared position.
on pages 21 to 44, and Risk management on pages 45 and 46, to which you should refer.
Tables reconciling certain of these measures to the statutory measures included in the Financial Statements are shown on page 4 and 5 and throughout the section entitled Operating review on pages 21 to 44. is used in this report to denote amounts in euros.
and p are used in this report to denote amounts in pounds sterling and pence respectively.
is used in this report to denote amounts in Dutch guilders.
$ is used in this report to denote amounts in United States dollars, except where specically stated otherwise.
The brand names shown in italics in this report are trademarks owned by or licensed to companies within the Unilever Group.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 03
