Remuneration report policy Directors Remuneration Committee Tasks and responsibilities Remuneration policy The Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration policy Main principles for Directors and advising the Boards accordingly.
It is also Unilevers objective is to attract, motivate and retain business responsible for setting individual remuneration packages for executives of the highest calibre.
This is essential to the successful Directors and for monitoring and approving all executive shareleadership and effective management of Unilever as a major based incentive arrangements.
The Committee meets at least global company.
To meet this objective the Committee follows three times a year and, during 2003, it met on four occasions.
three key principles, validated by shareholders: Every member was present at each meeting.
The reward policy is benchmarked regularly against Structure arrangements for comparable companies in Europe.
This The Committee members are all independent Advisory Directors, ensures that Directors' remuneration levels remain competitive.
chosen for their broad experience and international outlook.
A comparison is made with the remuneration arrangements for During 2003 the members were: other senior executives within Unilever.
The Committee links a significant proportion of the Directors' Bertrand Collomb appointed Chairman May 2003 total remuneration to a number of key measures of company Lord Simon of Highbury performance.
This is in line with the Path to Growth strategy.
Jeroen van der Veer: and The three main measures are: Frits Fentener van Vlissingen former Chairman, retired Earnings per share growth BEIA : May 2003 Sales growth in the leading brands: and Total shareholder return generated by Unilever, in comparison Advice and assistance with a group of 20 relevant competitors.
The Committee does not formally retain remuneration consultants.
It seeks professional advice from external advisers Where Group performance is on-target, the variable elements of as and when required.
During 2003, the Committee sought the remuneration package, such as the annual bonus and longadvice from Towers Perrin an independent rm of human term incentive payments, can account for about 60% of the total resources specialists on market data, remuneration trends and package excluding pension provision.
Towers Perrin also provides general Group results can increase the variable elements to around 75% consultancy advice to Unilever Group companies on pension, of the total package.
If the Group results were below target, the communications and other human resource matters.
variable elements would reduce signicantly.
The Committee is supplied with information by Jan van der Bijl, Closely linking the package to key performance measures who is also Joint Secretary of Unilever.
ensures that Directors remuneration is aligned effectively with shareholders interests.
This is also consistent with the The Chairmen of NV and PLC are invited to attend Committee remuneration policy for senior executives below board level, who meetings to provide their own insights to the Committee on have a significant performance-related element of pay within their business objectives and the individual performance of their direct remuneration package.
Naturally, the Chairmen do not attend when their own remuneration is being discussed.
Directors are also required to build up a significant personal shareholding in Unilever.
Within five years of appointment, Remuneration package they are expected to hold shares worth 150% of their basic annual salary.
Reward structure The Directors total remuneration package consists of: On a limited basis Unilever Directors serve as non-executives on the Boards of other companies.
Unilever requires that all Base salary: remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships are paid Annual performance bonus: directly to Unilever.
Long-term incentives: Pension provision: and Future developments Other benets allowances The Remuneration Committee keeps its remuneration policy under review in the light of company and market developments.
The Committee regularly reviews the reward structure to Currently the share-based elements of the remuneration package ensure that it meets its objectives.
The structure of the package and the pension arrangements are being reviewed.
is benchmarked against arrangements for comparable European companies.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 55
