Control of Unilever Share capital company had losses, or was unable to pay its preference NVs issued share capital on 31 December 2003 was made up of: dividends, we would make up the loss or shortfall out of: 291 503 709 split into 571 575 900 ordinary shares of the current profits of the other company after it has paid its 0.51 each own preference shareholders : 1 089 072 split into 2 400 ordinary shares numbered 1 to then its own free reserves: and 2 400, known as special shares then the free reserves of the other company.
130 854 115 split into several classes of cumulative preference shares.
If either company could not pay its ordinary dividends, we would follow the same procedure, except that the current profits of the PLCs issued share capital on 31 December 2003 was made up of: other company would only be used after it had paid its own ordinary shareholders and if the Directors thought it appropriate.
40 760 420 split into 2 911 458 580 ordinary shares of 1.4p each So far NV and PLC have always been able to pay their own 100 000 of deferred stock.
dividends, so we have never had to follow this procedure.
If we did, the payment from one company to the other For NV share capital, the euro amounts quoted in this document would be subject to any United Kingdom and Netherlands are representations in euros on the basis of Article 67c of Book 2 tax and exchange control laws applicable at that time.
of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, rounded to two decimal The Equalisation Agreement also makes the position of the places, of underlying amounts in Dutch guilders, which have not shareholders of both companies, as far as possible, the same as been converted into euros in NVs Articles of Association or in the if they held shares in a single company.
To make this possible we Equalisation Agreement.
Until conversion formally takes place by compare the ordinary share capital of the two companies in units: amendment of the Articles of Association, the entitlements to a unit made up of 5.445 nominal of NVs ordinary capital carries dividends and voting rights are based on the underlying Dutch the same weight as a unit made up of 1 nominal of PLCs guilder amounts.
For every unit 5.445 you have of NV you have the same rights and benets as the owner of a unit 1 of PLC.
Unity of management NVs ordinary shares currently each have a nominal value of In order to ensure unity of management, NV and PLC have the 0.51, and PLCs share capital is divided into ordinary shares same directors.
We achieve this through our nomination of 1.4p each.
This means that a 5.445 unit of NV is made procedure.
Only the holders of NVs special shares can nominate up of 10.7 NV ordinary shares of 0.51 each and a 1 unit candidates for election to the NV Board, and only the holders of of PLC is made up of 71.4 PLC ordinary shares of 1.4p each.
PLCs deferred stock can nominate candidates for election to the Consequently, one NV ordinary share equates to 6.67 ordinary PLC Board.
The current Directors, who have agreed to act on the shares of PLC.
recommendations of the Nomination Committee, can ensure that both NV and PLC shareholders are presented with the same When we pay ordinary dividends we use this formula.
On the candidates for election as directors, because the joint holders of same day NV and PLC allocate funds for the dividend from their both the special shares and the deferred stock are NV Elma and parts of our current profits and free reserves.
We pay the same United Holdings Limited, which are subsidiaries of NV and PLC.
amount on each NV share as on 6.67 PLC shares calculated at the relevant exchange rate.
For interim dividends this exchange rate is NV and PLC both act as directors of NV Elma and of the average rate for the quarter before we declare the dividend.
The Chairmen of NV and PLC For final dividends it is the average rate for the year.
In arriving at are additional directors of United Holdings Limited.
The Joint the equalised amount we include any tax payable by the company Secretaries are directed to ensure that the nomination rights are in respect of the dividend, but calculate it before any tax only exercised so as to ensure the implementation of the deductible by the company from the dividend.
recommendations of the Nomination Committee, after acceptance by the Boards.
In principle, issues of bonus shares and rights offerings can only be made in ordinary shares.
Again we would ensure that The interests of shareholders are protected because all the shareholders of NV and PLC received shares in equal proportions, Directors submit themselves for election every year and using the ratio of 5.445 NV nominal share capital to 1 PLC shareholders can remove each or all of them by a simple majority nominal share capital.
The subscription price for one new NV vote.
Thus, as a practical matter, the Boards cannot perpetuate share would have to be the same, at the prevailing exchange rate, themselves contrary to the will of the shareholders.
as the price for 6.67 new PLC shares.
Equalisation Agreement Under the Equalisation Agreement as amended in 1981 the To ensure that NV and PLC operate for all practical purposes as a two companies are permitted to pay different dividends in the single company, we have an Equalisation Agreement.
following exceptional circumstances: Under the Equalisation Agreement NV and PLC adopt the same if the average annual sterling euro exchange rate changed financial periods and accounting policies.
Neither company can so substantially from one year to the next that to pay equal issue or reduce capital without the consent of the other.
If one dividends at the current exchange rates, either NV or PLC 152 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
