Remuneration report policy Base salary Share Matching Plan linked to annual bonus Each Director receives a base salary which is xed in the currency As noted above, the Directors receive 25% of the annual bonus appropriate to the country in which the individual is based.
in the form of NV and PLC shares, known as bonus shares.
The company then awards an equivalent number of matching shares, There is one overall salary framework for all Directors.
Each year, which will vest three years after the award provided that: the Committee agrees separate salary ranges for Directors based in continental Europe, the UK and the US.
Each Directors salary The original number of bonus shares have been retained for is reviewed annually within the agreed salary ranges.
that three-year period: and The Director has not resigned or been dismissed.
When granting pay rises, the Committee looks at a range of factors including individual and company performance.
The The necessity to hold the bonus shares for a minimum of three Committee also uses independent expert advice to compare years during which time the share price of NV and PLC will be Unilevers remuneration for executives of this calibre with inuenced by the performance of the companies is consistent competitors.
with the shareholding requirements described on page 55.
Annual performance bonus The Committee believes that the three-year vesting period for The annual performance bonus aims to focus the Directors on the matching shares supports, as far as is possible, the retention of business priorities for the coming financial year, in accordance key executives.
It also encourages the Directors to build up a with Unilevers annual plan.
The bonus can range between 0% significant shareholding in the business, so that their interests are and 100% of base salary.
However, the maximum level is payable aligned with those of other shareholders.
Moreover, a three-year only in the case of exceptional performance.
vesting period is consistent with international practice.
To receive a bonus, Directors must achieve demanding corporate The Committee considers that there is no need for further and personal targets, set by the Committee at the beginning of performance conditions on the vesting of the matching shares each year: because the number of matching shares is directly linked to the annual bonus which is itself subject to demanding Corporate targets: based on a combination of the increase performance conditions.
in earnings per share BEIA at current rates of exchange and sales growth of the leading brands.
A Director can receive a TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan performance bonus of up to 80% of base salary in respect of Directors receive annual conditional awards in the form of rights these corporate targets.
These awards vest after three years.
Personal targets: based on agreed key objectives relative to However, the number of shares that vest depends on how the Directors specic responsibilities.
A Director can receive Unilevers Total Shareholder Return TSR compares with the a performance bonus of up to 20% of base salary in respect TSR results from a dened peer group.
The awards made, on a conditional basis, in March 2003 were At the end of each financial year, the Committee reviews the as follows: results against the targets set.
Number Number of NV of PLC The Directors receive 75% of the annual bonus in cash, with the shares shares remaining 25% paid in NV and PLC shares.
The Directors are then Chairmen 7 260 46 198 awarded, on a conditional basis, an equivalent number of European based Directors 4 537 28 877 matching shares.
These form part of the long-term incentive US based Director 3 646 23 284 arrangements described below.
For the US based Director the conditional NV shares were Long-term incentive arrangements awarded in the form of NV New York shares and the conditional The long-term incentive arrangements for Directors consist of PLC shares were awarded in the form of American Depositary three main elements: Receipts 1 ADR equivalent to 4 PLC shares.
Share Matching Plan linked to annual bonus TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan Share options, which includes: Executive Option Plans All-Employee Share Plans 56 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 Remuneration report policy Further details are shown in the TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan Executive Option Plans table on page 63.
Under the Executive Option Plans, Directors are granted options over shares in NV and PLC.
The Committee has established an Unilevers TSR results are measured over a three-year performance annual benchmark for each Director's grant level.
This is known cycle and compared with those of a dened peer group, currently as the normal allocation see below : comprising: Normal allocation NV shares PLC shares Altria Group Kao Avon Lion Chairmen 12 000 80 000 US-based Director 12 000 80 000 Beiersdorf LOral European-based Directors 7 500 50 000 Cadbury Schweppes Nestl Clorox Orkla Coca-Cola Pepsico The annual grants will only be made if the following performance Colgate Procter & Gamble conditions are met: Danone Reckitt Benckiser Firstly, the earnings per share BEIA over the preceding three Gillette Sara Lee financial years must have cumulatively risen by at least 6% Heinz Shiseido more than the rate of ination within the UK and the eurozone when measured at current rates of exchange.
The number of shares that vest depends on Unilevers three-year Secondly and subject to the first condition being met, the TSR performance when ranked against the TSR performance of actual grant a percentage of the normal allocation is each of the peer group companies over the same period in determined by reference to the growth in earnings per share accordance with the following table: BEIA at current rates of exchange for the preceding financial year, as shown below: Vested award % of original conditional EPS BEIA growth over ination Actual grant TSR peer group ranking award that will vest achieved in preceding as percentage of financial year normal allocation 12th to 21st 0% 10th or 11th 25% Ination less than 4% 0% 8th or 9th 50% Ination 4% 50% 5th to 7th 100% Ination 5% 75% 3rd or 4th 150% Ination 6% 100% 1st or 2nd 200% Ination 7% 125% Ination 8% 150% No award will vest unless Unilever is ranked in the top eleven of the peer group.
Between 150% and 200% of an award will only The earnings per share BEIA growth at current rates of exchange vest if Unilever achieves a top-four ranking.
The ultimate pay-out in 2002 exceeded ination by more than 8%.
This means that the can only be determined once the TSR ranking over the three-year actual level of grant made in 2003 was 150% of the normal performance period is known.
Using the TSR peer group ranking as a performance indicator The Committee regards earnings per share BEIA growth at demonstrates a clear link between the reward provided to current rates of exchange as an appropriate measure of the Directors, and the investment growth enjoyed by our shareholders Group's underlying financial performance.
The Committees view in comparison with that enjoyed by investors in the dened peer is that less than 4% growth after ination is below standard and, group of companies.
at that level, no grant should be made.
Real EPS BEIA growth above 6%, however, represents above-target performance.
Share options Directors may participate in the following share option plans.
Following grant, the options are not subject to any further Executive Option Plans performance conditions on exercise.
The Executive Option Plans All-Employee Share Plans extend to Unilever executives throughout the world and in many countries it is not common practice to have performance conditions on the exercise of options.
The Committee therefore takes the view that the underlying financial performance of the Group, which in turn affects the growth in share price between grant and exercise of an option, is sufficient.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 57
