Corporate governance 2 Business Presidents Foods John Bird, Controller Aged 50.
Years of service on 31 December 2003: 28 years.
Regions Henning Rehder, Treasurer Aged 50.
Years of service on 31 December 2003: 23 years.
Previous 2 position: Business Group President Africa.
Years of service on 31 December 2003: 35 years.
Kees van der Graaf, Ice Cream and Frozen Foods Europe Aged 53.
Board changes Previous position: Chief Executive officer, Unilever Bestfoods Europe.
John Rice, North America Aged 52.
In February 2004 we announced that Niall FitzGerald would be Appointed Business President 2001.
Previous position: Business retiring as a Director of NV and PLC on 30 September 2004.
All his colleagues wish to record their sincere appreciation of his Rachid M Rachid, North Africa, Middle East and Turkey Aged 49. major contribution to the development of Unilever over 37 years Joined Unilever 1987.
Also is of service, 17 of them as a Director and the last 8 as a Chairman.
a representative of the region for HPC.
He is interested through Patrick Cescau will succeed him as Chairman of PLC and Vicefamily holdings in the partner that holds 40% of Unilever Mashreq, which comprises Unilevers operations in Egypt and the Levant.
Kees van der Graaf will succeed Patrick Cescau as Foods Director.
Previous position: Business Group President East Asia Pacic.
All Executive Directors held ofce throughout the year.
Alberto Sobredo, Latin America Aged 54.
Previous position: Executive In accordance with the Articles of Association of NV and PLC, all Vice-President, Latin America and Chairman, Unilever Chile.
existing Directors, with the exception of Charles Strauss, will retire from ofce at the Annual General Meetings on 12 May 2004 Global Businesses and, with the full support of the Nomination Committee, will Diego Bevilacqua, Foodsolutions Aged 50.
Joined Unilever 2000 offer themselves for re-election.
upon Unilevers acquisition of Bestfoods.
Previous position: Vice-President Bestfoods and President Bestfoods, Asia.
Charles Strauss and Senator George Mitchell will retire from ofce at these Annual General Meetings.
Their colleagues wish to thank Robert Polet, Ice Cream and Frozen Foods Global Aged 48.
Previous position: them for their contribution to Unilever.
Business Group President Ice Cream and Frozen Foods Europe.
John Rice, Slim Fast Worldwide See above.
Kees van der Graaf is nominated for election as a Director of NV and PLC at the 2004 AGMs.
He is currently Business President for Function Ice Cream and Frozen Foods Europe.
His biography is set out on Anthony Simon, Marketing Aged 58.
Joined Unilever 2000 upon this page.
Previous position: Vice-President Strategies and Core Businesses Bestfoods.
Details of Executive Directors service contracts are given on pages 58 and 67. Business Presidents Home & Personal Care The Boards, in line with the recommendations of the Nomination Regions Committee, have nominated Lord Brittan, Lady Chalker, Bertrand Ralph Kugler, Europe Aged 48.
Appointed Collomb, Professor Dik, Oscar Fanjul, Claudio Gonzalez, Hilmar Business President 1999.
Previous position: Business Group President Latin America.
Kopper, Lord Simon and Jeroen van der Veer as candidates for election as Non-Executive Directors of NV and PLC at the Annual Charles Strauss, North America Unilever Director.
All were Advisory Directors Anton Lenstra, Africa Aged 55.
Appointed in 2003 and their biographies are set out on page 52. Business President 2000.
Also is a representative of the region for Foods.
Previous position: Vice-President Home & Personal Care Europe.
These nominations are subject to the approval by shareholders at those meetings of the related proposals to amend the Articles of Jeff Fraser, Asia Aged 60.
Appointed Business Association of NV and PLC.
Upon adoption of those amendments, President 1996.
Previous position: Business Group President Central Asia & Middle East.
the position of Advisory Director will cease.
Harish Manwani, Latin America Aged 50.
Previous position: Senior As anticipated, Frits H Fentener van Vlissingen and Charles R Vice-President, Home & Personal Care Category Group.
Shoemate retired as Advisory Directors in 2003.
Global Businesses Business President changes Charles Strauss, Prestige Unilever Director.
John Rice, President Foods North America, will succeed Charles Function Strauss as Chairman of the North America Committee and Harish Simon Clift, Marketing Aged 45.
Appointed Manwani will succeed Charles Strauss as President Home & Business President 2001.
Previous position: Chairman Personal Care Personal Care North America and Prestige.
Anton Lenstra, Category Group, Latin America.
President Africa Business Group, will succeed Harish Manwani and Corporate Ofcers Doug Baillie, Chairman Lever Ponds South Africa, will succeed Anton Lenstra.
Robert Polet will take over Kees van der Graafs Jan van der Bijl, Joint Secretary and Head of Group Taxation Aged 54.
Years of service on 31 December responsibilities in addition to his current responsibility for Ice 2003: 16 years.
Cream and Frozen Foods Global.
2 Stephen Williams, Joint Secretary and General Counsel Aged 56.
Years of service on 31 December 2003: 17 years.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 53
