Accounting information and policies Unilever In line with recommendations of various standard setting bodies, The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their from 1 January 2003 Unilever changed its accounting policy for group companies, operate as nearly as is practicable as a single share options.
The impact of adoption of this change has been entity the Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever or the reected by means of adjustments to the profit and loss accounts Group.
NV and PLC have the same Directors and are linked by a for the prior years.
Existing share option programmes have been series of agreements, including an Equalisation Agreement, which hedged by buying shares at the time of grant and taking the are designed so that the position of the shareholders of both nancing cost within interest.
The accounting change is to include companies is as nearly as possible the same as if they held shares an additional non-cash charge against operating profit to reect in a single company.
the fair value to the employee of the share options granted.
In determining this charge we are applying an option pricing model The Equalisation Agreement provides for both companies usually an adjusted Black-Scholes or multinomial model of which to adopt the same accounting principles and requires as a general the resulting cost is spread over the vesting period of the option.
rule the dividends and other rights and benets including rights For further information see note 29 on page 116. on liquidation attaching to each Fl.
12 5.445 nominal of ordinary share capital of NV to be equal in value at the relevant Unilever has adopted United Kingdom Financial Reporting rate of exchange to the dividends and other rights and benets Standard 17 Retirement Benets FRS 17 as the basis of attaching to each 1 nominal of ordinary share capital of PLC, as accounting for retirement benets from 1 January 2003.
Figures if each such unit of capital formed part of the ordinary capital of for prior years have been restated onto the same basis.
The effect one and the same company.
For additional information please of the implementation of this standard is discussed in note 17 on refer to Control of Unilever on page 152. page 99.
Basis of consolidation In addition, we have made a change to the presentation of Because of the operational and contractual arrangements referred securities held as collateral in respect of derivative financial to above and the internal participating interests set out in note 21 instruments.
The effect of this change in accounting policy is on page 110, NV and PLC and their group companies constitute a discussed in note 14 on page 94.
Figures for prior years have single group under Netherlands and United Kingdom legislation been restated.
This change has had no effect on reported for the purposes of presenting consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
These Recent changes in reporting requirements under US GAAP are accounts are supplemented in notes 22 and 23 on page 111 and discussed on page 136. note 30 on page 125 by additional information for the NV and PLC parts of the Group in which group companies are OECD Guidelines consolidated according to respective ownership.
In preparing its Annual Review and Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F, Unilever adheres to disclosure recommendations Companies legislation of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
The consolidated accounts of the Unilever Group comply with Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands and the United Group companies Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
The consolidated accounts of the Group companies are those companies in whose share capital Unilever Group also comply with accounting standards generally NV or PLC holds an interest directly or indirectly, and whose accepted in the United Kingdom, as allowed by Article 362.1 consolidation is required for the accounts to give a true and of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, unless such fair view.
standards conict with the Civil Code in the Netherlands which would in such case prevail.
The company accounts, the notes to In order that the consolidated accounts should present a true and those accounts and the further statutory information given for fair view, it is necessary to differ from the presentational each of NV and PLC comply with legislation in the Netherlands requirements of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 by and the United Kingdom respectively.
As explained under Group including amounts attributable to both NV and PLC shareholders companies below, in order to give a true and fair view, the in the capital and reserves shown in the balance sheet.
The presentation of the consolidated capital and reserves differs from Companies Act would require presentation of the capital and that specified by the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985. reserves attributable to NV and PLC shareholders as minority interests in the respective consolidated accounts of PLC and NV.
Accounting standards This presentation would not give a true and fair view of the effect The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention of the Equalisation Agreement, under which the position of all and comply in all material respects with legislation in the shareholders is as nearly as possible the same as if they held Netherlands and with United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
The accounting policies of the Unilever Group are set out Net profit and result for the year retained are presented on a on pages 73 to 75.
Our accounting policy for the treatment combined basis on page 76, with the net profit attributable to of exceptional items is given on page 86.
Material variations NV and PLC shown separately.
Movements in profit retained are from United States generally accepted accounting principles analysed between those attributable to NV and PLC in note 22 are set out on pages 131 to 136.
In order to maintain the on page 111. most appropriate accounting policies, Unilever has made the changes described below.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 73
