Control of Unilever would have to pay a dividend that was unreasonable ie, For PLC, the necessary approval must be given by: substantially larger or smaller in its own currency than the dividend it paid in the previous year the holders of a majority of all issued shares voting at a General the governments of the Netherlands or the United Kingdom Meeting: and could in some circumstances place restrictions on the the holders of the ordinary shares, either by three quarters in proportion of a companys profits which can be paid out as writing, or by three quarters voting at a General Meeting where dividends: this could mean that in order to pay equal dividends the majority of the ordinary shares in issue are represented.
one company would have to pay out an amount which would breach the limitations in place at the time, or that the other The Articles of NV establish that any payment under the company would have to pay a smaller dividend.
Equalisation Agreement will be credited or debited to the profit and loss account for the financial year in question.
In either of these rare cases, NV and PLC could pay different amounts of dividend if the Boards thought it appropriate.
The The PLC Articles state that the Board must carry out the company paying less than the equalised dividend would put the Equalisation Agreement and that the provisions of the Articles are difference between the dividends into a reserve: an equalisation subject to it.
reserve in the case of exchange rate uctuations, or a dividend reserve in the case of a government restriction.
The reserves We are advised by Counsel that these provisions oblige would be paid out to its shareholders when it became possible the Boards to carry out the Equalisation Agreement, unless it is or reasonable to do so, which would ensure that the shareholders amended or terminated with the approval of the shareholders of both companies would ultimately be treated the same.
If the Boards fail to enforce the agreement, shareholders can compel them to do so under Netherlands and If both companies go into liquidation, NV and PLC will each use United Kingdom law.
any funds available for shareholders to pay the prior claims of their own preference shareholders.
Then they will use any surplus General Meetings and voting rights to pay each others preference shareholders, if necessary.
After General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held these claims have been met, they will pay out any equalisation at times and places decided by the Boards.
NV meetings are held or dividend reserve to their own shareholders before pooling in Rotterdam and PLC meetings are held in London.
This will be distributed to the ordinary shareholders of both companies, once again on the basis that To be entitled to attend and vote at NV General Meetings, you the owner of 5.445 nominal NV ordinary share capital will get must be a shareholder on the Record Date, which may be set by the same as the owner of 1 nominal PLC ordinary share capital.
the Directors and must be not more than 7 days before the If one company goes into liquidation, we will apply the same meeting.
In addition you must, within the time specified in the principles as if both had gone into liquidation simultaneously.
Notice calling the meeting, either: In addition to the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC have if you have registered shares advise NV in writing that you agreed to follow common policies, to exchange all relevant intend to attend: or business information, and to ensure that all group companies act if you have bearer shares deposit your share certicates at the accordingly.
They aim to co-operate in all areas, including in the place specified in the Notice.
purchase of raw materials and the exchange and use of technical, financial and commercial information, secret or patented You can vote in person or by proxy, and you can cast one vote for processes and trade marks.
0.10 nominal amount you hold of NV preference shares, ordinary shares or New York registry shares.
NV Elma and More information about our constitutional documents United Holdings Limited, the holders of the special shares, and Under Article 2 of the Articles of Association of NV and Clause 3 other group companies of NV which hold preference or ordinary of the Memorandum and Article 3 of the Articles of Association shares, are not permitted to vote, by law.
of PLC, both companies are required to carry out the Equalisation Agreement with the other.
Both documents state that the For information on the rights of Nedamtrust certicate holders agreement cannot be changed or terminated without the see page 155. approval of both sets of shareholders.
To be able to vote by proxy at NV General Meetings, the written For NV the necessary approval is as follows: power of attorney must be received by NV not later than seven days before the meeting.
at least one half of the total issued ordinary capital must be represented at an ordinary shareholders meeting, where the To be able to vote by proxy at PLC General Meetings you must majority must vote in favour: and lodge your Form of Appointment of Proxy with PLCs Registrars if they would be disadvantaged or the agreement is to be 48 hours before the meeting, either in paper or electronic format.
terminated, at least two-thirds of the total issued preference You can cast one vote for each PLC ordinary 1.4p share you hold.
share capital must be represented at a preference shareholders United Holdings Limited, which owns half of the deferred stock, meeting, where at least three-quarters must vote in favour.
is not permitted to vote at General Meetings.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 153
