Additional information for US investors Unilever Group The impact of this change in methodology on reported results under US GAAP is given in the table below: million 2001 Restated Net income under US GAAP 1 446 Change in basis of expected return on plan assets calculation 86 Adjusted net income under US GAAP 1 532 Euro per 0.51 Euro cents per 1.4p 2001 2001 Adjusted net income per share 1.51 22.60 Adjusted diluted net income per share 1.47 21.99 As required under US APB 20 for a change in accounting policy, a cumulative effect adjustment has been calculated to record the impact of the change as if the fair value methodology had been the accounting policy from the initial adoption of SFAS 87 by Unilever.
The cumulative effect adjustment net of tax was 522 million in 2002.
Investments Unilever accounts for current investments, which are liquid funds temporarily invested, at their market value, which is consistent with UK GAAP.
Unilever accounts for changes in the market value of current investments as interest receivable in the profit and loss account for the year.
Under US GAAP, such current asset investments are classied as available for sale securities and changes in market values, which represent unrealised gains or losses, are excluded from earnings and taken to stockholders equity unless such losses are deemed to be other than temporary at which time they are recognised through the profit and loss account.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the market values of securities available for sale are not material.
Unilever accounts for xed investments other than in joint ventures and associates at cost less any amounts written off to reect a permanent impairment.
Under US GAAP such investments are held at fair value.
The difference is not material.
Dividends The proposed final ordinary dividends are provided for in the Unilever accounts in the financial year to which they relate.
Under US GAAP such dividends are not provided for until they become irrevocable.
Deferred taxation Following the adoption of the new pension accounting standard FRS 17 with effect from 1 January 2003, Unilever has restated its deferred tax charge for the years ended 31 December 2001 and 2002 together with its deferred tax balances as at 31 December 2002.
Corresponding changes are therefore needed to the deferred tax charges and balances in the Group accounts and in the reconciliation to US GAAP.
In addition, deferred tax balances in respect of pensions are now reported as a separate component of the pensions balances and no longer aggregated with the rest of the deferred tax balances.
A full description of FRS 17 is given in note 17 on page 99.
Under FRS 19, deferred tax is not recognised on fair value adjustments made to assets acquired: under US GAAP, deferred tax is recorded on all fair value adjustments.
Also, FRS 19 changed the treatment of deferred tax on tax-deductible goodwill previously written off to reserves.
Such goodwill is reinstated, net of amortisation, under US GAAP, and the tax effect of such restatement has been adjusted accordingly.
Classication differences between UK and US GAAP Revenue recognition Under US GAAP, certain sales incentive expenses which have been included in operating costs under Unilevers accounting would be deducted from turnover.
The decrease in turnover for the years to 31 December 2003, 2002 and 2001 is 1 238 million, 1 337 million and 1 279 million respectively.
There is no impact on Unilevers net profit.
Cash ow statement Under US GAAP, various items would be reclassied within the consolidated cash ow statement.
In particular, interest received, interest paid and taxation would be part of net cash ow from operating activities, and dividends paid would be included within net cash ow from nancing.
In addition, under US GAAP, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and current investments with an original maturity at the date of investment of less than three months.
Under Unilevers presentation, cash includes only cash in hand or available on demand less bank overdrafts.
Cash ows from movements in bank overdrafts would be classied as part of cash ows from nancing activities under US GAAP.
Cash ows from movements in bank overdrafts were 58 million for the year ended 31 December 2003 2002: 86 million: 2001: 19 million.
Movements in those current investments which are included under the heading of cash and cash equivalents under US GAAP form part of the movement entitled Management of liquid resources in the cash ow statement.
At 31 December 2003, the balance of such investments was 3 million 2002: 45 million.
Long leasehold interests in land Under UK GAAP, Unilever treats the cost of acquiring a long leasehold interest in land as a xed asset, and depreciates the cost of that asset over the lease term.
Under US GAAP, the cost of long leasehold interests would be deferred within Other assets and recognised on a straightline basis over the lives of the leases as operating lease rentals.
The balance of such assets were 58 million as at 31 December 2003 2002: 63 million.
In all other respects, there are no differences in accounting for these arrangements between UK and US GAAP.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 135
