Information about exchange controls affecting security holders Unilever N. V. Unilever PLC Under the Dutch External Financial Relations Act of None.
25 March 1994 the Minister of Finance is authorised to issue regulations relating to financial transactions concerning the movement of capital to or from third countries with respect to direct investments, establishment, the performing of financial services, the admission of negotiable instruments or goods with respect to which regulations have been issued under the Import and Export Act in the interest of the international legal system or an arrangement relevant thereto.
These regulations may contain a prohibition to perform any of the actions indicated in those regulations without a licence.
To date no regulations of this type have been issued which are applicable to Unilever N. V. The Central Bank of the Netherlands is authorised to issue regulations with respect to reporting obligations.
Pursuant to this authorisation it has issued the Reporting Obligations Balance of Payments 2003 the RR 2003.
Unilever N. V. has been appointed by the Central Bank as an institution subject to the reporting obligations and Unilever N. V. complies with such obligations.
Nature of the trading market The principal trading markets upon which Unilever shares are most holders of PLC ordinary shares are registered in the United listed are the Euronext Stock Exchange for NV ordinary shares and Kingdom approximately 99% in both 2003 and 2002. the London Stock Exchange for PLC ordinary shares.
NV ordinary shares mainly trade in the form of Nedamtrust Certicates and The high and low trading prices for the separate stock exchange almost all the shares are in bearer form.
PLC ordinary shares are listings are shown in the tables on the following page.
NV and PLC are separate companies with separate stock In the United States, NV ordinary shares in registered form and exchange listings and different shareholders.
You cannot convert PLC American Depositary Receipts, representing four PLC ordinary or exchange the shares of one for shares of the other and the shares, are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
JPMorgan relative share prices on the various markets can, and do, Chase Bank of New York acts for NV and PLC as issuer, transfer uctuate.
This happens for various reasons, including changes in agent and, in respect of the American Depositary Receipts, exchange rates.
However, over time the prices of NV and PLC depositary.
shares do stay in close relation to each other, in particular because of our equalisation arrangements.
The NV ordinary shares are also listed on the stock exchanges in Frankfurt and Zrich.
These shares were also listed in London If you are a shareholder of NV, you have an interest until 1 December 2003, in Paris until 11 December 2003 and in a Netherlands legal entity, your dividends will be paid in euros in Dsseldorf, Hamburg, Munich and Berlin-Bremen until converted into US dollars if you have shares registered in the 31 December 2003.
United States and you will be subject to Netherlands tax.
If you are a shareholder of PLC, your interest is in a United Kingdom There have not been any significant trading suspensions in the legal entity, your dividends will be paid in sterling converted into past three years.
US dollars if you have American Depositary Receipts and you will be subject to United Kingdom tax.
Nevertheless, the Equalisation At 28 February 2004 there were 7 538 registered holders of NV Agreement means that as a shareholder of either company you ordinary shares and 1 014 registered holders of PLC American effectively have an interest in the whole of Unilever.
You have Depositary Receipts in the United States.
We estimate that largely equal rights over our combined net profit and capital approximately 23% of NVs ordinary shares were held in the reserves as shown in the consolidated accounts.
See Taxation for United States approximately 21% in 2002, based on the US residents on pages 159 and 160 and Equalisation Agreement distribution of the 2003 interim dividend payments, while on pages 152 and 153.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 157 Nature of the trading market Share prices at 31 December 2003: The share price of the ordinary shares at the end of the year was for NV 51.85 and $64.90 and for PLC 521p and $37.60.
2.20371 that became effective on 1 January 1999.
158 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
