Remuneration report policy Introduction and effective management of Unilever as a major global This report of the Remuneration Committee sets out Unilevers company.
current policy on Directors remuneration and so far as practicable, the policy for subsequent years.
It also contains Rewards based on performance full details of the 2003 remuneration of the Directors and The current Directors package dates from 2001 when, following Advisory Directors.
shareholder approval, various changes were introduced.
Among these was the introduction of the TSR based Long-Term Incentive The report, which is set out on pages 54 to 68, is divided into Plan and the increase of the annual bonus to a maximum of two parts.
The first part contains a commentary on Directors 100% of base salary.
The package was designed to support remuneration, while the second part contains the detailed enhanced shareholder value during the period to 2004, as set financial information for 2003. out in the Path to Growth strategy.
The Boards have approved this report and it has been signed The package is linked to clear measures of performance.
In this on their behalf by the Joint Secretaries of Unilever.
It will be way, when results are outstanding, the variable elements can presented to shareholders at the Annual General Meetings form a significant part of the total remuneration package.
Equally important, this ensures that indifferent or unsatisfactory performance is not rewarded.
This approach delivers appropriate Remuneration commentary rewards for outstanding performers who create outstanding value for shareholders.
It is also consistent with the performance-related Introductory remarks of the Remuneration Committee remuneration culture in place across the Unilever Group.
Dear Shareholder, The bonus payable in respect of 2003 is substantially less than the bonus paid for 2002 because the business results for 2003 were We should like to make some introductory remarks about the below expectations, particularly with regard to the growth in annual Directors' Remuneration Report for 2003. leading brands.
Our philosophy Our commitment Our remuneration philosophy remains that of attracting, Our continuing commitment is to link Directors pay with motivating and retaining the highest calibre of business performance.
We are focused on achieving business goals, executives.
We ensure that all elements of Directors rewarding outstanding performance and retaining the best talent.
remuneration are carefully benchmarked in the market.
The Directors are also required to build up a personal shareholding Looking ahead in Unilever in order to link their personal interests with those of The Committee keeps the Directors package under constant other shareholders.
review to ensure it remains in line with the European market.
We strive to ensure that the package continues to deliver the We believe this approach is essential to the successful leadership best possible value for shareholders.
Bertrand Collomb, Chairman David Simon Jeroen van der Veer 54 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
