Taxation for US residents holding shares in NV The following notes are provided for guidance.
US residents reduction or refund of, the Netherlands dividend withholding tax should consult their local tax advisers, particularly in connection may be governed by the Tax Regulation for the Kingdom of the with potential liability to pay US taxes on disposal, lifetime gift or Netherlands or by the tax convention, if any, between the bequest of their shares.
Netherlands and your country of residence.
Netherlands taxation on dividends United States taxation on dividends Dividends of companies in the Netherlands are in principle subject If you are a United States shareholder, the entire dividend to dividend withholding tax of 25%.
Where a shareholder is including the withheld amount will be ordinary dividend income.
entitled to the benets of the current Income Tax Convention Under recently enacted legislation The Jobs and Growth Tax the Convention concluded on 18 December 1992 between the Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 the 2003 Act, dividends United States and the Netherlands, when dividends are paid by received by an individual during taxable years before 2009 will NV to: be taxed at a maximum rate of 15%, provided the individual has held the shares for more than 60 days during the 120-day period a United States resident: beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and that certain a corporation organised under the laws of the United States other conditions are satisfied.
Unilever N. V. is a qualied foreign or any territory of it having no permanent establishment in the corporation for the purposes of the 2003 Act.
Dividends received Netherlands of which such shares form a part of the business by an individual for taxable years after 2008 will be subject to tax property: or at ordinary income rates.
The dividends are not eligible for the any other legal person subject to United States Federal income dividends received deduction allowed to corporations.
tax with respect to its worldwide income, having no permanent establishment in the Netherlands of which such shares form a For US foreign tax credit purposes, the dividend is foreign source part of the business property: income, and the Netherlands withholding tax is a foreign income tax that is eligible for credit against the shareholders United these dividends qualify for a reduction of Netherlands withholding States income taxes.
However, the rules governing the US foreign tax on dividends from 25% to 15% to 5% if the beneficial tax credit are complex, and additional limitations on the credit owner is a company which directly holds at least 10% of the apply to individuals receiving dividends eligible for the 15% voting power of NV shares and to 0% if the beneficial owner is maximum tax rate on dividends described above.
a qualied Exempt Organisation as dened in Article 36 of the Convention.
Under a provision of the Netherlands Dividend Tax Act, NV is entitled to a credit up to a maximum of 3% of the gross Where a United States resident or corporation has a permanent dividend from which dividend tax is withheld against the amount establishment in the Netherlands, which has shares in NV forming of dividend tax withheld before remittance to the Netherlands tax part of its business property, dividends it receives on those shares authorities.
For dividends paid on or after 1 January 1995, the are included in that establishments profit.
They are subject to United States tax authority may take the position that the the Netherlands income tax or corporation tax, as appropriate, Netherlands withholding tax eligible for credit should be and the Netherlands tax on dividends will generally be applied limited accordingly.
This tax will be treated as foreign income tax eligible for credit against the shareholders United States Netherlands taxation on capital gains income taxes.
Under the Convention, if you are a United States resident or corporation and you have capital gains on the sale of shares of a Under the Convention, qualifying United States organisations Netherlands company, these are generally not subject to taxation that are generally exempt from United States taxes and that are by the Netherlands.
An exception to this rule generally applies if constituted and operated exclusively to administer or provide you have a permanent establishment in the Netherlands and the pension, retirement or other employee benets may be exempt capital gain is derived from the sale of shares which form part of at source from withholding tax on dividends received from a that permanent establishments business property.
An agreement published by the US Internal Revenue Service on 20 April 2000 in release IR-INT-2000- Netherlands succession duty and gift taxes 9 between the United States and the Netherlands tax authorities Under the Estate and Inheritance Tax Convention between the describes the eligibility of these US organisations for benets United States and the Netherlands of 15 July 1969, United States under the Convention.
individual residents who are not Dutch citizens who have shares will generally not be subject to succession duty in the Netherlands A United States trust, company or organisation that is operated on the individuals death, unless the shares are part of the exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, educational or public business property of a permanent establishment situated in purposes, is now subject to an initial 25% withholding tax rate.
Such an exempt organisation is entitled to reclaim from the Netherlands Tax Authorities a refund of the Netherlands dividend A gift of shares of a Netherlands company by a person who is not tax, if and to the extent that it is exempt from United States a resident or a deemed resident of the Netherlands is generally Federal Income Tax and it would be exempt from tax in the not subject to Netherlands gift tax.
A non-resident Netherlands Netherlands if it were organised and carried on all its activities citizen, however, is still treated as a resident of the Netherlands there.
for gift tax purposes for ten years and any other non-resident person for one year after leaving the Netherlands.
If you are an NV shareholder resident in any country other than the United States or the Netherlands, any exemption from, or Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 159 Taxation for US residents holding shares in PLC The following notes are provided for guidance.
US residents UK taxation on capital gains should consult their local tax advisers, particularly in connection Under United Kingdom law, when you sell shares you may be with potential liability to pay US taxes on disposal, lifetime gift liable to pay capital gains tax.
However, if you are either: or bequest of their shares.
an individual who is neither resident nor ordinarily resident in United Kingdom taxation on dividends the United Kingdom: or Under United Kingdom law, income tax is not withheld from a company which is not resident in the United Kingdom: dividends paid by United Kingdom companies.
Shareholders, whether resident in the United Kingdom or not, receive the full you will not be liable to United Kingdom tax on any capital gains amount of the dividend actually declared.
made on disposal of your shares.
A shareholder resident in the United Kingdom is entitled to a tax The exception is if the shares are held in connection with a trade credit against liability for United Kingdom income tax, equal to or business which is conducted in the United Kingdom through 10% of the aggregate amount of the dividend plus tax credit a branch or an agency.
or one-ninth of the dividend.
For example, a dividend payment of 9.00 will carry a tax credit of 1.00.
UK inheritance tax Under the current estate and gift tax convention between the United States taxation on dividends United States and the United Kingdom, ordinary shares held by If you are a shareholder resident in the US, the dividend will be an individual shareholder who is: ordinary dividend income.
Under recently enacted legislation The Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 the 2003 domiciled for the purposes of the convention in the United Act, dividends received by an individual during taxable years States: and before 2009 will be taxed at a maximum rate of 15%, provided is not for the purposes of the convention a national of the the individual has held the shares for more than 60 days during United Kingdom: the 120-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and certain other conditions are satisfied.
Unilever PLC is a will not be subject to United Kingdom inheritance tax on: qualied foreign corporation for the purposes of the 2003 Act.
Dividends received by an individual for taxable years after 2008 the individuals death: or will be subject to tax at ordinary income rates.
The dividend is on a gift of the shares during the individuals lifetime.
not eligible for the dividends received deduction allowable to corporations.
The dividend is foreign source income for US The exception is if the shares are part of the business property foreign tax credit purposes.
of a permanent establishment of the individual in the United Kingdom or, in the case of a shareholder who performs In addition, under the prior income tax Convention between the independent personal services, pertain to a xed base situated US and the UK the Prior Convention, a US shareholder eligible in the United Kingdom.
for the benets of the Prior Convention could elect to be treated for US tax purposes only as having received an additional taxable dividend.
The additional deemed dividend was equal to one-ninth of the actual cash dividend received an additional dividend of 1 in the above example.
The shareholder was eligible to claim a US foreign tax credit in the amount of the additional deemed dividend.
The tax credit could, subject to certain limitations and restrictions, reduce the shareholders US Federal income tax liability.
The procedure for making this election was described in IRS Revenue Procedure 2000-13.
A new income tax Convention between the US and the UK the New Convention was ratied in 2003.
For US persons, it became effective as to withholding taxes on 1 May 2003 and as to other taxes on 1 January 2004.
Under the New Convention, US shareholders are not entitled to make the election described in the preceding paragraph.
However, US shareholders may elect to remain subject to all the provisions of the Prior Convention for a period of 12 months after the date on which corresponding provisions of the New Convention would otherwise become effective.
If such an election were made, the US shareholder would be eligible for the provisions of the preceding paragraph for dividends received through 30 April 2004.
160 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
