Statement of Directors responsibilities Annual accounts including delegation of appropriate authorities.
The Groups The Directors are required by Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in control environment is supported through a Code of Business the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 Principles, which sets standards of professionalism and integrity to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and for its operations worldwide.
fair view of the state of affairs of the Unilever Group, NV and PLC as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for The Boards have overall responsibility for establishing that year.
key procedures designed to achieve systems of internal control and disclosure control and for reviewing and evaluating their The Directors consider that in preparing the accounts, the Group, effectiveness.
The day-to-day responsibility for implementation NV and PLC have used the most appropriate accounting policies, of these procedures and ongoing monitoring of risk and consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent the effectiveness of controls rests with the Groups senior judgements and estimates, and that all United Kingdom management at individual operating company and Business accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have Group level.
Business Groups, each of which has its own Risk been followed, except as noted under Accounting standards on Committee, review, on an ongoing basis, the risks faced by their page 73. group and the related internal control arrangements and provide written reports to the Corporate Risk Committee, the composition The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC and function of which are set out on page 48. keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy their financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure Unilevers corporate internal audit function plays a key role in that the accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
They also providing an objective view and continuous reassurance of the have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are effectiveness of the risk management and related control systems reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group throughout Unilever to both operating management and the and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Group has an independent Audit Committee, entirely comprised of Advisory Directors.
This Committee meets regularly This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the with the Chief Auditor and the external auditors.
Report of independent auditors set out on page 72, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective Unilever has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation budget approved by the Boards, which is regularly reviewed and to the accounts.
Performance is monitored against budget and the previous year through monthly and quarterly reporting routines.
A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group is placed The Group reports to shareholders quarterly.
The maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility of the Directors, and Unilevers system of risk management has been in place the work carried out by the auditors does not involve throughout 2003 and up to the date of this report, and complies consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors accept with the recommendations of Internal Control Guidance for no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Directors on the Combined Code, published by the Internal financial statements since they were initially placed on the Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands in England & Wales in September 1999.
The Boards have carried governing the preparation and dissemination of financial out an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of risk statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
management and internal control during 2003 in accordance with this guidance, and have ensured that the necessary actions have Going concern been taken to address any weaknesses or deficiencies arising out The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis of that review.
This is because the Directors, after making enquiries and following a review of the Groups Based on an evaluation by the Boards, which comprises the budget for 2004 and 2005, including cash ows and borrowing Chairmen, the Financial Director and the Groups senior facilities, consider that the Group has adequate resources to management, each Chairman and the Financial Director continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
concluded that the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2003 Internal and disclosure controls and procedures were reasonably effective and that subsequently there have Unilever has a well established control environment, which been no significant changes in the Groups internal controls is well documented and regularly reviewed by the Boards.
or in other factors that could signicantly affect those controls.
This incorporates risk management, internal control procedures and disclosure controls and procedures which are designed to It is Unilevers policy to bring acquired companies within the provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are Groups governance procedures as soon as is practicable and, safeguarded, the risks facing the business are being controlled in any event, by the end of the first full year of operation.
and all information required to be disclosed is reported to the Groups senior management, including where appropriate the Chairmen and Financial Director, within the required timeframe.
Our procedures cover financial, operational, social and environmental risks and regulatory matters.
The Boards of NV and PLC have also established a clear organisational structure, Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 71
