Accounting information and policies Foreign currencies Freehold buildings 40 years Exchange differences arising in the accounts of individual no depreciation on freehold land companies are dealt with in their respective profit and loss Leasehold land Life of lease accounts.
Those arising on trading transactions are taken Leasehold buildings 40 years to operating profit: those arising on cash, current investments Plant and equipment 220 years and borrowings are classied as interest.
Motor vehicles 36 years or life of lease if less than 40 years In preparing the consolidated accounts, the profit and loss account, the cash ow statement and all other movements in Tangible xed assets are subject to review for impairment assets and liabilities are translated at annual average rates in accordance with FRS 11 and United States SFAS 144 of exchange.
The balance sheet, other than the ordinary share Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets capital of NV and PLC, is translated at year-end rates of exchange.
Any impairment is charged to the profit and loss In the case of hyper-inationary economies, which are those in account as it arises.
which ination exceeds 100% cumulatively over a three-year period, the accounts are adjusted to reect current price levels Fixed investments and remove the inuences of ination before being translated.
Joint ventures are undertakings in which the Group has a longterm participating interest and which are jointly controlled by the The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated at the Group and one or more other parties.
Associated companies are rate contained in the Equalisation Agreement of 1 Fl.
12 undertakings in which the Group has a participating interest and equivalent to 5.445.
The difference between this and the value exercises significant inuence.
derived by applying the year-end rate of exchange is taken to other reserves see note 23 on page 111.
Interests in joint ventures and associated companies are stated in the consolidated balance sheet at the Groups share of their The effects of exchange rate changes during the year on net aggregate assets and liabilities.
assets at the beginning of the year are recorded as a movement in profit retained, as is the difference between profit of the Other xed investments are stated at cost less any amounts year retained at average rates of exchange and at year-end written off to reect a permanent impairment.
Any impairment rates of exchange.
is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
Goodwill and intangible assets Current assets No value is attributed to internally generated intangible assets.
Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable Goodwill being the difference between the fair value of value.
Cost is mainly average cost, and comprises direct costs and, consideration paid for new interests in group companies, joint where appropriate, a proportion of production overheads.
ventures and associated companies and the fair value of the Groups share of their net assets at the date of acquisition and Debtors are stated after deducting adequate provision for identiable intangible assets purchased after 1 January 1998 are doubtful debts.
capitalised and amortised in the profit and loss account over the period of their expected useful lives, up to a maximum of Current investments are liquid funds temporarily invested and 20 years.
Periods in excess of five years are used only where the are stated at their realisable value.
The difference between this Directors are satisfied that the life of these assets will clearly and their original cost is taken to interest in the profit and exceed that period.
Goodwill and intangible assets purchased loss account.
prior to 1 January 1998 were written off in the year of acquisition as a movement in profits retained.
Retirement benets With effect from 1 January 2003, the Group accounts for On disposal of a business acquired prior to 1 January 1998, pensions and similar benets under the United Kingdom Financial purchased goodwill written off on acquisition is reinstated Reporting Standard 17 FRS 17.
Figures for 2002 and 2001 have in arriving at the profit or loss on disposal.
In accordance with the new standard, the operating and nancing costs of dened benefit plans are The treatment of goodwill and intangible assets under US GAAP recognised separately in the profit and loss account: service costs is discussed on pages 132 to 134. are systematically spread over the service lives of employees, and nancing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Goodwill and intangible assets are subject to review for Variations from expected costs, arising from the experience of impairment in accordance with United Kingdom Financial the plans or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised Reporting Standard FRS 11 Impairment of Fixed Assets and immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Goodwill and United States Statement of Financial Accounting The costs of individual events such as past service benefit Standards SFAS 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
Any enhancements, settlements and curtailments are recognised impairment is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
immediately in the profit and loss account.
The liabilities and, where applicable, the assets of dened benefit plans are Tangible xed assets recognised at fair value in the balance sheet.
The charges to the Tangible xed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
profit and loss account for dened contribution plans are the Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at percentages of company contributions payable and the assets of such plans are cost based on the expected average useful lives of the assets.
not included in the Group balance sheet.
Estimated useful lives by major class of assets are as follows: 74 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
