Additional information for US investors Unilever Group Goodwill from joint ventures amounting to 4 million 2002: 211 million primarily relates to the savoury and dressings segment.
The goodwill from associates amounting to 122 million 2002: 154 million primarily relates to the home care segment.
Intangible assets subject to amortisation Finite-lived intangible assets principally comprise technologies and have a net book value of 445 million as at 31 December 2003 2002: 567 million, net of accumulated amortisation of 86 million 2002: 72 million.
Amortisation expense recorded in the period in respect of nite-lived intangible assets was 30 million 2002: 36 million.
This expense is not expected to change materially over the next five years.
Intangible assets not subject to amortisation indefinite-lived intangible assets principally comprise trademarks and have a net book value of 6 355 million as at 31 December 2003 2002: 7 161 million.
Capitalised software Under UK GAAP as applied by Unilever, certain costs relating to the development and purchase of software for internal use are expensed when incurred.
Under US GAAP, these costs are capitalised and subsequently amortised over the estimated useful life of the software in conformity with Statement of Financial Position 98-1, Accounting for the Cost of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.
During 2003 several IT projects met the criteria for capitalisation under US GAAP.
Restructuring costs Under Unilevers accounting policy, certain restructuring costs relating to employee terminations are recognised when a restructuring plan has been announced.
Under US GAAP, liabilities related to exit costs are recognised when incurred.
Employee termination costs are generally considered to be incurred when the company has a liability to the employee unless further service is required from the employee in which case costs are recognised as benets are earned.
Costs related to excess lease costs are reduced by assumed sub-lease income for the periods impacted.
Interest Unilever treats all interest costs as a charge to the profit and loss account in the current period.
Under US GAAP, interest incurred during the construction periods of tangible xed assets is capitalised and depreciated over the life of the assets.
Derivative financial instruments Transition adjustment Unilever applied the provisions of SFAS 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in this divergence statement as from 1 January 2001.
In accordance with the transition provisions of SFAS 133, an adjustment of 6 million net of tax of 3 million was recorded as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle to recognise the fair value of all the Groups derivative financial instruments and hedge items under US GAAP.
In addition, Unilever recorded a one-time unrealised loss of 85 million net of tax of 37 million to consolidated other comprehensive income under US GAAP.
During the year ended 31 December 2003, a reclassication of derivative losses from other comprehensive income to net income of 31 million was recorded as a result of the underlying hedged transactions which impacted earnings.
Hedging policy Unilevers accounting policies in respect of derivative financial instruments are described in the accounting information and policies on page 75.
In particular, under its accounting policies, Unilever applies hedge accounting to its portfolio of derivative financial instruments, meaning that changes in the value of forward foreign exchange contracts are recognised in the results in the same period as changes in the values of the assets and liabilities they are intended to hedge.
Interest payments and receipts arising from interest rate derivatives such as swaps and forward rate agreements are matched to those arising from underlying debt and investment positions.
Payments made or received in respect of the early termination of derivative instruments are spread over the original life of the instrument so long as the underlying exposure continues to exist.
Under US GAAP, Unilever has not designated any of its derivative instruments as qualifying hedge instruments under SFAS 133 and, accordingly, under US GAAP, all derivative financial instruments are valued at fair value, and changes in their fair value are reected in earnings.
All gains and losses arising on derivative financial instruments are recognised immediately: payments made or received in respect of the early termination of derivative instruments represent cash realisation of these gains and losses and therefore have no further impact on earnings.
Pensions From 1 January 2003, Unilever has adopted UK Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 as the basis for accounting for retirement benets.
Full details of this standard are given in note 17 on page 99.
Under FRS 17, the expected costs of providing retirement benets are charged to the profit and loss account over the periods benefiting from the employees services.
Variations from the expected cost are recognised as they occur in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The assets and liabilities of pension plans are included in the Group balance sheet at fair value.
Under US GAAP, pensions costs and liabilities are accounted for in accordance with the prescribed actuarial method and measurement principles of SFAS 87.
The most significant difference is that variations from the expected costs are recognised in the profit and loss account over the expected service lives of the employees.
Under US GAAP, an additional minimum liability is recognised and a charge made to other comprehensive income when the accumulated benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of plan assets to the extent that this amount is not covered by the net liability recognised in the balance sheet.
With effect from 1 January 2002, and for the purposes of determining the expected return on plan assets for US purposes, Unilever changed the method of valuing its pension plan assets from a market-related value calculated by smoothing gains and losses over a five-year period to an actual fair value at the balance sheet date.
Management believe that the actual fair value methodology provides a better representation of the financial position and results of Unilevers pension plans.
134 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
