Corporate governance Biographical details: Advisory Directors 4 Directors The Rt Hon The Lord Brittan of Spennithorne QC, DL Nationality: British.
Vice-Chairman of 1 Antony Burgmans UBS Investment Bank and Chairman of UBS Limited.
Member of the Chairman, Unilever N. V. European Commission and Vice-President 89 99.
Member of the UK Nationality: Dutch.
Chairman of Unilever N. V. and ViceGovernment 79 86.
Home Secretary 83 85 and Secretary of State for Chairman of Unilever PLC since 4 May 1999.
Previous posts include: Vice- 5 Chairman of Unilever N. V. 1998. Business Group President, Ice Baroness Chalker of Wallasey Cream & Frozen Foods Europe and Chairman of Unilever Europe Nationality: British.
Responsible for South European Foods business Energy plc, Group 5 Pty Ltd and Ashanti Goldelds Company Ltd. 94 96.
External appointments Member, International Advisory Board of Lafarge et Cie. UK Minister include: Member, Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Bank N. V. Nonof State at the Foreign and Commonwealth Ofce 86 97.
Created Life Executive Director of BP p. l. c. and Member, International Advisory Peer in 1992.
Member of Parliament for Wallasey 74 92.
6,7 Bertrand Collomb 1 Niall FitzGerald KBE Nationality: French.
Chairman of Lafarge Chairman, Unilever PLC S. A.
Director of Vivendi Universal, TotalFinaElf and Atco.
Chairman of Unilever PLC and ViceSupervisory Board of Allianz AG and Advisory Board of Chairman of Unilever N. V. since 1 September 1996.
Joined Unilever Banque fide France.
Previous posts include: 4 Professor Wim Dik Vice-Chairman of Unilever PLC 1994.
Professor at Delft Member, Foods Executive 89 91.
Edible Fats & Dairy Co-ordinator University of Technology.
Chairman, Supervisory Boards of Van 89 90.
External appointments include: Gansewinkel Groep, Holland Casino and N. V. Casema.
Member, Non-Executive Director of Reuters Group PLC.
Supervisory Boards of ABN AMRO Bank N. V. and Tele Atlas N. V. Clive Butler Non-Executive Director of Aviva plc and LogicaCMG plc.
Chairman Corporate Development Director and CEO of Koninklijke PTT Nederland KPN 88 98 and Koninklijke Nationality: British.
Corporate Development Director since KPN N. V. Royal Dutch Telecom 98 00.
Minister for Foreign Trade, 1 January 2001.
Previous posts include: Category Director, Home & Personal 8 Oscar Fanjul Care 1996.
Corporate Development and Nationality: Spanish.
Honorary Chairman IT Director 1992. of Repsol-YPF S. A.
Director of Marsh & McLennan Companies, the 2 Patrick Cescau London Stock Exchange, Acerinox S. A. and Tcnicas Reunidas S. A.
Foods Director Member, International Advisory Boards of Marsh & McLennan Nationality: French.
Companies and Sviluppo Italia and of the European Advisory Board Joined Unilever 1973.
Previous posts of the Carlyle Group.
Chairman and CEO of Repsol 86 96. include: Financial Director 1999.
Controller and Deputy Financial 8 Claudio X Gonzalez Director 98 99.
President and CEO, Nationality: Mexican.
Chairman and Van den Bergh Foods USA 95 97.
CEO of Kimberly-Clark fide Mexico S. A.
Director of Kimberly-Clark External appointments include: Non-Executive Director of Pearson plc Corporation, Kellogg Company, General Electric Company USA, and Conseiller du Commerce Extrieur fide la France in the Netherlands.
Grupo Carso S. A. Grupo Alfa, Grupo Mexico, Grupo Televisa, Fondo 2 Keki Dadiseth Mexico, Home Depot, America Movil and Investment Company of Home & Personal Care Director America.
Member, International Advisory Council of JPMorgan Chase Nationality: Indian.
Home & Personal Care Director since Bank.
Special Advisor to the President of Mexico 88 94.
Appointed Director 3 May 9 Hilmar Kopper 2000.
Previous posts include: Hindustan Lever Chairman 1996, Nationality: German.
Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Managing Director 95 96.
External appointments Supervisory Board of DaimlerChrysler AG.
Non-Executive Director include: Non-Executive Director of The Indian Hotels Company.
of Xerox Corp. Former CEO and former Chairman of the Supervisory Member, International Advisory Board of DaimlerChrysler AG.
Board of Deutsche Bank AG.
2 Andr baron van Heemstra 4 Senator George J Mitchell Personnel Director Nationality: American.
Partner of the law Nationality: Dutch.
Personnel Director since 3 May 2000. rm Piper Rudnik.
Director of Walt Disney Company, Federal Express Joined Unilever 1970.
Previous posts Corp. Starwood Hotels and Resorts and Staples Inc.
Member, include: Business Group President, East Asia Pacic 1996.
Chairman, International Advisory Board of Thames Water Plc.
US Senate 80 95 and Senate Majority Leader 88 95.
Chairman of 3 Rudy Markham the Northern Ireland Peace Initiative 95 99.
Financial Director 1,10 The Lord Simon of Highbury CBE Nationality: British.
Previous posts Board of LEK Consulting and International Advisory Council of Fortis.
include: Strategy & Technology Director 1998. Business Group Non-Executive Director of Suez Group.
Member, Supervisory Board President, North East Asia 96 98.
Chairman, Nippon Lever Japan of Volkswagen AG.
Senior Advisor and Member, European Advisory 92 96.
Board of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
UK Government Minister External appointments include: Non-Executive Director of Standard 97 99.
Group Chief Executive of BP 92 95 and Chairman 95 97.
1,10 Jeroen van der Veer Charles Strauss Nationality: Dutch.
President of Royal President, Home & Personal Care North America and Global Dutch Petroleum Company and Chairman of the Committee of Prestige Business.
Chairman, North America Committee Managing Directors of Royal Dutch Shell Group of Companies.
Joined Unilever 1986 upon Unilevers Member, Supervisory Board of fide Nederlandsche Bank.
Previous posts include: Business Group President, Latin America 96 99.
External appointments include: Non-Executive Director of Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and Aegis Group PLC.
5 Chairman External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee 6 Member Executive Committee Chairman Nomination Committee 1 7 Chairman Remuneration Committee Member Nomination Committee 8 2 Member Corporate Risk Committee Member Audit Committee 3 9 Chairman Audit Committee Chairman Corporate Risk Committee 10 4 Member External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee Member Remuneration Committee 52 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
