Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Dividends on the ordinary shares of Barclays PLC Barclays PLC has paid dividends on its ordinary shares every year without interruption since its incorporation in 1896.
The dividends declared for each of the last five years were: Pence per 25p ordinary share 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Interim 7.050 6.350 5.750 5.000 4.375 Final 13.450 12.000 10.875 9.500 8.125 20.500 18.350 16.625 14.500 12.500 US Dollars per 25p ordinary share 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Interim 0.12 0.10 0.08 0.07 0.07 Final 0.25 0.19 0.16 0.13 0.12 0.37 0.29 0.24 0.20 0.19 The gross dividends applicable to an American Depositary Share ADS representing four ordinary shares, before deduction of withholding tax, but including the UK imputed tax credit for dividends paid before 6th April 1999 see Taxation of US holders page 224 are as follows.
US Dollars per American Depositary Share 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Interim 0.48 0.40 0.34 0.29 0.29 Final 1.00 0.76 0.64 0.54 0.51 1.48 1.16 0.98 0.83 0.80 Dividends expressed in Dollars are translated at the noon buying rates in New York City for cable transfers in pounds Sterling as certied for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the noon buying rate for the days on which dividends are paid, except for the 2003 final dividend, payable in the UK on 30th April 2004, which is translated at noon buying rate applicable on 26th February 2004, the latest practical date for inclusion in this report.
No representation is made that pounds Sterling amounts have been, or could have been, or could be, converted into Dollars at these rates.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 219 Shareholder Information Trading Market for Ordinary Shares of Barclays PLC The nominal capital of Barclays PLC is divided into 9,996,000,000 ordinary shares of 25p each ordinary shares and 1,000,000 staff shares of 1 each staff shares.
At the close of business on 31st December 2003, 6,562,731,310 25p ordinary shares and 875,000 staff shares were outstanding.
The principal trading market for Barclays PLC ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange.
Ordinary share listings were also obtained on the Tokyo Stock Exchange with effect from 1st August 1986 and the New York Stock Exchange NYSE with effect from 9th September 1986.
Trading on the NYSE is in the form of ADSs under the symbol BCS.
Each ADS represents four 25p ordinary shares and is evidenced by an American Depositary Receipt ADR.
The ADR depositary is The Bank of New York.
Details of trading activity are published in the stock tables of leading daily newspapers in the US.
There were 229 ADR holders and 890 recorded holders of ordinary shares with US addresses at 31st December 2003, whose shareholdings represented approximately 1.71% of total outstanding ordinary shares on that date.
Since certain of the ordinary shares and ADRs were held by brokers or other nominees, the number of recorded holders in the US may not be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of their country of residence.
The following table shows the high and low sales prices for the ordinary shares of 25p during the periods indicated, based on mid-market prices at close of business on the London Stock Exchange and the high and low sale prices for ADSs as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
From 29th January 2001, decimal pricing was introduced for trading on the NYSE.
This section incorporates information on the prices at which securities of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC have traded.
It is emphasised that past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 221 Shareholder Information A Director must retire from ofce at the conclusion of the first annual Memorandum and general meeting after he reaches the age of 70.
He is however, eligible Articles of Association to stand for re-election at that meeting.
The Company was incorporated in England and Wales on 20th July 1896 A Director is required to hold an interest in ordinary shares having a under the Companies Acts 1862 to 1890 as a company limited by shares nominal value of at least 500.
A Director may act before acquiring and was re-registered in 1982 as a public limited company under the those shares but must acquire the qualication shares within two Companies Acts 1948 to 1980.
The Company is registered under months after his or her appointment.
The Company was re-registered as Barclays At each annual general meeting one-third of the Directors for the time PLC on 1st January 1985. being rounded down if necessary are required to retire from ofce.
The objects of the Company are set out in full in clause 4 of its Classes of share Memorandum of Association which provides, among other things, that The Company has two classes of shares, ordinary shares and staff shares, the Companys objects are to carry on the business of an investment and to which the provisions set out below apply.
holding company in all respects.
a Dividends Directors Under English law, dividends are payable on the Companys ordinary A Director may not vote or count towards the quorum on any resolution shares only out of profits available for distribution, as determined in concerning any proposal in which he or any person connected with accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the UK and him has a material interest other than by virtue of his interest in by the Companies Act 1985.
The Company in general meeting may securities of the Company or if he has a duty which conicts or may declare dividends by ordinary resolution, but such dividend may not conict with the interests of the Company, unless the resolution relates exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may to any proposal: pay interim or final dividends if it appears they are justied by the i to indemnify a Director in respect of any obligation incurred for the Companys financial position.
benefit of the Company or any other member of the Group : The profits which are resolved to be distributed in respect of any ii to indemnify a third party in respect of any obligation for which the financial period are applied first in payment of a xed dividend of 20% Director has personally assumed responsibility: per annum on the staff shares and then in payment of dividends on the ordinary shares.
iii to indemnify a Director for any liability which he may incur in the performance of his duties or to obtain insurance against such a liability: If a dividend is not claimed after 12 years of it becoming payable, it is forfeited and reverts to the Company.
iv involving the acquisition by a Director of any securities of the Company pursuant to an offer to existing holders of securities or to The Directors may, with the approval of an ordinary resolution of the the public: Company, offer shareholders the right to chose to receive an allotment of new ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead of cash in respect v that the Director underwrite any issue of securities of the Company of all or part of any dividend.
or any of its subsidiaries : b Voting vi concerning any other company in which the Director is interested Every member who is present in person or represented at any general as an officer or creditor or shareholder, but only if he owns less than 1% meeting of the Company and who is entitled to vote has one vote on a of either the issued equity share capital or of the voting rights of that show of hands.
On a poll, every member who is present or represented company: has one vote for every share held.
vii concerning any superannuation fund or retirement, death or If any sum remains unpaid in relation to a members shareholding, that disability benets scheme or employees share scheme, so long as any member is not entitled to vote that share unless the Board otherwise such fund or scheme does not give additional advantages to the determines.
Directors which are not granted to the employees who are in the fund or scheme: and If any member, or any other person appearing to be interested in any shares in the Company, is served with a notice under Section 212 of viii concerning any other arrangement for the benefit of employees the Companies Act 1985 and does not supply the Company with the of the Company or any other member of the Group under which the information required in the notice, then the Board, in its absolute Director benets in a similar manner to the employees concerned and discretion, may direct that that member shall not be entitled to attend which does not give the Director any advantage which the employees or vote at any meeting of the Company.
to whom the arrangement relates would not receive.
c Liquidation A Director may not vote or be counted in the quorum on any resolution In the event of any return of capital on liquidation the ordinary shares which concerns his own employment with the Company or any other and the staff shares rank equally in proportion to the amounts paid up company in which the Company is interested.
or credited as paid up on the shares of each class, except that in the The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow event of a winding up of the Company the holders of the staff shares are money.
only entitled to participate in the surplus assets available for distribution up to the amount paid up on the staff shares plus 10%.
222 d Redemption provisions Taxation Subject to the Companies Act 1985, any share may be issued on terms The following is a summary of the principal tax consequences for that it is, at the option of the Company or the holder of such share, holders of ordinary shares of Barclays PLC, preference shares of the Bank, redeemable.
The Company has no redeemable shares in issue.
ADSs representing such ordinary shares or preference shares, who are e Calls on capital citizens or residents of the UK or US, or otherwise who are subject to UK The Directors may make calls upon the members in respect of any tax or US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect of such monies unpaid on their shares.
A person upon whom a call is made securities, that own the shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
remains liable even if the shares in respect of which the call is made have It is not, however, a comprehensive analysis of all the potential tax been transferred.
consequences for such holders, and it does not discuss the tax consequences of members of special classes of holders subject to special f Variation of rights rules or holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of Barclays The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the voting stock.
Investors are advised to consult their tax advisers regarding sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the tax implications of their particular holdings, including the the holders of the shares of that class.
consequences under applicable state and local law, and in particular Annual and extraordinary general meetings whether they are eligible for the benets of the Old Treaty and or the The Company is required to hold a general meeting each year as its New Treaty, as dened below.
annual general meeting in addition to other meetings called A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal extraordinary general meetings as the Directors think t. The type of income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the US, ii a US domestic the meeting will be specified in the notice calling it.
Not more than 15 corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US federal income months may elapse between the date of one annual general meeting and tax regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US court can exercise the next.
primary supervision over the trusts administration and one or more US In the case of an annual general meeting or a meeting for the passing of persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
a special resolution requiring the consent of a 75% majority 21 clear Unless otherwise noted, the statements of tax laws set out below are days notice is required.
In other cases 14 clear days notice is required.
based on the tax laws of the UK in force as at 12th February 2004 and The notice must specify the place, the date and the hour of the meeting, are subject to any subsequent changes in UK law, in particular any and the general nature of the business to be transacted.
announcements made in the Chancellors UK Budget on the 17th March Subject as noted in b above, all shareholders are entitled to attend and 2004.
This section is also based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, vote at general meetings.
The articles of association do, however, provide as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, that arrangements may be made for simultaneous attendance at a published rulings and court decisions the Code, and on the Double general meeting at a place other than that specified in the notice of Taxation Convention between the UK and the US as entered into force meeting, in which case some shareholders may be excluded from the in 1980 the Old Treaty and the Double Taxation Convention between specified place.
the UK and the US that was ratied in March 2003 the New Treaty, all Limitations on foreign shareholders of which are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Companys Generally, the New Treaty is effective in respect of taxes withheld at memorandum or articles of association on the right of non-residents source for amounts paid or credited on or after 1st May 2003.
Other or foreign persons to hold or vote the Companys ordinary shares other provisions of the New Treaty, however, took effect for UK tax purposes than the limitations that would generally apply to all of the Companys for individuals on 6th April 2003 1st April 2003 for UK companies shareholders.
and took effect for US federal income tax purposes on 1st January 2004.
The rules of the Old Treaty remain applicable until these effective dates.
A taxpayer may in any case elect to have the Old Treaty apply in its entirety for a period of 12 months after the applicable effective dates of the New Treaty.
This section is based in part upon the representations of the ADR Depositary and the assumption that each obligation of the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
For purposes of the Old Treaty, the New Treaty, the estate and gift tax convention the Estate Tax Convention and for the purposes of the Code, the holders of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as owners of the underlying ordinary shares or preference shares, as the case may be.
Generally, exchanges of shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK tax, other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 223 Shareholder Information Taxation of UK holders Taxation of US holders Taxation of dividends Taxation of dividends In accordance with UK law, Barclays PLC and the Bank pay dividends A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross on ordinary shares and preference shares without any deduction or amount of any dividend paid by Barclays out of its current or withholding tax in respect of any taxes imposed by the UK government accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income or any UK taxing authority.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable years beginning after 31st December 2002 and before 1st January 2009 If the shareholder is a UK resident individual liable to income tax only that constitute qualied dividend income will be taxable to the holder at the basic rate or the lower rate, then there will be no further tax at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the holder has a holding liability in respect of the dividend received.
If, however, the individual period of the shares or ADSs of more than 60 days during the 120-day shareholder is subject to income tax at the higher rate currently 40%, period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and meets other there will be a further liability to tax.
Higher rate taxpayers are taxable holding period requirements.
On 19th February 2004, the IRS on dividend income at a special rate of currently 32.5% against which announced that it will permit taxpayers to apply a proposed legislative can be offset a tax credit of one-ninth of the dividend paid.
Tax credits change to the holding period requirement described in the preceding are no longer repayable to shareholders with no tax liability.
sentence as if such change were already effective.
This legislative Taxation of shares under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan technical correction would change the minimum required holding Where a shareholder elects to purchase shares using their cash dividend, period, retroactive to 1st January 2003, to more than 60 days during the individual will be liable for income tax on dividends reinvested in the the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date.
Plan on the same basis as if they had received the cash and arranged Dividends paid by Barclays with respect to the shares or ADSs will the investment themselves.
They should accordingly include the generally be qualied dividend income.
dividend received in their annual tax return in the normal way.
The tax Under the Old Treaty, a US holder entitled to its benets is entitled to consequences for a UK individual are the same as described in Taxation a tax credit from the UK Inland Revenue equal to the amount of the tax of dividends above.
credit available to a shareholder resident in the United Kingdom i. e. Taxation of capital gains one-ninth of the dividend received, but the amount of the dividend plus Where shares are disposed of by open market sale, a capital gain may the amount of the refund are also subject to withholding in an amount result if the disposal proceeds exceed the sum of the base cost of the equal to the amount of the tax credit.
A US holder that is eligible for the shares sold and any other allowable deductions such as share dealing benets of the Old Treaty may include in the gross amount of the dividend costs, indexation relief up to 5th April 1998 and taper relief generally the UK tax deemed withheld from the dividend payment pursuant to on shares held at 16th March 1998 and subsequent acquisitions.
Subject to certain limitations, the UK tax withheld in arrive at the total base cost of any Barclays PLC shares held, the amount accordance with the Old Treaty and effectively paid over to the UK subscribed for rights taken up in 1985 and 1988 must be added to the Inland Revenue will be creditable against the US holders US federal cost of all other shares held.
For this purpose, current legislation permits income tax liability, provided the US holder is eligible for the benets of the market valuation at 31st March 1982 to be substituted for the the Old Treaty and has properly led Internal Revenue Form 8833. original cost of shares purchased before that date.
Special rules apply in determining the foreign tax credit limitation with respect to dividends that are subject to the maximum 15% tax rate.
The calculations required to compute chargeable capital gains, particularly taper and indexation reliefs, may be complex.
Capital gains Under the New Treaty, a US holder will not be entitled to a UK tax credit, may also arise from the gifting of shares to connected parties such as but will also not be subject to UK withholding tax.
The US holder will relatives although not spouses and family trusts.
Shareholders are include in gross income for US federal income tax purposes only the advised to consult their personal financial adviser if further information amount of the dividend actually received from Barclays, and the receipt regarding a possible tax liability in respect of their holdings of of a dividend will not entitle the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
Barclays PLC shares is required.
Dividends must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of Stamp duty shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively On the purchase of shares, stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax at the receives the dividend, and will not be eligible for the dividends-received rate of 0.5% is normally payable on the purchase price of the shares.
deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from Inheritance tax sources outside the US, and will generally be passive income or financial An individual may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer of ordinary services income, which is treated separately from other types of income shares or preference shares.
Where an individual is liable, inheritance tax for the purposes of computing any allowable foreign tax credit.
may be charged on the amount by which the value of his or her estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by way of gift or other gratuitous The amount of the dividend distribution will be the US Dollar value of transaction made by them or treated as made by them.
the pound Sterling payments made, determined at the spot Pound Sterling US Dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is includable in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US Dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange uctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is includable in income to the date the payment is converted into US Dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and, for foreign tax credit limitation purposes, from sources within the US.
224 Distributions in excess of Barclays current or accumulated earnings and Shareholder Enquiries profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated Investors who have any questions about their investment in Barclays, as a return of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the shares or about Barclays in general, may write to: or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain.
Head of Investor Relations Taxation of capital gains Barclays PLC Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK tax, but will be subject 54 Lombard Street to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other disposition London EC3P 3AH of ordinary shares, preference shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a noncorporate US holder that is recognised on or after 6th May 2003 and or, in the United States of America, before 1st January 2009 is generally taxed at a maximum rate of 15% The Corporate Communications Department where the holder has a holding period of greater than one year.
Barclays Bank PLC Taxation of premium on redemption or purchase of shares 222 Broadway No refund of tax will be available under the Old Treaty or the New Treaty New York, NY 10038, USA in respect of any premium paid on a redemption of preference shares by Registered and Head ofce: the Bank or on a purchase by Barclays PLC of its own shares.
For US tax 54 Lombard Street purposes, redemption premium generally will be treated as an additional London EC3P 3AH amount realised in the calculation of gain or loss.
Tel: 020 7699 5000 Stamp duty Registrar: No UK stamp duty is payable on the transfer of an ADS, provided that The Registrar to Barclays PLC the separate instrument of transfer is not executed in, and remains at all The Causeway times outside, the UK.
Worthing Estate and gift tax BN99 6DA Under the Estate Tax Convention, a US holder generally is not subject to Tel: 0870 609 4535 UK inheritance tax.
co. uk ADR Depositary: Exchange Controls and Other Limitations The Bank of New York PO Box 11258 Affecting Security Holders Church Street Station Other than certain emergency restrictions which may be in force from New York time to time, there are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations NY 10286-1258 which would affect the transfer of capital or remittance of dividends, Tel: 1-888-BNY-ADRS toll-free for US domestic callers interest and other payments to holders of Barclays securities who are or 610 312 5315 not residents of the UK.
There are also no restrictions under the Articles E-mail: shareowner-svcs@bankofny.
com of Association of either Barclays PLC or the Bank, or under current UK laws, which limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners, to hold Barclays securities or, when entitled to vote, to do so.
Documents on Display It is possible to read and copy documents that have been led by Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC with the US Securities and Exchange Commission at the US Securities and Exchange Commissions public reference room located at 450 5th Street, NW, Washington, DC20549.
Please call the US Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC- 0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
Filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services, and in the website maintained by the SEC at www.
