In terms of market capitalisation, Barclays is one of the largest financial services groups in the UK.
The Group also operates in many other countries and is a leading provider of global services to multinational corporations and financial institutions in the worlds main financial centres.
Worldwide, Barclays has 2,916 branches and employs 74,800 staff.
Our mission To be an innovative, customer-focused Group that delivers superb products and services, ensures excellent careers for our people and contributes positively to the communities in which we live and work.
Our primary goal To deliver top quartile total shareholder return TSR versus our peers, consistently over time.
Our beliefs Our operating philosophy is managing for value.
The strategies we follow and the actions we take are aligned to value creation for all stakeholders.
This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as anticipate, meaning of section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, or other words of amended and section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with similar meaning.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and respect to certain of the Groups plans and its current goals and expectations uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that relating to its future financial condition and performance.
The Group may also will occur in the future.
The Groups actual future results may differ materially The paper used throughout this report is produced from Totally Chlorine make forward-looking statements in other written materials, including other from those set out in the Groups forward-looking statements.
There are many Free TCF pulps.
The wood for these is sourced from fully sustainable documents filed with or furnished to the SEC.
In addition, the Groups senior factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially forests in Finland, Sweden, Portugal, Spain and Brazil.
Additionally, the management may make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Any investors, representatives of the media and others.
In particular, among forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of manufacturing mill is certified to ISO 9002 Quality Assurance standard, other statements, certain statements in the Financial Review and Business the date they are made.
Barclays does not undertake to update forward-looking the ISO 14001 Environmental Management standard, and registered with Description with regard to management objectives, trends in results of statements to reflect any changes in the Groups expectations with regard EMAS the EU Environmental Management and Audit System.
operations, margins, costs, return on equity, risk management, and thereto or any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any competition are forward looking in nature.
These forward-looking statements such statement is based.
The reader should, however, consult any additional can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or disclosures Barclays may make in documents it files with the SEC.
Barclays PLC Annual Report a 2003 Barclays PLC Barclays PLC Head Office 54 Lombard Street London EC3P 3AH Tel 020 7699 5000 www.
