Glossary of Terms Annualised net rents are gross rents plus, where rent reviews are Adjusted NAV per share excludes the capital allowances deferred tax outstanding, any increases to estimated rental value as determined by the provision.
Groups external valuers, less any ground rents payable under head leases.
Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period after Capital allowances deferred tax provision.
In accordance with FRS19, payment of ground rents and net property outgoings.
Net rental income 96 full provision has been made for the deferred tax arising on the benefit of will differ from annualised net rents and passing rent due to the effects capital allowances claimed to date.
However, in the Groups experience the of income from backdated rent reviews, UITF 28 operating lease incentives liabilities in respect of capital allowances provided are unlikely to crystallise and net property outgoings.
in practice and are therefore excluded when arriving at adjusted NAV per Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale of share and adjusted EPS.
an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash Contingent tax liability is the unprovided further taxation which might consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups external become payable if the Group's investments and properties were sold valuers see Valuation Certificate.
at their balance sheet values including the valuation surplus on trading In accordance with usual practice, the Groups external valuers report and development properties net of any tax losses which have not been valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, recognised in the Balance Sheet.
This is stated after taking account of including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
the FRS 19 capital allowances deferred tax provision.
Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under head leases.
Development construction cost is the total cost of construction of a project to completion, excluding site values and finance costs.
Reversion is the estimated increase in rent at review where the gross rent is below the estimated rental value.
Earnings per share EPS is the profit after taxation divided by the weighted Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise average number of shares in issue during the period.
Diluted to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
and Adjusted EPS per share are derived as set out under NAV.
Securitisation is a financing technique where the income stream of an asset Estimated rental value ERV is the Groups external valuers opinion as is used to service the interest and principal repayments on the relevant debt to the open market rent, which on the date of valuation, could reasonably instruments.
be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary Total return Return on shareholders equity is the growth in adjusted yield and represents the return a property will produce based upon the timing diluted net asset value per share plus dividends per share for the period of the income received.
In accordance with usual practice, the equivalent expressed as a percentage of adjusted diluted net asset value per share at yields as determined by the Groups external valuers assume rent received the beginning of the period.
annually in arrears and on gross values including prospective purchasers costs.
UITF 28 operating lease incentives debtors.
Under accounting rules the balance sheet value of lease incentives given to tenants is deducted from Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of adjusted net assets.
property valuation and shown as a debtor.
The incentive is amortised through Group is The British Land Company PLC and its subsidiaries excluding any the profit and loss account.
share of joint venture profits or assets.
Underlying profit before tax is the profit on ordinary activities after taxation Initial yield is the annualised net rents generated by the portfolio expressed after excluding trading profits, profits on disposal of fixed assets, one-off gains as a percentage of the portfolio valuation, excluding development properties.
relating to other investments and exceptional items.
Interest cover is the number of times Group net interest payable is covered Vacancy rate is the estimated rental value of vacant properties expressed as by Group net rental income.
a percentage of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd, a Company that produces development properties.
an independent benchmark of property returns.
Each tranche of Group debt is multiplied Mortgage ratio is the ratio of Group net debt to the aggregate value of the by the remaining period to its maturity and the result is divided by total Group Groups properties including the surplus of the open market value over the debt in issue at the period end.
book value of both development and trading properties, investments in joint Weighted average interest rate is the Group loan interest and derivative ventures and other investments.
costs per annum at the period end, divided by total Group debt in issue at the Net assets per share NAV are shareholders funds, plus the surplus of the period end.
open market value over the book value of both development and trading Weighted average lease term is the average lease term remaining to expiry properties, divided by the number of shares in issue at the period end.
across the portfolio weighted by rental income.
This is also disclosed Diluted NAV per share includes the effect of those shares potentially assuming all break clauses are exercised at the earliest date, as stated.
issuable under convertible bonds or employee share schemes.
Excludes short-term licenses and residential leases.
The British Land Company PLC Glossary of Terms A walk in the park...
Shooting people in the Royal Parks throughout the winter months was definitely a challenge.
Aside from sourcing the right people, scouting for the right location, weather was a major concern.
Fortunately London was blessed with some of the finest cold, crisp and bright sunlight January and February have ever seen.
As I ventured into each Royal Park, I asked people if I could shoot their portrait, some said yes, some said no, some even ran away!
Others just wanted to talk, or share park stories and distant memories.
Looking back at these images, I can still hear the conversations that I experienced in park life: from the boys with their shire horses in Richmond Park, to the swimmers at the Serpentine, to name but a few memorable moments.
Portraits are about people, but also their environment: where they spend time, and what they do.
Jean-Philippe Defaut British Land would like to thank everyone involved in the photographic shoot for this years annual report.
Soil technician: Mick Harrington, St James Park: Shire horses: Mark Buxton and Steve Green, Richmond Park: Kids with paper birds: Holly Lodge Centre at Richmond Park: Policeman: PC Nigel Keane, Hyde Park: Rastafarian cleaner: Mickey, Service Team, Green Park: Lifeguard twins: Phillip and Michael, Hyde Park: Ferrets: Dave, Snowy and Smokey, Hyde Park: Serpentine swimmers: Sir Anthony Cleaver, Brian Thomas, Andrew Fuller, Albert Wojeck: Roller bladers: Geoff Belfer, Betty Daughton, Justyna Haczuk, Andy Zelisko, Kensington Gardens: Model yacht club: Peter Cyrian, Kensington Gardens: Speakers corner: Bob Rodgers, Hyde Park Corner.
Designed by: CDT Design Photography by: Jean-Philippe Defaut Copywriting by: Tim Shackleton 10 Cornwall Terrace Typesetting by: JJ Graphic Regents Park Printed by: Fulmar Colour London NW1 4QP Tel: 44 0 207 486 4466 Fax: 44 0 207 935 5552 www.
com The paper used in this Annual Report is made from pulp where for every Back cover: tree felled 3-4 are planted.
The mill recycles the water and millbroke or Blue Sky.
White Lodge Richmond is home for younger offcuts and rejects used in the papermaking process.
pupils of the Royal Ballet School, while the Holly Lodge Centre provides for children with special needs in a very RECYCLABLE special place.
The British Land Company PLC
