Sponsorship Sponsorship British Land is strongly committed to investing in the future through The Princes Trust helps young people to succeed, focusing on 14- education, the arts and sport.
Particular emphasis is given to helping 30 year olds who lack the opportunity or means to make the most young people improve their prospects and the quality of life.
British Land is currently helping six young people to British Land was Sole Sponsor of the Thomas Gainsborough exhirealise their full potential by starting their own businesses.
bition at Tate Britain, London between October 2002 and January The West Euston Partnership involves Camden Council, the Health 95 2003 and subsequently at Washington D. C. and Boston, Authority, the police, community associations, tenants, the church, Massachusetts, USA.
the Crown Estate, British Land and the Prudential with a brief to This year nearly 66,000 schoolchildren from nearly 2,000 schools unite the diverse Camden community.
British Land contributes to are taking part in The British Land UK Chess Challenge, the the Partnerships work and supports community regeneration in the largest chess tournament in the world.
The tournament is designed area.
for all standards of play and all ages from 18 down to 6 years old.
The companys commitment to the future also includes being a Schools build their reputations, while children benefit from corporate partner of the London Business School and publishing an constructive enjoyment as they develop qualities of concentration, award-winning series of Educational Broadsheets for schools.
British forward planning, resilience and flexibility.
Land supports the investment Property Forums Educational Trust, British Land encourages its management teams to be sensitive to Barnardos the British Red Cross, Mencap and the NSPCC.
local issues in communities in which we operate and to sponsor British Land has contributed to the Tate Gallery and sponsored the causes which help regeneration of the local community where Museum of Modern Art.
The British Museum, the Victoria and Albert appropriate.
For six years now Meadowhall Shopping Centre has Museum, the Wallace Collection, the London Philharmonic Orchestra, been the main sponsor of The Sheffield Stars annual Superkids The Royal Ballet School, the Royal Opera House, the Royal Academy of Awards, which reward children from throughout the South Yorkshire Music, the London Mozart Players, the Monteverdi Choir, the English region for their courage and achievements.
Over the years, children National Opera, the National Theatre, the Wigmore Hall and the aged 4-16, from all backgrounds, who have battled against the odds Regents Park Open Air Theatre have also received support.
The to come out on top, or achieved their dreams after years of hard Company is a founding exhibition patron of the Royal Academy of Arts.
Categories of award include Triumph British Land has been sole sponsor of The British Land National over Adversity, Academic and Sporting Achievement and we are Ski Championships for 25 consecutive years and also sponsors The very proud to help give these special children the acknowlBritish Land Alpine Ski Team.
The Company is presenting sponsor of edgement they deserve.
the 2003 Super Series Squash Finals at Broadgate.
The British Land Partners in Leadership is a highly successful project organised by British Open and Amateur Championships for Real Tennis are now in Business in the Community.
Over 600 business partners are their tenth year.
matched to head teachers throughout the country, providing a valuable sounding board as well as a link between the school and the business community.
British Land sponsors the Partners in Leadership Newsletter and encourages and supports its own employees involvement as business partners.
The British Land Company PLC
