Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below.
The financial effect of the departure from these rules cannot reasonably policies have been applied consistently, in all material respects be quantified as depreciation or amortisation is only one of the 68 throughout the current and the previous year.
many factors reflected in the annual valuation and the amount which might otherwise have been shown cannot be separately Accounting basis identified or quantified.
Where properties held for investment are The accounts are prepared in accordance with applicable United appropriated to trading stock, they are transferred at market value.
Kingdom Accounting Standards and under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of investment properties and ii Development properties are included in investment properties fixed asset investments.
and stated at cost, except where the open market value falls below cost, when they are revalued to the lower amount.
The Consolidation revaluation deficit is transferred to the revaluation reserve unless The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the parent and it represents a clear consumption of economic benefits, in which all subsidiaries.
case it is charged to the profit and loss account.
The cost of propSubsidiaries or joint ventures acquired or disposed of during the erties in course of development includes attributable interest and year are included from the date of acquisition or to the date of disposal other outgoings having regard to the development potential of the and accounted for under the acquisition or gross equity method.
Interest is calculated on the development expenditure Accounting practices of subsidiaries and joint ventures which differ by reference to specific borrowings where relevant and otherwise from Group accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation.
on the average rate applicable to short-term loans.
Interest is In accordance with Section 230 3 of the Companies Act 1985 a not capitalised where no development activity is taking place.
separate profit and loss account for the Parent is not presented.
A property ceases to be treated as a development on practical Joint ventures and other investments completion.
In accordance with FRS 9 joint ventures are included under the gross equity method.
As a result the Groups balance sheet discloses the iii Trading properties are stated at the lower of cost and net Groups share of the gross assets and gross liabilities of the joint realisable value.
Disposals are recognised on completion: profits ventures.
The Groups share of joint venture operating profit, net interest and losses arising are dealt with through the profit and loss payable and taxation are included at the relevant point in the Group account.
If properties held for trading are appropriated to investprofit and loss account.
ment, they are transferred at book value.
Where the Group participates in a joint arrangement that is not an entity, it accounts for its own assets, liabilities and cash flows, measured Debt instruments and interest rate derivatives according to the terms of the agreement governing the arrangement.
Debt instruments are stated at their net proceeds on issue.
Issue Other fixed asset investments are stated at market value when costs are amortised to the profit and loss account over the life of the listed and at directors valuation when unlisted.
Any surplus or deficit instrument and are included in interest payable.
arising on revaluation is taken to the revaluation reserve, unless a Amounts payable or receivable under interest rate derivatives are deficit is expected to be permanent, in which case it is charged to matched with the interest payable on the debt which the derivatives the profit and loss account.
In the course of the Groups investment and financing activity Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net underlying debt may be retired or redeemed such that an interest realisable value.
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost or rate derivative becomes surplus.
In these circumstances the derivdirectors valuation.
ative is marked to market or closed out.
Any deficit surplus arising is charged credited to the profit and loss account and included in net Properties interest payable.
i Investment properties are independently valued each year on an open market basis.
Any surplus or deficit arising is transferred Negative goodwill to revaluation reserve, unless a deficit is expected to be permaNegative goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undernent, in which case it is charged to the profit and loss account.
The takings and joint ventures, representing any excess of the fair value profit on disposal is based on book value.
of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired over the fair value of In accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 19 the consideration given, is included in the balance sheet and is no amortisation or depreciation is provided in respect of freehold credited to the profit and loss account as the acquired non-monetary or long leasehold properties.
The directors consider that this assets are sold.
accounting policy, which represents a departure from the statutory accounting rules, is necessary to provide a true and fair view.
The The British Land Company PLC Notes to the Financial Statements
