Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Thirty-eighth amount of relevant securities which may Annual General Meeting of British Vita PLC be allotted pursuant to this authority shall will be held at the British Vita Training and be 16,040,753.
The authority hereby Development Centre, Green Street, Middleconferred shall expire at the conclusion ton, Manchester on Wednesday 21 April 2004 of the Annual General Meeting of the at 11.00am for the following purposes: Company to be held in 2005 or, if earlier, on 21 July 2005 unless renewed, varied or Ordinary business revoked by the Company in general 1.
To receive and consider the accounts meeting.
and the reports of the directors and The directors shall be entitled under this auditors for the year ended 31 December authority to make at any time prior to the 2003. expiry of this authority any offer or agree- 2.
To declare a final dividend for the year ment which would or might require relevended 31 December 2003. ant securities to be allotted after the 3.
To re-appoint Mr D. Cotterill as a director.
To re-appoint Mr H. J. J. van Beijeren as a This authority shall be in substitution for director.
and supersede and revoke any earlier 5.
To re-appoint Dr K. G. G. Hopkins as a such authority conferred on the directors.
To re-appoint  That in accordance with Chapter VII of LLP as auditors of the Company to hold Part V of the Companies Act 1985 the office until the conclusion of the next genAct the Company be and is hereby eral meeting at which the accounts are unconditionally and generally authorised laid before the Company and that their to make market purchases as defined in remuneration be fixed by the directors.
section 163 of the Act of Ordinary shares 7.
To approve the Directors Remuneration of 25p each in the share capital of the report.
Company on such terms and in such manner as the directors may, from time to Special business time, determine provided that the maxTo consider and, if thought fit, pass the follimum number of shares hereby authorised owing resolutions which will be proposed as to be purchased is 19,443,338: ordinary or special resolutions as respectively the minimum price which may be paid designated: for each share is 25p excluding expen- 8.
Ordinary resolution ses : That the directors be and are hereby the maximum price which may be paid generally and unconditionally authorised for each share is an amount equal to 105 in accordance with section 80 of the per cent of the average of the middle Companies Act 1985 the Act to exermarket quotations for an Ordinary share cise all the powers of the Company to of the Company as derived from the allot relevant securities as defined in London Stock Exchange Daily Official List section 80 2 of the Act of the Company for the five business days immediately on and subject to such terms as the preceding the day on which such a share directors may determine.
is contracted to be purchased excluding The maximum aggregate nominal expenses : and this authority shall expire 62 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com at the conclusion of the Annual General and shall expire at the conclusion of the Meeting of the Company to be held in Annual General Meeting of the Company 2005 except in relation to a purchase of to be held in 2005 or, if earlier, on 21 July shares the contract for which was conc- 2005, save that the directors may at any luded before the expiry of such authority time prior to the expiry of this power, and which will or might be executed make any offer or agreement which wholly or partly after such expiry unless would or might require equity securities to such authority is renewed prior to such be allotted after its expiry.
Special resolution By order of the Board That the directors be and are hereby M. R. STIRZAKER authorised and empowered, pursuant to Secretary section 95 1 of the Companies Act 1985 1 March 2004 the Act to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of the Act for Registered in England and Wales No.
871669 cash pursuant to the general authority Registered Office: Oldham Road, Middleton, conferred by Resolution 8 set out in the Manchester, M24 2DB.
Notice convening this Meeting, as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any Appointment of proxy such allotment provided that such power An Ordinary shareholder entitled to attend shall be limited to: and vote at the Annual General Meeting is a the allotment of equity securities in entitled to appoint one or more proxies to connection with a rights issue or other attend and, on a poll, vote instead of himissue in favour of the holders of Ordinself.
A proxy need not be a member of the ary shares where the equity securities Company.
Forms of proxy must reach the respectively attributable to the interCompanys Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, by ests of the Ordinary shareholders are 11.00am on Monday 19 April 2004.
A form of proportionate as nearly as may be proxy is included for the use of Ordinary to the respective numbers of Ordinary shareholders.
Completion and return of the shares held or deemed to be held by proxy will not prevent an Ordinary shareholdthem, subject only to such exclusions er from personally attending and voting at or other arrangements as the directors the meeting.
may deem necessary or expedient to Copies of the current Articles of Association deal with fractional entitlements, legal and the directors contracts of service will be or practical problems arising in any available for inspection at the Registered overseas territory or by virtue of shares Office of the Company during normal office being represented by depositary hours from the date of this notice until the receipts, the requirements of any regclose of the forthcoming Annual General ulatory body or stock exchange, or Meeting and also at the place of that meetany other matter whatsoever: ing for at least fifteen minutes prior to, and and during, the meeting.
b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 2,430,417: Annual Report 2003 63
