Shareholder Information Auditors Share price  LLP During the year, the middle-market price of the 101 Barbirolli Square Companys shares on the London Stock Lower Mosley Street Exchange moved within a range from 210.0p to Manchester 284.0p, with the price on 31 December 2003 M2 3PW being 240.0p.
For the purposes of capital gains tax, the value Principal bankers of the Companys shares on 31 March 1982 was National Westminster Bank Plc 145p per share.
This value needs to be adjusted Lloyds TSB Bank Plc for subsequent scrip and rights issues which, if taken up in full, adjusts the base price to 77.7p.
Registrar and share transfer office Lloyds TSB Registrars Shareview The Causeway The Shareview Portfolio service from our registrar, Worthing Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives you more control of West Sussex BN99 6DA your Company shares and other investments.
Telephone 01903 502541 When you have registered with the site, you can: register your proxy instruction on line: Stockbrokers and financial advisers tell us your mailing preference post or e-mail Deutsche Bank AG for shareholder communications.
The site also gives you: Financial calendar direct access to data held for you on the share register including recent share movements and Preliminary announcement of results dividend details: for the financial year Early March a valuation of your portfolio, based on recent Report and Accounts circulated Mid March share prices: Annual General Meeting Mid April a range of information and practical help for Interim Report Early September shareholders.
Its easy to set up a portfolio - you just need the Dividend payments shareholder reference printed on your dividend Interim Early November stationery - and theres no charge to register.
Final Early May Visit the site for more details: www.
co. uk 64 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com The partnership photograph on the inside front cover shows Designed by Joanne Bamford, Vita Services Limited.
left to right Vitafoams Tracy Wilson, Mick Moore, William Seville, Alan Greenhalgh and Kath Heap.
Photograph of motor bike helmet on the inside front cover by Peter Rautner.
Printed on Hello Silk, manufactured from mainly Totally The mattress photographs in the Operating and Financial Chlorine Free pulp.
Some low AOX Elemental Chlorine Free Review are courtesy of Sealy.
pulps are used, resulting in an AOX level of 0.1kg tonne.
The car photograph in the Operating and Financial Review is The fibre source is virgin wood fibre from sawmill residues, courtesy of Land Rover.
forest thinnings and sustainable forests in Austria.
All broke The beach photograph in the Operating and Financial is recycled and can be as high as 25% of the total fibre Review Digital Vision.
All other photography in the Operating and Financial Review was specially commissioned from Kate Potter Photography.
VTP employee Karl Dawber, a development technologist, is shown in the Operating and Financial Review.
The nature photo in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report is by Peter Cade Getty Images.
