PAGE 28 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the directors Special Business Proposals will be put at the Annual General Meeting to: irenew the authority of the Directors pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 647,267: ii renew the authority of the Directors to allot shares other than pro rata to existing shareholders generally up to a maximum of 8,381,800 shares: iii renew the authority of the Directors to take advantage, if appropriate, of Stock Market conditions to purchase the Companys shares.
The authority will allow the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital during the next year at a minimum price of 2 pence and a maximum price of 5% above the market price of the Companys shares at the relevant time: iv authorise the Company to make political contributions as dened in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000. v approve the Remuneration Report.
vi approve new LTIP arrangements for Mr R N L Huntingford.
vii adopt new Articles of Association.
Please also refer to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting which accompanies this Report and Accounts.
Auditors KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce for the ensuing year and a resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for their reappointment at a remuneration to be agreed by the Directors.
By order of the Board C R Potterell ACIS The Chrysalis Building Secretary Bramley Road 17th December 2003 London W10 6SP Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then to apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
