Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the forty-sixth Annual General Meeting of Great Portland Estates plc will be held at Le Mridien, 21 Piccadilly, London W. 1. on Tuesday, 15 July 2003 at 11.30 am, for the purposes set out below, with the Board available from 11.00 am to meet shareholders and answer questions: 1 To receive and adopt the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2003.
2 To authorise the payment of a final dividend.
3 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
4 To re-elect David Godwin as a director of the Company.
5 To re-elect John Edgcumbe as a director of the Company.
6 To reappoint Robert Noel as a director of the Company.
7 To reappoint Kathleen ODonovan as a director of the Company.
8 To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors, and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration.
As special business, to consider and, if thought t, to pass the following Resolutions which will be proposed as to those numbered 9 and 10 as Ordinary Resolutions, and those numbered 11 and 12 as Special Resolutions.
Ordinary Resolutions 9 That the Articles of Association of the Company be and are hereby amended by deleting the figure 300,000 in Article 87 and replacing it with the figure 400,000.
10 That the directors be and are hereby authorised pursuant to and in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot and to make offers or agreements to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal value of 33,815,070 provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution or on 14 October 2004, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Special Resolutions 11 That subject to Resolution 10 being passed and pursuant to and in accordance with the authority thereby granted, the directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act and for the purposes of Article 8 B of the Articles of Association of the Company to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to such authority as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive issue in favour of shareholders notwithstanding that by reason of such exclusions as the directors may deem necessary to deal with problems arising in any overseas territory, in connection with fractional entitlements or otherwise howsoever the equity securities to be issued are not offered to all of such persons in proportion to the number of shares held by each of them : and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subparagraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 5,077,337, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution or on 14 October 2004, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Notice of Meeting Annual Report 2003 69 12 That the Company be and it is hereby authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of its shares upon or subject to the following conditions: a the maximum number of shares which may be purchased is 30,443,717: b the maximum price at which shares may be purchased shall be 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for the shares as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the date of purchase and the minimum price shall be 50p, being the nominal value of the shares, in both cases exclusive of expenses: and c the authority to purchase conferred by this Resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution save that the Company may before such expiry enter into a contract of purchase under which such purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of this authority.
Registered Ofce: 56 Mortimer Street London W1W 7RT By order of the Board Desna Martin Secretary 13 June 2003 Notes 1 A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote in his stead.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
A proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
Lodgement of the form of proxy will not preclude a shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
2 The following documents will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday except Saturdays and Public Holidays until the date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting for a period of fifteen minutes prior to and during the meeting: a a statement of all transactions of each director and of their family interests in each class of the share capital and debentures of the Company and its subsidiaries: b copies of all contracts of service whereunder directors of the Company are employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries: and c copies of the current and proposed new Articles of Association of the Company.
3 The Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 species that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 8.00 am on Monday 14 July 2003 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time and changes to the Register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
70 Annual Report 2003 Notice of Meeting
