Business analysis Market report Central London Demand, however, is particularly reliant on housing market conditions The key drivers of the central London office markets are weaker and remains strong while mortgage equity withdrawals run at todays occupational demand, an increase in availability and a two tier high levels.
However, these positive market conditions are at risk if either investment market.
This is particularly apparent in the City where the housing market falls or interest rates increase.
Investor appetite for demand has fallen away as financial institutions downsize and occupiers this type of asset class remains high as evidenced by the strong interest seek to sub let surplus space.
However, in comparison with former cycles in the Grantchester and Chartwell Land transactions.
the development pipeline of new accommodation is limited and rental levels are being driven predominantly by lack of tenant demand rather South-east industrial than over supply of space.
Rental values have been decreasing and a Industrial distribution demand has slowed over the past six months and return to rental growth in the City is not anticipated before 2006 7. there has been little demand from general manufacturing for industrial units.
However, sites with good transport links and good access to labour The West End markets, particularly Victoria, are more resilient predominantly markets have been selling for high level values based on aggressive rental as a result of constrained supply, a more diverse occupier base and and yield forecasts.
continued demand from the public sector for new accommodation.
It is expected that the return to positive rental growth in real terms will be Investment demand remains strong for development sites in the southexperienced earlier here than in the City.
east and for well-let distribution centres.
The bond like characteristics of properties let to good covenants on long Total property outsourcing unexpired lease terms continue to attract strong investor demand and The current challenging economic conditions are leading organisations to values for this type of property are holding up.
For properties with shorter focus on maximising returns on capital deployed, minimising costs and lease terms and other development opportunities, a significant re-pricing streamlining their business operations.
This has increased interest in total has occurred.
The exception to this is the West End where there is still property outsourcing with the number of businesses actively discussing investment appetite for active management scenarios.
this option or due to bring proposals to the market at an all time high.
Shopping centres and shops Increased levels of interest are also coming from central and local The main driver behind retail rental growth is consumer spending, which Government as they seek to meet the demands of changing Government has been buoyant over the past two years.
There are now some signs that funding criteria and to deliver the most cost effective accommodation this is slowing, as a result of concerns over the possibility of weaker solutions.
south-east housing market conditions spreading to other regions in the UK.
The central London retail markets have also been adversely affected recently by special factors, notably a reduction in tourism as a result of Investment portfolio valuation world instability and transport issues.
The portfolio was valued by Knight Frank at 7.84bn at 31 March 2003.
Further weakening in the housing markets may continue to affect adversely After adjusting for sales, acquisitions and expenditure the value reduced consumers disposable income along with recent increases in National marginally by 0.6% as compared to the year to 31 March 2002.
contribution from retail and industrial developments was offset by the negative impact of the revaluation of our London office holdings.
On the investment side demand has been strong and yields have hardened significantly.
In future the rate of yield shift is not thought to In the first half of the Companys financial year, the period to 30 September be sustainable but allocation by investment funds still favours retail as 2002, capital values for London office properties weakened due to adverse an investment.
This rate of decline, driven by falling rents, was more marked in the second half of the year showing a total capital Retail warehouses value decline of 10.1% for the twelve month period.
In terms of sub This asset class continues to evolve and certain parks are becoming more sectors, the City saw a 16% decline in capital values whereas the West End, like the High Street as they move to open A1 consent and High Street where we have 46% of our central London exposure, saw a 6.2% reduction.
retailers look to trade out of new formats and locations.
The supply side will remain constrained in the medium term as a result of planning restrictions.
