Investor information The report and financial statements and other Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Capital gains tax The Company offers shareholders the option For the purpose of capital gains tax, the price information on the Group are available through the internet on www.
This enables of the Companys ordinary shares at 31 March shareholders to reinvest cash dividends in 1982, adjusted for the capitalisation issue in Registrar Land Securities Group PLC shares.
All enquiries concerning holdings of ordinary For further details, contact: The appropriate values to be used as base shares, B shares, debentures or loan stocks in Land Securities Group PLC, including The Share Dividend Team, Lloyds TSB costs in respect of shares in Land Securities notification of change of address, queries Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Group PLC issued under the Scheme of regarding dividend interest payments or the Sussex, BN99 6DA.
Arrangement are: loss of a certificate, should be addressed to: Telephone: 01903 50 2541.
Ordinary shares 769p B shares 101p Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Low cost share dealing facility so that the new ordinary shares and the Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
The Company operates with Cazenove & Co. B shares received in respect of the old ordinary Telephone: 0870 600 3972.
Ltd a postal share dealing facility which shares in Land Securities PLC will attract Website: www.
co. uk provides both existing and prospective 86.99% and 13.01% respectively of the base shareholders with a simple, low cost way of cost in those old ordinary shares.
The Registrars provide an on-line service, buying and selling Land Securities Group PLC enabling shareholders to access details of ordinary shares.
For further information, or Unclaimed assets register dealing forms, contact: The Company participates in the Unclaimed their Land Securities shareholdings.
Shareholders wishing to view this Cazenove & Co Ltd, Assets Register, which provides a search facility 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA.
for financial assets which may have been information, together with additional information such as indicative share prices Telephone: 020 7606 1768. forgotten.
For further information, contact: and information on recent dividends, should The Unclaimed Assets Register, Leconfield Corporate Individual Savings Accounts ISAs House, Curzon Street, London W1J 5JA.
co. uk The Company has arranged for a Corporate Telephone: 0870 241 1713: ISA to be managed by Lloyds TSB Registrars, website www.
co. uk Payment of dividends interest Shareholders who wish to have their who can be contacted at: dividends interest paid directly into a bank The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6UY.
The latest information on Land Securities or building society account should complete a mandate instruction available from the Group PLC share price is available on our website www.
Under this arrangement tax vouchers are sent to the shareholders Financial Times Cityline Service: telephone: registered address.
0906 8433133 calls charged at 60p per minute.
