PART2 01 05 04 10:59 AM Page 72 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the third Annual General Meeting of Resolution 11 That the directors be and are hereby generally empowered Compass Group PLC will be held in the Fleming Room at the Queen pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London within the meaning of section 94 2 and section 94 3A of that Act for cash SW1P 3EE on Monday 16 February 2004 at 11.00am in order to transact pursuant to the authority conferred by the Ordinary Resolution passed as the following business: Resolution 7 at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 15 February 2002 as if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such Routine business allotment.
This power Resolution 1 To receive and adopt the financial statements of the Company a shall be limited to: for the financial year ended 30 September 2003 and the reports of the i the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue to holders directors and auditors thereon.
of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company in Resolution 2 To approve the Remuneration Committees Report for the proportion as nearly as may be to their existing holdings of such financial year ended 30 September 2003. ordinary shares but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to Resolution 3 To declare a final dividend on the Companys ordinary shares fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws for the financial year ended 30 September 2003. of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock Resolution 4 To re-elect Michael J Bailey as a director.
exchange: and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above Resolution 5 To re-elect Denis P Cassidy as a director of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of see note v on page 73.
10.8 million consisting of 108 million ordinary shares of 10 pence each Resolution 6 To re-elect Sir Francis H Mackay as a director.
in the capital of the Company: and b shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Resolution 7 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors.
Company or 15 May 2005 if earlier, save that the Company may make any Resolution 8 To authorise the directors to determine the offer or agreement before the expiry of this power which would or might auditors remuneration.
require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry date and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or Special business To consider and if thought fit pass the following agreement as if the power had not expired.
"This power applies in relation to Resolutions of which Resolutions 9 and 10 will be proposed as a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section Ordinary Resolutions and Resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed as 94 3A of the Companies Act 1985 as if in the first paragraph of this Special Resolutions: resolution the words ""pursuant to the authority conferred by the Ordinary Resolution passed as Resolution 7 at the Annual General Meeting of the Resolution 9 That the Company and any company which is or becomes a Company held on 15 February 2002 were omitted."
subsidiary of the Company during the period to which this resolution relates be and is hereby authorised to: Resolution 12 That the directors be and are hereby generally and i make donations to EU political organisations and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to Article 45 of the Companys Articles ii incur EU political expenditure of Association and in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act during the period commencing on the date of this Resolution and ending on 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of that the date of the Companys next Annual General Meeting provided that any Act of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company such donations and expenditure made by the Company together with those subject to the following conditions: made by any subsidiary company while it is a subsidiary of the Company i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby authorised shall not exceed in aggregate 125,000 during that period.
For the to be purchased is 216,887,191 representing 10% of the Companys purposes of this Resolution, the terms donations, EU political issued ordinary share capital as at 1 December 2003: organisations and EU political expenditure shall have the meanings given ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each to them in section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the ordinary share is 10 pence: Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000. iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle Resolution 10 That the rules of the Compass Group UK Savings-Related market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Share Option Scheme, the Compass Group PLC International Sharesave Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately Scheme, the Compass Group Share Option Plan, the Compass Group preceding the day on which the purchase is made: Management Share Option Plan and the Compass Group Long-Term iv without prejudice to paragraph v below, the authority hereby conferred Incentive Plan, the amended draft rules of which are produced to this unless previously varied or revoked, shall expire at the conclusion of the meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 15 August 2005, amended in the manner described in the Directors Report on page 31 to whichever is the earlier: and enable options and awards to be satisfied using treasury shares and that v the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary the directors be authorised to take all actions which they consider shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such necessary or expedient in connection with the implementation of the authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry amendments.
of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
By Order of the Board Ronald M Morley Company Secretary Registered Office: 31 December 2003 Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ Please refer to the notes on page 73 72 Compass Group PLC CPG.
PART2 01 05 04 10:59 AM Page 73 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes i A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting the Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and on a poll vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
ii A form of proxy for use in relation to the Meeting is enclosed with this report.
To be effective the form of proxy must be completed in accordance with the instructions set out therein and lodged at the office of the Registrars of the Company by 11.00am on Saturday 14 February 2004.
Return of the form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
If you are a user of the CREST system including CREST Personal Members, you may appoint your proxy or proxies by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted.
To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 11.00am on Saturday 14 February 2004.
Please note, however, that proxy messages cannot be sent through CREST on weekends, bank holidays or after 8.00pm on any other day.
For the purpose of this deadline, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST Members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings, please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001. iii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 14 February 2004, or in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, in the Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the relevant time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 6.00pm on 14 February 2004 or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, less than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
iv Brief biographical details of directors standing for re-election at the Meeting are set out on pages 22 and 23. v In relation to resolution 5, Denis P Cassidy will have attained the age of 71 years at the date of the Meeting.
vi Copies of the service contracts of the directors and the Register of Directors Interests will be available for inspection during normal business hours from the date of this notice until the date of the Meeting Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company and will also be made available at the Meeting for a period of 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the Meeting.
vii The amended draft rules of the Compass Group UK Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, the Compass Group PLC International Sharesave Scheme, the Compass Group Share Option Plan, the Compass Group Management Share Option Plan and the Compass Group Long-Term Incentive Plan will be available for inspection during business hours from the date of dispatch of this notice until the close of the 2004 Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS, and will also be made available at the Meeting for a period of 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the Meeting.
