accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified for the revaluation of certain fixed assets, in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the groups financial statements.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the company and its subsidiary and associated undertakings made up to 30 September 2003.
The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted, under which the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or to the date of disposal.
Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Associated undertakings and joint venture The groups share of the results and net assets of its joint venture undertakings over which it exercised joint control and associates over which it exercises significant influence are included in the group profit and loss account and its interest in their net assets including goodwill included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet under the equity method of accounting.
Purchased goodwill Purchased goodwill is the excess of the consideration paid, and any related costs, over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
Following the groups adoption of FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets purchased goodwill is capitalised and amortised through the group profit and loss account over a maximum period of twenty years since the group considers the estimated useful life to be at least twenty years.
Any impairment provision required is written off against profits.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging the unamortised amount of any related goodwill.
Intangible assets newspaper titles The balance sheet contains owned newspaper titles at cost, which is supported by a directors valuation.
This valuation is reviewed annually by the directors for any impairment in value.
Any such impairment is written off against profits.
The directors consider that no amortisation of the cost of these titles is required in view of their indefinite useful lives and the valuation results.
This non amortisation of newspaper titles is not in accordance with Schedule 4 to the Companies Act 1985 which requires that intangible assets be amortised.
The directors consider that this would fail to give a true and fair view of the profit for the year and that the economic measure of performance in any period is properly made by reference only to any impairment that may have arisen.
Turnover Turnover represents amounts invoiced in respect of all goods and services provided by the company and its subsidiaries after deduction of agency commission and excludes value added tax and intra group transactions.
Tangible fixed assets On the adoption of FRS15 Accounting for Tangible Fixed Assets, the group followed the transitional provisions to retain the book value of land and buildings which were revalued in 1996: and decided not to adopt a policy of revaluation in future.
Tangible fixed assets, other than land and assets under construction, are depreciated on a straight line basis, based on cost less estimated realisable value, over their economic lives at the following annual rates: Heritable buildings 2.5% Leasehold improvements Over life of lease Printing presses 5% Transmitters 10% Furniture and fittings 25% Technical equipment 15-25% Motor vehicles 25% 36 srh annual report and accounts 2003 Investments Investments are carried at cost less provisions.
Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Stocks Stocks represent raw materials and are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Pension costs The company and certain subsidiaries operate defined contribution pension schemes for which the charge to profit and loss account represents the contributions payable for the year.
The group also operates pension schemes providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
Contributions to the schemes are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions evenly over employees working lives with the group.
The contributions are determined by qualified actuaries on the basis of triennial valuations using the projected unit funding method.
Further details are given in Note 27 on page 51.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Government grants Government grants on capital expenditure are released to the profit and loss account over the useful life of the relevant assets.
Translation of foreign currency The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at an average rate of exchange for the year.
The balance sheets are translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
Differences on currency translations relating to net assets including related goodwill and intangible assets and related borrowings hedging such net investments are dealt with through reserves.
All other exchange differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
