Summary of valuers report continued Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the aggregates of the Market Values, as at 30th September 2003, of the freehold and long leasehold property interests owned by the Company, subject to the Assumptions and comments in our Report dated 14th November 2003, were as follows:- Freehold properties 700,315,000 Seven hundred million, three hundred and fifteen thousand pounds Long leasehold properties 30,457,000 Thirty million, four hundred and fifty-seven thousand pounds Total 730,772,000 Seven hundred and thirty million, seven hundred and seventy-two thousand pounds A long lease is one with an unexpired term in excess of 50 years.
The contents of our Report are confidential to Shaftesbury PLC for the specific purpose to which it refers and are for its use only.
Consequently, and in accordance with current practice, no responsibility is accepted to any other party in respect of the whole or any part of the contents of our Report or this summary.
Before our Report or this summary, or any part thereof, are reproduced or referred to, in any document, circular or statement, and before their contents, or any part thereof, are disclosed orally or otherwise to a third party, the valuers written approval as to the form and context of such publication or disclosure must first be obtained.
For the avoidance of doubt such approval is required whether or not DTZ Debenham Tie Leung are referred to by name and whether or not the contents of our Report or this summary are combined with others.
Sean A Wordley, MRICS DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited International Property Advisers One Curzon Street London W1A 5PZ Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial period.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and - Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of - Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: fraud and other irregularities.
- State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, The basis on which the auditors carried out their audit and formed their subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the opinion is set out in their report on page 34. financial statements: The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the - Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is responsibility of the Directors.
Legislation in the United Kingdom inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Page 33 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003
