Results for 2000 2003 reflect this change in accounting policy adopted in 2001.
Earnings per Ordinary Share have been adjusted to reflect the bonus elements of Companys rights issue in March 2000.
Reported net assets and dividends per Ordinary Share have not been adjusted.
Page 51 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003 Notice of annual general meeting Notice Is Hereby Given that the Eighteenth Annual General Meeting of 9.
As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the Shaftesbury PLC will be held at Pegasus House, 37 43 Sackville Street, following resolution as a Special Resolution: London W1S 3DL, on 21st January 2004 at 10.00 a. m. for the following THAT the Company is hereby unconditionally and generally purposes: authorised to make market purchases as defined in section 163 3 1.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements for the year of the Companies Act 1985 of Ordinary Shares of 25p each in the ended 30th September 2003, and the reports of the Directors and capital of the Company provided that: auditors.
a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 13,172,000 representing 10 per cent, of the issued 2.
To approve the report of the Remuneration Committee for the year share capital of the Company as at 30th September 2003 : ended 30th September 2003. b the minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for each such Ordinary Share is 0.25: 3.
To declare a final dividend of 2.54p per Ordinary Share.
c the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for 4.
To re-elect P L Levy who retires as a Director by rotation in each such Ordinary Share is an amount equal to not more than accordance with the Articles of Association.
above the average of the middle market quotations for such share as derived from the Daily Official List of the UK Listing 5.
To re-elect P J Manser Senior non-executive Director and Authority for the five business days immediately preceding the day Chairman of the Audit Committee who retires as a Director by on which the share is contracted to be purchased: rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association.
d unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the authority hereby 6.
To re-elect J R K Emly Chairman of the Remuneration Committee conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General who retires as a Director by rotation in accordance with the Articles Meeting of the Company: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares of Association.
under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such 7.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors having authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly at the previously been approved by the Board to fill the casual vacancy expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of its own arising by reason of the resignation of  shares in pursuance of any such contract.
and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
As special business to consider and, if thought fit, pass the By Order of the Board following resolution as a Special Resolution: Brian Bickell Pegasus House THAT the Directors be and they are hereby empowered in Secretary 37 43 Sackville Street 17th December 2003 London W1S 3DL accordance with Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of the Act for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power should be limited to: Notes: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer by 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies way of rights in favour of ordinary shareholders where the to attend and vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy for use by members is enclosed.
Forms of proxy equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all must be lodged with the Registrar not less than 48 hours before the Meeting.
ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective number of ordinary shares held by them but 2.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member from attending and subject to such exclusions as the Directors may deem necessary voting in person at the Meeting.
or expedient to deal, inter alia, with shares representing fractional entitlements and legal or practical problems arising 3.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities under the laws of, or the requirements of a recognised regulatory Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the body or a stock exchange in, any territory: and register of members of the Company as at 6.00 p. m. on 19th January 2004 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the aforesaid meeting in respect of the b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of the register after 6.00 p. m. on 19th January 2004 shall be disregarded in 1,645,000: determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting 4.
A statement of transactions of the Directors and their family interests in the of the Company or 15 months after the passing of this resolution, Ordinary Share capital of the Company and copies of Directors contracts of whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry service may be inspected at the registered office of the Company during make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity normal business hours on weekdays Saturdays and public holidays excepted securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot from the date of this notice to the date of the Annual General Meeting, and at the place of the Meeting from 9.00 a. m. until the conclusion of the Meeting.
equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Page 52 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003 Design SG Design Photography Maggi Jones Print Royle Corporate Print Material GF Smith Zen Pure White Virgin pulp used by the mill comes from Sweden and Finland, where good forest stewardship has become a fundamental part of the their culture.
The pulp is ECF and has a neutral PH and is fully recyclable.
