62 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Accounting Policies Basis of accounting The valuations have been prepared on the basis of market value in These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of historical accordance with the relevant guidance notes on the valuation of costs but incorporating property valuations, and in accordance with property assets applicable to each country.
The valuers have made applicable Accounting Standards and, except for the depreciation of the normal deductions for hypothetical purchasers costs in arriving investment properties, with the Companies Act 1985.
An explanation at their valuations in the UK.
Each property has been valued individually of the departure from the requirements of the Act is given below in and not as part of a portfolio.
No account has been taken of any the depreciation note.
inter-company leases or arrangements, nor of any mortgages, debentures or other charges, and no allowance has been made for The value of investments in subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures has any expenses of realisation, nor for any taxation which might arise been adjusted to reflect the underlying net asset values see note 11. in the event of a disposal.
The figures also do not reflect any element of special purchaser value following a merger of interests or sale to The company has taken advantage of the exemption provided by an owner or occupier of an adjoining property.
Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 from presenting its own profit and loss account.
The valuations have been prepared on the basis of information provided to the respective valuers by the Group relating to title, tenure, lettings, Accounting standards site and floor areas, planning consents and other relevant information.
The Group has implemented the transitional disclosure requirements Valuers were instructed to assume that no deleterious materials or of FRS17 Retirement Benefits.
These disclosure requirements, techniques had been used in the construction of any of the buildings together with the requirements of SSAP24, are set out in note 20. and not to carry out structural surveys.
The valuers were also instructed to assume that, unless informed to the contrary, the properties are not, Consolidation or likely to be, affected by land contamination and have assumed that The consolidated financial statements comprise the results of the the cost of any decontamination work would be immaterial unless company and its subsidiaries, made up to 31 December, together with advised to the contrary.
In addition, the valuers have assumed that the Groups share of net profits and losses and reserves of associate and there are no ground conditions which would affect the present or joint ventures.
future uses of the properties.
Foreign currencies The surpluses and deficiencies arising attributable to the Group are Assets and liabilities expressed in foreign currency and profits and losses reflected in unrealised capital reserves.
To the extent that projects have of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at year-end not been included in the valuation review, they are included at cost exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on revenue items are or at the directors assessment of market value.
Buildings under reflected in the profit and loss account, together with any translation construction are valued at cost.
differences arising on currency borrowings which are not covered by translation differences arising on investments in currency assets.
All Turnover other translation differences are reflected in reserves.
Turnover comprises: 1 rents and recharges charged to tenants: 2 the net realised value of trading properties and the value of work, including Property valuation attributable profit, carried out during the year on pre-sold trading property The Groups completed investment properties and land held for or developments: 3 the amounts invoiced to utilities customers for under development were externally valued as at 31 December by electricity, water and steam: and 4 Tipperary customers for oil and gas.
CB Richard Ellis or DTZ Debenham Tie Leung or Colliers Conrad Ritblat Erdman in the UK, in the US by Walden-Marling, Inc. in Canada by Altus Group, in Belgium by fide Crombrugghe & Partners s. a. and in France by CB Richard Ellis Bourdais previously known as Insignia Bourdais Expertises s. a.. 63 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Depreciation Stocks a Properties: In accordance with SSAP 19, no depreciation is provided Stocks, excluding trading properties, are valued at cost, on a first in, in respect of freehold investment properties or leasehold investment first out basis, or net realisable value, whichever is the lower.
properties with over 20 years to run.
This treatment may be a departure from the requirements of the Companies Act concerning depreciation Investments of fixed assets.
However, these properties are not held for consumption Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of cost but for investment and the directors consider that systematic annual and directors assessment of current market value.
Deferred taxation The accounting policy adopted is therefore necessary for the financial Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result statements to give a true and fair view.
Depreciation or amortisation is in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right only one of the many factors reflected in the annual valuation and the to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they amount which might otherwise have been shown cannot reasonably crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise be separately identified or quantified.
from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included b Depreciation is provided on buildings occupied by the Group and in the accounts.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated lives of the arising from the revaluation of tangible fixed assets where there is buildings: mainly 20-30 years.
no commitment to sell the asset.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will c Plant and equipment: No depreciation is charged where plant be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
and equipment is provided in the Groups premises for the use of its tenants, as it is covered by the full repairing covenant embodied in Pensions the respective leases.
Other plant and equipment operated by the The company has a number of defined benefit pension plans which Group in the normal course of business is depreciated after an are funded with assets held separately from those of the company.
initial commissioning period in the case of Utilities on a  are charged to the profit and loss account so as to line basis over its estimated useful life: mainly 10-25 years.
spread the cost of pensions over the employees working lives with the company.
The regular cost is attributed to individual years using Capitalisation of interest the projected unit method.
Variations in pension cost, which are Interest costs incurred in funding land for or under development, identified as a result of actuarial valuations, are amortised over the construction work in progress and major construction programmes average expected remaining working lives of employees.
Differences for the Utilities plant are capitalised during the period of development.
between the amounts funded and the amounts charged to the profit and loss account are treated as either provisions or prepayments in Trading properties the balance sheet.
Unless pre-sold, properties are held at the lower of cost, including finance costs, and market value.
Pre-sold properties are stated at cost plus attributable profits less losses, where the outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty, less progress payments receivable.
Attributable profit consists of the relevant proportion of the total estimated profit appropriate to the progress made in construction and letting.
Cost includes direct expenditure and interest.
