Accounting Policies for the 12 months to 31 August 2003 The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in as modied by revaluations of certain properties and in taxation computations in periods different from those in which accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting they are included in financial statements.
Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 Retirement are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely benets has been adopted with effect from 1 September 2002 than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred taxation is not and prior year results have been restated accordingly.
provided on timing differences arising from the sale or revaluation of xed assets unless, at the balance sheet date, a Basis of consolidation a binding commitment to sell the asset has been entered into The Group financial statements consolidate the financial and it is unlikely that any gain will qualify for rollover relief.
statements of the parent undertaking and its subsidiaries for Deferred taxation is measured on a non-discounted basis.
the 12 months to 31 August each year.
The results of businesses acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the g Stocks date on which control passed.
Stocks comprise nished goods and goods for resale and are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
b Goodwill The Groups accounting policy in respect of accounting for h Pension costs goodwill for the 12 months to 31 August 2003 is regulated by The Groups two UK pension funds are both dened benefit FRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets and FRS 11 Impairment schemes which are self-administered.
In accordance with of xed assets and goodwill.
Goodwill, representing the excess FRS 17 Retirement benets, the service cost of the pension of purchase consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired, provision relating to the period, together with the cost of any is capitalised in the balance sheet as an asset and amortised in the benets relating to past service, is charged to the profit and loss profit and loss over its useful economic life.
A charge equal to the increase in the present value FRS 10 where goodwill is regarded as having an indefinite life, of the scheme liabilities because the benets are closer to it is not amortised but is subject to an annual test for impairment.
settlement and a credit equivalent to the Groups long-term Goodwill of 58m that had been previously written off up to expected returns on assets based on the market value of the 31 May 1997 has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
scheme assets at the start of the period, are included in the profit and loss account under interest.
c Fixed assets Following the implementation of FRS 15 Tangible xed assets The difference between the market value of the assets of the the Group has adopted a policy of not revaluing xed assets.
scheme and the present value of the accrued pension liabilities The carrying values of tangible xed assets previously revalued is shown as an asset or liability on the balance sheet net of have been retained at their book amount in accordance with the deferred tax.
Any difference between the expected return transitional provisions of FRS 15. on assets and that actually achieved is recognised in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses along with d Foreign currencies differences arising from experience or assumption changes.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date Further information on pension arrangements is set out or, where applicable, at forward contracted rates.
profit and loss in Note 3 to the accounts.
account items denominated in foreign currencies are translated i Leases at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit arising from the translation of the results and net assets of overseas and loss account in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
subsidiaries including goodwill and exchange differences arising on foreign currency loans hedging those assets are dealt with j Financial instruments through reserves.
All other exchange differences are dealt with The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce in the profit and loss account.
The effect of restating the operating exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
profits for the 12 months to 31 August 2002 at 2003 average The Group does not hold or use derivative financial exchange rates would be an increase of 2m.
e Depreciation Trading transactions denominated in foreign currencies Freehold and long leasehold land and properties are depreciated are translated at the rate at the date of the transaction.
by equal amounts over 20 years, except where, in the opinion The financial instruments used by the Group to manage its of the directors, the residual value of these properties is such that currency risks are forward rate contracts and currency options.
any depreciation charge would be immaterial.
Short leasehold Interest payments arising from financial instruments are properties are amortised by equal amounts over the period of recognised within net interest payable over the period of the the leases or their estimated remaining lives if less.
Any premia or discounts arising are amortised over xed assets are depreciated on a straight line basis over their the lives of the instruments.
estimated remaining lives within the following ranges: in store Forward currency contracts entered into with respect to xtures and ttings 10 years: equipment 8 to 10 years: trading transactions are accounted for as hedges, with the computer equipment up to 5 years.
instruments impact on profit deferred until the underlying f Deferred taxation transaction is recognised in the profit and loss account.
In accordance with FRS 19 Deferred tax the Group provides deferred tax in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise, based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences 50 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
