Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the fty-fifth Annual General Meeting WH Smith 2004 L-TIP of WH Smith PLC the Company will be held at The Lincoln Resolution 9: to resolve that: Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED on Thursday a the WH Smith 2004 L-TIP the L-TIP, a copy of which has 29 January 2004 at 11.30am for the following purposes: been produced to the meeting and signed by the Chairman for Ordinary business ordinary resolutions the purposes of identication, and the principal terms of which are summarised in the explanatory notes to the resolution on Report and Accounts pages 78 and 79 be and is hereby approved: and Resolution 1: to receive the accounts and reports of the directors b the directors be and are hereby authorised to amend the L-TIP and auditors for the year ended 31 August 2003: and establish further plans based on the L-TIP but modied Remuneration Report to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws Resolution 2: to approve the directors remuneration report in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available for the year ended 31 August 2003: under such further plans are treated as counting against the individual and overall limits on participation in the L-TIP.
Dividend Resolution 3: to declare a final dividend of 13 pence per share Authority to allot shares on the ordinary shares: Resolution 10: to resolve that: Directors the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised, Resolution 4: by separate resolutions to re-elect the following pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended directors who are retiring by rotation and being eligible offer the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant themselves for re-election: securities within the meaning of Section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 45,916,910.
This authority will Resolution 4a: Tim Hely Hutchinson expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of Resolution 4b: John Warren.
the Company or on 29 April 2005, whichever is the earlier save that Resolution 5: to elect a director.
Andrew Rolfe, who has been the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted retires and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred Resolution 6: to elect a director.
Kate Swann, who will be hereby had not expired.
appointed by the Board on 4 November 2003 retires and, being eligible, offers herself for election.
Special business special resolutions Kate Swann is currently Managing Director of Argos and a nonDisapplication of pre-emption rights executive director of Lambert Howarth Plc.
She has a wide range Resolution 11: to resolve that: of marketing and retail experience, having started her career at subject to the passing of Resolution 10, the directors be granted Tesco PLC as a marketing executive.
She spent four years working power pursuant to Section 95 2 of the Act to allot equity securities for Homepride Foods before joining Coca Cola Schweppes within the meaning of Section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant Beverages in 1992 where she went on to become the General to the general authority conferred by Resolution 10 as if Section Marketing Manager.
In 1993 she joined Dixons Stores Group 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment, provided that as Group Marketing Controller, quickly progressing to become the power conferred by this resolution: Marketing Director of Currys.
After four years at Dixons Stores Group, she took up the role of Marketing Director of Homebase a is limited to: and within 18 months became the Managing Director.
She has i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a been the Managing Director of Argos since December 2000. rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the Aged 38. equity securities are offered to the ordinary shareholders in the proportions as nearly as may be in which they hold Auditors ordinary shares but subject to such exclusions or other Resolution 7: to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or and authorise the Board to determine their remuneration.
expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or Special business ordinary resolutions practical problems arising under the laws or requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange or otherwise W H Smith Executive Share Option Scheme 1999 in any territory: and Resolution 8: to resolve that the directors be and are hereby ii the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than authorised: pursuant to paragraph i up to an aggregate nominal a to amend the rules of the W H Smith Executive Share Option amount of 6,958,769: Scheme 1999 the Scheme and, subject to the approval of b will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General the Board of Inland Revenue, the rules of the Inland Revenue Meeting of the Company or on 29 April 2005, whichever is Approved Schedule to the Scheme the Approved Schedule the earlier save that the Company may before such expiry make as described in the explanatory notes to the resolution on page an offer or agreement which would or might require equity 77: and securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may b to amend further the rules of the Approved Schedule to take allot such equity securities in pursuance of such offer or account of any comments of the Inland Revenue so as to agreement as if the power hereby conferred had not expired.
maintain the approved status of the Approved Schedule.
76 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Market purchases of ordinary shares Special business explanatory notes Resolution 12: to resolve that: W H Smith Executive Share Option Scheme 1999: Resolution 8 This Resolution seeks your approval of amendments to the in accordance with Article 42 of the Companys Articles of W H Smith Executive Share Option Scheme 1999 the Scheme.
Association and Section 166 of the Act, the Company be generally The principal changes are: and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of any of its own 1.
To remove the existing inner ow limits on the numbers of ordinary shares in such manner and on such terms as the directors shares which may be issued or over which rights to subscribe may from time to time determine provided that: 1 for new shares may be granted, summarised 2 2 per cent in four years, 5 per cent in five years and 3 per cent in three years a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised in rule 5 of the Scheme.
Such inner ow limits are no longer to be purchased is 25,051,570: required by the guidelines issued by the Association of British b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share 5 Insurers.
The existing overall limits, of 5 per cent in ten years is 55 9p exclusive of all expenses : discretionary schemes and 10 per cent in ten years for all c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share employee share schemes, will remain in force.
is an amount exclusive of all expenses equal to 105 per cent 2.
To vary the existing limit on the number of shares over which of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary options may be granted to any executive from four times salary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily in ten years to an annual limit of two times the executives rate Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding of basic annual salary.
This is in line with current market the day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be practice and the most recent guidance issued by the purchased: and Association of British Insurers which emphasised that option d the authority shall, unless previously varied, revoked or grants should be made on an annual basis.
The Remuneration renewed, expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Committee anticipates that options in excess of one times Meeting of the Company or on 29 April 2005, whichever is the basic salary will only be granted to the most senior executives earlier save that the Company shall be entitled under such upon whose continued high level of performance the success authority to make at any time before such expiry any contract of the Group as a whole depend.
to purchase its own shares which will or might be executed 3.
To allow options to be granted by the W H Smith Employees wholly or partly after such expiry.
To update the administrative provisions of the Scheme in By Order of the Board relation to the collection of income tax and National Insurance contributions under PAYE arising upon the exercise or Ian Houghton release of an option and to take account of changes introduced Company Secretary by the Finance Act 2003 and the requirements of data 16 October 2003 protection legislation.
Greenbridge Road, Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 3RX A copy of the Scheme rules marked to show the amendments proposed to be made is available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company as well as at Pinsents, Dashwood House, 69 Old Broad Street, London, EC2M 1NR during normal business hours on any weekday, except Saturdays and public holidays, until 29 January 2004 and at the place of the Annual General Meeting on 29 January 2004 for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
77 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued WH Smith 2004 L-TIP: Resolution 9 6.
If the L-TIP is approved, it is the intention that, except in 1.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee periodically exceptional circumstances, any further share based incentives reviews the Companys incentive arrangements and takes granted to executive directors would be made under the L-TIP advice on market practice for remunerating key employees.
and not under the Executive Share Option Scheme 1999, Following a recent review, the Board is seeking approval at this and awards made under it to an executive director or other years Annual General Meeting of a new long-term incentive employee would not in any financial year have a value in excess plan for senior executives to be known as the WH Smith 2004 of 100 per cent of his basic salary at the date of the award save L-TIP the L-TIP.
in so far as a share award may be grossed up to compensate the 2.
The Committee is rmly of the view that offering senior award holder for the cost of employers National Insurance executives the opportunity to be awarded shares in the Contributions if the Committee exercises its discretion to Company, or cash awards linked to the value of the Companys require the award holder to bear that cost.
A summary of shares, is an important part of motivating and rewarding key the principal terms is set out below.
employees so that they may participate in the future growth in value of the Company.
The L-TIP is intended to support this Summary of the principal terms of the L-TIP objective and to facilitate the retention of key senior executives 1 General over the longer term.
Under the L-TIP, selected senior Under the L-TIP, executive directors of the Company and other executives including executive directors within the Group selected employees may be awarded, in any year, nil-cost options may be awarded each year conditional entitlements to shares to acquire shares in the Company Share Awards.
Share Awards in the Company Award Shares or to a cash sum whose value may be made by the Company or by the trustee of the W H Smith is linked to a notional award of Award Shares.
It is envisaged Employees Share Trust 1999 the Trustee, acting on the that, initially, awards will be made to the executive directors recommendation of the Committee.
Shares used to satisfy Share of the Company and key senior executives.
The initial market Awards may be purchased in the market or subscribed for by the value of the shares over which any such award is made may not Trustee using funds advanced on loan by the Group or by the exceed 100 per cent of the amount of the participants basic transfer by the Company of shares purchased in the market and annual salary at the date of grant.
The number or proportion held in treasury.
The L-TIP also makes provision for the award of such Award Shares which vest will be determined by of similar cash-based awards as mentioned in paragraph 13 below.
reference to the extent to which a pre-set target, relating to Awards under the L-TIP Awards are not transferable and are the performance of the Company over a xed three-year not pensionable benets.
period beginning with that in which the award is made, 2 Performance Target is met or exceeded.
Shares in respect of which an Award is made Award Shares 3.
The performance target will be set by the Committee when will vest only to the extent that a corporate performance condition an award is made, having regard to current market conditions.
Performance Target relating to a xed minimum period of In relation to any awards made under the L-TIP before three financial years beginning not earlier than that in which the 31 August 2004, no Award Shares will vest unless the Company Award is made the Performance Period is satisfied.
Such targets is at or above the median level in the table of comparator will be set by the Committee which will ensure that they are companies ranked according to total shareholder return sufciently challenging and align the interests of participants TSR over the three years ending 31 August 2006 and with those of shareholders.
provided that the Committee is satisfied that there has been a corresponding improvement in the Companys underlying 3 Grant of Awards financial performance taking into consideration, amongst Awards may be made by the Company or, as appropriate, the other things, absolute level of TSR performance, earnings Trustee the Grantor within 42 days after the L-TIP is approved per share, free cash ow, dividends and book value.
by shareholders and thereafter within the period of 42 days 4.
The comparator companies will be selected from the UK listed following the announcement of the Companys annual results or companies in the FTSE All Share Index excluding investment within 28 days of the Awardholder becoming an eligible employee, trusts used for the FTSE Actuaries Share Indices.
If the but otherwise only in circumstances judged by the Committee to Company is ranked at or immediately above the 5th decile be exceptional.
No Award may be made more than ten years after 40 per cent of the Award Shares will vest.
If the Company the date on which the L-TIP is approved by shareholders in is ranked in the top decile, all of the Award Shares will vest.
If the Company is ranked between these threshold levels, the 4 Exercise of Awards percentage of Award Shares which will vest will be calculated Insofar as an Award becomes vested, it may then be exercised in on a straight-line basis between 40 per cent and 100 per cent whole or part within the period ending with the tenth anniversary respectively.
The General Retailers sector of the FTSE All Share of the date of grant.
Index has been selected as the appropriate comparator group for any awards made in the current financial year.
5 Death and leaving the Group 5.
Awards under the L-TIP will be capable of being made by either If an Awardholder dies in service or leaves the WH Smith group the Company or by the trustee of the W H Smith Employees of companies the Group as a result of injury, ill-health, disability, Share Trust 1999 the Trustee acting on the recommendation redundancy, retirement on or after contractual retirement age or of the Committee.
Alternatively, the Company may make the because the Company or business by which the Awardholder is grant in the form of a conditional award of a cash sum whose employed is sold or transferred out of the Group, an Award may, value will be determined by reference to the value of a notional to the extent that it has become vested, be exercised only within award of rights to acquire Award Shares.
The operation of the the period of 12 calendar months from the date of death or six L-TIP will be overseen by the Committee.
calendar months following the date of such leaving or if the Awardholder dies within that six month period, 12 months from the date of death.
78 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued If, within the Performance Period, the Awardholder either dies 10 Limit on issue of new shares pursuant to the L-TIP in service or leaves the Group for any of the above reasons, the The Trustee may subscribe at market value or purchase shares Grantor with the consent of the Committee may either: for the purposes of satisfying Share Awards.
There is a limit, of 5 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company, on the a in the case of leaving the Group, allow the Awardholder to shares which may be issued or issuable for the purposes of the keep the Award and exercise it to the extent that it has become L-TIP and any other executive share incentive plan in any period vested, within six months after the vesting date but only in of ten years, and a limit, of 10 per cent of the issued share capital respect of a proportion corresponding to such proportion of the Company, on the shares which may be issued or issuable for of the Performance Period as fell before the date of leaving the purposes of the L-TIP and of any employees share scheme of the Award Shares: or in any period of ten years.
b in either case, allow an Award to be exercised only within six months thereafter 12 months in the case of death in service 11 Variation of capital in respect of a proportion corresponding to such proportion In the event of a variation of the share capital of the Company, of the Award Shares as fell before the date of leaving or date the Grantor with the consent of the Committee may adjust the of death of the Award Shares as the Committee shall deem number of shares in respect of which Awards have been made vested at the date of leaving or death or, if in the opinion of provided that, except in the case of a subdivision, consolidation the Committee the circumstances are exceptional, such greater or capitalisation, any such adjustment is confirmed in writing proportion as the Grantor acting on the recommendation by the Auditors of the Company to be, in their opinion, fair of the Committee may allow.
If an Awardholder leaves the Group for any reason other than 12 Amendment of the L-TIP those mentioned above, an Award will lapse except that, in The Grantor, acting with the consent of the Committee, may, exceptional circumstances, the Grantor acting on the at any time, amend the L-TIP provided that the prior approval recommendation of the Committee may allow an Award to of the Company in general meeting is obtained for amendments be exercised in respect of such proportion of the Award Shares to the advantage of existing or new Awardholders of the provisions and within such period as the Grantor may determine.
relating to eligibility, the overall and individual limits, the basis for determining the Awardholders rights to acquire shares, the 6 Deemed vesting adjustment of such entitlements on variation of share capital Award shares are deemed to become vested in the case of death and the provision governing amendments except for minor or leaving if and in so far as the Committee considers that the amendments to benefit the administration of the L-TIP, to take performance of the Company, judged at the date of death or account of any change in legislation or to obtain or maintain leaving, is such that the Performance Target is likely to be met favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for to a particular extent so that the Award would be likely to become Awardholders or any member of the Group or associated company.
vested in respect of such given proportion of Award Shares.
13 Cash awards 7 Takeover of the Company In order to retain exibility, the L-TIP makes provision for In the event of a successful takeover of the Company, an Award the award of deferred cash bonuses of amounts calculated by may only be exercised to the extent that the Performance Target reference to the market value, at the time of exercise, of such would have been satisfied had the Performance Period ended a notional number of Award Shares in respect of which the Award on the date of takeover but only in respect of a proportion is made which become vested in consequence of the Performance corresponding to such proportion of the Performance Period Target having been met.
Such cash-based Awards are subject as fell before the date of takeover of the Award Shares, or such to the same individual limits and restrictions on grant and are, greater proportion as the Grantor with the consent of the in all material respects, exercisable on the same terms, as those Committee may determine.
8 Reconstruction, reorganisation, amalgamation, The above summary of the main features of the L-TIP does not demerger and winding-up form part of the rules of the plan and should not be taken as In the event of a reconstruction, reorganisation, amalgamation affecting the interpretation of its detailed terms and conditions.
or demerger not involving a change of control of the Company, The directors reserve the right up to the time of the forthcoming Awardholders may be invited to accept a corresponding award Annual General Meeting to make such amendments and additions over shares in the new holding company in exchange for the to the rules of the L-TIP as may be necessary or appropriate to take release of an Award.
If such invitation is declined, the Award account of comments of the UK Listing Authority provided that will lapse.
In all other such events, or if a resolution is proposed such amendments do not conict in any material respect with the for the voluntary winding-up of the Company, the Grantor with above summary.
the consent of the Committee may make appropriate provision for the variation and or early exercise of an Award.
Authority to allot shares: Resolution 10 Under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended the 9 Limit on individual participation Act the directors of a company may only allot unissued shares The maximum initial market value of shares over which Awards if authorised to do so by the shareholders in general meeting.
may be granted to an executive in any year cannot in that year This Resolution, if passed, will authorise the directors to allot exceed 100 per cent of the amount of his rate of basic salary unissued shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of payable at that time.
For these purposes, market value is taken 45,916,910, representing approximately 33 per cent of the to be the average of the middle market quotations of a share for Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 16 October 2003. the three dealing days immediately preceding the date the Award The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual is made as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial General Meeting or on 29 April 2005, whichever is the earlier.
If an Awardholder is required to bear the cost of employers Although the directors have no present intention of exercising NICs arising on the exercise of a Share Award, the number this authority, except for the purposes of allotting shares under the of Award Shares may be grossed-up to compensate the Awardholder Companys employee share schemes, it is considered prudent to for this additional liability and may to that extent exceed this limit.
maintain the exibility it provides.
79 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 h c y w Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Disapplication of pre-emption rights: Resolution 11 2.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed ordinary shareholders only.
If shares are allotted for cash using the authority given by To be effective it must be deposited, together with any Power Resolution 10, Section 89 of the Act requires that those shares are of Attorney or other authority under which it is executed offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to the number or a duly certied copy of any such power or authority, of shares they already hold.
This Resolution would renew for with the Companys Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, by not a further year the authority of the directors pursuant to Section 95 later than 11.30am on 27 January 2004.
The appointment of the Act, to allot equity securities for cash without first offering of a proxy will not prevent a member from attending and them to existing shareholders.
The authority other than in voting in person.
relation to a rights issue would be limited to the issue of equity 3.
Any member with more than one ordinary shareholding securities up to a maximum nominal amount of 6,958,769, which registered in his her name should receive only one copy is 5 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 16 of the annual report and one Form of Proxy.
The Form October 2003 and will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual of Proxy will be valid in respect of all his her holdings.
General Meeting or on 29 April 2005, whichever is the earlier.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company species that only those Market purchases of ordinary shares: Resolution 12 ordinary shareholders registered in the register of members The Board considers that it would be in the best interests of the of the Company as at 6.00pm on 27 January 2004 shall be Company and its shareholders to renew for a further year the entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the existing authority granted at the Annual General Meeting on number of shares registered in their names at that time.
29 January 2003 to allow the Company to purchase its own Changes to the register of members after 6.00pm on ordinary shares in the market.
27 January 2004 shall be disregarded in determining the In considering the purchase by the Company of its own ordinary right of any person to attend and vote at the Annual General shares, the directors will follow the procedures laid down in the Act Meeting.
Holders of preference shares, loan stock and loan and will take into account cash resources, capital requirements and notes are not entitled to attend and vote at the meeting the effect of any purchase on appropriate gearing levels.
They will unless they also hold ordinary shares.
only consider exercising the authority when satisfied that it is in 5.
The register of directors interests in the share capital of the best interests of the Company to do so and when it would result the Company and copies of all service contracts and letters in an increase in earnings per share.
of appointment between the Company and its directors are available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company The proposed authority would be limited to purchases of up to during normal business hours on any weekday, except 25,051,570 ordinary shares, which is 10 per cent of the Companys Saturdays and public holidays, until 29 January 2004 and at issued ordinary share capital as at 16 October 2003, made through the place of the Annual General Meeting on 29 January 2004 the London Stock Exchange at prices not exceeding 105 per cent for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the 6.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business agree, by attending the meeting, that they are expressly days before each purchase.
The directors wish to emphasise that requesting and that they are willing to receive any the maximum number of ordinary shares and the price range are communications including communications relating stated merely for the purposes of compliance with statutory and to the Companys securities made at the meeting.
the London Stock Exchange requirements in seeking this authority and should not be taken as any representation of the A map of the location of The Lincoln Centre, the venue for the terms upon which the Company intends to make purchases.
Annual General Meeting, is shown below.
Please note that coffee and tea will be served before the meeting.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or on 29 April 2005, whichever is the earlier.
Chancery Lane Prior to 1 December 2003, any shares purchased in this way would Holborn High Holborn have been cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced accordingly.
However, the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Whetstone Park Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 have altered the position to 18 The permit shares purchased by the Company out of distributable Remnant Lincoln Lincolns Inn Street profits to be held as Treasury Shares which may be cancelled, sold Centre for cash or transferred for the purposes of the Companys employee share schemes.
Sardinia Fields Street In order to maintain the Companys exibility of action, the directors intend to seek renewal of the powers sought in Portugal Street Resolutions 10, 11 and 12 at each Annual General Meeting.
All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Members who are entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need Strand Fleet Street not be a member.
Aldwych 80 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 d l A Parker Street Gt.
Queen Street Kingsway Serle Street Chancery Lane Company Information Retailing News Distribution Publishing WH Smith PLC WHSmith High Street WHSmith News Hodder Headline Nations House Greenbridge Road Wakeeld House 338 Euston Road 103 Wigmore Street Swindon, SN3 3LD Pipers Way London, NW1 3BH London, W1U 1WH United Kingdom Swindon, SN3 1RF United Kingdom United Kingdom Telephone United Kingdom Telephone Telephone 01793 616161 Telephone 020 7873 6000 020 7409 3222 Facsimile 01793 616161 Facsimile Facsimile 01793 562560 Facsimile 020 7873 6024 020 7514 9633 Website 01793 421438 Websites Website www.
com WHSmith Customer Service Investor Relations Freepost SCE 4410 Media Enquiries Telephone Swindon, SN3 3XS Telephone 020 7514 9630 United Kingdom 01793 563576 Telephone Media Relations Customer Service 0870 444 6444 Telephone Telephone Email 020 7514 9624 01793 563980 customer.
co. uk Customer Service Telephone Connect2u Media Relations 020 7514 9627 Telephone Telephone 0870 7259010 Recruitment 01793 562843 Website WHSmith Travel Retail www.
co. uk 103 Wigmore Street London, W1U 1WH United Kingdom Telephone 020 7409 3222 Facsimile 020 7514 9709 Media Relations Telephone 020 7514 9725 WHSmith Direct 1 Ashville Way Cowley, Oxford OX4 6TS United Kingdom Telephone 01865 771772 Facsimile 01865 777914 Media Relations Telephone 01793 562843 WHSmith Aspac 15th Floor, 379 Collins Street Melbourne, Victoria 3000 Australia Telephone This annual report is printed on 00 61 3 8623 1199 paper made using at least 50% Facsimile TCF pulps from sustainable sources.
00 61 3 8623 1174 The paper is bio-degradeable and produced in full accordance with the environmental laws in the country of manufacture.
Printed by a sustainable development company accredited with ISO14001 and ISO9001 utilising vegetable soya based inks.
With grateful thanks to all those 81 WH Smith PLC who gave their permission to Annual Report and Accounts 2003 be photographed.
WH Smith PLC Greenbridge Road Swindon Wilts SN3 3RX
