53 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Shareholders information Company Registrar and Shareholder Enquiries Administrative enquiries concerning your shareholdings in the Company, such as the loss of share certificates, change of address, dividend payment arrangements, amalgamation of accounts or requests for the report and accounts or interim reports please contact the Companys registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Lloyds TSB Registrars also provide online facilities for shareholders to check their holdings and update their details.
Registering is easy and there is no fee involved, simply access www.
co. uk Payment of dividends Shareholders may arrange to have their dividends paid directly into a bank or building society account using the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
Bank Mandate forms are available from Lloyds TSB Registrars whose details appear above.
Low cost share dealing service If you do not have share dealing arrangements in place Dairy Crest has a low cost share dealing service arranged by Hoare Govett Limited.
Shareholders wishing to use the service should contact Hoare Govett at 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA.
Gifting shares to charity Shareholders who have a small holding of shares on the register whereby their value makes them uneconomic to sell, may donate these shares to charity under the Sharegift Scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation a registered charity.
Information can be found at www.
co. uk Investors who have questions relating to the Group's business activities should contact: Investor Relations, Dairy Crest Group plc, Claygate House, Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN.
Financial Calendar Dividends Final Interim Anticipated Ex-dividend Wednesday 9 July 2003 November 2003 Record date Friday 11 July 2003 Payment date Monday 11 August 2003 January 2004 Group results Anticipated Half Year Interims November 2003 Preliminary Announcement May 2004 Report and Accounts circulation June 2004
