54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Notice of Seventh Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice immediately from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser duly authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have already sold or otherwise transferred all of your Dairy Crest Shares, please send this document as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Seventh Annual Special Business General Meeting of the Company will be held at the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a Chartered Accountants Hall, Moorgate Place, London Special Resolution: EC2P 2BJ on Thursday 17 July 2003 at 11.00am for the following purposes: Special Resolution 9.
That, pursuant to Article 41 of the Companys Articles of Ordinary Business Association, the Company be generally and unconditionally 1.
To receive and adopt the Companys annual accounts for authorised, in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies the financial year ended 31 March 2003, together with the Act 1985 as amended the Act to make market purchases directors report and auditors report on those accounts.
within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company 2.
To approve the Report of the Board on Directors ordinary shares provided that: remuneration.
the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised 3.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March to be acquired is 12,397,616 2003 of 11.3 pence per share.
the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary 4.
To re-elect Mr P S Lewis as a director of the Company.
share is 25 pence exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes 5.
To elect Mr M Allen as a director of the Company.
the maximum price exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes which may be paid for any such ordinary share shall be 6.
To elect Mr P Thornton as a director of the Company.
not more than 5% above the average of the middle market values for an ordinary share in the Company as taken from the 7.
To elect Mr H Mann as a director of the Company.
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and 8.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company except in members, and to authorise the directors to determine their relation to a purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which remuneration.
was concluded before such time and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such time.
By order of the Board R J Newton, Secretary 9 June 2003 Registered Office: Claygate House, Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN 55 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Explanatory notes Notes Resolution 1 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is The directors of the Company have a duty to present to also entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a shareholders in general meeting the annual accounts, together poll, vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a member of with the directors report and the report of the auditors.
The auditors report can be found on page 51.
You may use the form of proxy enclosed with this Notice to Resolution 2 appoint a proxy to attend the meeting on your behalf.
To be As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations effective, the form of proxy and any authority under which it is 2002, the Board has presented its Report of the Board on executed or a certified copy of such authority must reach the Directors remuneration to shareholders in the Annual Report, offices of the Companys registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, which may be found on pages 21 to 27.
This report gives The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA not less than details of the directors remuneration for the year ended 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Completion 31 March 2003 and sets out the Companys overall policy on and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders directors remuneration.
from attending and voting in person at the meeting.
As also required by the Directors Remuneration Report 3.
In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Regulations 2002, the Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only have audited the relevant parts of the Report of the Board on those shareholders appearing in the register of members as at Directors remuneration and their report may be found on 6.00pm on 15 July 2003 the specified time shall be entitled page 51. to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the The Board considers that appropriate executive remuneration register of members after the specified time shall be disregarded plays a vital part in helping to achieve the Companys overall in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at objectives.
In compliance with the Directors Remuneration the meeting.
Report Regulations 2002, shareholders are invited to approve the Report of the Board on Directors remuneration.
Individuals will be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting only if their own name appears on the share register or, where Resolutions 3 the shares are held in a different trading or registration name, The directors recommend that a final dividend of 11.3 pence per on production of written evidence of their authority to act as share be paid on 11 August 2003 to shareholders on the register that shareholders representative.
A partnership the name of on 11 July 2003.
Payment of the final dividend will bring the total which is entered in the register of members may, by any two dividend for the year ended 31 March 2003 to 16.4 pence persons purporting to be partners in the partnership, authorise per share.
a person to act as its representative at the meeting.
A company or other institution may by prior written authorisation confirm Resolution 4 the appointment of a corporate representative to attend the The Articles of Association specify that, one-third of the directors meeting on its behalf.
Such a representative shall be entitled other than the directors covered by Resolutions 5 to 7 must to exercise the same rights as an individual member in respect retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
This year Mr I C of the shares to which the authorisation relates.
Any company Laurie and Mr P S Lewis retire by rotation.
Mr P S Lewis is or partnership appointing a representative to attend the eligible for and seeks re-election.
Details of his biography can be meeting is requested to notify the Companys registrar of found on page 19.
Mr I C Laurie will not seek re-election and he such appointment in writing not less than 48 hours before will leave the Group in August 2003. the time for holding the meeting.
Only individual shareholders whose names appear on the The Articles of Association also require that any director register or representatives duly authorised in the above manner appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting will be permitted to attend and vote at the meeting.
Mr M Allen, Mr P Thornton and Mr H Mann have been appointed to the Board during the year and being eligible offer themselves for election by the shareholders.
Details of their biographies can be found on page 19.
56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Explanatory notes continued Resolution 8 This is a standard resolution proposing the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors.
Resolution 9 The authority for the Company to make market purchases of its issued share capital, granted last year, will expire at the close of the Annual General Meeting.
This resolution seeks renewal of that authority, again limited to a maximum number of shares which amounts to approximately 10% of the Companys current issued share capital.
The authority has not been used to date and would only be exercised if the directors believed that a repurchase of shares would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The directors believe that the resolutions are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in favour of all resolutions.... with a strategy focused on building brands and adding value Contents Market leading brands have 2 Chairmans statement 3 Chief Executives review delivered impressive volume growth 6 Operational review 15 A responsible company over the past five years 16 Financial review 19 Directors and Advisers Dairy Crest, the UKs premier chilled dairy foods company, focuses on building leadership 20 Corporate Governance positions in branded and added-value markets across the dairy sector and investing in 21 Report of the Board on industry leading facilities to create competitive advantage.
Dairy Crest operates in six Directors remuneration business areas: spreads, cheese, liquid products, fresh dairy products through its joint 28 Directors report venture Yoplait Dairy Crest, household and ingredients.
29 Statement of Directors responsibilities 30 Consolidated profit and loss account and Statement of Group total recognised gains and losses 31 Balance sheets 32 Consolidated cash flow statement 33 Accounting policies 35 Notes to the financial statements 49% The biggest selling dairy 51 Independent auditors report 52 Group financial history spread, Clover has grown by 49% in volume over the 53 Shareholders information 54 Notice of Seventh Annual last five years.
General Meeting Highlights Adjusted profit before tax up 4% to 76.8 million 2002 73.7 million Adjusted earnings per share up 3% to 46.4 pence 2002 45.2 pence Total dividend for the year up 8% to 16.4 pence 2002 15.2 pence Continued strong growth of key brands: Clover, Cathedral City, Frijj and the Yoplait brands Strategic acquisition of St Ivel Spreads and strong performance to date Completion of 54 million investment programme in super dairies with Severnside fully operational Reduction of exposure to commodities with planned closure of butter and powder facility at Chard Quality of earnings improving and the Group is moving into a period of strong cash generation Designed by Tor Pettersen & Partners 020 7432 6100.
Printed in England by St Ives Westerham Press Dairy Crest Group plc Annual Report 2003 Dairy Crest Group plc Annual Report 2003 A taste for growth...
The UKs leading chilled dairy foods company Dairy Crest Group plc Claygate House Littleworth Road Esher Surrey KT10 9PN Company No: 3162897 Visit our website at www.
