84 Shareholder Information Company Secretary and Registered Office Low Cost Share Dealing Service N D Jennings, FCA The Company has arranged with its brokers, Cazenove & Co. Limited, Northcliffe House to provide a simple, low-cost share dealing service for Ordinary and 2 Derry Street A Ordinary Non-Voting shares in Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
London W8 5TT The main features are: a basic commission of 1% on both purchases England and sales subject to a minimum commission of 10 per transaction : Telephone: 44 0 20 7938 6629 reduced commission rates for transactions over 5,000: and no minimum Facsimile: 44 0 20 7938 4626 investment.
For further details, please contact Cazenove & Co. Limited, Company Share Schemes, at 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA: the Registered Number: 184594 telephone number is 020 7155 5155.
Website A low cost telephone dealing service has also been arranged with The Group has an internet website which gives information on the Stocktrade which provides a simple way for buying or selling the Company and its operating subsidiaries and provides details of significant Companys Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
It also has a site giving details of job opportunities commission is 0.5% up to 10,000, reducing to 0.2% thereafter within the Group.
subject to a minimum commission of 15.
Sales are carried out on a ten day settlement basis with purchases on a five day basis.
When The addresses are: purchasing shares payment must be made by debit card at the time http: www.
For further information, please call 0845 601 0995 and http: www.
Capital Gains Tax Share Price Information The market value of both the Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting The current price of the Companys Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares in the Company on 31st March, 1982 adjusted for the 1994 shares can be found on page 516 of Teletext on Channel 4 and on bonus issue of A Ordinary Non-Voting shares and for the four-for-one its website at teletext.
A graph, illustrating the recent share split in 2000 was 9.75 pence.
performance of the A shares, is shown on page 7.
Registrars Crest All enquiries regarding shareholdings, dividends, lost share certificates, The Companys Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares entered loan notes in the Company and in Daily Mail and General Investments plc, CREST in September 1996.
Shareholders have the choice either or changes of address should be directed to Lloyds TSB Registrars at of holding their shares in electronic form in an account on the the address set out on page 85.
CREST system or of continuing to hold them in the physical form of share certificates.
Electronic Communications Our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, have introduced a service to Investor Relations provide shareholders with on-line internet access to details of their Investor relations are the responsibility of Nicholas Jennings, Company shareholdings and to receive documentation from the Company Secretary whose office is responsible for distribution of the Annual Report.
The service is free, secure and easy to use.
Shareholders He is assisted by Fran Ranger who can be contacted on 020 7938 6629. may register for the service at www.
co. uk, using their The investor relations e-mail address is investor.
shareholder reference number which can be found on their dividend counterfoil or on their share certificate.
com Euromoney Institutional Investor metro.
com Daily Mail and General Trust plc 87 Websites and Products Continued Euromoney Institutional Investor continued dmg world media iiplatinum.
co. nz sbi-w. com idealhomeshow.
au Daily Mail and General Trust plc 88 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Designed and produced by Faade International Ltd Printed by sv.
