49 Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting c In calculating the goodwill, the total consideration, both actual and The accounts have been prepared: deferred, is taken into account.
Where the deferred consideration is payable in cash, the liability is discounted to its present value.
Where the a under the historical cost convention modified to include deferred consideration is contingent and dependant upon future trading the revaluation of certain assets: performance, an estimate of the present value of the likely consideration b in accordance with Section 227 of, and Schedule 4 to, payable is made.
This contingent deferred consideration is re-assessed the Companies Act 1985: and annually and corresponding adjustment is made to the goodwill arising on acquisition.
The difference between the present value and the total c in accordance with applicable accounting standards in amount payable at a future date gives rise to a finance charge which is the United Kingdom.
charged to the profit and loss account and credited to the liability over the period in which the consideration is deferred.
The discount used Basis of Consolidation approximates to market rates.
a The Group accounts comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and of all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups d Impairment reviews of goodwill and other intangible assets are share of its interest in its joint ventures and associates.
carried out at the end of the first financial year after acquisition and where there is any indication of impairment.
b All major Group undertakings present accounts up to a date within seven days of 30th September.
Results of subsidiaries acquired or e Purchased intangible assets relating to newspaper publishing rights, disposed of during the year are incorporated from the effective date titles, radio licences and certain other intangible assets are capitalised of acquisition or up to the date of their disposal.
and amortised through the profit and loss account over the lower of their useful economic lives, if any, and a period of 20 years.
c The net assets of subsidiaries acquired are recorded at their fair values, reflecting their condition at that date, which gives rise Foreign Exchange to purchased goodwill.
a Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Revenue items Changes in Presentation of Financial Information are translated at average rates for the year, except where they are The Group has changed its accounting policy to show listed covered by forward contracts in which case the forward rate is used.
investments, included within other investments, at cost less impairment, Differences on exchange, arising from the re-translation of the opening if any, rather than at market value.
The previous policy was established net investment in subsidiaries and associates and from the translation of for the Groups holding of Reuters shares in view of the issue by the the results of those undertakings at average or forward rates, are dealt Group of bonds exchangeable for some of those shares.
Following the with as movements on reserves.
repayment of the last of those bonds in October 2002, the Directors believe that the revised policy is more appropriate.
b Foreign currency borrowings are matched against net assets adjusted to include goodwill arising on acquisitions and the resulting The effect of this change is that the Groups Reuters shares have been translation differences are dealt with as movements on reserves.
written down from market value of 30.7 million at 29th September, 2002 to historical cost of 20.0 million.
The prior period Balance Sheets c Translation differences on the excess of foreign currency borrowings and Statements of Total Recognised Gains and Losses have been over matching net assets adjusted to include goodwill arising on restated to reflect this change of policy.
Had the former policy been acquisitions are taken to the profit and loss account.
retained at 28th September, 2003, this investment would have been d All other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss revalued downwards by 2.1 million to its market value of 28.6 million.
Other than this change of policy, the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies adopted last year.
The Tangible Fixed Assets Group continues to comply with the transitional arrangements for the Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated implementation of FRS 17, Retirement Benefits and, as permitted, to depreciation, adjusted for revaluations of certain properties at prepare its accounts under SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
Specialised buildings, being those constructed specifically for use in the Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets business, are carried at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
a Goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions, prior to the adoption of FRS 10 on 28th September, 1998, was Non-specialised buildings are carried at their frozen 1994 valuations, as written off against reserves in the year of acquisition.
On disposal or permitted by FRS 15, Tangible Fixed Assets, as adjusted for subsequent closure of businesses, goodwill previously written off against reserves additions, disposals, depreciation and impairment, if any.
is taken through the profit and loss account in arriving at the gain or Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed assets loss on disposal.
Plant and equipment 3 to 25 years Depreciation on freehold buildings and leasehold properties is based on cost, or valuation where properties have been revalued.
Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc 50 Accounting Policies Continued Leased Assets Pension Costs Where assets are financed by leasing agreements which give rights The Group has taken advantage of the transitional arrangements of approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, which permit the costs, accruals and purchased.
The present value of minimum lease payments payable prepayments recorded in the accounts to be reported under the during the lease term is capitalised as a tangible asset and the requirements of SSAP 24, Accounting for Pension Costs.
This is corresponding leasing commitment is included in obligations under consistent with the basis adopted last year.
The cost of providing finance leases.
Rentals payable are apportioned between interest, pensions is calculated using actuarial valuation methods, which which is charged to the profit and loss account, and capital, which reflect the long-term costs of providing pensions.
Thus, the amount charged to the profit and loss account is calculated Rentals payable relating to all other leases are charged to the profit so as to produce a substantially level percentage of the current and and loss account on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Variations from the regular cost so calculated are allocated to the profit and loss account over the average remaining Joint Ventures and Associates service lives of employees.
Joint ventures are those entities in which the Group holds a long-term The additional disclosures required by FRS 17 are explained in Note 39. interest and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more venturers under a contractual arrangement.
Joint ventures are Financial Instruments accounted for using the gross equity method of accounting.
The Group uses various derivative financial instruments to manage Associates are those undertakings, other than subsidiaries and joint its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
These have ventures in which the Group holds a long-term participating interest included currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts, interest and exerts a significant influence.
The Groups share of profits less losses rate swaps, interest rate caps and interest rate floors.
The Group of associates is included in the Groups profit and loss account and considers its derivative financial instruments to be hedges and matches the Groups share of their net assets, together with goodwill arising them with the relevant hedged item.
on acquisition, is included in the Group balance sheet.
Cash flows relating to these derivative financial transactions are netted The basis in which these joint ventures and associates are equity against hedged transactions in the Cash flow statement within net cash accounted is set out in Note 22. inflow from operating activities, or returns on investment and servicing of finance, or disclosed within financing, as appropriate.
Investments Where forward foreign exchange contracts or cross currency swaps Listed and unlisted investments are held at cost, less any provision are used to hedge borrowings, the borrowings hedged are translated for impairment.
at the year end at the exchange rate implicit within the respective Investments in the Companys own shares, held within the DMGT Share derivative.
Any exchange differences arising are taken to the profit and Trust, are included on the Group balance sheet at cost.
Investments in loss account to match the accounting treatment of exchange gains or Group undertakings are held by the Company at cost, less any provision losses on the borrowings.
Where forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge future revenues or costs, the gain or loss is not recognised until the revenues Stocks and Work in Progress arise or the costs are incurred.
Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of work in progress includes overheads Payments or receipts on interest rate swaps, caps or floors are accrued attributable to the cost of production.
The derivatives are not revalued.
Arrangement fees on bonds are amortised over the estimated life of the bonds.
Deferred Taxation Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise, based on current tax rates and on law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Timing differences arising on tax deductible goodwill written off to reserves are recognised.
Due to the indefinite nature of these timing differences the Group believes it appropriate to discount the resultant deferred tax assets and liabilities as they arise on businesses expected to be held for the long term.
As a consequence, all other deferred tax assets and liabilities are also discounted.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
