Accounting Policies For the year ended 29 March 2003 Basis of Preparation The consolidated accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of certain xed assets and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The consolidated accounts have been prepared as at 29 March 2003.
The comparatives for the 2002 financial year are for the year ended 30 March 2002.
Basis of Consolidation The results of all of the subsidiaries of the Company have been fully consolidated.
All of these subsidiaries and the material associated companies prepare their annual financial statements to 29 March except for certain associated companies whose year end is 31 December.
The results of businesses acquired are included from the effective date of acquisition and the results of businesses sold are included up to the date of disposal.
Associated Companies An associated company is one in which the Group has a long term investment and is in a position to exercise significant inuence over the company in which the investment is made.
The Groups share of the profits less losses of associated companies is included in the Group profit and Loss Account.
Its interest in their net assets is included as an investment in the Group Balance Sheet at the Groups share of the net assets at acquisition plus the Groups share of retained profits.
Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the quoted rates of exchange at the year end.
The profits and losses of overseas subsidiaries and associated companies are translated into sterling at average rates for the year.
Differences arising from the restatement of the opening balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and associates at closing rates, together with the year end adjustment to closing rates of profit and loss accounts translated at average rates, are taken to reserves.
Differences arising on foreign currency borrowings are taken to reserves to the extent that they are offset by the exchange differences arising from the restatement of the opening balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and associates.
When currencies are sold or bought in relation to a trading transaction, the transaction is accounted for at the contracted rate of exchange.
All other exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account.
Turnover Group turnover represents sales to external customers of manufactured products and services which fall within the Groups ordinary trading activities.
This excludes VAT and other sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised in the profit and loss account when goods or services are supplied to external customers in accordance with the terms of sale.
Goodwill Amortisation Upon the acquisition of a business, fair values that reect the conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identiable net assets acquired.
Where the consideration paid for a business exceeds such net assets, the difference is treated as goodwill and is capitalised and amortised over an appropriate period not exceeding 20 years.
For acquisitions prior to 1 April 1998 all goodwill is eliminated in the Group balance sheet against reserves.
On disposal of a business, the profit or loss on disposal is determined after including the attributable amount of purchased goodwill to the extent that this has not been amortised through the profit and loss account.
Where the fair value of the identiable net assets exceeds the fair value of the consideration for an acquired undertaking, the difference is treated as negative goodwill and is capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account in the period in which the non-monetary assets acquired are recovered.
Other Intangible Assets Development costs and distribution rights are amortised over their useful economic lives as determined by the life of the products to which they relate.
48 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 Tangible Fixed Assets and Depreciation Fixed assets are stated at cost or at valuation, less depreciation.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated at a rate of two per cent per annum.
Other leasehold interests are depreciated over the unexpired period of the lease.
A long leasehold is dened as one in which the remaining term of the lease is more than 50 years.
The Groups policy is to write off the cost or valuation of all other plant and equipment evenly over their estimated remaining useful life at rates which vary between eight per cent and 50 per cent per annum.
The principal annual rates of depreciation used are ten per cent on plant and machinery, ten per cent on xtures and ttings, and 33 per cent on tooling and computer equipment.
No depreciation is provided for assets in the course of construction.
The Directors have not adopted a policy of revaluing tangible xed assets as permitted by FRS 15.
Leasing Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Tangible xed assets acquired under finance leases are included in the balance sheet at their equivalent capital value and are depreciated over their estimated remaining useful lives.
The corresponding liabilities are recorded as a creditor and the interest elements of the finance lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account.
Research and Development Product research and development expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year.
Deferred taxation is accounted for in accordance with FRS 19 Deferred Tax which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities on the balance sheet to the extent that they will more likely than not materialise.
Where advance corporation tax cannot be offset with reasonable certainty against current, future or deferred UK taxation liabilities, taking into account expected results and dividends, it is written off in the profit and loss account.
Stocks Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost, including relevant production overheads, and net realisable value.
Pensions The costs of the Groups dened benefit pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the service lives of employees.
The pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualied actuaries.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits are spread forward over the average remaining service lives of employees.
The Groups post-retirement benefit schemes are accounted for in a similar manner to the pension schemes, as described above.
The costs of the Groups dened contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as the contributions are incurred.
Cash Flow Statement The Group Cash Flow Statement and notes thereto are prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 1 Revised.
Liquid resources comprise short-term bank deposits, except those available on demand.
Share Option Schemes Own shares held to satisfy potential obligations under the various share option schemes are carried at cost as part of xed asset investments.
Any differences between the cost of the shares and the anticipated proceeds are written off to the profit and loss account over the period to which the underlying options relate in accordance with UITF 17. fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 49
