Accounting Policies which form an integral part of the Accounts Fixtures and fittings also contain items of Certain operating supplies are treated as a Basis of Accounts plant, machinery and equipment including base stock and renewals and replacements The Accounts have been prepared in computers.
of such stock are written-off to the profit accordance with applicable United and loss account as incurred.
Kingdom accounting standards under the Depreciation is not provided on freehold historical cost convention with the land.
Deferred taxation exception of hotel and health & fitness Full provision is made for deferred tax properties which, under the transitional Depreciation is provided to write-off the assets and liabilities arising from timing provisions of FRS 15 Tangible Fixed cost or valuation of all other fixed assets differences, between the recognition of Assets, are included at their 1999 over their useful lives to their estimated gains and losses in the financial statements valuations.
Since 1999 it has been Group residual values and is calculated by the and their recognition in tax computations, policy not to revalue fixed assets.
straight-line method at the following rates: with the exception of timing differences arising from the revaluation of, or gains Basis of consolidation rolled over into fixed assets for which there The consolidated profit and loss account Per annum is no binding agreement to sell or on the and balance sheet combine the Accounts undistributed profits of overseas of the Company and its subsidiary Hotels and health & subsidiaries.
Deferred tax is calculated at undertakings which are prepared up to fitness buildings 2% the rates at which it is estimated the tax 28 September 2003 and represent the will arise.
The deferred tax provision has operations of the Group for a period of Other properties 2% not been discounted to net present values.
In accordance with Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no separate Production plant 5% - 20% Deferred tax assets are recognised only to profit and loss account is presented for the the extent that the Directors consider that Company.
Motor vehicles 10% - 50% it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the Results of subsidiary undertakings and Fixtures and fittings 5% - 20% future reversal of the underlying timing businesses acquired or sold during the year differences can be deducted.
are included from or up to their respective dates of acquisition or disposal.
Leasehold properties are depreciated over Turnover the shorter of 50 years or their remaining Turnover is the value of goods and services Entities in which the Group holds an useful life.
sold to third parties, including excise interest on a long-term basis are jointly duties, as part of the Groups trading controlled by the Group and one or more The carrying values of tangible fixed assets activities, after deducting discounts and other ventures under a contractual are reviewed for impairment in periods if sales based taxes.
arrangement are treated as joint ventures.
events or changes in circumstances indicate In the Group accounts, joint ventures are that the carrying value may not be Joining fees in respect of health & fitness accounted for using the gross equity recoverable.
memberships are accounted for when method.
All other fees and subscriptions Assets under construction are not are recognised over the membership For acquisitions prior to September 1998, depreciated until they are ready for use.
the difference between the purchase consideration and the fair value of When an asset is fully depreciated and no Sales of timeshares are recognised at the identifiable net assets at the date of longer in use both the gross amount and later of the time of sale or the date acquisition was dealt with as a movement the aggregate depreciation are eliminated building work on the lodge is complete.
On subsequent disposal of from the Accounts.
such businesses such goodwill is taken into Pensions account in determining the profit or loss Stock Pension costs relating to the Group defined on sale or closure.
Stock is valued at the lower of cost and net benefit scheme are charged to the profit realisable value.
Cost comprises and loss account in accordance with the Tangible fixed assets and depreciation expenditure directly incurred in purchasing advice of independent qualified actuaries The cost of tangible fixed assets represents or manufacturing stock and includes an based on an assessment of the current and the actual purchase price paid.
Cost appropriate amount of overhead.
includes gross interest on capital invested in major property development and directly The value attributed to timeshare stock is Actuarial valuations of the pension scheme attributable costs up to the date of the cost of building the lodges are carried out every three years and opening for trade.
apportioned to each week on the basis of surpluses or deficiencies disclosed by the the selling price for that week.
26 fide VERE GROUP PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES valuations are amortised over the remaining service lives of the members, except where there is a significant reduction in the number of employees in the scheme.
Differences between the amount charged in the profit and loss account and the payments made to the schemes are treated as provisions or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Payments to money purchase pensions schemes are charged as incurred.
Leases Assets which are subject to finance leases are capitalised and the related depreciation charged to the profit and loss account.
Lease payments are treated as consisting of interest and capital, interest being charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the lease on an actuarial basis.
Rental payments in respect of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis.
Provision has been established for future anticipated costs related to leased premises no longer occupied by the Group.
Derivatives The Groups policy is to hedge the following exposures: An element of its interest rate risk.
Currency exposures on long-term borrowings.
The Group does not have any currency exposures on future committed sales and does not use or require the use of any other derivavtive instruments other than to mitigate interest rate risks and currency exposure.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 27
