Senior management Group Management Mastercare PC City Spain Geoffrey Budd Edward Fitzmaurice Fernando fide Vicente Neil Ogilvie Martin Fletcher PC City Italy Lesley Smith Bruce Marsh Nicholas Cadbury Richard Middleton Finance, Systems and John Sorby PC City Sweden Corporate Development Per Rune Lunderby Jeremy Darroch UK and Ireland Retail Operations PC World Business Peter Ambrose David Gilbert Derek Lloyd Peter Crowe Kath Roach Simon Davies Genesis Communications Business Services Dave Elder-Vass Rob Rawlinson Alan Uren Andrew Milliken Damian Norton Dixons Elkjp Kevin OByrne Chris Langley Per Bjrgs Andrew Owen Joe Garner Nils Petter Bjrnstad Martin Sidders John Mewett Kristian Kulsrud Richard Ames Geir Langbakken Dixons Group Retail Properties Fredrik Steenbuch Martin Meech Ireland Mark Feltham Bryan Magrath Denmark Sue Philipson Jesper Boysen The Link Financial Services Nick Wood Norway David Campbell John Welsh Ronny Blomseth Max Frei Simon Crowfoot Finland Dorothy Winrow Group Marketing Services Irmeli Rytknen Elizabeth Fagan Human Resources Sweden Steve Borges David Longbottom Per Sigvardsson Peter Riordan Camilla Aitchison George Wilding Electro World Ben Bengougam Mark Rollmann Louise Bentham Currys John Francis Hungary Nick Wilkinson Liz Purdy Peter Sebestyen Richard Carter Elaine Rowe Steve Crook Czech Republic Non Merchandise Purchasing Mike Hedgecox Jiri Rizek Roger Dew Frank Keenan Peter Keenan UniEuro Group Commercial Operations Paul McClenaghan Oscar Farinetti Tim Clifford Debbie Moore Corrado Colli Irene Paull Steve Carroll PC World International Felice Cippolina Group Purchasing Simon Turner Adriano Graneris Pete Bowers Andrew Gabriel Arturo Jossa Ken Sladen Keith Jones Piero Bagnasco Neil Robertson Alberto Mosca PC World UK Omni Source Steve Campbell Terry Greenwood European Property Phil Birbeck Geoff Bellingham Thierry Behiels Phil Logan PC City France Sophie Goblet Sacha Tikhomiroff Raphael Guiducci Christophe Sirot Member of the Group Executive Committee 30 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 Accounts 32 Directors report 35 Corporate governance 40 Audit Committee report 41 Remuneration report 49 Statement of directors responsibilities Independent auditors report 51 Consolidated profit and loss account Statement of total recognised gains and losses 52 Balance sheets 53 Consolidated cash ow statement 54 Notes to the financial statements 78 Five year record 80 Shareholder information Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 31 Directors report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements of Dixons Group plc the Company and its subsidiary and associated undertakings the Group for the 53 weeks ended 3 May 2003.
Comparative gures are for the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2002.
Details of the Groups results, operations and future prospects are set out in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Operating Review and Financial Review which form part of this report.
Principal activities The Company is the parent company of a group engaged in the retail sale of high technology consumer electronics, personal computers, domestic appliances, photographic equipment, communication products and related financial and after-sales services.
Its subsidiaries operate in the UK, Ireland, the Nordic region, Italy, France, Spain, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
The Group also has retail interests in Greece and undertakes property development in Belgium, Luxembourg, France and Germany.
On 7 May 2002 the Group acquired Direct Telephone Services Limited trading as Genesis Communications a business to business mobile phone service provider, for consideration of up to 35 million including 2 million contingent on the achievement of earnings targets.
On 11 November 2002 the Group acquired a further 71.4 per cent of UniEuro S. p. A. for 366 million 233 million and accordingly, as at 3 May 2003, the Group held 95.7 per cent of UniEuro with the balance of 4.3 per cent remaining in the hands of the management, subject to the Groups option to acquire this shareholding for 29.8 million.
On 3 June 2003, this option was exercised with payment of the consideration deferred until July 2004.
Dividends An interim dividend of 1.510 pence per share was paid on 3 March 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 31 January 2003.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 5.145 pence per share, making total dividends of 6.655 pence per share for the period 2001 02 6.050 pence per share.
Subject to shareholders approval at the annual general meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 30 September 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 August 2003.
Information on the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan is available from the Registrars whose details are on page 80.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital, including changes to the issued share capital during the period, are given in note 23 on page 70.
Details of share options granted and exercised in the period and consideration received are shown in note 24 on page 71.
At the annual general meeting held on 11 September 2002 shareholders authorised the directors to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares to a maximum of 194 million shares for a period expiring on the date of the next annual general meeting.
To date no such purchases have been made.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at the annual general meeting on 10 September 2003.
Substantial share interests At 25 June 2003 the following interests of more than 3 per cent in the issued share capital had been notied to the Company pursuant to sections 198 to 210 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended : Number of ordinary shares millions % of issued share capital The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 194.4 10.03 FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 81.0 4.16 Prudential plc 75.8 3.90 Legal & General plc 61.5 3.15 Aviva plc 59.3 3.05 Oppenheimer Funds Inc. 58.6 3.01 32 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 Directors Details of the directors who served throughout the period are shown on pages 28 and 29.
The following changes occurred in the period: Date Appointment resignation Executive Sir Stanley Kalms 11 September 2002 Resignation David Longbottom 5 November 2002 Appointment Since the period end, the following changes have occurred: Date Appointment resignation Executive David Hamid 20 May 2003 Resignation Non-executive Andrew Lynch 20 May 2003 Appointment John Whybrow 24 June 2003 Appointment It was announced on 20 May 2003 that Mark Souhami would retire from the Board and David Gilbert would resign as a director on 1 September 2003.
Lord Blackwell and Karen Cook will cease to be directors on 1 September 2003 and 2 September 2003 respectively, upon the expiry of their terms of ofce.
Following their appointment to the Board, David Longbottom, Andrew Lynch and John Whybrow will retire at the annual general meeting on 10 September 2003 and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, John Clare will retire by rotation at the annual general meeting and, being eligible, will offer himself for reappointment.
The biographies of David Longbottom, Andrew Lynch, John Whybrow and John Clare are shown on pages 28 and 29.
John Clare and David Longbottom each has a service agreement with DSG Retail Limited which can be terminated by one years notice.
Subject to their reappointment at the annual general meeting, Andrew Lynch and John Whybrow have been appointed, pursuant to letters of appointment dated 20 May 2003, for three year terms ending on 20 May 2006 and 24 June 2006 respectively.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 48.
No director had any beneficial interests in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking or in any contract or arrangement apart from contracts of service to which the Company or any subsidiary was a party during or at the end of the financial period.
Policy and practice on payment of suppliers It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payment with its suppliers.
Payments are made in accordance with these terms provided that the supplier has complied with all relevant contractual obligations.
Trade creditors at 3 May 2003 represented 38 days of annual purchases based on the average daily amounts invoiced by suppliers during the period 27 April 2002 33 days.
Charitable and political donations During the period the Group donated 875,000 to The Dixons Foundation, a registered charitable trust 2001 02 878,000.
Further details of the Groups charitable activities are given on page 23.
At the annual general meeting held on 5 September 2001 shareholders gave authority to the directors to make donations to EU Political Organisations and to incur EU Political Expenditure as dened in the Companies Act to an aggregate amount not exceeding 50,000 in the two year period ending with the annual general meeting in 2003.
During 2002 03, the Company made payments totalling 5,665 2001 02 8,000 comprising participation in events organised by the Labour Party 900, the Conservative and Unionist Party 4,425 and the Liberal Democrat Party 340 which the directors have been advised constitute EU Political Expenditure.
A resolution to renew this authority for a further two years will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 33 Directors report continued Equal opportunities It is the policy of the Group to provide equal opportunities to all its employees regardless of their age, sex, colour, race, religion or ethnic origin and that disabled persons should enjoy the same employment opportunities, training and career development as others where they possess the necessary skills, experience and qualications.
Special consideration is given to the continuity in employment of any existing employee who becomes disabled and to the provision of alternative employment.
A disability working group monitors compliance with legal obligations under the Disability Discrimination Act 1995.
During the period the Respect for People programme was further promoted across the UK with a view to increasing awareness amongst all employees of the Companys codes and standards in relation to all forms of discrimination.
Employee involvement The Group maintains a strong focus on effective performance management designed to identify and develop high performers and to make all employees more effective in their roles.
Flexible working arrangements for all roles encourage the best people to apply to join, and remain within, the organisation.
The Group seeks to engage all employees in both its short and long term goals.
This is achieved through a variety of methods including senior management briengs, focus groups, CDs, videos, newsletters and the widespread use of intranets.
The Chief Executive chairs the Dixons Group European Forum, a body of independently elected employee representatives.
There are also local fora of independently elected representatives from within individual businesses.
Their meetings provide the framework for the Groups consultative process: representatives provide invaluable input on a wide range of issues including customer service, business efficiency, reorganisation and performance improvement.
Further employee feedback is obtained through surveys.
Findings from these surveys are used to design bespoke reward and training programmes and to assist the development of employment policy.
The Group operates a number of share bonus, incentive and ownership schemes.
These reinforce the philosophy of encouraging employees to contribute directly to the achievement of the Groups goals and of rewarding individual and collective success.
Further details are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 and 43.
Sharesave schemes in which there are approximately 7,000 participants are operated in the UK and Ireland.
Over 10,000 employees throughout the Group currently participate in the Companys discretionary share option schemes.
Further information is given on pages 22 and 23.
Auditors On 1 August 2003, Deloitte & Touche will transfer their business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2000.
However, at present they remain the Companys auditors and have signed the accounts in that capacity.
The Company intends to give its consent to treating the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003.
Accordingly, although the accounts have been signed in the name of Deloitte & Touche, a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting will be held on 10 September 2003 at The Marriott Hotel, Grosvenor Square, London W1 at 11.30 a. m. Notice of the meeting, together with an explanation of the business to be considered, is given in a separate circular accompanying this report.
By Order of the Board G D Budd Secretary 25 June 2003 34 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance, being the process by which the Group is directed and managed, risks are identied and controlled and effective accountability is assured.
Sound governance is central to achieving the directors prime objective of maximising shareholder value.
Combined Code The following statement, together with the Audit Committee Report on page 40 and the Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 48 sets out the manner in which the Group has throughout the period applied the principles contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Financial Services Authority the Combined Code.
Board of Directors During the financial period, the Board comprised a non-executive Chairman, six executive directors and three independent non-executive directors.
Following the Board restructuring announced on 20 May 2003, the Board will from 1 September 2003 comprise a non-executive Chairman, three executive directors and three independent non-executive directors.
Biographical details of the directors are shown on pages 28 and 29 and changes during the period and subsequently are set out in the Directors Report on page 33.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
These include responsibility for the Groups overall strategy, acquisition and divestment policy and the system of internal control, together with the approval of major expenditure projects and significant nancing matters.
It reviews the strategic objectives of trading divisions, their annual budgets and long term plans and monitors progress towards their attainment.
An annual meeting of the Board focuses on the longer term strategic direction of the Group and the markets in which it operates.
In future, it is intended that a performance evaluation of the Board will be considered at a special meeting.
There is frequent contact between directors throughout the period to progress the Groups business.
A corporate governance framework has been approved by the Board dening the role and responsibilities of the constituent elements of the Groups management structure.
This enables the Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the Groups activities to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Chairman ensures that the Board has full and timely access to all relevant information.
The ofces of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held separately and a clear division of responsibility exists and operates effectively.
Throughout the financial period Sir John Collins was designated as the senior independent non-executive director.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
On appointment, each director receives guidance and training appropriate to their level of previous experience.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to meet members of senior management regularly and to undertake visits to all parts of the Group, particularly newly acquired and developing businesses.
Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and changes in commercial and financial risks.
The Articles of Association require one third of the Board not otherwise subject to reappointment by shareholders to retire by rotation each year and ensure that over a three year period each director is subject to reappointment by shareholders in general meeting.
Details of the director retiring by rotation at the annual general meeting are set out in the Directors Report on page 33.
The Board met seven times during the period excluding ad hoc meetings convened solely to deal with procedural matters.
All directors attended all meetings apart from Sir John Collins and Karen Cook who each attended six meetings.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 35 Corporate governance continued Board committees The Board has established a number of committees to which it has delegated specic responsibilities.
Trading divisions are managed by separate executive committees, whose minutes are reviewed by the Board.
Separate reports from the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, including details of membership and summary terms of reference, are set out on page 40 and on pages 41 to 48 respectively.
Membership of the other principal committees and a summary of their terms of reference are shown below: Members Meetings held number of meetings attended during the period during period Summary terms of reference Chairmans Committee Sir John Collins Chairman 12 12 Forum for the Chairman to monitor and review Mark Souhami 10 the development and implementation of strategy John Clare 12 and to report appropriately to the Board.
Jeremy Darroch 12 David Longbottom 5 appointed 5 November 2002 Group Executive Committee John Clare Chairman 13 13 Responsible for the implementation of strategy and Per Bjrgs 12 the day to day management of the Groups business.
Jeremy Darroch 12 David Gilbert 12 David Hamid 13 David Longbottom 11 Simon Turner 13 Nick Wilkinson 13 Oscar Farinetti 2 appointed 10 January 2003 Nominations Committee Mark Souhami Chairman 3 3Reviews, at least annually, and as required, the Lord Blackwell 3 size and composition of the Board and submits John Clare 3 recommendations for new Board appointments Sir John Collins 2 to the Board for approval.
Karen Cook 2 Count Emmanuel dAndr 3 The Company Secretary is secretary of the Audit, Executive Directors Remuneration, Nominations and Chairmans Committees.
These committees operate within written terms of reference approved by the Board which are available on request from the Company Secretary and may be viewed on the Companys website at www.
The Board receives and reviews minutes of their meetings.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee recommended the appointments of the two new non-executive directors, Andrew Lynch and John Whybrow.
The Committee prepared a description of the roles and the capabilities required for the appointments.
These specications were approved by the Board and a specialist recruitment agency was retained to identify candidates from a wide range of backgrounds.
A short list was drawn up and interviews were conducted following which recommendations were made to and approved by the Board.
Relations with shareholders The Board attaches considerable importance to the maintenance of constructive relationships with shareholders.
Effective two way communication with institutional investors and analysts is established through regular presentations and meetings in the UK and overseas, usually by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
This programme of presentations is conducted in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys guidance on the dissemination of price sensitive information to ensure the protection of such information which has not already been made available generally to the Companys shareholders.
The annual general meeting is regarded as an opportunity to communicate directly with private shareholders.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available at the meeting to answer relevant questions from shareholders.
Notice of the annual general meeting and related documents are mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially different issue.
The notice is contained in a separate circular accompanying this report.
36 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 In addition to the interim and annual reports, shareholders can obtain information about the Group posted on the corporate website www.
Services available to shareholders are summarised on page 80 of this report.
Pension schemes The Group operates a number of dened contribution and dened benefit pension schemes.
The principal scheme operates in the UK where the Group maintains a funded dened benefit pension scheme.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group by trustees.
There are six trustees: three members of senior management and three external trustees Hugh Jenkins CBE Chairman, Mrs Jane Newell OBE and Dr Ann Robinson.
The power of appointment of new trustees is vested in the trustees.
Asset management is delegated to three independent companies whose performance is monitored by a specialist performance measurement service.
Custody and investment management functions are separated.
The schemes accounts are audited annually by Nexia Audit Limited, who are not auditors to any Group companies.
Members of the scheme receive an annual statement of their accrued benets and a copy of the trustees annual report.
This scheme was closed to new employees with effect from 1 March 2002 and to existing employees who were not already members with effect from 1 September 2002.
A dened contribution scheme is available to all UK employees of the Group with a years service or more as at 1 March 2003.
Internal control In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull working party set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Group has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
This process was in place throughout the 53 weeks ended 3 May 2003 and to the date of approval of the financial statements and is subject to continual review and enhancement to improve effectiveness.
Responsibility and accountability The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and approach to assessing risk and is also responsible for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board delegates to executive management the day to day responsibility for identifying and evaluating the risks facing the Groups business operations, and for implementing and maintaining internal control systems that manage those risks in an efficient and effective manner, appropriate to their nature and scale.
Executive management is accountable to the Board for providing assurance over the design and operation of the internal control systems it has implemented.
The management of each group company is responsible for internal control and risk management within its own business and for ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Inherent limitations In determining its policies on internal control, the Board has regard to the materiality of the relevant risks, the likelihood of losses occurring and the costs of control.
The directors are aware that the inherent limitations in any system of control mean that risk cannot be totally eliminated.
It follows that the Groups system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than remove, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and that it can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Control environment and control activities In addition to the Boards activities described in the Board of Directors section on page 35, the Groups system of internal control and processes for managing risk comprise the following main elements: The Board and management committees meet regularly throughout the period to monitor progress against the targets set out in the Groups budget and three year plan and to consider the quarterly re-forecasts of the Groups expected financial period end position.
A variety of financial and non-financial performance reports is produced on a daily, weekly and four weekly basis to facilitate this review process.
The dened lines of authority established by the Board ensure that significant decisions are taken at an appropriate level.
This includes requirements for the approval and control of both capital and operating expenditure, treasury operations and cash management.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 37 Corporate governance continued Each business function has established procedures and controls to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the Groups assets.
These procedures and controls include the segregation of duties, the provision of regular performance information and exception reports, review and approval procedures for key transactions, compliance with relevant laws and regulations, the maintenance of proper records and the reconciliation of balances.
Wherever possible the Groups computer systems are designed to enforce the execution of such controls.
Appropriate controls and procedures have been established over the security of data held on, and functionality provided by, the Groups business systems.
These include disaster recovery arrangements.
The computer systems are periodically tested and reviewed by both internal and external audit functions.
The Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to enable them to discharge the duties and responsibilities of the roles assigned to them.
Established performance review and development mechanisms exist to identify key objectives and areas for improvement for each member of staff.
Succession planning forms an integral part of HR management.
Group Treasury operates within established and documented policies and procedures.
The policies are described in the Financial Review on pages 26 and 27 and are reviewed and approved annually by the Group Executive Committee.
The Groups programme of insurance covers the major risks to the Groups assets and business and is reviewed annually by the Group Executive Committee and the Audit Committee.
Following major acquisitions, post completion reviews are carried out and reviewed.
All entities within the Group are required to adhere to common standards of internal control and corporate governance, which are specified in documented guidance.
Assurance and monitoring The Board, through the Audit Committee, seeks ongoing assurance that the control environment and activities described above are designed and are operating effectively.
The manner in which this is achieved is as follows: The Group operates an internal audit function which is partly outsourced and which forms an integral part of risk assurance.
The function provides independent and objective assurance over the effectiveness of internal control in key business processes, activities and business development programmes.
Internal audit reports its findings to the Audit Committee and to management using a systematic, objective approach to evaluate the overall effectiveness of controls and risk management within the area or process under review.
Recommendations for improving control are made to management where necessary and internal audit monitors progress on these until resolution or implementation.
The Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on the status of recommendations.
Evaluation mechanisms designed to identify significant control failures operate across key business processes within the Group.
These are subject to regular review and renement to extend both their reach and the quality of the information they provide.
The Audit Committee receives a quarterly report on the status of controls monitored in this way.
Annually, all members of senior management submit certicates on the effectiveness of controls in their business area.
This is supported by assessments of business risks and controls in key processes and business operations.
Other specialist functions within the Group provide additional assurance over key areas of risk and report regularly to the Board or Audit Committee both on their activities and on any significant control issues arising.
These functions include stock control, change management, security, health and safety, insurance, environment, treasury, taxation, legal and regulatory compliance and corporate social responsibility.
Continuous improvement The Groups approach to managing and monitoring Internal Control and Risk Assessment is regularly reviewed to identify ways in which it can be improved and further embedded throughout the Groups operations.
38 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 A financial controls steering group was set up during the financial period to oversee the ongoing development and improvement of financial controls across the Group.
Regular meetings are held to monitor progress of control initiatives.
Key areas of focus include corporate governance, internal audit, risk assurance, financial reporting, forecasting and treasury operations.
Corporate Social Responsibility The Board ensures that, in developing and furthering the strategies and objectives of the Groups businesses, consideration is given to the needs of local communities, the environment, staff, suppliers, customers and others directly or indirectly connected with or affected by the activities of the Group.
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee established during the period and chaired by the Company Secretary and comprising relevant functional heads including the Group Human Resources Director, is charged with identifying those social, environmental, ethical and reputational issues which have a significant impact on the Groups businesses and for ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place to address them effectively.
Minutes of its meetings are circulated to the Board.
The Group Human Resources Director represents these interests at Board level.
Separate committees monitor compliance with legislation and regulations that have a particular impact on the Groups activities, including environmental matters, trading standards, health and safety, competition and disability issues.
The Group Human Resources Director also has responsibility for health and safety matters at Board level.
All members of senior management are required to certify annually their compliance with the Groups internal statement of ethical conduct, which covers a range of matters from conicts of interest and treatment of staff to observance of legal requirements.
Through a long-established charitable foundation, the Group donates significant amounts to charities, a number of which are selected by the Groups employees, who are encouraged to identify and participate in a variety of activities to benefit others, especially in the local communities in which the Group operates.
The Group has developed a range of policies, programmes and facilities to provide a working environment for its staff that engenders mutual respect and understanding and recognises the demands placed on staff outside their working day.
The Respect for People programme ensures that employees are aware both of the Groups policies and their obligations in relation to anti-discrimination legislation.
A formal procedure exists whereby employees can raise in confidence with designated members of senior management any concerns they may have about the conduct of colleagues or their employer, including suspected breaches of laws and regulations, breaches of security, theft, fraud and other criminal offences.
The Company also offers its employees and their dependants an outsourced independent employee assistance programme.
The scheme is accessed via freephone helplines staffed by specially trained advisers, who can be contacted 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
This service can be used for both work related and personal issues with employees receiving face-to-face counselling, without being identied to the employer, cost free.
Opportunities for the Group to minimise the impact on the environment arising from its core activities are under constant review.
The Groups policy on environmental matters can be found on the corporate website www.
Further information on Corporate Social Responsibility is updated periodically on the corporate website.
Compliance The directors consider that the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period with the exception that the Nominations Committee was chaired by Mark Souhami, the Deputy Chairman, rather than by the Chairman or a non-executive director.
However, the committee comprised a majority of non-executive directors and the Board considers that this constituted an effective balance of internal and independent views on Board appointments.
Following the Board restructuring announced on 20 May 2003, the Nominations Committee will, from 1 September 2003, comprise Sir John Collins Chairman, Count Emmanuel dAndr and John Clare.
From that date the Company will comply fully with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 39 Audit Committee report The principal responsibility of the Audit Committee is to monitor the Groups internal control regime and financial reporting, focusing on accounting policies, compliance and areas of management judgement and estimates.
During the financial period, the Audit Committee comprised the four non-executive directors Sir John Collins, Lord Blackwell, Karen Cook and Count Emmanuel dAndr.
It met four times during the financial period in June, September, January and April under the Chairmanship of Lord Blackwell.
Members of the Committee attended all of its meetings apart from the meetings held in September and April when Karen Cook was unable to be present.
Further details of the members of the Committee are set out on pages 28 and 29.
The members of the Committee did not receive additional fees in respect of their membership of or attendance at meetings.
The Company Secretary acted as Secretary of the Committee, minutes of whose meetings were circulated promptly to all Board members.
Each meeting was attended by representatives of the external auditors and by the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the head of internal audit.
Part of each meeting was held between the members of the Committee, the external auditors and head of internal audit in private.
At each meeting the Committee reviewed reports from the head of internal audit with particular reference to control and risk management issues raised by reviews of various parts of the Groups UK and European businesses and in respect of recent acquisitions.
The Committee also reviewed new and emerging accounting standards and their potential impact on the Groups financial statements.
The Committee reviewed the work programme of the internal audit function and took note of the progress in implementing proposals arising from their reports.
During the period, the Committee received reports from relevant functional heads including security, tax, insurance and other control functions.
At the meetings in June and January, the Committee considered the external auditors reports summarising their findings on the final audit and interim review, focusing in particular on areas of management judgement and accounting treatments as well as drafts of the results announcements.
As well as recommending the appointment of auditors, the Committee is responsible for reviewing the scope of the external audit, recommending to the Board the annual audit fee and monitoring fees paid to the auditors and other accountants for non audit work.
In April 2003 the Committee adopted a policy on independence of auditors.
This places prime responsibility on the external auditors to satisfy the Committee that they follow appropriate professional standards and best practice and have in place internal systems and checks to ensure that the audit team is able and motivated to perform the independent audit role effectively.
As an additional safeguard, the Committee will monitor the level and nature of non audit work undertaken by the audit rm to limit the risk from conicting interests in accordance with stated criteria.
All engagements of the audit rm will be notied to and cleared by the Group Financial Controller against these criteria.
The Committee intends that the policy will be reviewed annually.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the period in the light of the Higgs and Smith reports and copies are available on the corporate website at www.
Following the Board restructuring announced on 20 May 2003, Andrew Lynch FCA, Finance Director of Compass Group PLC, who was appointed a non-executive director of the Company on that date, will succeed Lord Blackwell as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 September 2003.
The other members of the Committee with effect from that date will be Count Emmanuel dAndr and John Whybrow.
Andrew Lynch will receive a fee of 3,700 per annum for acting as Chairman of the Committee.
Approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf on 25 June 2003 by Lord Blackwell Chairman of the Audit Committee 40 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 Remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 the Act as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and has been approved by the Board.
Apart from the information relating to individual remuneration on page 45, share interests, share options, and pensions information on pages 46 to 48, the information contained in this report is not subject to audit.
The purposes of this report are to inform shareholders of the Companys policies on directors remuneration in operation for the 53 weeks ended 3 May 2003, of the policies applicable to the 52 weeks ending 1 May 2004 and thereafter and to provide details of the remuneration of individual directors as determined by the Remuneration Committees.
Shareholders will be asked to approve this Report at the annual general meeting on 10 September 2003.
Executive Directors Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee met four times during the period.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee during the financial period is shown below: Members number of meetings attended during the period Sir John Collins Chairman 4 Lord Blackwell 4 Karen Cook 3 Count Emmanuel dAndr 3 Following the Board restructuring announced on 20 May 2003, the Remuneration Committee will, with effect from 1 September 2003, comprise John Whybrow Chairman, Sir John Collins and Andrew Lynch.
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee responsibility for determining the Companys policy on the remuneration of executive directors and specic approval of the remuneration package and terms of employment for each of the executive directors and for other senior executives of the Group.
The Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee by invitation in an advisory capacity.
Meetings are also attended by the Group Human Resources Director, the Director of Employee Reward, the Company Secretary who acts as Secretary to the Committee and occasionally by representatives of remuneration consultants.
Nobody attends any part of a meeting at which his own remuneration is discussed.
During the period, the Remuneration Committee received advice from Kepler Associates and Towers Perrin, both appointed by the Company in consultation with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration policy Executive directors The objectives of the policy are: To ensure that it fairly recognises the contribution of individual directors to the attainment of the Groups results and objectives.
To maintain a competitive package of pay and other benets which will provide the motivation for future achievement, particularly through reward schemes based on the Groups performance.
To facilitate the building and retention of a high calibre team which will work effectively to achieve the Groups longer term strategic objectives, especially by the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders through participation in schemes which provide opportunities to build shareholdings in the Company.
In implementing this policy, the Remuneration Committee takes account of information from internal and independent sources and the remuneration paid for comparable positions in FTSE 100 companies, particularly those with overseas interests.
It also seeks regular advice from specialist consultants on the scale and composition of the total remuneration package payable in similar businesses to people with comparable responsibilities, qualications, skills and experience.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 41 Remuneration report continued The executive directors remuneration is reviewed at the start of each financial period.
The main components of their remuneration are as follows: i Basic salaries These reect the Remuneration Committees assessment of the market rate for relevant positions and levels of responsibility and the individual directors experience, performance and value to the business.
No increases were awarded at the start of the current financial period.
ii Performance related remuneration The Remuneration Committee considers it important that executive directors remuneration should include a significant element which is performance based, designed to develop an alignment between the interests of the Companys shareholders and its senior management and to encourage retention.
John Clare, Jeremy Darroch, David Gilbert, David Hamid and David Longbottom participated in the Deferred Equity Participation Plan DEPP which provides both an annual cash bonus and deferred equity participation.
Performance is measured by reference to growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share which the Remuneration Committee considers to be the key indicator of corporate performance.
A bonus based on the level of growth may be payable part in cash and part in shares, the share element being matched by the Company on a basis determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Shares awarded under the DEPP are allocated to a share bank.
After three years, one third of the shares in the share bank is released each year to participants whilst they remain in the Groups employment.
In this way the value of share awards reects the performance of the Company over a number of years, the participants retain a continuing interest in the shares of the Company and are encouraged to remain with the Group.
For the 53 weeks ended 3 May 2003 the maximum bonus payable to the Group Chief Executive was 100 per cent of basic salary for earnings per share growth of 20 per cent with a maximum payable to other participating executive directors of 85 per cent of basic salary.
Any bonus was payable 60 per cent in cash and 40 per cent in shares with a one for one match.
No bonuses were payable for the period as earnings per share growth was below the minimum 5 per cent threshold.
For the financial period beginning on 4 May 2003 the maximum bonus payable to the Group Chief Executive is 100 per cent of basic salary for earnings per share growth of 20 per cent with a maximum payable to other participating executive directors of 85 per cent of basic salary.
Earnings per share growth of 10 per cent will generate bonuses of 70 per cent and 59.5 per cent, respectively.
Any bonus earned is payable 60 per cent in cash and 40 per cent in shares with a one for one match.
No bonuses will be payable unless earnings per share growth exceeds 5 per cent.
Over 400 employees across the Group participate in incentive plans which incorporate an element of deferred equity participation.
The Remuneration Committee does not consider it appropriate for performance to be assessed against a peer group in view of the lack of a meaningful number of validly comparable companies.
iii Bonus arrangements following the disposal of Freeserve In February 2001 following the sale of the Groups majority shareholding in Freeserve plc to Wanadoo S. A. and in accordance with arrangements set out in the circular to shareholders dated 21 December 2000 seeking approval to the sale, the Remuneration Committee approved share bonus arrangements for all employees of the Groups UK businesses as at 23 February 2001 in recognition of their contribution to the substantial shareholder value created by the launch, development and eventual sale of Freeserve.
As part of these arrangements, the executive directors and 35 other members of senior management received awards of shares in the Company, vesting in three equal annual instalments, subject to their remaining in the employment of the Group.
The second instalment was paid in February 2003.
The third and final instalment will be paid in February 2004.
All other employees received awards of Wanadoo S. A. shares, vesting in two equal annual instalments.
The final instalment was paid in February 2003.
42 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 iv Taxable benets Each of the executive directors is provided with a car and related benets or cash payments in lieu and is a member of the non-contributory Dixons Group medical expenses plan.
These benets are similar in scale and type to those applicable in similar companies.
v Pensions and related benets John Clare, Jeremy Darroch, David Gilbert, David Hamid and David Longbottom accrued benets under the senior executive section of the Dixons Retirement and Employee Security Scheme DRESS.
The scheme is a funded, Inland Revenue approved, contributory pension scheme which provides a pension at normal retirement age 60 of two thirds of pensionable salary subject to a minimum period of 20 years membership.
Part of this pension may be commuted for cash at the date of retirement.
Membership of the scheme also confers dependants pensions, insured lump sums on death in service and benets in the event of prolonged disability.
Details of pension benets earned by directors during the financial period are shown on page 48.
Jeremy Darroch is the only executive director whose pensionable salary is limited by the statutory earnings cap currently 99,000 per annum.
He receives a non-pensionable salary supplement equivalent to the contributions which otherwise would have been satisfied by company contributions to DRESS on that part of his pensionable salary which exceeds the earnings cap.
12 months notice has been given to the executive directors that with effect from the financial period beginning in May 2004, cash bonuses will not form part of their pensionable salary.
vi Share options The Remuneration Committee approves the bases on which options are granted to executive directors and employees throughout the Group under the Companys discretionary share option schemes.
Options are normally granted annually to executive directors over shares having a market value equal to their basic salary.
Options are granted to other employees in the UK and overseas on the basis of management grade and to employees with more than three years service.
Over 10,000 employees currently participate in the discretionary share option schemes.
Options granted to the executive directors under the discretionary schemes before July 2003 may not normally be exercised unless the market price on the date of exercise is at least 20 per cent higher than the option price, assuming exercise takes place three years after the date of grant.
For later exercises, the rate of share price growth is adjusted in line with the Retail Price Index RPI.
Exercise is also conditional upon adjusted diluted earnings per share having increased by not less than 3 per cent above the RPI over any consecutive period of three years during the life of the option.
Options to be granted in future will be exercisable only if on the third, fourth or fifth anniversaries of the date of grant, earnings per share growth over the period since the date of grant exceeds the RPI by at least 3 per cent per annum compound.
Options will lapse if the performance conditions have not been met after five years from the date of grant.
Executive directors are also entitled to participate in the Sharesave Scheme on the same conditions as other employees.
vii Service agreements In line with the Remuneration policy, each of the executive directors has a service agreement with DSG Retail Limited which may be terminated at any time by 12 months notice.
Service agreements contain neither a liquidated damages nor a change of control clause.
It is the Companys policy to ensure that any payments made to a director in the event of the early termination of a service agreement reect the circumstances giving rise to termination.
David Hamids service agreement was terminated on 23 May 2003 as a result of the reorganisation of the Groups operations and the elimination of the post of Chief Operating officer.
He received a payment of 419,069 reecting the loss of salary and contractual entitlements applicable to the 12 months notice period under his service agreement dated 6 May 1997.
A payment of 94,039 has been made by the Company to DRESS representing the cost of providing pension benets in respect of his notice period.
The Remuneration Committee has exercised its discretion to allow David Hamid to retain rights until February 2004 over his restricted ordinary shares under the DEPP and the Freeserve bonus arrangements described above.
He also retains rights to share options unexercised at the date of termination of his service agreement subject to the conditions of grant.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 43 Remuneration report continued The service agreements of the other executive directors who served during the financial period were entered into on the following dates: Date Mark Souhami 25 November 1993 John Clare 3 February 1989 Jeremy Darroch 13 May 2002 David Gilbert 6 May 1997 David Longbottom 9 December 2002 The service agreements are available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during normal business hours on each business day.
Non-executive Directors Remuneration Committee Non-executive directors are appointed for xed terms, normally of three years.
Their current terms expire as follows: Date Lord Blackwell 1 September 2003 Karen Cook 2 September 2003 Sir John Collins 11 September 2005 Count Emmanuel dAndr 1 September 2005 Andrew Lynch 20 May 2006 John Whybrow 24 June 2006 At the conclusion of the annual general meeting on 11 September 2002, Sir Stanley Kalms retired as a director and as Chairman.
He was succeeded by Sir John Collins, whose fee is currently 257,500 per annum.
He is a member of the Dixons Group medical expenses plan.
The other non-executive directors receive a fee currently 30,000 per annum or euro equivalent which reects the time which they are required to commit to their duties and amounts paid to non-executive directors in similar companies.
The fee is normally reviewed annually in September.
No additional fees were paid during the financial period to the chairmen of the Audit, Executive Directors Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Lord Blackwell provided additional advisory services for which he was paid a fee of 40,000 per annum.
Andrew Lynch and John Whybrow will receive a fee payable at the rate of 3,700 per annum as chairmen of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, respectively.
Non-executive directors derive no other benets from their ofce and are not eligible to participate in the Groups pension scheme.
It is Company policy not to grant share options to non-executive directors or to require part of their fees to be paid in the form of shares.
During the financial period the Chairman and Deputy Chairman constituted a separate Remuneration Committee which recommended to the Board the fees payable to the non-executive directors.
This Committee was wound up on 20 May 2003.
The remuneration of non-executive directors will in future be determined by the Board upon the recommendations of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director.
The terms and conditions governing the appointment of the non-executive directors are available on application to the Company Secretary.
President Pursuant to an agreement dated 1 October 2002, Sir Stanley Kalms, the former Chairman, was appointed President of the Company for an initial period ending on 16 September 2012.
During his term of ofce as President he will be paid at the rate of 25,000 per annum subject to annual review in line with the RPI.
He will also be provided with ofce facilities, a car and related benets, and membership of the Groups medical expenses plan.
He has retained rights attaching to share options unexercised at the date of his retirement and to the bonus arrangements following the disposal of Freeserve.
He is no longer eligible to participate in discretionary share option schemes or any bonus arrangements.
44 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 Directors remuneration audited information 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 May 27 April Basic salary Cash Taxable 2003 2002 and fees bonus benets Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Current directors Mark Souhami 210 2 212 202 John Clare 585 189 34 808 573 Jeremy Darroch 323 50 19 392 46 David Gilbert 296 93 25 414 319 David Hamid 296 93 25 414 315 David Longbottom 135 11 146 Former directors Sir Stanley Kalms 309 118 34 461 808 Ian Livingston 396 2,154 543 150 2,847 2,659 Non-executive Current directors Sir John Collins 221 1 222 87 Lord Blackwell 71 71 69 Karen Cook 30 30 29 Count Emmanuel dAndr 35 35 7 Former directors Sir Tim Chessells 25 John Curry 12 357 1 358 229 2,511 543 151 3,205 2,888 Cash bonuses comprise a contractual performance payment to Sir Stanley Kalms and amounts payable to other executive directors under the terms of the DEPP in respect of the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2002.
No bonuses are payable in respect of the 53 weeks ended 3 May 2003.
Jeremy Darrochs salary included 26,652 representing contributions which would have been payable to DRESS had his pensionable salary not been subject to the statutory earnings cap.
2002 03 2001 02 2002 03 2001 02 Gross value Gross value Gains from Gains from of shares of shares exercise of exercise of released released share options share options 000 000 000 000 Current directors Mark Souhami 27 68 28 John Clare 424 748 194 14 Jeremy Darroch 33 David Gilbert 184 308 190 David Hamid 178 301 130 David Longbottom 92 Former directors Sir Stanley Kalms 473 14 Ian Livingston 354 938 2,252 194 376 The gross value of shares released comprises share releases under the DEPP and share releases under the bonus arrangements following the disposal of Freeserve, as described on page 42.
Share releases under the DEPP are made annually at the end of April.
Accordingly share releases covering two financial periods were made in the 53 weeks from 28 April 2002 to 3 May 2003.
Each director received the balance of the released shares following the sale of sufficient shares to meet their income tax and national insurance liabilities.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 45 Remuneration report continued Directors share interests audited information Vesting dates At 28 April Awarded in Released in At 3 May April 2004 to Restricted beneficial interests 2002 the period the period 2003 February 2004 April 2006 Mark Souhami 58,794 29,397 29,397 29,397 John Clare 678,979 157,500 397,030 439,449 294,118 145,331 Jeremy Darroch 76,962 41,574 35,294 83,242 35,294 47,948 David Gilbert 280,350 77,720 168,585 189,485 117,647 71,838 David Hamid 274,706 77,720 165,449 186,977 117,647 69,330 David Longbottom 212,603 94,397 118,206 70,588 47,618 The directors restricted beneficial interests comprise shares awarded under the arrangements put in place following the disposal of Freeserve and shares held in trust by Dixons TSR Trust Limited in their share bank under the DEPP described on page 42.
Share releases during the period were made on 30 April 2002, 13 February 2003 and 30 April 2003 at prices of 227.25 pence, 93.25 pence and 111.25 pence respectively.
Shares vesting in February 2004 relate to the bonus arrangements following the disposal of Freeserve.
Shares vesting on other dates relate to shares awarded under the DEPP.
3 May 2003 27 April 2002 Unrestricted Unrestricted beneficial and beneficial and family interests family interests Executive directors Mark Souhami 459,947 442,309 John Clare 1,819,430 1,185,953 Jeremy Darroch 42,352 21,176 David Gilbert 246,000 145,209 David Hamid 211,443 112,521 David Longbottom 62,706 6,307 Non-executive directors Sir John Collins 30,508 Lord Blackwell 12,000 12,000 Karen Cook Count Emmanuel dAndr 1,046 1,000 Date of appointment, if later There were no changes in directors restricted or unrestricted share interests between 3 May 2003 and 25 June 2003 other than as referred to below under directors share options.
Directors share options audited information Discretionary options are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in the six month period following the date of maturity of a three year or five year savings contract.
All options may be exercised earlier in certain circumstances.
The mid-market price of a share on 3 May 2003 was 114.50 pence.
The highest and lowest mid-market prices during the period were 232.50 pence and 79.25 pence, respectively.
Each of the executive directors is technically interested in 3,691,355 ordinary shares 27 April 2002 5,777,608 ordinary shares held by Dixons TSR Trust Limited, the trustee of the employee share ownership trust.
Between 3 May 2003 and 25 June 2003, there were no changes in share options other than the exercise by David Longbottom of an option over 17,424 shares under the Sharesave Scheme.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 47 Remuneration report continued Directors pensions audited information Increase in accrued Accrued Accrued Gross increase pension during Transfer value Transfer value Change in pension pension in accrued the period, of accrued of accrued transfer values as at as at pension during net of benets as at benets as at less members 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 the period ination 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 contributions 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 John Clare 294 226 68 64 3,536 2,764 744 Jeremy Darroch 9 6 33 52 45 1 David Gilbert 150 123 27 25 1,442 1,263 161 David Hamid 146 113 33 31 1,545 1,250 277 David Longbottom 117 92 25 25 2,094 1,482 606 Date of appointment, if later Accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement at age 60, based on eligible service to 3 May 2003.
The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Guidance Note GN 11 Retirement benefit Schemes Transfer Values published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries and dated 6 April 2001.
The difference between the transfer values at the beginning and end of the period includes the effect of uctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and the directors, such as stock market movements.
Total shareholder return The graph below shows the Companys performance measured by total shareholder return on a holding of 100 in the Companys shares over the five years since 3 May 1998 compared with the same amount invested in the FTSE 100 Index and the FTSE General Retailers Index.
The comparative indices have been selected as the Company is a constituent of these indices.
A more selective index of companies is not considered to provide a valid comparison.
Dixons FTSE 100 250 FTSE General 200 Retailers 150 100 50 0 3 May 1 May 29 April 28 April 27 April 3 May 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Source: Thomson Datastream Approved by the Board of Directors on 25 June 2003 and signed on its behalf by Sir John Collins Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 48 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
Applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors are also responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records and sufficient internal controls to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud or any other irregularities.
Independent auditors report To the members of Dixons Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Dixons Group plc for the 53 weeks ended 3 May 2003 which comprise the profit and loss account, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the balance sheets, the cash ow statement and the related notes 1 to 33.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the directors Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant UK legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises only the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operating Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Audit Committee Report and the unaudited part of the directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 49 Independent auditors report continued Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with UK auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys and the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 3 May 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the 53 weeks then ended: and The financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 25 June 2003 50 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 Consolidated profit and loss account 53 weeks ended 3 May 2003 52 weeks ended 27 April 2002 Goodwill Goodwill amortisation amortisation and and Underlying exceptional Underlying exceptional results items Total results items Total Note million million million million million million Turnover 2,3 Continuing operations 5,424.9 5,424.9 4,888.2 4,888.2 Acquisitions 335.6 335.6 5,760.5 5,760.5 4,888.2 4,888.2 Operating profit Continuing operations 269.4 14.3 255.1 281.7 0.7 281.0 Acquisitions 24.6 3.3 21.3 4 294.0 17.6 276.4 281.7 0.7 281.0 Share of profit of associate Continuing operations 2.0 2.0 3.8 3.8 Total operating profit 2,3 296.0 17.6 278.4 285.5 0.7 284.8 Loss profit on sale of investment 4 5.1 5.1 15.1 15.1 profit on ordinary activities before interest 296.0 22.7 273.3 285.5 14.4 299.9 Net interest 5 5.3 5.3 12.4 12.4 Amounts written off investment 4 30.0 30.0 profit on ordinary activities before taxation 301.3 22.7 278.6 297.9 15.6 282.3 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 9 70.6 2.6 68.0 65.1 65.1 profit on ordinary activities after taxation 230.7 20.1 210.6 232.8 15.6 217.2 Equity minority interests 2.8 2.8 6.0 6.0 profit for the period 227.9 20.1 207.8 226.8 15.6 211.2 Equity dividends 10 129.2 129.2 117.3 117.3 Retained profit for the period 23 98.7 20.1 78.6 109.5 15.6 93.9 Earnings per share pence 11 Adjusted diluted before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 11.7p 11.6p Basic 10.7p 11.0p Diluted 10.7p 10.8p Statement of total recognised gains and losses 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 million million profit for the period 207.8 211.2 Currency translation adjustments 43.8 18.2 Unrealised loss on change from associated undertaking to subsidiary 8.7 Total gains and losses recognised in the period 242.9 229.4 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 51 Balance sheets Group Company 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 Note million million million million Fixed assets Intangible assets 12 997.6 484.2 Tangible assets 13 621.3 607.0 0.2 0.3 Investments 14 320.5 479.0 1,490.3 1,601.3 1,939.4 1,570.2 1,490.5 1,601.6 Current assets Stocks 15 779.7 650.0 Debtors falling due within one year 16 438.1 337.6 1,059.1 692.9 falling due after more than one year 16 57.4 85.2 Short term investments 17 713.9 813.9 Cash at bank and in hand 152.0 38.6 31.7 48.5 2,141.1 1,925.3 1,090.8 741.4 Creditors falling due within one year Borrowings 18 151.3 193.8 23.9 186.1 Other creditors 18 1,281.4 1,061.3 1,338.9 1,345.7 1,432.7 1,255.1 1,362.8 1,531.8 Net current assets liabilities 708.4 670.2 272.0 790.4 Total assets less current liabilities 2,647.8 2,240.4 1,218.5 811.2 Creditors falling due after more than one year Borrowings 19 544.5 303.0 297.7 24.8 Other creditors 19 275.7 239.8 820.2 542.8 297.7 24.8 Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 91.8 80.9 4.1 4.8 1,735.8 1,616.7 916.7 781.6 Capital and reserves 23 Called up share capital 48.7 48.6 48.7 48.6 Share premium account 137.9 135.5 137.9 135.5 Capital reserve 158.0 290.0 Merger reserve 386.1 386.1 Capital redemption reserve 425.5 425.5 425.5 425.5 profit and loss account 1,312.4 1,067.6 304.6 172.0 Equity shareholders funds 1,696.4 1,581.1 916.7 781.6 Equity minority interests 39.4 35.6 1,735.8 1,616.7 916.7 781.6 The financial statements were approved by the directors on 25 June 2003 and signed on their behalf by: Sir John Collins Chairman Jeremy Darroch Group Finance Director 52 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 Consolidated cash ow statement 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 Note million million Net cash inow from operating activities 25 340.4 340.3 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Interest received 35.8 47.0 Interest paid 25.8 36.0 10.0 11.0 Taxation paid 71.3 45.2 Capital expenditure and financial investment Purchase of tangible assets 230.6 188.5 Sale of tangible assets 99.2 23.7 Sale of xed asset investments net 122.3 178.4 9.1 13.6 Acquisitions and disposals Consideration for acquisitions 236.6 16.8 Cash acquired with subsidiaries 33.0 Consideration for partial sale of subsidiaries 1.4 0.9 Consideration for acquisition of associated undertaking 66.7 202.2 82.6 Equity dividends paid 119.9 108.1 Net cash outow inow before management of liquid resources and nancing 52.1 129.0 Management of liquid resources Decrease increase in short term investments 25 101.9 20.9 Financing Issue of ordinary share capital 23 1.6 22.7 Decrease in debt due within one year 25 201.1 0.5 Increase decrease in debt due after more than one year 25 251.8 154.6 52.3 132.4 Increase decrease in cash in the period 25 102.1 24.3 Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net funds 25 Increase decrease in cash in the period 102.1 24.3 Cash inow outow from decrease increase in short term investments 101.9 20.9 Cash inow outow from increase decrease in debt 50.7 155.1 Decrease increase in net funds resulting from cash ows 50.5 151.7 Debt arising from or issued for acquisitions 78.6 Currency translation adjustments 56.5 4.5 Movement in net funds in the period 185.6 156.2 Opening net funds 355.7 199.5 Closing net funds 170.1 355.7 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 53 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK law and applicable accounting standards.
The Group has adopted the transitional arrangements of FRS 17 Retirement benets, which have no impact on the Groups primary statements, but involve additional disclosures which are detailed in note 27.
The principal accounting policies are set out below: 1.1 Accounting convention and basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries are included from the date on which control passes.
The net assets of subsidiaries acquired are recorded at their fair values, reecting their condition at that date.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of are included up to the effective date of disposal.
Associated undertakings are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
1.2 Turnover Turnover comprises sales of goods, services and property excluding sales taxes.
1.3 Extended warranty and service contracts Extended warranty and service contracts are included in turnover in the period in which they are sold.
Full provision is made for liabilities for repair costs which the Group has assumed under these contracts.
1.4 Operating leases Rentals payable under property leases are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments up to each market rent review date throughout the lease term.
Rentals payable under leases for plant and machinery are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the total lease term.
1.5 Goodwill On acquisition of a subsidiary or associated undertaking, the fair value of the consideration is allocated between the identiable net tangible and intangible assets liabilities on a fair value basis, with any excess consideration representing goodwill.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included within intangible xed assets.
Goodwill relating to associated undertakings is included within the carrying value of the associated undertaking.
On a change from an investment in associated undertaking to a subsidiary, goodwill is calculated in accordance with FRS 2 Accounting for subsidiary undertakings.
This represents a departure, for the purposes of showing a true and fair view, from the requirements of paragraph 9, Schedule 4A to the Companies Act 1985.
Under the Companies Act 1985, goodwill on acquisition of a subsidiary is determined as a one stage calculation by considering the difference between the fair value of all identiable assets and liabilities and the aggregate consideration payable by the date that control passes and the entity is consolidated into the Groups balance sheet.
Under FRS 2, separate calculations of goodwill are made at each stage of acquisition.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised as an asset on the balance sheet.
Where goodwill is regarded as having a limited useful economic life, it is amortised on a systematic basis over its estimated life up to a maximum of 20 years.
Impairment reviews of goodwill are carried out at the end of the first full financial year of ownership and at other times if there are indications that the carrying amount may not be supportable.
Where goodwill is regarded as having an indefinite life it is not amortised.
As permitted by FRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets, this represents a departure, for the purposes of giving a true and fair view, from the requirements of paragraph 21, Schedule 4 to the Companies Act 1985, which requires goodwill to be amortised.
The estimated useful economic life is regarded as indefinite where goodwill is capable of continued measurement and the durability of the acquired business can be demonstrated.
Where goodwill is not amortised, an annual impairment review is performed and any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account.
In estimating the useful economic life of goodwill, account is taken of the nature of the business acquired, the stability of the industry in which it operates, the extent of continuing barriers to market entry and the expected future impact of competition.
As permitted by FRS 10, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 2 May 1999 remains eliminated against reserves.
This goodwill will be charged in the profit and loss account as appropriate on the subsequent disposal of the business to which it relates.
54 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 1 Accounting policies continued 1.6 Tangible xed assets Tangible xed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment or estimated loss on disposal.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful lives.
The rates used are: Short leasehold property over the term of the lease 2 1 Freehold and long leasehold buildings between 1 % and 2 % per annum 3 2 1 Fixtures, ttings and equipment between 10% and 33 % per annum 3 No depreciation is provided on freehold and long leasehold land or on assets in the course of construction.
1.7 Investments Investments held as xed assets are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
In the consolidated financial statements, shares in associated undertakings are accounted for using the net equity method.
The consolidated profit and loss account includes the Groups share of the operating profits, net interest and attributable taxation of the associated undertaking.
In the consolidated balance sheet, the investment in associated undertakings is shown as the Groups share of the net assets of the associated undertakings.
Short term investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value with the exception of assets held to maturity, which are stated at cost net of amortised premium or discount.
1.8 Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of properties held for development includes the net development outgoings attributable to such properties and interest incurred during development on those projects where it is expected, on commencement, that the period will exceed one years duration.
1.9 Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided for in full on all timing differences which have not reversed at the balance sheet date.
No provision is made for tax which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries or associated undertakings, unless the distribution of such earnings has been accrued in the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
1.10 Translation of foreign currencies The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange during the period.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of the results and balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings and related foreign currency borrowings are charged or credited to reserves.
Other exchange differences arising from foreign currency transactions are included in profit on ordinary activities before taxation.
1.11 Post retirement benets The expected cost of providing pensions for funded dened benefit pension schemes is calculated periodically by qualied actuaries and is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members in such a way that the pension cost is a substantially level percentage of current and expected future pensionable payroll.
Company contributions to dened contribution pension schemes and contributions made to state pension schemes for certain overseas employees are charged to the profit and loss account on an accruals basis as contributions become payable.
1.12 Derivative financial instruments derivatives Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate derivatives are recognised as adjustments to interest over the period of the contract.
Foreign currency borrowings, investments and foreign exchange gains or losses on derivatives held to hedge net assets are carried in the balance sheet at the rates at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses in respect of hedging of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings and investments denominated in foreign currencies are taken to reserves.
Gains or losses in respect of hedging of future transactions are deferred and recognised as appropriate when the hedged transaction occurs.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 55 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental analysis a Turnover and operating profit 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 Underlying Underlying operating Operating operating Operating Turnover profit profit Turnover profit profit million million million million million million Continuing operations: UK Retail 4,452.2 237.0 223.4 4,121.8 253.6 253.6 International Retail 926.2 17.4 16.7 688.4 12.1 11.4 European Property 46.5 15.0 15.0 78.0 16.0 16.0 5,424.9 269.4 255.1 4,888.2 281.7 281.0 Acquisitions: UK Retail 73.1 3.3 International Retail 262.5 21.3 21.3 335.6 24.6 21.3 Group excluding associated undertakings 5,760.5 294.0 276.4 4,888.2 281.7 281.0 Associated undertakings 2.0 2.0 3.8 3.8 5,760.5 296.0 278.4 4,888.2 285.5 284.8 UK Retail underlying operating profit is stated after recognising net property profits of 9.8 million 2001 02 9.5 million which is shown as other operating income in note 3. b Net assets 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 million million UK Retail 238.4 201.7 International Retail: Base excluding associated undertakings 1,136.8 662.1 Associated undertakings 69.9 European Property 67.4 31.5 Net operating assets 1,442.6 965.2 Net non-operating assets 123.1 295.8 Net funds 170.1 355.7 Net assets 1,735.8 1,616.7 The International Retail division operates in the Nordic region, Italy, Spain, France, Ireland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Greece.
The European Property division operates mainly in Belgium, Luxembourg, France and Germany.
There were no material exports from the locations in which the Group operates.
Associated undertakings comprised UniEuro S. p. A. UniEuro, which operates in Italy.
On 11 November 2002, the Group acquired a further 71.4% of UniEuro which has been included as a subsidiary from this date.
Net non-operating assets predominantly comprise the Groups investment in Wanadoo S. A. dividends payable and deferred consideration.
Net funds include amounts held under trust to fund extended warranty and service contract liabilities.
56 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 3 Operating profit 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended Continuing 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 operations Acquisitions Total Total million million million million Turnover 5,424.9 335.6 5,760.5 4,888.2 Cost of sales: Underlying 4,823.3 302.4 5,125.7 4,303.1 Exceptional 3.3 3.3 4,826.6 302.4 5,129.0 4,303.1 Gross profit 598.3 33.2 631.5 585.1 Distribution costs 129.3 2.9 132.2 118.9 Administrative expenses: Underlying 212.7 5.7 218.4 194.0 Goodwill amortisation 0.7 3.3 4.0 0.7 Exceptional 10.3 10.3 223.7 9.0 232.7 194.7 Other operating income 9.8 9.8 9.5 Share of operating profit of associated undertaking 2.0 2.0 3.8 257.1 21.3 278.4 284.8 2002 03 2001 02 million million Operating profit is stated after charging: Goodwill amortisation 4.0 0.7 Depreciation 118.2 104.0 Auditors remuneration audit services 0.7 0.6 Rentals paid under operating leases plant and machinery 4.9 3.2 other 259.4 218.0 Additional fees were paid to the auditors of 0.8 million 2001 02 0.3 million which are included within operating profit and relate predominantly to taxation advice.
Further fees of 0.3 million 2001 02 0.5 million were paid principally in respect of acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings and have been included as part of the cost of these acquisitions.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 57 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Goodwill amortisation and exceptional Items 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 million million Operating items: Goodwill amortisation 4.0 0.7 Restructuring charge i 13.6 17.6 0.7 Non-operating items: Loss profit on sale of investment ii 5.1 15.1 5.1 15.1 Amounts written off investments iii 30.0 i Restructuring charge: 2002 03 relates to a reorganisation of the Groups operations in order to realign the Groups cost base and protect future profitability.
Costs include employee severance, predominantly in administrative and service functions, surplus leasehold property obligations and xed asset impairment 2001 02 nil.
ii Loss profit on sale of investment: 2002 03 loss relates to the sale of 40.4 million shares in Wanadoo S. A.
2001 02 profit relates to the sale of 51.3 million shares in Wanadoo S. A.. iii Amounts written off investments: 2002 03 nil 2001 02 relates to the Groups investment in P. Kotsovolos S. A.. 5 Net interest 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 million million Interest receivable and similar income 39.1 46.5 Interest payable: Bank loans and overdrafts 17.3 18.7 Other loans 17.4 15.8 34.7 34.5 Interest capitalised 0.9 0.4 5.3 12.4 6 Employees 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 million million Staff costs for the period were: Wages and salaries 555.3 490.0 Social security costs 53.6 46.1 Other pension costs 18.7 12.7 627.6 548.8 Employees Employees The average number of employees, including part-time employees, was: UK Retail 29,654 29,979 International Retail 5,692 3,545 European Property 36 33 35,382 33,557 7 Directors Details of directors remuneration, pensions, share options and other entitlements, which form part of these financial statements, are given in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report which is described as having been audited.
58 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 8 Employee share ownership trusts Dixons TSR Trust Limited is the trustee of a number of employee share ownership trusts the Trusts.
The Trusts hold shares in the Company which may subsequently be awarded to specified executive directors and senior employees under the Deferred Equity Participation Plan DEPP and under bonus arrangements entered into following the disposal of Freeserve.
Details of the DEPP and bonus arrangements are given in the Remuneration Report in sections ii and iii, respectively.
The Company aims to hedge its liability under the DEPP and bonus arrangements by buying shares through the Trusts to meet the anticipated future liability.
The anticipated liability is regularly reassessed during the period and additional shares are purchased when required to meet an increase in this liability.
The cost of funding and administering the Trusts is charged to the profit and loss account in the period to which it relates.
The cost of the shares is being amortised over the vesting period of the DEPP.
Of these shares, 1,421,129 27 April 2002 4,211,688 have been provisionally awarded to participants in the DEPP and bonus arrangements.
Dixons TSR Trust Limited has waived all dividends except for a total payment of 1 pence at the time each dividend is paid.
The mid-market price of a share on 3 May 2003 was 114.5 pence.
During the year, 2,189,585 shares in the Company were released to employees under the terms of the bonus arrangements referred to above.
9 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 million million Current taxation: UK corporation tax at 30% 53.0 54.7 Overseas taxation the Company and its subsidiaries 11.3 9.3 associated undertakings 0.6 1.3 Adjustment in respect of earlier periods: Corporation tax 1.5 0.1 Overseas taxation 0.4 0.5 63.8 65.7 Deferred taxation: Current period 6.4 0.8 Credit in respect of exceptional items 2.6 Adjustment in respect of earlier periods 0.4 1.4 4.2 0.6 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 68.0 65.1 A reconciliation of the notional current tax charge to the actual current tax charge is set out below: profit on ordinary activities at UK statutory rate of 30% 83.6 84.7 Non-deductible goodwill and exceptional items 6.8 4.5 Underlying profit on ordinary activities at UK statutory rate of 30% 90.4 89.2 Capital allowances for the period in excess of depreciation 0.9 4.8 Other timing differences 5.5 4.0 Differences in effective overseas taxation rates 15.7 21.5 Other 3.4 1.6 Adjustment in respect of earlier periods 1.1 0.4 Current taxation on profit on ordinary activities 63.8 65.7 As a result of changes to UK Controlled Foreign Company legislation, the effective tax rate for the Group is expected to rise in future periods.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 59 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Dividends 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 Per share million Per share million On ordinary shares of 2.5p each Interim 1.510p 29.2 1.375p 26.5 Proposed final 5.145p 100.0 4.675p 90.8 Ordinary dividends paid and proposed 6.655p 129.2 6.050p 117.3 11 Earnings per share 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 million million Basic earnings 207.8 211.2 Diluted earnings 207.8 211.2 Goodwill amortisation 4.0 0.7 Exceptional items, including taxation 16.1 14.9 Adjusted diluted earnings 227.9 226.8 million million Basic weighted average number of shares 1,940.3 1,925.9 Employee share option and ownership schemes 9.5 20.9 Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,949.8 1,946.8 pence pence Basic earnings per share 10.7 11.0 Diluted earnings per share 10.7 10.8 Goodwill amortisation 0.2 Exceptional items, including taxation 0.8 0.8 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 11.7 11.6 Adjusted earnings per share are calculated using underlying earnings and are shown in order to disclose the impact of goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
60 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 12 Intangible xed assets Group Goodwill million Cost At 28 April 2002 486.5 Acquisitions 347.0 Transfer from associated undertakings 83.6 Currency retranslation 86.8 At 3 May 2003 1,003.9 Amortisation At 28 April 2002 2.3 Charge for the period 4.0 Currency retranslation At 3 May 2003 6.3 Net book value At 3 May 2003 997.6 At 27 April 2002 484.2 Elkjp is expected to continue to maintain its market share and profitability over the long term and it is not therefore possible to identify a nite useful economic life for the goodwill of 517.2 million arising on its acquisition.
It is considered that the barriers to entry which exist in Elkjps markets, which are anticipated to continue, will prove this goodwill to be durable.
Goodwill arising on UniEuro of 437.9 million has been calculated in accordance with FRS 2, which represents a departure for the purposes of showing a true and fair view as described in note 1.
Had the value of UniEuros goodwill been calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, goodwill of 443.6 million would have been generated rather than 437.9 million.
The goodwill is regarded as having an indefinite economic life owing to the businesss market leading profitability and the expectation that this will continue in the long term.
The application by the directors of an annual impairment test supports the value of both the Elkjp and UniEuro goodwill and, as a result, no charge for impairment is required at the balance sheet date.
Because of the indefinite lives attributable to both Elkjp and UniEuro goodwill, there is no amortisation charge in the profit and loss account in respect of these acquisitions.
The adoption of indefinite lives represents a departure from the Companies Act 1985 for the purposes of showing a true and fair view.
It has not been possible to quantify the effect of this departure from the Companies Act 1985 because no nite life for the goodwill can be identied.
Goodwill arising on other acquisitions is amortised over periods not exceeding 20 years.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 61 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Tangible xed assets Group Company Fixtures, Fixtures, Land and ttings and ttings and buildings equipment Total equipment million million million million Cost At 28 April 2002 199.1 985.7 1,184.8 2.9 Acquisitions 15.4 15.4 Additions 86.8 146.5 233.3 Disposals 121.3 26.8 148.1 Currency retranslation 4.5 12.8 17.3 At 3 May 2003 169.1 1,133.6 1,302.7 2.9 Depreciation At 28 April 2002 9.6 568.2 577.8 2.6 Charge for the period 2.9 115.3 118.2 0.1 Disposals 0.8 22.4 23.2 Exceptional impairment 2.9 2.9 Currency retranslation 0.5 5.2 5.7 At 3 May 2003 12.2 669.2 681.4 2.7 Net book value At 3 May 2003 156.9 464.4 621.3 0.2 At 27 April 2002 189.5 417.5 607.0 0.3 Long Short Freehold leasehold leasehold Total million million million million Land and buildings at cost to the Group At 3 May 2003 129.3 2.8 36.9 169.0 At 27 April 2002 164.5 1.9 32.7 199.1 Land and buildings include 26.6 million of land not depreciated 27 April 2002 72.9 million.
Land and buildings and xtures, ttings and equipment include 30.0 million and 36.0 million, respectively of assets in the course of construction 27 April 2002 8.1 million and 27.0 million, respectively.
62 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 14 Fixed asset investments Group Investment in associated undertakings Own shares Investments Total million million million million At 28 April 2002 69.9 2.0 407.1 479.0 Additions 0.7 0.7 Disposals 138.2 138.2 Amortisation of own shares 0.2 0.2 Share of retained profits 1.4 1.4 Transfer of investments to subsidiary undertakings 73.7 73.7 Currency retranslation 2.4 49.1 51.5 At 3 May 2003 1.8 318.7 320.5 Company Subsidiary undertakings Own shares Investments Total million million million million Cost and net book value At 28 April 2002 1,203.0 2.0 396.3 1,601.3 Disposals 138.2 138.2 Amortisation of own shares 0.2 0.2 Currency retranslation 27.4 27.4 At 3 May 2003 1,203.0 1.8 285.5 1,490.3 The transfer of investments to subsidiary undertakings relates to the Groups 24.3 per cent of the ordinary share capital of UniEuro owned prior to acquisition of a further 71.4 per cent on 11 November 2002.
Own shares held by the Group and the Company represent the shares in the Company held by Dixons TSR Trust further details of which are given in note 8.
The net cost to the Group of these shares is charged to the profit and loss account over the relevant performance period.
These shares had a market value at 3 May 2003 of 4.2 million 27 April 2002 13.0 million and their nominal value was 0.1 million 27 April 2002 0.1 million.
Investments held by the Group include the following listed investments: Market value at Relevant Net book value 3 May 2003 exchange million million Wanadoo S. A. Paris 300.5 359.4 P. Kotsovolos S. A. Athens 13.4 4.6 Sense Communications A. S. A. Oslo 2.4 2.6 316.3 366.6 Approximately 37.5 million shares in Wanadoo S. A. are held to cover potential Wanadoo S. A. share obligations for the 1% Exchangeable Bond 2004, further details of which are provided in note19.
A further 48.4 million shares in Wanadoo S. A. are subject to lock up arrangements preventing their sale until after February 2004.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 63 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Stocks Group 2003 2002 million million Finished goods and goods for resale 699.9 615.7 Properties held for development or resale 79.8 34.3 779.7 650.0 Properties held for development or resale include interest of 1.8 2.7 16 Debtors Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 million million million million Falling due within one year Trade debtors 224.2 207.5 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 1,028.2 690.6 Corporation tax recoverable 3.3 0.2 Overseas taxation recoverable 1.9 0.2 Other debtors 102.5 10.5 25.5 Prepayments and accrued income 106.2 119.2 5.4 2.3 438.1 337.6 1,059.1 692.9 Falling due after more than one year Other debtors 2.2 2.1 Prepayments and accrued income 55.2 83.1 57.4 85.2 495.5 422.8 1,059.1 692.9 17 Short term investments Group 2003 2002 million million Listed 317.1 351.5 Unlisted 396.8 462.4 713.9 813.9 Listed investments mainly comprise oating rate notes.
Unlisted investments mainly comprise money market deposits.
64 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 18 Creditors falling due within one year Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 million million million million Borrowings 3 7 % Guaranteed Bond 2004 99.9 4 Bank overdrafts 8.3 4.3 23.9 20.1 Other borrowings 43.1 189.5 166.0 151.3 193.8 23.9 186.1 Other creditors Trade creditors 523.4 472.9 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 1,184.5 1,246.4 Corporation tax 75.6 88.7 4.7 1.8 Other taxation and social security payable 48.6 30.7 Extended warranty and service contract liabilities 94.7 94.0 Other creditors 166.7 79.2 Accruals and deferred income 272.1 204.8 49.5 6.5 Dividends payable 100.3 91.0 100.2 91.0 1,281.4 1,061.3 1,338.9 1,345.7 1,432.7 1,255.1 1,362.8 1,531.8 Borrowings include 19.1 million 27 April 2002 nil secured by legal charges over properties held for development or resale by the European Property division and nil 27 April 2002 0.6 million secured by legal charges over properties 3 held within the Retail divisions.
The 7 % Guaranteed Bond 2004, which is unsecured, is guaranteed by the Company 4 and DSG Retail Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled it will be redeemed at par on 16 February 2004.
Trade creditors include 6.8 million 27 April 2002 nil secured over the net assets of a subsidiary undertaking.
19 Creditors falling due after more than one year Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 million million million million Borrowings 3 7 % Guaranteed Bond 2004 99.8 4 1% Exchangeable Bond 2004 180.5 160.6 6.125% Guaranteed Bond 2012 297.7 297.7 Loans repayable: In more than one year but not more than two years 26.0 16.5 4.3 In more than two years but not more than five years 39.6 25.1 20.5 In more than five years 0.7 1.0 544.5 303.0 297.7 24.8 Other creditors Extended warranty and service contract liabilities 172.7 189.0 Other creditors 103.0 50.8 275.7 239.8 820.2 542.8 297.7 24.8 Borrowings include 8.9 million 27 April 2002 11.1 million secured by legal charges over properties held for development or resale by the European Property division and 0.8 million 27 April 2002 4.1 million secured by legal charges over properties held within the Retail divisions.
The 1% Exchangeable Bond 2004, which is listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, is euro denominated at 260 million and is exchangeable into ordinary shares in Wanadoo S. A. at the option of the bondholder, at the level of approximately 144 shares for each 1,000 principal amount of the bonds at a price of 6.94 per share up to 24 June 2004.
Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled, it will be redeemed on 5 July 2004.
The sterling denominated 6.125% Guaranteed Bond 2012, which is unsecured, is guaranteed by DSG Retail Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled it will be redeemed at par on 15 November 2012.
Further details are included in note 20.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 65 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Financial instruments A statement of the Groups objectives, policies and strategies with regard to financial instruments is contained in the Financial Review under the section entitled Treasury policies.
Short term debtors and creditors have been excluded from these disclosures as permitted by FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures.
Additional information on xed asset investments is included in note 14. a Interest rate and currency prole of financial assets and financial liabilities After taking into account the various interest rate and currency swaps entered into by the Group, the currency and interest rate exposures of its financial assets and liabilities were: 2003 Norwegian Other Sterling Kroner Euro currencies Total million million million million million Cash and short term investments: Floating rate 744.9 7.6 81.6 23.0 857.1 Fixed rate 0.9 7.9 8.8 745.8 7.6 89.5 23.0 865.9 Borrowings: Floating rate 58.0 320.3 2.9 381.2 Fixed Rate 128.2 186.4 314.6 186.2 506.7 2.9 695.8 Net funds debt at period end 559.6 7.6 417.2 20.1 170.1 Fixed asset investments 1.3 3.2 316.0 320.5 Extended warranty and service contract liabilities: Falling due within one year 93.8 0.9 94.7 Falling due after more than one year 169.9 2.8 172.7 263.7 3.7 267.4 Other creditors falling due after more than one year 58.1 58.1 2002 Norwegian Other Sterling Kroner Euro currencies Total million million million million million Cash and short term investments: Floating rate 813.1 5.3 32.3 0.9 851.6 Fixed rate 0.9 0.9 814.0 5.3 32.3 0.9 852.5 Borrowings: Floating rate 16.0 4.1 206.6 3.4 230.1 Fixed Rate 99.8 160.6 6.3 266.7 115.8 4.1 367.2 9.7 496.8 Net funds debt at period end 698.2 1.2 334.9 8.8 355.7 Fixed asset investments 1.3 2.2 475.5 479.0 Extended warranty and service contract liabilities: Falling due within one year 93.4 0.6 94.0 Falling due after more than one year 186.7 2.3 189.0 280.1 2.9 283.0 All short term foreign currency investments are money market deposits with maturities of less than one month.
Fixed asset investments, extended warranty and service contract liabilities and other creditors falling due after more than one year are non-interest bearing.
Additional information is included in note 14.
66 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 20 Financial instruments continued Net borrowings, excluding amounts held under trust to fund extended warranty and service contract liabilities, totalled 138.0 million 27 April 2002 net free cash of 55.7 million.
The principal sterling interest rate risks of the Group arise in respect of the Groups net cash and investments and interest based credit commissions.
Each is based on oating interest rates and the two elements provide a natural hedge against each other.
Sterling cash and investments include 308.1 million 27 April 2002 300.0 million held under trust to fund extended warranty and service contract liabilities.
Floating rate assets consist of money market deposits and oating rate notes bearing rates xed in advance ranging from overnight to six months.
The average period until the next rexing is 30 days 2001 02 37 days.
Floating rate sterling borrowings comprise bank borrowings and overdrafts that bear interest at rates based on LIBOR.
Fixed rate sterling borrowings at 3 May 2003 3 comprise the 7 % Guaranteed Bonds 2004 and the 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012.
The 300 million 6.125% 4 Guaranteed Bonds 2012 have been swapped into oating rate borrowings.
250 million of these borrowings were also swapped into euros in order to finance the acquisition of UniEuro, further details of which are shown in note 26.
After taking account of interest rate swaps entered into by the Group, the weighted average period for which the rate is xed is 0.7 years 2001 02 1.8 years.
Floating rate euro borrowings represent bank borrowings, based on EURIBOR, to provide a hedge against euro denominated xed asset investments and to finance European Property stock held for development or resale.
Fixed rate euro borrowings comprise the 1% Exchangeable Bond 2004 which also provides a hedge against euro denominated xed asset investments.
Amounts in respect of other currencies largely relate to funds held within Electro World and the Elkjp group.
b Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 2003 2003 2002 2002 million million million million Fixed asset investments excluding associated undertakings 320.5 373.2 409.1 500.0 Cash and investments: Cash at bank and in hand 152.0 152.0 38.6 38.6 Short term investments 713.9 713.7 813.9 814.1 865.9 865.7 852.5 852.7 Borrowings due: In one year or less or on demand 151.3 155.7 193.8 193.8 In more than one year but not more than two years 206.5 226.9 116.3 120.1 In more than two years but not more than five years 39.6 39.6 185.7 207.2 In more than five years 298.4 309.0 1.0 1.0 695.8 731.2 496.8 522.1 Extended warranty and service contract liabilities: Falling due within one year 94.7 94.7 94.0 94.0 Falling due after more than one year 172.7 172.7 189.0 189.0 267.4 267.4 283.0 283.0 Other creditors falling due after more than one year 58.1 58.1 Derivatives held to: Manage the interest rate prole 0.2 0.6 Manage currency exposure 1.0 16.0 1.1 Hedge net assets 0.8 Hedge future transactions expected to occur within one year 0.5 3.5 expected to occur after more than one year 1.5 Most assets and liabilities are held at oating rates and therefore the fair value is close to the book value with the exception of the Groups bonds where a premium exists to the book value due to the coupon rate and exchange rights for the Guaranteed Bonds and the Exchangeable Bond, respectively.
Fair values are derived from market values.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 67 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Financial instruments continued c Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging The Group enters into forward foreign exchange currency contracts to manage exposures that arise on purchases and sales denominated in foreign currencies.
It also uses swaps to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange translation exposures.
Unrecognised net gains and losses on hedging instruments are as follows: Gains Losses Net total million million million On hedges at 28 April 2002 7.0 2.5 4.5 Arising in previous periods recognised in 2002 03 profit and loss account 6.9 2.4 4.5 Arising in previous periods not recognised in 2002 03 profit and loss account 0.1 0.1 Arising in 2002 03 not recognised in 2002 03 1.0 17.7 16.7 On hedges at 3 May 2003 1.1 17.8 16.7 Of which: Expected to be recognised within one year 0.5 2.4 1.9 Expected to be recognised after more than one year 0.6 15.4 14.8 d Currency risk The Groups policy is to hedge all significant transaction exposures on monetary assets and liabilities and consequently there are no material currency exposures that would give rise to gains and losses in the profit and loss account in the functional currencies of the operating businesses.
21 Borrowing facilities Group 2003 2002 million million The Group had available the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities at the period end: Expiry date: Within one year 29.2 2.1 In more than one year, but not more than two years 309.8 8.4 In more than two years 129.5 339.0 140.0 68 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 22 Provisions for liabilities and charges Deferred Restructuring taxation costs Other Total million million million million Group At 28 April 2002 69.2 6.7 5.0 80.9 Charge in the period 4.2 10.7 14.9 Arising from acquisitions 0.7 0.7 Utilised 3.7 0.7 4.4 Reclassication 0.2 0.2 Exchange translation adjustments 0.1 0.1 At 3 May 2003 74.0 13.7 4.1 91.8 Company At 28 April 2002 4.8 4.8 Credit in the period 0.5 0.5 Utilised 0.7 0.7 At 3 May 2003 0.5 4.1 3.6 Amounts provided in the period for restructuring relate to the reorganisation of the Groups operations, which are further described in note 4 and which are expected to be utilised both within one year and in periods not expected to exceed five years.
The deferred taxation asset shown for the Company is included within other debtors in note 16.
Group 2003 2002 million million The net provision for deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated capital allowances 23.1 22.1 Other timing differences 50.9 47.1 74.0 69.2 As a result of share disposals, allowable losses have been incurred which are available for offset against certain future chargeable gains.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses as it is considered that there is insufficient evidence that chargeable gains will arise.
The deferred tax asset not recognised, measured at the standard rate of 30%, is not less than 400 million.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on these earnings in the foreseeable future.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 69 Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Shareholders funds and share capital a Shareholders funds Group Share Capital profit Share premium Capital Merger redemption and loss capital account reserve reserve reserve account Total million million million million million million million At 28 April 2002 48.6 135.5 290.0 386.1 425.5 1,067.6 1,581.1 Retained profit 78.6 78.6 Currency retranslation 43.8 43.8 Unrealised loss on change from associated undertaking to subsidiary 8.7 8.7 Transfer 132.0 132.0 Ordinary shares issued: Share options employees 0.1 1.5 1.6 employee trusts 0.9 0.9 At 3 May 2003 48.7 137.9 158.0 386.1 425.5 1,312.4 1,696.4 Company At 28 April 2002 48.6 135.5 425.5 172.0 781.6 Retained profit 133.5 133.5 Ordinary shares issued: Share options employees 0.1 1.5 1.6 employee trusts 0.9 0.9 At 3 May 2003 48.7 137.9 425.5 304.6 916.7 As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no profit and loss account for the Company is included in these financial statements.
The transfer from the capital reserve to the profit and loss account represents the attributable profit in respect of Wanadoo S. A. shares exchanged for the Groups holding in Freeserve in 2000 01 that were released from lock up arrangements in the period.
The movement on the profit and loss account reserve of 8.7 million arising from the change of investment in associated undertaking to subsidiary relates to the difference arising in the calculation of goodwill for UniEuro under FRS 2 compared with that prescribed by the Companies Act 1985.
Further details are given in note 12.
The cumulative amount of goodwill written off directly against reserves at the start and end of the period in respect of undertakings still within the Group is 127.9 million.
b Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 2003 2002 million million Opening equity shareholders funds 1,581.1 1,446.3 profit for the period 207.8 211.2 Dividends 129.2 117.3 78.6 93.9 Other recognised gains and losses relating to the period 35.1 18.2 Ordinary shares issued: Share option and ownership schemes 1.6 22.7 Net additions to equity shareholders funds 115.3 134.8 Closing equity shareholders funds 1,696.4 1,581.1 c Called up share capital 2003 2002 million million Authorised 4,980,252,496 27 April 2002 4,980,252,496 ordinary shares of 2.5p each 124.5 124.5 Allotted and fully paid 1,946,742,907 27 April 2002 1,945,120,052 ordinary shares of 2.5p each 48.7 48.6 During the period 1,622,855 shares were issued in respect of options exercised under employee share option schemes.
Options granted under discretionary schemes are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
Exercise under the discretionary schemes is conditional upon a dened minimum increase in the market price of a share and, in certain cases, to the attainment of a specified rate of growth in the Companys adjusted earnings per share.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 71 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Notes to the cash ow statement a Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inow from operating activities 2002 03 2001 02 million million Operating profit 278.4 284.8 Depreciation 118.2 104.0 Amortisation of goodwill and own shares 4.2 1.0 Share of profit of associated undertaking 2.0 3.8 profit on disposal of xed assets 9.8 9.5 Net additions to utilisation of exceptional provisions and impairment 9.2 5.4 Increase in stocks 25.1 59.5 Decrease increase in debtors 17.9 31.8 Decrease increase in creditors 50.6 60.5 340.4 340.3 b Analysis of cash ows for headings netted in the cash ow statement 2002 03 2001 02 million million Net decrease increase in current asset investments Money market and other xed rate deposits 68.7 19.4 Floating rate notes 33.2 40.3 101.9 20.9 Net decrease increase in debt due within one year 3 7 % Guaranteed Bond 2001 99.9 4 Secured borrowings 18.5 7.9 Other short term borrowings 219.6 107.3 201.1 0.5 Net increase decrease in debt due after more than one year 1% Exchangeable Bond 2004 160.6 6.125% Guaranteed Bond 2012 297.7 Secured borrowings 5.5 1.3 Other borrowings 40.4 313.9 251.8 154.6 c Analysis of net funds Acquisitions Other 28 April excluding cash non-cash Exchange 3 May 2002 Cash ow and overdrafts movements movements 2003 million million million million million million Cash at bank and in hand 38.6 106.1 7.3 152.0 Overdraft 4.3 4.0 8.3 34.3 102.1 7.3 143.7 Short term investments 813.9 101.9 1.9 713.9 Debt due within one year 189.5 201.1 47.9 99.9 6.8 143.0 Debt due after more than one year 303.0 251.8 30.7 99.9 58.9 544.5 321.4 152.6 78.6 63.8 26.4 355.7 50.5 78.6 56.5 170.1 Included within acquisitions excluding cash and overdrafts is 30.7 million of loan notes issued as consideration to acquire Genesis Communications, as described in note 26.
72 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 26 Acquisitions On 7 May 2002, the Group acquired Direct Telephone Services Limited trading as Genesis Communications.
Consideration and costs payable amount to a maximum of 34.7 million.
Consideration and costs were satisfied by the issue of 30.7 million in loan notes and 1.9 million in cash.
Additional consideration of up to 0.2 million is payable in cash.
The fair value of net liabilities acquired amounted to 0.3 million resulting in goodwill arising of 33.1 million.
This goodwill is being amortised over its estimated useful economic life of 10 years.
An additional 2 million in loan notes is payable dependent on the achievement of earnings targets.
On 11 November 2002, the Group acquired legal title to a further 71.4 per cent of the issued share capital of UniEuro for 365.7 million 233.0 million in cash and deferred consideration of 2.5 million payable in July 2004.
On this date, the Group also acquired economic control of the remaining 4.3 per cent of the issued share capital owned by management, for which consideration of 29.8 million is deferred to July 2004.
Legal title to this share was acquired by the Group on 3 June 2003.
Adjustments to reect the provisional fair value of UniEuros assets and liabilities acquired are as follows: Accounting Net assets policy Fair value to acquired alignment the Group million million million Intangible xed assets 117.1 117.1 Tangible xed assets 14.8 14.8 Investments 0.3 0.3 Cash 30.2 30.2 Other current assets 105.8 105.8 Borrowings falling due within one year 47.9 47.9 Other creditors falling due within one year 143.6 143.6 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 38.5 38.5 38.2 117.1 78.9 Share of net liabilities previously held as investment in associated undertaking 19.2 59.7 Goodwill 313.8 Consideration 254.1 satisfied by: Cash consideration and costs 233.5 Deferred consideration 20.6 Consideration 254.1 Fair value adjustments were applied to the net assets of UniEuro upon acquiring the original share of 24.3 per cent which related to stocks 6.9 million and certain liabilities not previously recorded 8.0 million.
No adjustments were made for fair values as compared with book values upon acquisition on 11 November 2002.
The accounting policy alignment adjustment relates to writing off intangible assets in accordance with Group accounting policy.
Both acquisitions were accounted for under the acquisitions method of accounting.
There was no material difference between the operating profits arising from acquisitions and operating cash ows contributed by those acquisitions.
In addition, there was no material impact on other cash ows arising from these acquisitions.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 73 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Post retirement benets The Group operates a number of dened contribution and dened benefit pension schemes.
The principal scheme operates in the UK where the Group maintains a funded dened benefit pension scheme for certain employees with assets held in a separate trustee administered fund.
Contributions are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualied actuaries so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members.
The scheme is valued by a qualied actuary at least every three years.
With effect from 1 September 2002, the dened benefit section of the scheme was closed to new entrants.
Membership of the dened contribution section of the pension scheme is now offered to eligible employees.
In the Nordic region, the Group operates secured dened benefit pension schemes with assets held in a life insurance company and an unsecured pension arrangement.
In addition, it makes contributions to a state pension scheme.
The effect of these schemes on the Groups results is not significant.
a Regular pension costs SSAP 24 Pension costs are accounted for in accordance with SSAP 24 Accounting for pension costs.
The Group paid contributions to its principal dened benefit plan during the period of 16.6 million 2001 02 16.2 million.
The pension charge in the profit and loss account amounted to 18.1 million which represented the regular pension cost 2001 02 12.2 million comprising the regular pension cost of 16.5 million net of the amortisation of pension surpluses over the average remaining service lives of current employees on a straight line basis.
The pension charge in respect of dened contribution schemes was 0.5 million 2001 02 0.4 million.
A further 0.1 million 2001 02 0.1 million provision was made in respect of the unsecured pension arrangement.
The last actuarial valuation of the UK scheme was carried out as at 5 April 2001 using the projected unit method and has been used to determine the level of funding to the scheme.
The next actuarial valuation is scheduled to be carried out as at 5 April 2004.
The Groups contribution rate, agreed in consultation with the actuaries, for both the period ended 3 May 2003 and future periods is 9.9 per cent.
The principal actuarial assumptions used for determining costs and contributions were: Rate per annum Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 4.25% Rate of increase to pensions Guaranteed Minimum Pension 3.0% Pension in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pension 2.5% Discount rate for accrued benets 6.5% Ination 2.5% Investment return for future service benets 6.75% At 5 April 2001, the market value of the schemes investments was 388.2 million and, based on the above assumptions, the value of the assets was sufficient to cover 106 per cent of the benets accrued to members after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
This amounted to a surplus of assets over liabilities of 25 million.
b FRS 17 disclosures FRS 17 will introduce new accounting policies in respect of pension arrangements.
FRS 17 is not fully effective for the Group until 2004 05, although additional information is required to be disclosed in the intervening period.
This information comprises the fair value of assets held and the financial assumptions made in valuing the liabilities of the scheme as well as disclosures concerning pension assets and liabilities and pension expense.
The methodologies set out in FRS 17 are different from those used by the scheme actuaries in determining funding arrangements.
Assumptions 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 Rate per annum Rate per annum Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 4.0% 4.25% Rate of increase in pensions in payment deferred pensions 2.3% 2.5% Discount rate 5.6% 6.0% Ination 2.3% 2.5% 74 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 27 Post retirement benets continued Valuation 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 Long term Long term expected rate expected rate of return million of return million Equities 8.3% 299.3 8.0% 347.6 Bonds 4.6% 34.2 5.2% 30.4 Cash 4.0% 2.7 4.5% 14.8 Market value of assets 336.2 392.8 Present value of liabilities 562.8 468.9 deficit in the plan 226.6 76.1 Related deferred tax asset 68.0 22.8 Net FRS 17 pension liability 158.6 53.3 Net FRS 17 pension liability 158.6 53.3 Reversal of existing SSAP 24 prepayment net of deferred tax 5.3 5.3 Net adjustment which would result from the adoption of FRS 17 163.9 58.6 profit and loss account reserve as reported 1,312.4 1,067.6 profit and loss account reserve on FRS 17 basis 1,148.5 1,009.0 The deficit under FRS 17 reects the different basis for valuing assets and liabilities compared with SSAP 24.
The net position is sensitive to market conditions at the assessment date of 3 May 2003, particularly changes in equity values.
The FRS 17 liability, before deferred tax benets, has increased during the 53 week period ended 3 May 2003 as set out below: million At 28 April 2002 76.1 Movement in year Contributions 16.6 Current service cost 22.8 Past service cost Other finance income 2.9 Actuarial loss 147.2 At 3 May 2003 226.6 An analysis of the amount which would be charged to the profit and loss account is as follows: 2003 million Current service cost 22.8 Past service cost Total operating charge 22.8 Expected return on pension scheme assets 31.2 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 28.3 Net other finance income 2.9 Total chargeable to profit before taxation 19.9 The amount which would be recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses is as follows: 2003 % of scheme assets liabilities million Loss arising from actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 31.2% 104.9 Experience losses arising on scheme liabilities 3.0% 16.7 Changes of assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 4.5% 25.6 Actuarial loss recognisable in statement of total recognised gains and losses 147.2 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 75 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Capital commitments Group 2003 2002 million million Contracted for but not provided for in the accounts 15.7 21.5 29 Contingent liabilities Company 2003 2002 million million 3 Guarantee of 7 % Guaranteed Bond 2004 100.0 100.0 4 Guarantee of notes issued under 1% Exchangeable Bond 2004 180.5 160.6 Guarantee of borrowings of subsidiary undertakings 25.8 194.9 Other guarantees 22.7 14.3 In the normal course of business, the Group has contingent liabilities in respect of lease covenants relating to premises assigned to third parties.
30 Operating lease commitments Group 2003 2002 million million At 3 May 2003 the Group was committed to the following payments during the next 52 week period in respect of operating leases for land and buildings which expire: Within one year 5.5 4.6 Between two and five years 48.9 13.2 After five years 226.2 214.1 280.6 231.9 At 3 May 2003 the Group was committed to payments during 2003 04 of 0.8 million 27 April 2002 0.3 million in respect of other operating leases which expire between two and five years.
31 Related party transactions The Company has granted Dixons TSR Trust, the employee share ownership trust, loan facilities of 50 million.
The Company made a donation of 875,000 to The Dixons Foundation, the Groups registered charitable trust.
The Company is the sole benefactor of the Foundation, the principal beneciaries of which are concerned with education, business ethics, community affairs, medicine and disabilities, heritage and the environment.
76 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 32 Principal subsidiary undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings at 3 May 2003 were as follows: UK Retail International Retail Coverplan Insurance Services Limited Elkjp A. S. A. Norway Dixons Insurance Services Limited Isle of Man Elkjp Norge AS Norway DSG Card Handling Services Limited El-Giganten AB Sweden DSG Retail Limited El-Giganten Kkkenland AS Denmark Mastercare Service and Distribution Limited Gigantti OY Finland The Link Stores Limited 60% UniEuro S. p. A. Italy DSG Retail Ireland Limited Ireland PC City Spain S. L. Spain PC City France S. A. France Electro World Hungary Kft Hungary Electro World s. r. o Czech Republic European Property Other Codic International SA Belgium 90% Dixagon SA Switzerland Codic Belgique SA Belgium 90% Dixons Group Holdings Limited Codic Luxembourg SA Luxembourg 90% Dixons Group Treasury plc Codic SA France 90% Dixons Overseas Investments Limited Codic GmbH Germany Dixons European Investments Limited Direct subsidiary of Dixons Group plc Unless otherwise indicated, principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned and incorporated in Great Britain.
All Group undertakings operate in their country of incorporation.
33 Post balance sheet event On 3 June 2003, the Group acquired legal title to the remaining 4.3 per cent of UniEuro S. p. A. held by management.
Further details are shown in note 26.
2 Underlying gures exclude the effects of goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and discontinued operations Freeserve.
3 Net exceptional items before taxation include both operating and non-operating exceptional items.
4 Diluted earnings and dividends per ordinary share have been restated on the basis that the notional four for one share split effected on 8 March 2000 was in existence throughout the five year period.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share, which exclude goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and Freeserve, have been shown to disclose the impact of these items on underlying earnings.
5 Where appropriate, prior year comparative gures have been restated to reect the integration of the Internet Services division, previously reported separately, into the appropriate retail division.
Comparative gures have been restated to reect this change in responsibility.
7 Comprises cash, short term investments and borrowings and excludes funds held under trust in respect of extended warranty and service contract liabilities, and funds held by Freeserve.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 79 Shareholder information Registered ofce credited on the dividend payment date.
To receive the Maylands Avenue final dividend in this way, mandate forms should be Hemel Hempstead received by the Registrars by 22 August 2003.
3847921 Individual Savings Account A corporate ISA is available for investors wishing to take Registrars and transfer ofce advantage of preferential tax treatment in relation to their Capita Registrars shareholdings.
Details are available from Stock Trade.
The Registry Tel: 0131 240 0448 and ask for the Dixons Group helpline.
34 Beckenham Road Beckenham ADR depositary Kent BR3 4TU The Companys shares are available in the form of American Tel: 0870 162 3100 Depositary Receipts ADRs.
The Companys depositary is Bank of New York.
Tel: 00 1 212 495 1784 from the Shareholder enquiries United States of America 888-269-2377 toll-free.
Shareholders can access shareholding details over the Internet.
The web address for our Registrars site CREST is www.
As well as checking name, The Companys shares are traded on CREST.
CREST is address and shareholding details in the Shareholder Help a voluntary system which enables shareholders to hold section, change of address, dividend mandate and stock and transfer their shareholdings electronically rather transfer forms can be downloaded.
So that the system can validate enquiries an Investor Code is required.
This is a numerical account number Unsolicited mail shown on share certicates and dividend tax counterfoils.
The Company is obliged to make its share register available to third parties on payment of a prescribed fee.
This may Joint brokers result in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
If you Cazenove wish to limit the receipt of unsolicited mail you should Schroder Salomon Smith Barney write to: Capital gains tax The Mailing Preference Service For the purpose of computing capital gains tax, the FREEPOST 22 market value of an ordinary share in the Company on London W1E 7ER 31 March 1982 was 1.35 pence adjusted for rights and capitalisation issues and the corporate restructuring ShareGift effected on 7 March 2000.
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of Share dealing service shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Cazenove operates a postal share dealing service for private Details of the scheme are available on the ShareGift investors who wish to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Details are available from Cazenove.
Financial calendar Internet Final dividend record date The Annual Report and Accounts and other Group 22 August 2003 information are available through the Internet at: www.
Annual general meeting 10 September 2003 Dividend reinvestment plan Details of the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan Payment of final dividend are available from the Registrars.
To receive the final 30 September 2003 dividend in the form of shares, mandate forms from new participants should be received by the Registrars 2003 04 interim results announcement by 9 September 2003.
January 2004 Dividend mandate Payment of 2003 04 interim dividend Shareholders who wish dividends to be paid directly into March 2004 a bank or building society account should contact the Registrars for a dividend mandate form.
This method of payment reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures that your account is 80 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03
