FOODSERVICE GROUP Notes to the accounts 30 Trading subsidiaries The following is a list of the Companys principal trading subsidiaries at 31st December 2003.
A brief description of the activities is given in the chief executives review on pages 4 to 13.
The share capital in each case consists, unless otherwise stated, wholly of ordinary shares or common stock.
All companies are held by subsidiary undertakings, except for those marked in which case it is held directly by the Company.
Where subsidiaries are not wholly owned the percentage of owned capital is stated in brackets.
Unless otherwise stated the companies are registered in England and operate in the United Kingdom.
Aga Consumer Products Principal overseas businesses: Aga Consumer Products Limited trades in the UK principally Adamatic, A Corporation USA under the trade and business names of: Belshaw Bros. Inc USA Aga-Rayburn Bongard SA France Rangemaster Domain, Inc USA Ming Fai Stainless Steel Catering Equipment Manufacturing Aga Foodservice Equipment Co Limited 56.8% Hong Kong Aga Foodservice Equipment Limited trades in the UK Northland Corporation USA principally under the trade and business names of: Victory Refrigeration LLC USA AFE Online Williams Refrigeration Limited Australia AFE Serviceline Falcon Foodservice Equipment Other principal businesses: Mono Equipment Elgin & Hall Limited Williams Refrigeration Fired Earth Limited Millers Vanguard Limited Williams Refrigeration Central Limited 80% Central Services AFG Properties Limited AFG Corporate Services Limited Directors responsibilities The directors are required to prepare financial statements that the financial statements comply with the Companies for each financial year which comply with the provisions of Act 1985. the Companies Act 1985 and give a true and fair view of the The directors are responsible for taking such steps as are state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the of the financial year and of the profit and loss for that year.
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial The maintenance and integrity of the Aga Foodservice statements on pages 27 to 54 on a going-concern basis, Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the the Company and the Group have used appropriate work carried out by the auditors does not involve accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may that all accounting standards which they consider to be have occurred to the financial statements since they were applicable have been followed.
initially presented on the website.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company and the Group maintain accounting records which disclose Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure legislation in other jurisdictions.
