Notice of Annual General Meeting 2003 Notice is hereby given that the Annual 11 That: 13 That in accordance with Article 11 of the General Meeting of DS Smith Plc will be Articles of Association of the Company held at the Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool a in accordance with Article 6 of the and the Companies Act 1985, the Street, London EC2M 7QN, on Wednesday Articles of Association of the Company, Company is generally and unconditionally 3 September 2003 at 12 noon to consider and, the Directors be authorised to allot authorised to make market purchases if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, relevant securities up to a maximum within the meaning of the Companies of which resolutions 1 to 11 will be proposed nominal amount of 9,014,373: Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10p each as ordinary resolutions and resolutions in the capital of the Company in such 12 and 13 will be proposed as special b this authority shall expire on 2 manner and on such terms as the resolutions: September 2008 save that the Company Directors may from time to time shall be entitled under such authority to determine provided that: 1 To receive and adopt the Directors honour at any time before expiry thereof Report, the Auditors Report and any commitment to allot its ordinary a the maximum number of ordinary financial statements for the year shares which will or might be concluded shares hereby authorised to be purchased ended 30 April 2003. wholly or partly after the expiry of such is 32,154,047 ordinary shares: authority: and 2 To declare a final dividend on the b the minimum price which may be paid ordinary shares.
c all previous authorities under Section for each ordinary share is 10p exclusive 80 of the Companies Act 1985 be revoked.
of expenses payable by the Company : 3 To approve the Report on Remuneration.
12 That: c the maximum price which may be 4 To re-elect Mr P M Johnson as a Director paid for each ordinary share is an amount of the Company.
a in accordance with Article 7 of the equal to 105% of the average of the Articles of Association of the Company, middle market quotations for an ordinary 5 To re-elect Mr R E C Marton as a the Directors be given power to allot share as derived from the London Stock Director of the Company.
equity securities for cash: Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the 6 To re-elect Mr D R Piette as a Director b for the purposes of paragraph 1 b date of any such purchase exclusive of of the Company.
of Article 7 of the Articles of Association expenses payable by the Company : and of the Company, the nominal amount 7 To elect Mr G M Morris as a Director to which this power is limited other d the authority hereby conferred shall, of the Company.
than in connection with a rights issue unless previously varied, revoked or is 1,609,709: renewed, expire on 2 March 2005 or, 8 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as if earlier, at the conclusion of the Auditor of the Company.
c this power shall expire on 2 September next Annual General Meeting of the 2008 save that the Company shall be Company, save that the Company shall 9 To authorise the Directors to determine entitled under such authority to honour be entitled under such authority to make the remuneration of the Auditor.
at any time before expiry thereof any at any time before the expiry thereof commitment to allot its ordinary shares any contract to purchase its ordinary 10 That the provisions of French Section II which will or might be concluded wholly shares which will or might be concluded of the DS Smith Plc 1999 Executive or partly after the expiry of such wholly or partly after the expiry of Share Option Scheme the Scheme authority: and such authority.
be approved in their current form, unamended, so that the Company can d all previous authorities under Section By Order of the Board continue to grant options under that 95 of the Companies Act 1985 be Section to eligible employees resident in revoked.
Carolyn Cattermole France in a tax efficient manner for a Secretary period of 38 months from the date of 4-16 Artillery Row the approval.
London SW1P 1RZ 15 July 2003 65 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2003 continued Notes Explanatory notes on the resolutions Resolutions 8 and 9: i Only those members registered in the Resolution 1: Re-appointment of Auditor Register of Members of the Company Report and financial statements The auditor of a company must be as at 6 pm on 1 September 2003 shall be The Directors present to shareholders at re-appointed at each general meeting at entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting the AGM the Reports of the Directors and which accounts are presented.
Resolution 8 in respect of the number of shares Auditor and the financial statements of the proposes the re-appointment of the Companys registered in their names at that time.
Company for the year ended 30 April 2003. existing Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, until These are contained in the Annual Report.
Resolution 9 gives authority ii A member entitled to attend and vote at to the Directors to determine the Auditors the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or Resolution 2: remuneration.
more Proxies to attend and, on a poll, to Declaration of a final dividend vote instead of him.
A Proxy need not Final dividends declared by shareholders Resolution 10: be a member of the Company.
must not exceed the amount recommended Re-approve French Section II to the by the Directors.
By passing Resolution 2, Executive Share Option Scheme iii A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
To be shareholders will declare a final dividend.
The The Company has been advised that under effective, Forms of Proxy must reach the amount of the final dividend recommended by the applicable French legislation, shareholder Registrars at the address shown on the the Directors is 6.0p net per ordinary share.
approval needs to be obtained if the Company Form not later than 48 hours before the wishes to continue to grant options under time of the Meeting.
Completion and Resolution 3: French Section II of the DS Smith Plc 1999 return of the Form will not, however, Approval of Report Executive Share Option Scheme the prevent a member from attending and on Remuneration Scheme to eligible employees as defined voting at the Meeting.
As required by the Directors Remuneration in the rules of the Scheme resident in Report Regulations 2002, shareholder France.
Accordingly, while no amendment iv Copies of the Directors service approval is sought for the Report on is proposed to French Section II which was contracts with the Company or any Remuneration set out on pages 28 to 34. formally approved by Shareholders on 8 of its subsidiaries, other than contracts September 1999, shareholder approval is expiring, or terminable by the employing Resolutions 4-7: being sought to allow grants of options company without compensation, within Re-election of Directors under the Section for a period of 38 months one year, will be available for inspection The Articles of Association of the Company from the date of the resolution so that any at the registered office of the Company require that all Directors retire at least once options granted will qualify for beneficial during normal business hours on any every three years but are eligible to submit tax treatment.
weekday Saturdays, Sundays and Public themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
Holidays excepted and at the place of The Directors who retire at each AGM Resolution 11: the Meeting, from 11.45 am until the are those who would otherwise have served Directors authority to allot shares conclusion of the Meeting.
for over three years by the date of the Authority was granted to the Directors at following AGM.
last years AGM, pursuant to Section 80 of v Mr P M Johnson is Chairman of the the Companies Act 1985, to allot shares in Audit Committee and a member of the Mr Johnson, Mr Marton and Mr Piette will the Company without the prior consent Remuneration Committee of the Board.
retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for of shareholders for a period of five years.
Mr R E C Marton is a member of the re-election at this years AGM.
Resolution 11, which will be proposed as an Audit and Remuneration Committees ordinary resolution, will, if passed, give the of the Board.
Mr D R Piette is a member The Articles of Association of the Company Directors renewed authority to allot shares up of the Remuneration Committee of the require that a Director appointed since the to a maximum nominal value of 9,014,373 Board.
Mr G M Morris is a member previous AGM shall be subject to election by representing 28 per cent of the issued share of the General Purposes Committee the shareholders.
Mr Morris was appointed capital of the Company at 25 June 2003. of the Board.
a Director with effect from 5 November 2002 and, in accordance with the Articles, retires Other than in connection with any exercise vi The Chairmen of the Audit, from office at the Meeting.
Being eligible he of options under the Groups employee Remuneration and Nomination offers himself for election.
share option schemes, the Directors have no Committees will be available to answer present intention of exercising the allotment relevant questions at the Meeting.
A short biography of each Director, including authority proposed by this Resolution.
The those seeking re-election and election, appears authority will expire on 2 September 2008, on page 25 of the Annual Report.
Mr Morris except in so far as commitments to allot has a service contract with the Company shares have been entered into before that date.
which can be terminated by the Company It is the present intention of the Directors to on giving 12 months written notice.
66 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 Resolution 12: also give careful consideration to gearing The authority will expire on 2 March 2005 Directors power to disapply levels of the Company and its general or at the conclusion of the next AGM pre-emption rights financial position.
The purchase price would whichever is the earlier.
It is the present This Resolution, which will be proposed as a be paid out of distributable profits.
Any intention of the Directors to seek a similar special resolution, supplements the Directors shares purchased under this authority will authority annually.
authority to allot shares in the Company be cancelled and the number of shares in proposed by Resolution 11. issue will be reduced accordingly.
Important notes about the Annual General Meeting Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 Resolution 13 specifies the maximum Date requires a company proposing to allot equity number of shares which may be purchased Wednesday 3 September 2003. securities for cash to offer them first to representing 10 per cent of the Companys existing shareholders pro rata to their existing issued share capital at 30 April 2003, the Location shareholdings.
Authority was granted to minimum and maximum prices at which they Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, the Directors at last years AGM and the may be bought and when the authority will London EC2M 7QN.
Directors propose to seek shareholders expire, reflecting the requirements of the approval to renew this authority, pursuant Companies Act 1985 and the Listing Rules Timing to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, of the UK Listing Authority.
The Meeting will start promptly at 12 noon to allot such securities, notwithstanding and shareholders wishing to attend are the requirement imposed by Section 89, The maximum price at which the shares may advised to be in the venue no later than in two cases: be purchased is 5 per cent above the average 11.50 am.
The reception area will be open of the middle market values of those shares from 11.30 am, from which time refreshments in connection with a rights issue: and for the five business days before the purchase will be served.
allotments of shares for cash up to a total Travel information nominal value of 1,609,709 representing Purchases of shares under the proposed See map on the reverse of Admittance Card 5 per cent of the Companys issued share authority are required by the UK Listing for the location of the Great Eastern Hotel, capital at 25 June 2003.
This gives the Authority to be made in compliance with and the nearest underground and railway Directors flexibility to take advantage of The Model Code for securities transactions stations.
The venue is less than 5 minutes business opportunities as they arise, by directors of listed companies.
Accordingly, walk from Liverpool Street station.
There whilst the 5 per cent limit ensures that the Company would not exercise the are no car parking facilities at the venue.
existing shareholders interests are authority at a time when the Directors would protected, and is in line with guidelines be precluded from dealing in the Companys Admission issued by institutional investors bodies.
Specifically, purchases would not be Please bring the Admittance Card with you made within the two months preceding the to the Meeting.
You may be asked to show This authority will expire on 2 September announcement of the interim or final results.
the Card before being admitted to the venue.
2008, except in so far as commitments to allot This proposal should not be taken as an Shareholders and proxy holders may also be shares have been entered into before that date.
indication that the Company would purchase required to provide proof of identity.
The It is the present intention of the Directors to shares at any particular price or to imply any registration process may take longer without seek a similar authority annually.
opinion on the part of the Directors as to the these documents.
market or other value of the Companys Resolution 13: ordinary shares.
Facilities Companys authority to The Great Eastern Hotel has wheelchair purchase shares The total number of ordinary shares that are access.
If you are planning to come to the This Resolution, which will be proposed under option through the Companys share Meeting and are a wheelchair user, it would as a special resolution, seeks to renew option schemes at 25 June 2003 being the be helpful if you would telephone the venue the existing authority for the Company latest practicable date prior to publication of in advance on 020 7618 5618. to purchase its own shares in the market.
this notice is 15,313,867 of which 14,353,167 This authority gives the Company greater are options over unissued ordinary shares.
Enquiries and questions flexibility in managing its capital resources.
The proportion of issued ordinary share Shareholders who intend to ask a question The Directors have no specific intention of capital that the options over unissued related to the business of the Meeting are using this authority and would do so only ordinary shares represented on this date was asked to provide their name, address and when, in the light of market conditions, they 4.46% and the proportion of issued ordinary question at the Registration desk.
Staff believed that the effect of such purchases share capital that they will represent if the from Lloyds TSB Registrars will be on would be to increase earnings per share, and full authority to purchase shares existing hand to provide advice and assistance.
that the purchases were in the interests of and being sought is used is 4.95%.
The Directors would 67 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
