Electrocomponents plc 59 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Special resolution Electrocomponents plc will be held at the Companys premises, The Renewal of Directors authority for the purchase by the Company of its International Management Centre, 5000 Oxford Business Park South, own shares Oxford OX4 2BH on Friday 18 July 2003 at 12 noon.
8 THAT the Company is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the The business of the meeting will be: Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company ordinary shares provided that: Ordinary business a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be Report and Accounts purchased is 43,520,665: 1To receive the accounts and the reports of the Directors and the b the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10p Auditors for the year ended 31 March 2003. per ordinary share: c the maximum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is an Directors Remuneration Report amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for 2To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended an ordinary share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List 31 March 2003. for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Declaration of dividend next Annual General Meeting of the Company, unless such authority is 3To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
renewed prior to such a time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares Retiring Directors under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority 4To re-elect Mr T G Barker as a Director.
which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such 5To re-elect Mr J L Hewitt as a Director.
authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of 6To re-elect Mr N J Temple as a Director.
Auditors appointment and remuneration By Order of the Board 7To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors of the Company and to Carmelina Carfora authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
Company Secretary 29 May 2003 Special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution: Registered Office: International Management Centre, 5000 Oxford Business Park South, Oxford, OX4 2BH Registered Number: 647788 CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, Notes: as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received i A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more by the Companys registrar ID 7RA01 by not later than 12 noon on Wednesday 16 July proxies to attend and on a poll vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the 2003.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by Company.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member from attending or voting at the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to the meeting if he she subsequently wishes to do so.
CREST members should note that normal system timings and ii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the limitations will apply for the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
Company has specified that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 16 July 2003 will be entitled to attend or vote at the members who have appointed voting service provider s, should contact their CREST Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
to entries on the relevant Register of Members after 6.00 pm on 16 July 2003 will be For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems timings, please disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
refer to the CREST manual.
iii A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be effective a proxy form and the authority if any The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such authority must be deposited out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. at the offices of the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, v The Register of Directors Interests and copies of all Contracts of Service of the Directors West Sussex BN99 6EE by not later than 12 noon on Wednesday 16 July 2003. are available for inspection during business hours at the registered office of the Company iv CREST members including CREST Personal Members who wish to appoint one or more and will be available for inspection at the place of the Meeting from half an hour before the proxies by using the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by having an time of the Meeting until the conclusion of the Meeting.
vi Biographical details of the Directors who are proposed for re-election at the Annual For a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST General Meeting are set out on pages 24 and 25. message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with
