Accounting Policies Basis of preparation Pension costs The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the Pension costs, which are determined in accordance with historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable SSAP24 Accounting for pension costs, are charged to the accounting standards.
The results for the years ended 31 profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions March 2003 and 31 March 2002 represent continuing over the working lives of the employees within the Group.
operations except the joint venture HMV Group plc.
Valuation surpluses or deficits are amortised over the expected remaining working life within the Group of the relevant Basis of consolidation employees estimated to be eight years in respect of the UK.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the The amortisation of valuation surpluses is restricted to an accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The results amount equal to the regular pension cost.
Accordingly, of all subsidiaries are taken from their accounts made up to employer expense in respect of the main scheme, which 31 March.
The results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and covers employees in the UK, has been taken as nil for associated undertakings disposed of or acquired during the each of the two years ended 31 March 2003 for reasons of year are included up to, or from, the date that control passes.
Changes in financial reporting standards Joint ventures and associated undertakings Transitional arrangements for FRS17 Retirement Benefits Where the Group has an investment in an entity which is continue to be adopted by the Group see Note 30. sufficient to give the Group a participating interest, and over which it is in a position to exercise significant influence, the Foreign currencies entity is treated as an associated undertaking and is accounted Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded for using the equity method.
Entities in which the Group holds at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
an interest on a long-term basis and which are jointly controlled Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign by the Group and one or more other parties under a currencies are retranslated into sterling either at year-end rates contractual arrangement, are treated as joint ventures and or, where there are related forward foreign exchange contracts, are accounted for using the gross equity method.
The resulting exchange differences are dealt with in the determination of profit for the financial year.
The results of joint ventures and associated undertakings are taken from their accounts made up to 31 March or such On consolidation, average exchange rates have been used to earlier date not prior to 31 December which represents their translate the results of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and financial period end, as adjusted for material items that have associated undertakings.
The assets and liabilities of overseas occurred in the intervening period.
subsidiaries and associated undertakings are translated into sterling at year-end rates.
Goodwill and other intangibles Goodwill and catalogue intangibles arising on acquisitions Exchange differences arising from the retranslation made after 31 March 1998 are capitalised and amortised over at year-end exchange rates of: their expected useful life, principally restricted to 20 years, i the opening net investment in overseas subsidiaries, joint in accordance with FRS10 Goodwill and intangible assets.
ventures and associated undertakings and foreign They are reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full currency borrowings in so far as they are matched by financial year following acquisition and in other periods if those overseas investments: and events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying ii the results of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures value may not be recoverable.
and associated undertakings, are dealt with in Group reserves.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made before 31 March 1998 has been charged directly against shareholders funds in the Turnover year of acquisition and is included within the profit and loss Turnover represents the invoiced value or contracted reserve, yet separately identified within the reserves note.
amount of goods and services supplied by the Company This goodwill will remain in reserves until, on the disposal or and its subsidiaries.
Turnover excludes value added tax closure of any business, the profit and loss account includes and similar sales-related taxes.
a charge in respect of the goodwill previously written off against shareholders funds on the acquisition of the business.
64 Music copyrights Taxation Music copyrights purchased prior to 1 April 1989 were The Company has undertaken to discharge the liability written off against shareholders funds on acquisition.
to corporation tax of the majority of its wholly owned UK Copyrights acquired as a result of acquisitions on or after subsidiaries.
Their UK tax liabilities are therefore dealt 1 April 1989 are capitalised as intangible assets in the Group with in the accounts of the Company.
balance sheet, and are amortised by equal annual amounts over not more than 20 years, other than in exceptional Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences circumstances when sufficient ongoing impairment tests can that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, be performed to support a useful economic life of over 20 where transactions or events have occurred at that date that years.
Where a useful economic life of up to 20 years has been will result in an obligation to pay more tax, or right to pay less, adopted, copyrights are reviewed for impairment at the end or to receive more, tax, with the following exceptions: of the first full financial year following acquisition and in other Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed the carrying value may not be recoverable.
assets, or gains on disposal of fixed assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement Advances to artists to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision Advances to artists and repertoire owners are assessed and is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the the value of the unrecouped portion to be included in debtors balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable is determined by the prospects of future recoupment, based gain will be rolled over into replacement assets.
on past sales performance, current popularity and Provision is made for gains which have been rolled over into projected sales.
replacement assets only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a commitment to dispose of the Leased assets replacement assets.
Assets held under finance leases are included as tangible fixed Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on assets at their estimated purchase cost and depreciated over remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, their expected useful lives, or over the primary lease period, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the whichever is shorter.
The obligations relating to finance leases balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as net of finance charges allocated to future periods are included receivable.
under borrowings due within or after one year, as appropriate.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss that the Directors consider that it is more likely than account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is calculated on cost at Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates estimated to write off the cost, less the estimated residual rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing value of the relevant assets, by equal annual amounts over their differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or expected useful lives: effect is given, where necessary, to substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments The annual rates used are: Any premium or discount associated with the purchase Freehold buildings and long-term of interest rate instruments is amortised over the life leasehold property 2% of the transaction.
Interest receipts and payments are accrued Short-term leasehold property Period of lease to match the net income or cost with the related finance 1 Plant, equipment and vehicles 10 33 3% expense.
No amounts are recognised in respect of future periods.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment in periods if events or changes in circumstances If a swap is unwound early, the gain or loss is spread over the indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
remaining life of the original instrument.
Stocks New media holdings Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost and Holdings in new media companies that arise as a net realisable value, less progress payments on uncompleted consequence of licensing, distribution and other similar deals contracts and provisions for expected losses.
Cost includes with such companies, are carried at cost less provision for manufacturing overheads where appropriate.
Income from these holdings, net of costs, is only recognised when received ascash and is treated as other operating income.
The costs relating to these investments are held within debtors until they are recognised with the related income.
