Explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting of Enterprise third of the directors retire each year, although they may Inns plc to be held on Thursday 22 January 2004 is set offer themselves for reappointment by the shareholders of the Company.
Accordingly, Mr M F Garner and Mr W S out on pages 53 to 55.
The following notes provide an explanation as to why the resolutions set out in the Townsend are retiring and seeking reappointment.
notice are to be put to shareholders.
Biographical information for Mr M F Garner and Mr W S Townsend is included in the annual report and accounts.
Resolutions 1 to 9 are ordinary resolutions.
These Resolution 6 resolutions will be passed if more than 50 per cent.
of the votes cast are in favour.
Auditors The Act requires that auditors be appointed at each Resolution 1 general meeting of the Company before which accounts Laying of the accounts are laid.
Accordingly, the Companys auditors, Ernst & The Companies Act 1985 the Act requires that, for Young LLP, are seeking reappointment and the directors each financial year, the directors lay the Companys are seeking authority to determine the amount of the annual accounts, the directors report and the auditors auditors fees.
report before a general meeting of the Company.
Resolution 7 Resolution 2 Remuneration Report Declaration of a final dividend The Act requires the Company to seek shareholder An interim dividend of 5.7 pence net has already been approval at its Annual General Meeting for the directors paid in respect of the 2002 2003 financial year.
The remuneration report for the year.
The directors directors are recommending a final dividend of 11.4 remuneration report is included in the annual report and pence net per ordinary share of 10 pence, payable on accounts.
26 January 2004 to shareholders on the register as at Resolution 8 close of business on 30 December 2003.
The final Sub-division of ordinary share capital dividend will not be paid without shareholder approval.
This resolution, if passed, will sub-divide each of the For the avoidance of doubt, the final dividend will not be ordinary shares of 10 pence in the Company into 2 paid to those persons that are holders of ordinary shares ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
The directors believe of 5 pence each at the date of payment in respect of that having a larger number of shares with a lower their shareholdings on the payment date.
It will be paid market value should attract and retain larger numbers of to those persons that were recorded on the register at private shareholders and ensure the continuing liquidity close of business on 30 December 2003 as holders of of the Companys shares.
ordinary shares of 10 pence each in respect of their The financial position of the Company will not be respective holdings at close of business on 30 December affected by the sub-division of the ordinary shares of 10 2003. pence each.
The sub-division will not reduce the Resolution 3 Companys assets, liabilities or shareholders funds.
The Reappointment of Mr D A Harding Companys authorised and issued share capital will The Companys articles of association require that all remain of the same amount.
Each shareholder will hold directors appointed by the Board since the previous the same percentage interest in the issued share capital Annual General Meeting must be reappointed by the of the Company immediately after the sub-division shareholders of the Company.
Mr D A Harding was becomes effective as that shareholder held immediately appointed by the Board on 6 November 2003 and is before the sub-division became effective.
The new therefore standing for reappointment by the ordinary shares of 5 pence each will, in all respects, shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
carry the same rights as the existing ordinary shares of Biographical information for Mr D A Harding is included 10 pence each.
in the annual report and accounts.
If resolution 8 is passed, application will be made for the Resolutions 4 and 5 admission of the new ordinary shares of 5 pence each to Reappointment of Mr M F Garner and Mr W S the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and for their Townsend admission to trading on the market for listed securities The Companys articles of association require that oneof London Stock Exchange plc.
Dealings in the new Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2003 56 Explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting ordinary shares of 5 pence each are expected to Resolutions 10 to 12 are special resolutions.
These resolutions will be passed if not less than 75 commence on 23 January 2004.
At that time the Companys former ordinary shares of 10 pence each will per cent.
be removed from the Official List of the United Kingdom Resolution 10 Listing Authority and no longer traded.
Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights Under changes to the Act that came into force on For holdings in uncertificated form, it is expected that 1 December 2003, shares purchased out of distributable the appropriate share accounts in CREST will be credited profits by the Company pursuant to resolution 11, but with shareholders entitlements to the new ordinary not exceeding 10 per cent.
of its issued share capital, shares with effect from 23 January 2004.
For holdings in may be held in treasury for later sale, cancellation or certificated form, new share certificates will be sent to transfer to an employee share scheme instead of being shareholders at their own risk as soon as practicable cancelled immediately.
Shares held in treasury can be after 23 January 2004.
Certificates for the former held indefinitely pending, for example, a suitable time to ordinary shares of 10 pence will cease to be valid upon place them back on the market.
This will enable the the issue of the new share certificates: they should be Company to sell shares held in treasury to take destroyed or, at the Companys request, delivered to the advantage of capital growth in its own shares.
While Company or as it may direct.
held in treasury, shares will not receive dividends and In accordance with the rules of the Enterprise Executive have no voting rights.
Sales of treasury shares must be Share Option Scheme, the Enterprise Savings-Related for cash and are subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
Share Option Scheme, the Enterprise Incentive Plan and This resolution contains an authority for the directors to the Enterprise Incentive Plan 2002 together the Share allot shares and or to sell shares held in treasury, Schemes, the directors may, if appropriate, make without regard to the statutory pre-emption rights in adjustments to the number of ordinary shares comprised relation to offers of equity securities.
The authority is in each outstanding option and the price at which such limited to 5 per cent.
of the aggregate nominal value of options are exercisable.
In the case of Inland Revenue the current issued share capital of the Company.
The approved share options, such adjustments will be subject directors consider this necessary in order to give them to United Kingdom Inland Revenue approval.
Option flexibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, holders will be informed of the adjustments in subject to the restrictions contained in this resolution.
accordance with the terms of the Share Schemes.
In the case of the Enterprise Incentive Plan and the Enterprise Resolution 11 Incentive Plan 2002, the remuneration committee is Purchase of own shares by the Company empowered to adjust the number of ordinary shares This resolution grants the Company authority for a comprised in any incentive after it has vested in any period of up to 18 months to buy its own shares in the manner that it deems appropriate to counteract the market.
It limits the number of shares that may be effect of the proposed sub-division on the value of the purchased to 14.99 per cent.
of its issued share capital incentive.
The Companys auditors must confirm in and sets minimum and maximum prices.
This authority writing that any such adjustment is fair and reasonable will only be exercised if market conditions make it before it is implemented.
Resolution 9 Instead of immediately cancelling them, the Company Authority to the directors to allot shares may decide to hold shares purchased pursuant to this Under the Act the directors of a company may only allot authority to the extent statutory requirements are met shares if authorised to do so.
If passed, this resolution and provided they do not exceed 10 per cent.
of the will authorise the directors to issue shares up to an Companys issued share capital in treasury for future aggregate nominal value of 5,680,832, which is equal cancellation, sale for cash, or provided Listing Rule to approximately one-third of the current issued share Requirements are met transfer to an employee share capital of the Company.
Passing this resolution will plan, although they may be cancelled immediately on continue the directors flexibility to act in the best repurchase in the light of circumstances at the time.
The interests of shareholders, when opportunities arise, by effect of any cancellation would be to reduce the issuing new shares.
number of shares in issue, and for most purposes while Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2003 57 Explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting held in treasury shares are treated as if they have been In accordance with the Electronic Communications cancelled for example they carry no voting rights and Order, the Company will only communicate do not rank for dividends.
Accordingly, the directors will electronically in respect of matters covered by the only make purchases under this authority after Electronic Communications Order with those shareholders who specifically elect for electronic considering the effect on earnings per share and the communications.
Resolution 12 Uncertificated Securities: The Uncertificated Securities Adoption by the Company of the new articles of Regulations 2001 the Regulations made various changes to the rules governing the CREST uncertificated association securities system.
The most important change is that To ensure that the Companys constitutional documents CRESTCo Limited now keeps the definitive register so far comply with recent developments in company law and as uncertificated shares shares held in paperless form best practice and that the references in them remain in the Company are concerned although, as required by current, the directors consider it necessary to update the the Regulations, the Company is required to maintain a Companys articles of association.
The existing articles record of uncertificated shares which will be available were adopted on 24 October 1995 and have not been for inspection by shareholders at the Companys amended since that date.
The principal differences registered office.
Provisions have been included in the between the Companys existing articles of association New Articles to reflect the Regulations.
and the articles of association proposed to be adopted pursuant to this resolution the New Articles are Timing and conduct of meetings: Provisions have explained below.
been included in the New Articles to assist the smooth running of general meetings.
These provisions will allow Copies of the Companys existing articles of association the Board to change the date, time or place of meetings and the New Articles are available for inspection during where the Board considers it impractical or undesirable normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, to hold a meeting on the day, at the time or in the place Sundays and public holidays excepted at the Companys specified in the notice calling the meeting.
They also registered office and at the offices of CMS Cameron give the chairman of the meeting the conclusive McKenna, Mitre House, 160 Aldersgate Street, London, decision on points of order or procedure in meetings.
EC1A 4DD and will also be available during, and for at least 15 minutes prior to, the Annual General Meeting.
New provisions have also been included to improve security at general meetings.
Where a member or proxy Electronic Communications: Following various gains entry to a meeting and refuses to comply with amendments to company law as a result of the such security arrangements or restrictions as the Board Companies Act 1985 Electronic Communications Order directs or disrupts the proper and orderly conduct of the 2000 the Electronic Communications Order, certain meeting, the chairman of the meeting, without consent formal electronic communications with shareholders of the meeting, may require that member or proxy to have become legally possible.
The Electronic leave or be removed from the meeting.
Communications Order provides that where there is agreement between the Company and the shareholder s Unclaimed Dividends: Provisions have been included concerned, the annual report and accounts and notices in the New Articles to permit the Board to invest or of meetings may be sent to shareholders electronically, otherwise make use of dividends, interest or other sums or the Company may publish the relevant documents on payable in respect of shares that remain unclaimed one a website and send a notice by electronic means year after being declared.
Any dividend or interest that informing shareholders that these documents are remains unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the available electronically.
The Electronic Communications date when it was declared will be forfeited and will Order also allows a shareholder to appoint a proxy by revert to the Company.
Provisions have been included in the New Articles to give effect to the Electronic Communications Order.
