Enterprise Inns plc Form of Proxy For use in connection with the Annual General Meeting of Enterprise Inns plc convened to be held at 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands B90 4SJ at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday 22 January 2004.
Before completing this form of proxy please read the notes included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and the notes set out below.
To receive the Directors Report, the audited financial statements and the auditors report for the year ended 30 September 2003.
To reappoint Mr D A Harding as a director.
To reappoint Mr M F Garner as a director.
To reappoint Mr W S Townsend as a director.
To reappoint Messrs Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to fix the auditors remuneration.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 September 2003.
To subdivide each of the issued and unissued ordinary shares of 10 pence each into 2 ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
To authorise the directors to allot shares.
To approve the disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights.
To authorise the Company to purchase its own shares.
To adopt new articles of association of the Company.
COMPLETING YOUR FORM OF PROXY 1.
To appoint someone other than the Chairman of the meeting as your proxy, please delete the words the Chairman of the meeting or and complete, in the space provided, the name and address of the other person so appointed.
Any alteration to this form of proxy should be initialled.
Please place a cross X in the relevant box to indicate how you wish to vote for each resolution.
Unless so instructed, the proxy will vote or abstain as he or she thinks fit.
If the shareholder is a corporation, this form of proxy should be executed either under its common seal or under the hand of its attorney or an officer duly authorised for that purpose.
In the case of joint shareholders, this form of proxy may be signed by any one of them, but the names of all the joint holders must be stated.
The vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose seniority will be determined by the order in which the names stand on the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
Completion and return of this form of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To be valid this form of proxy must be signed and returned, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such authority, to the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 3FA, so that it is received no later than 11.00 a. m. on 20 January 2004.
Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2003 59 Second fold BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
SWB 1002 2 2 Computershare Services PLC PO Box 1075 BRISTOL BS99 3FA Third fold and tuck in flap opposite First fold The quality and potential of the companys estate is proving to be increasingly attractive to multiple The Enterprise Inns Team Contents operators and entrepreneurs.
Financial Highlights 1 Directors and Advisers 2 Chairmans Statement 3 Epic Bar & Brasserie Chief Executives Review 4 Finance Directors Report 9 Directors Report 12 Corporate Governance 16 Report on Directors Remuneration 18 Group Profit and Loss Account 25 Left to right: Andrew Clifford, Strategic Planning and Investment Manager: Epic Bar & Brasserie, Bromsgrove David George, Finance Director: Ted Tuppen, Chief Executive: Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains And Losses 26 Originally a branded managed house, the renamed Epic Bar and Simon Townsend, Customer Services Director: Gordon Harrison, Note of Historical Cost Profits and Losses 26 Operations Director.
Brasserie was selected by Michelin starred chef and proprietor Pat Group Balance Sheet 27 MacDonald to add to his highly successful Epicurean restaurant and Balance Sheet 28 consulting business.
A 200,000 joint investment programme in the Group Statement of Cash Flows 29 fabric and design of the premises followed and the Epic is now setting The White Hart Notes to the Accounts 30 new standards in food retailing.
Report of the Auditors 50 Five Year Record 51 Analysis of Shareholders 52 Financial Calendar 52 Notice of Meeting 53 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of AGM 56 Form of Proxy 59 The White Hart, Winchombe A former 16th Century coaching inn run by the Burr family, the Builders Arms The Stansfield Arms White Hart has a unique Swedish character throughout, including Double Barrel the specially imported furniture in the letting bedrooms.
Situated in a popular Cotswold village, The White Hart has recently received many accolades including the Les Routiers Inn Of The Year 2003.
The Fulham Mitre Builders Arms, London The Stansfield Arms, Apperley Bridge Award winning Geronimo Inns, established by Rupert and Multiple lessee Gardener Taverns operates three highly Jo Cleveley in 1999, is one of Londons most successful successful food-led pubs with Enterprise.
A recent pub operators and now has fifteen outlets throughout refurbishment at the Stansfield Arms has transformed the London and the south east.
The Builders Arms, in the outlet into the epitome of a traditional countryside heart of Chelsea, is renowned for the quality of its food Yorkshire pub.
At the heart of a popular tourist area, its and drink, the highly professional staff and its smart and external appearance has been a key element in comfortable surroundings.
Double Barrel, Cheltenham The Fulham Mitre, London A 40,000 development programme has helped The Fulham Mitre, in the heart of residential Fulham has after the licensees of the Double Barrel re-establish recently been refurbished with an investment of almost the pub at the heart of its local community.
This 450,000 by lessees James Wheatcroft, Nigel Davies and award winning pub has been recognised by the Louis and David Amato.
This former managed house is now Britain in Bloom campaign for its fundraising being run by Louis and his family, and has quickly become a before achievements.
Elgin Bar & Grill The company and our licencees have continued to invest in a Elgin Bar & Grill, London wide range of development opportunities to realise the full In a project lasting just two weeks, and with an investment of almost 200,000, Triumph Pubs and Bars have potential of our pubs.
completely transformed this former managed house.
Locals can now enjoy a high quality, yet down to earth, pub experience in stunning surroundings.
A second phase development for the first floor is planned in the near future.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Enterprise Inns plc 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ Tel: 44 0 121 733 7700 Fax: 44 0 121 733 6447 www.
