Notice of Meeting The Annual General Meeting of Enterprise Inns plc respectively, the Listing Rules and the Admission the Company will be held at the offices of the and Disclosure Standards: and Company, 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Listing Rules means the listing rules of the United Midlands, B90 4SJ at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday 22 Kingdom Listing Authority made under section 74 of January 2004 for the following purposes: the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, as Ordinary Resolutions amended from time to time.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 9.
THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally resolutions which will be proposed as ordinary authorised in substitution for all subsisting resolutions: authorities to the extent unused pursuant to and in 1.
To receive the Directors Report and the audited accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act accounts for the year ended 30 September 2003 and 1985 the Act to allot relevant securities as the auditors report on the accounts.
defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal value of 5,680,832.
This authority shall expire, unless previously 3.
To reappoint Mr D A Harding as a director of the renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in Company.
general meeting, 15 months after the date of the 4.
To reappoint Mr M F Garner as a director of the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the Company.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2005, except that the Company may at 5.
To reappoint Mr W S Townsend as a director of the any time before such expiry make any offer or Company.
agreement which would or might require relevant 6.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to securities to be allotted after such expiry and the authorise the directors to fix the remuneration of the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance auditors.
of any such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To approve the Report on the Directors Remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2003.
Special Resolutions To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 8.
THAT, subject to Admission, each of the issued and resolutions which will be proposed as special unissued ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the resolutions: capital of the Company be sub-divided into 2 ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
THAT the directors be empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities as For the purposes of this resolution: defined in section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant Admission and Disclosure Standards means the to the general authority conferred on them by requirements contained in the publication resolution 9 or to sell equity securities held as Admission and Disclosure Standards containing, treasury shares for cash pursuant to section 162D of inter alia, the admission requirements to be the Act, or partly in one way and partly in the other, observed by companies seeking admission to trading in each case as if section 89 1 of the Act did not on the market for listed securities of London Stock apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that Exchange plc: this power shall be limited to: Admission means the admission of the new a any such allotment and or sale of equity ordinary shares of 5 pence each to the Official List of securities in connection with an issue or offer by the United Kingdom Listing Authority and to trading way of rights or other pre-emptive issue or offer, on the market for listed securities of London Stock open for acceptance for a period fixed by the Exchange plc becoming effective in accordance with, directors, to holders of ordinary shares on the Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2003 53 Notice of Meeting register on any record date fixed by the directors i the maximum number of ordinary shares of in proportion as nearly as may be to the 10 pence each which may be acquired is 25,546,705: and respective number of ordinary shares deemed to be held by them, subject to such exclusions or ii the minimum price per share which may be other arrangements as the directors may deem paid for any such share is 10 pence: necessary or expedient in relation to fractional provided always that the maximum price per share entitlements, legal or practical problems arising which may be paid for any such ordinary share of 5 in any overseas territory, the requirements of any pence or 10 pence, as the case may be, is an regulatory body or stock exchange or any other amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the matter whatsoever: and middle-market quotation for such a share adjusted, b any such allotment and or sale, otherwise than to the extent necessary, to reflect the passing of pursuant to subparagraph a above, of equity resolution 8 according to the Daily Official List of securities having, in the case of relevant shares London Stock Exchange plc for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the as defined in section 94 5 of the Act, an purchase is made.
aggregate nominal value, or, in the case of other equity securities, giving the right to subscribe for This authority shall expire, unless previously or convert into relevant shares having an renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in aggregate nominal value, not exceeding in general meeting, 15 months after the date of aggregate the sum of 852,124. passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the This authority shall expire, unless previously Company in 2005, except that the Company may at renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in any time before such expiry enter into a contract to general meeting, at such time as the general purchase ordinary shares which would or might be authority conferred on the directors by resolution 9 executed wholly or partly after such expiry and expires, except that the Company may at any time purchase ordinary shares in accordance with such before such expiry make any offer or agreement contract as if the authority conferred by this which would or might require equity securities to be resolution had not expired.
allotted or equity securities held as treasury shares 12.
THAT the articles of association, a copy of which is to be sold after such expiry and the directors may produced to the Meeting and signed by the allot equity securities and or sell equity securities Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of held as treasury shares in pursuance of such an offer identification, be adopted as the articles of or agreement as if the power conferred by this association of the Company in substitution for and to resolution had not expired.
the exclusion of the existing articles of association 11.
THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally of the Company.
authorised to make market purchases as defined in The directors believe that the proposals in section 163 3 of the Act of: resolutions 1 to 12 are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and they unanimously a if resolution 8 is passed its ordinary shares of 5 recommend that you vote in favour of all the pence each provided that: resolutions.
i the maximum number of ordinary shares of 5 pence each which may be acquired is 51,093,410: and By order of the Board Registered Office: D C George 3 Monkspath Hall Road ii the minimum price per share which may be Secretary Solihull paid for any such share is 5 pence: or 25 November 2003 West Midlands b if resolution 8 is not passed its ordinary shares B90 4SJ of 10 pence each provided that: Registered No.
2562808 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2003 54 Notice of Meeting Notes 5.
Copies of the directors service contracts, the 1.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the directors remuneration report, biographical information of the directors seeking Annual General Meeting may appoint one or more reappointment and the register of directors proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of interest are available for inspection at the him.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Companys registered office during normal Company.
business hours on any weekday excluding 2.
A form of proxy for use in connection with the Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays and will Annual General Meeting is set out at the end of also be available for inspection at the place of the the document of which this notice forms part.
Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes Completion and return of a form of proxy will not before and during the Annual General Meeting.
preclude a shareholder from attending and voting 6.
Copies of the Companys existing articles of at the Annual General Meeting.
association and the articles of association 3.
To appoint a proxy or proxies shareholders must proposed to be adopted pursuant to resolution 12 complete a form of proxy, sign it and return it, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the offices of CMS together with any power of attorney or other Cameron McKenna, 160 Aldersgate Street, authority if any under which it is signed, or a London, EC1A 4DD during normal business hours notarially certified copy of such authority, to the on any weekday excluding Saturdays, Sundays Companys registrars, Computershare Investor and public holidays from the date of this notice Services PLC, Registrars Department, PO Box until close of business on 22 January 2004 and 1075, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, will also be available for inspection at the place BS99 3FA, so that it is received no later than of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 11.00 a. m. on Tuesday 20 January 2004. minutes before and during the Annual General 4.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Meeting.
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered on the Companys share register at 6.00 p. m. on 20 January 2004 shall be entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting and vote in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at To Birmingham that time.
Changes to entries on the share register after 6.00 p. m. on 20 January 2004 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any Enterprise Inns plc 3 Monkspath Hall Road person to attend or vote at the Annual General A34 Meeting.
Approx Birmingham 1 2 mile International Airport To Solihull & Railway Station NEC M42 M42 J4 J5 J6 M40 To London To StratfordSouth upon-Avon Light refreshments tea, coffee and biscuits will be available prior to the meeting.
