Market and growth development of several trends opportunities defined in logistics: by Exels strategy customer expectations: these 270bn The strategic review highlighted have challenged manufacturers is Exels estimate of the potential for growth and retailers to source products its potential target market across our markets.
Focusing from all over the world on developing a strong position globalisation: has led to in specific industries allows Exel longer and more complex to invest in its management team, supply chains and helped providing a highly focused service faster growing economies to our customers.
in emerging markets outsourcing: using supply chain During 2003, we reviewed experts such as Exel enables the growth potential within customers to leverage best our markets and concluded practice solutions and capture that the opportunities remain more supply chain benefits very strong.
Exels target market technology: improvements is estimated to be worth around have enabled greater supply 270 billion.
chain optimisation through enhanced visibility, planning With over 5 billion of revenues, and accuracy of service.
Exel holds the market leading position.
We believe the Group In the strategic review, Exel tested has also established a strong some of the assumptions that lie balance to its operations, behind these trends to confirm both regionally and within how much the logistics market each sector.
Clearly, in such a could grow in the future.
fragmented market, there is plenty of room to grow and develop The results of Exels 2003 business opportunities, whilst customer survey confirmed retaining the core focus and that the growth in outsourcing direction provided by the strategy.
is expected to continue at around 8-10% per annum.
Long-term growth in these The Group believes that the markets is underpinned by the opportunities where Exels The strategic review in 2003 has confirmed the relevance and sufficiency of Exels strategy in an exciting market that offers significant future growth potential for the business and its stakeholders.
Graham Fish Group Commercial Director Market and growth opportunities Exel plc Annual Report 2003 04
