5% share of global airfreight market The Global Business Excellence in particular, the record profits Conclusions programme, in particular, and revenue growth achieved 2003 was a good year of solid has involved cross-functional by the Groups contract logistics progress in developing and and regional teams learning operations was aided by the implementing Exels strategy.
We about new business trends operational excellence delivered have confirmed that the strategy and working on key projects by the local management team.
continues to provide competitive that explore the future strategic The 2003 annual customer advantage and will maintain Exels opportunities for Exel.
survey, undertaken by MORI focus on growth markets that on behalf of Exel, confirmed that can provide sustainable growth In Asia Pacific, a region where operational excellence remains for the long-term.
Exel has a leading position a key requirement of customers in airfreight and fast growing in making decisions about seafreight and contract logistics supply chain providers and that @ For more on our environmental policy businesses, the Group has Exel is highly regarded in this go to www.
com environment continued to strengthen its area.
Exel also rated highly local management capabilities in the way it managed the as the business has expanded.
development of integrated Part of the investment has been solutions and that the potential to exchange management growth for these services with the principal sector teams remains very strong.
in the US and Europe so that core skills and capabilities are In line with the objectives laid quickly exchanged.
out in its first environmental report, published in 2003, Focusing on our processes Exel has made further progress and operational excellence in improving its working practices One of the major components related to waste management, of Exels progress in 2003, was operational efficiency and the high standard achieved in monitoring.
More details establishing new facilities and can be found in the 2003 services for customers.
In the US report, available online.
Exels success in 2003 was underpinned by the development of industry leading design and implementation skills.
We benefited from the reliable start-up of over 50 facilities during the last few months of 2002 which provided a solid platform to allow us to grow further in 2003 and our progress in developing new business during the year should help us grow well in 2004.
Bruce Edwards Chief Executive, Americas 01 Strategy Consistent processes and operational excellence Exel plc Annual Report 2003 11
