Accounting policies A summary of the more important accounting policies adopted costs.
Past service costs are charged to operating profit immediately by the Group is set out below.
The policies are consistent with if the benefits have vested.
If the benefits have not vested immediately, the previous year, except for the adoption of FRS 17 Retirement the costs are recognised by equal annual instalments over the period benefits, the amendment to FRS 5 Revenue recognition and until vesting occurs.
The interest cost and the expected return on UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
assets are included as other finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses net of deferred tax are recognised immediately in the statement Details of the restatements resulting from these changes in accounting of total recognised gains and losses.
policies are shown in note 29.
Defined benefit schemes are funded in separate trustee administered funds, with the assets of the schemes held separately from those Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared under the going concern of the Group.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value, and concept and the historical cost convention and are in accordance liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of with applicable UK accounting standards.
return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and Basis of consolidation term to the scheme liabilities.
Full actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
The group financial statements consolidate the results and financial The resulting defined benefit asset or liability, net of the related position of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and include, using the equity method of accounting, the Groups share deferred tax, is presented separately after other net assets on the of associated and joint venture undertakings, the financial statements face of the balance sheet.
for all of which are made up to 31 December.
Their results are included For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the for the period during which they are members of the Group.
profit and loss account in respect of pension cost is the contributions Revenue recognition payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals Turnover is recognised based on the fair value of the right to or prepayments in the balance sheet.
consideration for the sale of services and goods to third parties.
For the sale of services, turnover is determined by the percentage of the total service chargeable to customers completed by the balance The Group does not maintain any other post-retirement benefits.
Turnover excludes value added tax and equivalent taxes, duty and other disbursements made on behalf of customers and Goodwill inter-company transactions.
Purchased goodwill is capitalised and amortised by equal annual instalments through the profit and loss account over its estimated Logistics contracts life of up to 20 years.
The carrying value of goodwill is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full year after an acquisition and Under certain logistics contracts the Group purchases goods from third parties on instructions from customers and sells them to those at other times if circumstances indicate that it may not be recoverable.
The Group receives income for handling and The Groups policy up to 1 January 1998 was to eliminate goodwill arising on acquisitions against reserves.
Under the provisions storing the goods but as the sale and purchase of the goods have no impact on operating profit they are excluded from turnover and of FRS 10 such goodwill will remain written off to reserves until operating charges.
Stocks, debtors and creditors relating to such disposal or termination of the previously acquired business, when the profit or loss on the disposal or termination will be calculated transactions are included in the group balance sheet.
after charging the gross amount of any such goodwill.
Employee share schemes The cost of awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP is Tangible fixed assets and depreciation charged to the profit and loss account based on an assessment of Fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation and provision for impairment.
Cost includes interest on the funding of major the probability of the performance conditions of the LTIP being met.
The charge is allocated on a straight line basis over the performance assets until the construction of the asset is complete.
The Groups period of the LTIP.
minimum unavoidable cost in relation to landfill site restoration is capitalised as a fixed asset.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in UITF 17 from applying that Abstract to Inland Revenue approved SAYE schemes Depreciation of tangible fixed assets excluding freehold and long or equivalent overseas schemes.
leasehold land and assets in course of construction, which are not depreciated is charged evenly over their estimated useful lives as follows: Retirement benefits The Group maintains UK and overseas defined benefit pension schemes for the funding of retirement benefits for scheme members Freehold and long leasehold buildings 35 to 50 years.
during their working lives in order to pay benefits to them after Short leasehold land and buildings over the life of the lease.
Landfill sites over the operational life retirement and to their dependants after their death.
For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating Plant and equipment 2 to 20 years.
profit are the current service costs and any gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part of staff Accounting policies Exel plc Annual Report 2003 54 Assets that are not expected to be held for the whole of their useful Deferred tax is provided at the rates expected to apply in the accounting lives are written down to estimated residual values at disposal.
periods in which the underlying timing differences are expected to reverse.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Disposals of land and buildings are taken into account when a binding contract to sell has been entered into prior to the balance Foreign currency translation sheet date, provided that the disposal has been completed before All transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated the financial statements are approved.
at the rate of exchange on the day the transaction occurs or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered by forward foreign The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment currency contracts.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance if circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable.
sheet date or if appropriate at a forward foreign currency contract Leased assets rate.
Exchange differences arising on foreign currency transactions are included in the profit and loss account.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and treated as tangible fixed assets at fair value.
Depreciation is charged over the shorter of the lease period or the useful life of the asset.
The deemed The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary and associated capital element of future rentals is included in borrowings.
Deemed undertakings and joint ventures are translated at average rates of exchange for the year.
The assets and liabilities of subsidiary interest, calculated on the reducing balance method, is charged as interest payable over the period of the lease.
Operating lease rentals undertakings and the investments in associated undertakings and are charged against operating profit as incurred.
joint ventures are translated at rates ruling on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the net investment in overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures Investments are dealt with through reserves, together with exchange differences The Groups investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures is its interest in their net assets and goodwill plus loans.
Other on the translation of foreign currency borrowings and forward foreign currency contracts used to hedge such investments.
investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Derivatives and other financial instruments Investment in own shares Investments in own shares, held through various trusts, are shown The Group uses instruments to hedge the risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency cash flows, and overseas net assets.
as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost in accordance Financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts, with UITF 38. are stated at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses on Stocks hedges are recognised in the period to which they relate.
Stocks, principally raw materials and consumables, are stated at Currency derivatives taken out to hedge cash flows are matched the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes, where to the cash flows and are included in the profit and loss account.
Insurance provisions Gains and losses on financial instruments used to hedge overseas net assets, together with the related tax where applicable, are taken The Group maintains insurance policies with significant excesses, to reserves and included in the statement of total recognised gains below which claims are borne by the Group.
Full provision is made for the estimated costs of claims or losses arising from past events and losses.
falling outside the limits of these policies, based on advice from the Interest rate hedges primarily interest rate swaps and forward rate Groups external insurance advisers.
agreements are related to a financial asset or liability and change Onerous lease contracts the character of the interest rate by converting a variable rate to Provision is made for onerous lease contracts including property leases a fixed rate or vice versa.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value or shown on the group balance sheet at the year end, except surplus to requirements where the obligations under the contracts for FRS 13 disclosures note 18.
The results of interest rate hedges exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under them.
are released to the profit and loss account over the life of the hedging instrument.
If they are terminated early, the gain or loss is taken Deferred taxation to profit and loss account, except where the original instrument Deferred taxation is provided in full on all timing differences which or a similar replacement exists when the gain or loss is spread over have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where the remaining maturity of the original instrument.
an event has occurred that results in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the future, except that: a no provision is made in respect of the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures unless dividends have been accrued as receivable: and b no provision is made where fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the resulting taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
04 Financials Accounting policies Exel plc Annual Report 2003 55
