Statement of accounting policies 1 Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
A summary of the more important group accounting policies is given below.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently with previous years other than in respect of the implementation of UITF32 Employee benefit trusts as detailed in note 12 b to the consolidated accounts.
The companys investment in Bridgend Custodial Services which has previously been accounted for as an associate has in these financial statements been reclassied as a joint venture.
The carrying value of 7.0m at September 2002 has been restated accordingly, and the total turnover for 2002 restated, increasing by 7.5m.
Accounting policies are periodically reviewed to ensure that they continue to be the most appropriate.
2 Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
3 Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of Securicor plc, its subsidiary undertakings and the groups share of the results and net assets of its associates and joint ventures for the year ended 30 September 2003. a Associated undertakings and joint ventures Associated undertakings are entities in which a member of the group holds a long-term minority equity interest, but over which it is in a position to exert a significant inuence.
The accounts include the relevant proportion of the results of associated undertakings based on the last audited accounts and subsequent management accounts where year ends are not coterminous.
In the consolidated balance sheet the investments in associated undertakings are shown as the groups share of underlying net assets under the heading Investment in associated undertakings.
Joint ventures are entities in which a member of the group holds a long-term interest and shares control under a contractual agreement.
The accounts include the groups share of results based on the last audited accounts and subsequent management accounts where year ends are not coterminous.
In the consolidated balance sheet the share of gross assets and gross liabilities is shown under the heading Investment in joint ventures.
b Dominant inuence For those associated undertakings and joint ventures where the group exercises dominant inuence through management control of the business the accounting treatment follows that of subsidiary undertakings.
4 Accounting for acquisitions and disposals The results of businesses acquired or disposed of are consolidated from or to the effective dates of acquisition or disposal.
On the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings or businesses, the acquisition cost is allocated against the fair value of net assets acquired, after adjustments to bring accounting policies into line with those of the group.
5 Group turnover Turnover represents sales, excluding value added tax, by group companies to external customers.
6 Depreciation Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of tangible xed assets to their estimated residual values by equal annual instalments over their expected economic life.
No depreciation is provided on freehold or long leasehold land.
Details of depreciation rates are disclosed in note 11 to the consolidated accounts.
7 Research and development expenditure Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure represents expenditure mainly of a revenue nature in establishing new services and products of the group.
Such expenditure is amortised over the period during which the expenditure is revenue-producing up to a maximum of ten years.
The directors review the capitalised development expenditure on an ongoing basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
8 Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on bases consistent with previous years.
Cost represents expenditure incurred in the ordinary course of business to bring stock to its present condition and location and includes appropriate overheads.
Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 45 Statement of accounting policies continued 9 Deferred taxation In accordance with FRS19, deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their recognition in tax computations, except that a net deferred tax asset is recognised only when it can be regarded as more likely than not that it will be recovered.
Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise upon the remittance of earnings from foreign subsidiaries only to the extent that dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax is provided at current rates and is not discounted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where they relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority and arise in the same taxable entity or group.
10 Foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the average rate applicable to the accounting period.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet dates.
Foreign exchange adjustments arising on consolidation and on borrowings arranged to finance foreign investments, have been transferred to reserves as disclosed in note 20 to the consolidated accounts.
All other exchange adjustments are taken to the profit and loss account.
11 Goodwill and amortisation Goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value attributed to the net tangible assets at acquisition, is capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life, which is expected not to exceed 20 years.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or before 30 September 1998 was charged directly to reserves.
The profit or loss on disposal or closure of a business includes any attributable goodwill previously charged to reserves.
12 Provisions The costs of meeting lease requirements on unoccupied properties are provided for and discounted to present value.
Interest is calculated at an applicable interest rate and charged to the profit and loss account within external interest payable.
Expenditure incurred in the year is charged to the provision.
13 Leases Assets held under finance leases are included as tangible xed assets at their capital value and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic life.
The capital element of future rentals is included within creditors and finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease.
Annual rentals payable or receivable under operating leases are charged or credited to the profit and loss account as incurred and future rental obligations are disclosed in note 23 to the consolidated accounts.
14 Pensions The group operates various funded pension schemes that are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within the countries concerned.
The principal UK scheme is of a dened benefit structure.
The regular cost of providing benets is charged to operating profit over the service lives of the members of the schemes on the basis of a constant percentage of pensionable pay.
Variations from the regular cost arising from periodic actuarial valuations of the schemes are allocated to operating profit over the expected remaining service lives of the members.
A contracted-in dened contribution scheme was established in 1996 and is the main scheme for new employees.
The group has adopted the interim disclosure requirements of FRS17 as shown in note 4 c to the consolidated accounts.
15 Financial instruments The financial instruments utilised by the group are interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts.
These instruments are held to manage the interest rate exposure of borrowings and currency exposures arising from operational transactions.
Interest differentials arising from derivatives are recognised by adjusting net interest payable.
Gains or losses on forward contracts taken out to hedge certain transactions are recognised in the profit and loss account at the same time as the transactions to which they relate.
16 Share awards The estimated cost of share awards is spread evenly over the performance period.
46 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003
