THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 30 Statement of Accounting Policies Accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The principal accounting policies are:- Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of THE GAME GROUP PLC and all of its subsidiary undertakings made up to 31 January 2003.
The Group has used the acquisition method of accounting to consolidate the results of subsidiary undertakings.
The results of subsidiary undertakings are included from the date of acquisition.
Accounting periods The accounting reference date of the Group is 31 January.
The comparative years results are for the 52 week period ended 26 January 2002.
The current years results are for the 53 week period ended 1 February 2003.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking is the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings is capitalised as an intangible fixed asset and either amortised over the useful life, when this can be identified, or amortised over a period of 20 years or less.
Impairment tests on the carrying value of goodwill are undertaken at the end of the first full financial year following acquisition, or in other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prior to 1 February 1998, goodwill was written off to reserves in the year in which it arose.
On the disposal of an acquired business, the profit or loss on the disposal is calculated after including the attributable amount of goodwill previously written off to reserves.
Turnover Turnover comprises the value of sales excluding VAT and similar taxes, trade discounts and intra-Group transactions of goods and services provided in the normal course of business.
Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are shown at cost less depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less estimated residual values of all fixed assets, on a straight-line basis, over their expected useful lives at the following annual rates: Short leasehold property over period of lease Improvements to leasehold property 10% Freehold property 1% Fixtures, fittings and equipment 20% to 33% Motor vehicles 25% Investments Investments are stated at cost less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 31 Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated to include, where applicable, duties, handling, transport and other directly attributable costs.
Net realisable value is based on estimated normal selling prices less further costs expected to be incurred in selling and distribution.
Financial instruments In relation to the disclosures in note 19, short term debtors and creditors are not treated as financial assets or financial liabilities, except for the currency disclosure.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Deferred taxation Provision is made on all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes except that the recognition of deferred tax assets is limited to the extent that the Group anticipates making sufficient taxable profits in the future to absorb the reversal of the underlying timing differences.
Leased assets Where assets are financed by leasing agreements that give rights approximating to ownership finance leases, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright.
The amount capitalised is the present value of the minimum lease payments payable over the term of the lease.
The corresponding leasing commitments are shown as amounts payable to the lessor.
Depreciation on the relevant assets is charged to the profit and loss account.
Lease payments are analysed between capital and interest components so that the interest element of the payment is charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
The capital part reduces the amounts payable to the lessor.
All other leases are treated as operating leases.
Their annual rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Premiums paid or received on the acquisition of short leasehold properties are transferred to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period to the first rent review or over the length of the lease, as appropriate, commencing on store opening.
Pension contributions The Group makes payments to a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
The assets of these schemes do not form part of the assets of the Group.
The pension cost charge represents contributions payable during the year.
Foreign currencies Foreign currency transactions of individual companies are translated at the rates ruling when they occurred.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet dates.
Any differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average rates of exchange during the year and their balance sheets translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences which arise from translation of the opening net assets and results of foreign subsidiary undertakings and from translating the profit and loss account at an average rate are taken to reserves.
