116 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Meeting of the Company in 2005, but ii otherwise than pursuant to subeighteenth Annual General Meeting so that it shall allow the Company to make paragraph i above up to an aggregate of Geest PLC will be held at The Great offers or agreements before its expiry nominal amount of 188,374 and shall Northern Hotel, Peterborough on 19 May which would or might require relevant expire unless previously renewed, varied 2004 at 11am for the following purposes: securities to be allotted after its expiry and or revoked by the Company in General the Directors may allot relevant securities Meeting at the conclusion of the Annual 1.
To receive and adopt the accounts in pursuance of such offer or agreement General Meeting of the Company in 2005 of the Group for the period ended 3 January notwithstanding that the authority but so that it shall allow the Company to 2004 and the reports of the Directors conferred hereby has expired.
make offers or agreements before its and auditor.
expiry which would or might require 7.
To consider, and if thought fit, pass the equity securities to be allotted after its 2.
following resolution as a special resolution: expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or 3.
To re-elect Mrs JK Scriven as a Director.
That subject to the passing of resolution 6 agreement notwithstanding that the above, the Directors be and they are hereby authority hereby conferred has expired.
To re-elect Mr GJ Voyle as a Director.
generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies For the purposes of this resolution, 5.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the references to an allotment of equity the following resolution as an ordinary meaning of section 94 of the Act as time to securities shall include a sale or transfer resolution: time amended for cash pursuant to the of treasury shares.
authority conferred by that resolution as That KPMG Audit Plc be and they are hereby if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 8.
To consider, and if thought fit, pass re-appointed auditor of the Company for did not apply to any such allotment provided the following resolution as an ordinary the period specified in Section 385 2 of the that this power shall be limited to the resolution: Companies Act 1985 at such remuneration allotment of equity securities: as may be agreed by the Directors.
That the Directors pay and benefits report i where the equity securities have been be approved.
Special business offered whether by way of rights issue, 6.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass open offer or otherwise to holders 9.
To consider, and if thought fit, pass the the following resolution as an ordinary of ordinary shares on the register on a following resolution as a special resolution: resolution: fixed record date in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their then That the Company be generally and That the Directors be and are hereby respective holdings of such shares, unconditionally authorised to make generally and unconditionally authorised but subject to such exclusions or other one or more market purchases within for the purposes of Section 80 of the arrangements as the Directors deem the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all the necessary or expedient in relation Companies Act 1985 on the London Stock powers of the Company to allot relevant to fractional entitlements or any legal Exchange of ordinary shares of 5 pence securities within the meaning of that or practical requirements under the laws each in the capital of the Company ordinary Section up to a maximum aggregate of any territory, or the requirements of shares provided that: nominal amount of 482,518, which sum any regulatory body, stock or investment represents 9,650,358 ordinary shares exchange, in any territory: and of 5 pence each, being approximately 12.8% of the issued share capital at 18 March 2004 provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Vital information Vital information Geest PLC 117 i the maximum number of ordinary 10.
To consider, and if thought fit, pass Notes shares hereby authorised to be the following resolution as an ordinary 1.
Any member of the Company entitled purchased is 7,534,964 representing resolution: to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled 10% of the Companys issued ordinary to appoint one or more proxies to attend share capital at 18 March 2004 : That the Company be generally and and, on a poll, vote in his stead.
A proxy unconditionally authorised to use shares need not be a member of the Company.
ii the minimum price, exclusive purchased by it, pursuant to the authority The completion and return of a proxy form of any expenses, which may be paid set out in resolution 9 and subsequently held will not preclude the member from attending for an ordinary share is 5 pence: in treasury, for the purposes of satisfying and voting in person.
entitlements of employees to receive shares iii the maximum price, exclusive of any under the Executive Co-Investment Plan, 2.
The register of Directors interests expenses, which may be paid for any the Long Term Incentive Plan, the Company in the shares of the Company and copies share is an amount equal to 105% of the Share Option Scheme and the Sharesave of the Directors service agreements are average of the middle market quotations Scheme and or for transfer to the 1996 available for inspection by members for an ordinary share taken from the Employee benefit Trust for this purpose.
at the registered office on any week day, London Stock Exchange Daily Official List except Saturdays and public holidays, for the five business days immediately By order of the Board during normal business hours until the date preceding the date on which the share of the Annual General Meeting, and will is contracted to be purchased: Dawn E Durrant also be available for inspection at the 18 March 2004 Annual General Meeting and for at least iv the total number of options to subscribe fifteen minutes before it commences.
for ordinary shares outstanding at 18 March 2004 is 2,747,885, which 3.
Members should note that to attend or constitutes 3.6% of the issued share capital vote, their shareholding must be registered at that date: if the full authority were used on the register of the Company as at close outstanding options would constitute of business on 17 May 2004.
This applies 4.0% of the issued share capital: to shares held in uncertified form in CREST and also to shares held in certified form.
v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier of 19 November 2005 or the close of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company: vi the Company may make a contract for the purchase of ordinary shares under this authority before its expiry which would or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority, and may make purchases of ordinary shares in pursuance of this contract as if the authority had not expired.
