Accounts and notes Geest PLC 97 Statement of accounting policies 1 Basis of accounting No profit and loss account is presented Transactions in foreign currency are The following principal accounting policies for the Company as permitted by Section recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at have been applied consistently in dealing 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985. the date of transaction, or at the contracted with items which are considered material rate if the transaction is covered by a forward in relation to the Groups accounts.
Profits and losses Goodwill representing the excess of on exchange arising in the normal course The accounts have been prepared under the fair value of the consideration and of trading are dealt with in the profit and the historical cost convention, as modified associated costs given over the fair value of loss account.
by the revaluation of certain fixed assets, the separable net assets acquired arising and in accordance with applicable on consolidation in respect of acquisitions 5 Tangible fixed assets and depreciation accounting standards and the Companies before 4 January 1998, the date from Tangible fixed assets are initially recorded Act 1985 and have been prepared on which FRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets at cost.
Depreciation is provided on a going concern basis as outlined on was adopted, was written off to reserves tangible fixed assets other than freehold page 80. in the year of acquisition.
When a land so as to write off the cost or valuation, subsequent disposal occurs, any related less estimated residual value of each asset, Details of changes in accounting policies goodwill previously written off to reserves over its expected useful life as follows: in the period are provided on page 99. is included in the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Freehold buildings 2% to 5% 2 Basis of consolidation Leasehold land Remaining term The Group accounts include the accounts Goodwill arising on consolidation in respect and buildings of lease of the Company and all its subsidiary of acquisitions since 4 January 1998 is Plant and equipment 5% to 33% undertakings drawn up under the acquisition capitalised and amortised to nil by equal method for the fty three weeks ended annual instalments over the shorter of Up and until 1994, the cost of fixed assets 3 January 2004 and comparatives for the 20 years or its estimated useful life.
includes interest incurred on borrowings fty two weeks ended 28 December 2002. to finance specific developments up to The accounts include the appropriate share Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at the the date when the relevant development of the results and net assets of its joint end of the first full year following acquisition is brought into use.
Since 1994, no interest ventures and associate.
and in other periods if events or changes has been capitalised in fixed assets.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying Most plant and equipment is written The results of subsidiary undertakings, value may not be recoverable.
off over eight years 12.5% to recognise joint ventures and associates acquired the risk of market obsolescence.
or disposed of in the period are included 4 Foreign currency in the consolidated profit and loss account The profit and loss accounts of overseas 6 Leasing from the date of acquisition or up to the subsidiary undertakings are translated at Assets held under finance leases are date of disposal.
the average rate of exchange ruling for the capitalised and depreciated over their period.
Assets and liabilities are translated useful lives.
The capital element of future Where the Group has an investment which at the rates of exchange ruling at the rentals is treated as a liability and the is sufficient to give the Group a participating balance sheet date.
Any exchange interest element is charged to the profit interest, and over which it exercises differences arising on the retranslation and loss account in proportion to the significant influence, the entity is treated of opening net assets are dealt with capital outstanding.
as an associate and is accounted for through reserves.
Rentals paid under operating leases Where considered appropriate, foreign are charged to the profit and loss account Entities in which the Group holds an currency instruments are used to provide on a straight-line basis over the term interest on a long term basis, and are a hedge against Group investments in of the lease.
jointly controlled by the Group with one foreign enterprises.
In such cases, exchange or more other parties under a contractual differences on those instruments are agreement, are treated as joint ventures taken directly to reserves together with and are accounted for using the gross the exchange differences on the carrying equity method.
amounts of the related investments.
98 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Statement of accounting policies continued 7 Stocks 9 Turnover 13 Related party transactions Stocks are stated at the lower of cost Turnover represents the net invoiced value FRS 8 Related party disclosures permits and net realisable value.
Costs include of goods and services to external customers groups to be exempt from disclosing direct materials and direct labour plus excluding value added and sales taxes.
transactions or balances with entities attributable overheads.
which form part of the Group.
Where 10 Post retirement benefits applicable, the Company takes advantage 8 Taxation Contributions to Group pension schemes of this exemption.
The charge for taxation is based on the are based on the advice of actuaries.
profit for the period and takes into account Contributions are charged to the profit and 14 Research and development taxation deferred because of timing loss account on a basis that spreads the expenditure differences between the treatment of certain expected cost of providing pensions over Expenditure on research and development items for taxation and accounting purposes.
the service lives of members.
Additional is written off in the period in which it details are given in note 26. is incurred.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated 11 Employee share schemes 15 Financial Instruments but not reversed at the balance sheet date The Company operates a number of share Off balance sheet financial instruments where transactions or events have occurred based incentives as outlined on pages 84 to are used to hedge the Groups exposure at that date that will result in an obligation 86 in the Directors pay and benefits report.
to interest rate and exchange rate risk.
to pay more, or a right to receive more, tax.
The cost of awards to employees that Gains and losses arising in relation take the form of shares or rights to shares to such instruments are accounted Deferred taxation assets are recognised are recognised over the period of the for on an accruals basis.
only to the extent that the Directors employees related performance.
No cost consider that it is more likely than not that is recognised in respect of the sharesave there will be suitable taxable profits from or Company share option schemes.
which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
12 Government grants Grants in respect of capital expenditure are Deferred taxation is measured on a credited to the profit and loss account over discounted basis to reflect the time value the anticipated life of the related xed asset.
of money over the period between the Total grants received, less the amounts balance sheet date and the dates on which credited to the profit and loss account it is estimated that the underlying timing at the balance sheet date, are included differences will reverse.
in the balance sheet as deferred income.
