118 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Glossary of financial terms used We have introduced a glossary this year and we hope Close period Dividends you find it useful.
We have tried to cover many of the The period prior to the release of a companys interim or The proportion of a companys profits paid to specific financial and business terms used throughout preliminary results, during which the Directors and other shareholders, usually declared as a dividend per share.
The list is not exhaustive and many senior managers are not permitted to trade in the shares In the UK, the dividend is usually paid in two parts: an of the definitions have been interpreted from a Geest of the company.
interim dividend payment and a final dividend payment perspective and so may not be pertinent to other once the final results for the year are known.
Please let us know of any omissions COIP cover is the number of times a company could pay or suggested improvements.
Executive Co-Investment Plan a plan by which Geest its dividend out of its net profit after tax.
Dividend yield will match certain investments in Geest shares made is widely used to measure the income return on a share.
Actuarial valuation by senior management if particular conditions are met It is the ratio of annualised dividend per share to market A professional assessment of the funding position relating to the long term performance of the Company.
of a companys pension scheme, based on assumptions regarding future events including average life span of Combined Code New Combined Code Earnings members, returns on the different investment types etc..
The code enshrined in the listing rules of the Financial profit available to ordinary shareholders, after all operating Services Authority setting out how the Board of a expenses, interest charges, taxes and preference dividends Amortisation regulated company should operate.
All companies have been deducted.
Depreciation of an intangible asset for Geest, the cost whose shares are listed in the UK must comply with of goodwill spread over the number of years which are the code or explain why they do not.
In our compliance EBIT judged to benefit.
statement, Combined Code means the code in force Earnings as above Before Interest and Tax.
prior to 1 November 2003, and New Combined Code Associate Associated undertaking refers to the code in force thereafter.
EBITA A business in which Geest has a long term shareholding, Earnings as above Before Interest, Tax and Amortisation.
but does not have management control.
Corporation tax The tax on the company profits or losses.
This is EBITDA Base rate influenced by the tax rate applicable for a company Earnings as above Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation Annual interest rate on which lending charges of our size 30% but also the level of profits and any and Amortisation.
are calculated by British banks.
differences between accounting treatment and tax treatment.
This gives rise to the effective tax rate Earnings per share EPS Basis point which expresses tax payable as a percentage of profit.
Earnings divided by the number of ordinary shares Usually one hundredth of a percentage point 0.01%, Deferred tax relates to the tax that may be payable in in issue.
Diluted earnings per share amend the number used in quoting movements in interest rates or yields future as a result of the differences between accounting of shares to reflect the potential number of shares on securities.
treatments and tax treatments adopted to date.
outstanding after the exercise of any options or convertible debt.
Adjusted earnings per share amend the earnings Book value Contingent liabilities figure to take out the effect of certain items as defined The net value of assets or liabilities cost, less any amounts A potential liability of a company, which is deemed in the accounts.
written off held in the books of account at a point in time.
It sufficiently unlikely to arise so as not to require inclusion may not reflect current market value or replacement cost.
in the accounts, but which management feel should be Effective tax rate % brought to the attention of shareholders e. g. the See Corporation tax.
Bond outcome of litigation against the company.
A certificate of debt issued to raise funds.
Bonds typically Exceptional items pay a fixed rate of interest and are repayable at a fixed Continuing Gains losses incurred that should be noted in a companys future date.
Describes the ongoing element of a companys results according to accounting standards.
Even though results and excludes the results of disposed these items are considered to be a part of ordinary business Broker analyst or discontinued activities.
activities, due to their size or frequency, management An analyst employed by a stockbroker who assesses consider that they should be accordingly disclosed.
a company and makes recommendations to investors CSOS as to the relative value of that companys shares.
A plan under which Ex dividend date employees are granted an option to purchase shares Date from which shares bought have no right to receive Capital commitment at a future date at market value on grant, provided the dividend due shortly see also Record date.
It is The situation where a company has contractually performance criteria are met.
earlier than the record date owing to the delay between agreed to undertake some capital expenditure before purchasing shares and being entered on the register the period end, but the money has not yet been spent Debt Equity ratio as a shareholder.
Executive Directors Capital employed Deferred tax Board Directors who are also full time employees All capital used in a business.
It may refer to net assets See Corporation tax.
of the company and have management responsibility.
total assets less liabilities and often is defined as shareholders funds plus long term liabilities.
Operating Depreciation Experience gain loss capital employed relates to those net assets involved The means by which a business spreads the cost The gain or loss on pensions which arises from liability in operational activities.
of an asset over its useful life to the business a proportion assumptions excluding investment return being different of the value of the asset is charged against profit from the actual events in the period under review.
Capital expenditure Capex in each year.
For an intangible asset, this is generally Payment for acquisition of a longer term asset e. g. buildings, referred to as amortisation.
If stated net then it is after the disposal of any Financial Reporting Standard detailing how companies such assets.
Derivatives should account for pensions costs.
This replaces Statement Complicated and higher risk financial instruments of Standard Accounting Practice 24 Accounting for pension Capital velocity generally avoided by Geest.
costs SSAP 24 and is being implemented in accordance The ratio of sales generated per unit of capital investment.
Diluted earnings per share Cash flow See Earnings per share.
Financial Services Authority FSA A measure of the actual cash generated by the business The independent body that regulates the financial rather than accounting profit.
In the UK, this is typically services industry in the UK.
pre-tax profit plus depreciation, amortisation and other non-cash items.
Vital information Geest PLC 119 FTSE 250 Mid price Shareholder value The companies traded on the London Stock Exchange The mid point between the bid buy and offer sell share The value a company generates for shareholders in which are the 250 largest in terms of market capitalisation prices quoted in the market.
terms of both dividends and growth in the companys after the largest 100 which make up the FTSE 100. share price.
Minority interests Gearing Arise when subsidiary undertakings are not 100% owned Sharesave scheme Used to describe the relationship between debt and by the parent company.
Amounts reflecting the share A savings related share option scheme whereby equity.
Calculated by dividing the company net debt by of the results in the period, or assets at the balance employees are granted an option to purchase shares the shareholders equity.
A highly geared company carries sheet date, of the subsidiaries that are not attributable in the company after a certain time period, usually a lot of debt.
Also measured by the debt equity ratio.
at a discount of up to 20% to the market price at date of grant.
Employees save regularly to accumulate Goodwill Net debt the funds to exercise the option.
An intangible asset representing the amount paid for The excess of the companys borrowings over its cash an acquired business over and above the net assets and liquid resources.
Statement of total recognised gains and losses acquired.
It is a reflection of the reputation, trading A statement required under UK accounting standards connections and future earning potential of the business.
Operating and financial review OFR which shows the change in the book value of the company Only goodwill arising on the acquisition of a business That part of the Annual Report and Accounts which sets over the period before allowing for dividend payments.
is included in these accounts.
out the performance of the company in words and statistics, representing a performance summary of the period Subsidiary Subsidiary undertaking Hedging under review.
These are businesses in which Geest owns all or the majority Reducing exposure to risk of loss resulting from uctuations of their shares and or can exercise management control.
in exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates etc.
Operational review Typical tools include forward foreign exchange contracts The function which carries out the internal audit activities Substantial shareholdings and interest rate swaps.
on behalf of the Audit committee and the Board and also Shareholdings over 3% or more of the issued share capital.
provides support and assistance to the finance functions.
Internal rate of return IRR Total Shareholder Return TSR A technique for appraising capital investment.
It is that Option The capital gains or losses achieved by investing in a rate of return that needs to be applied as the discount The right but not the obligation to buy or sell shares at a share, assuming all dividends are re-invested in those factor to future cash ows from a project to give an overall given price exercise price before a given date expiry date.
shares, expressed in annualised terms as a percentage net present value of zero.
In simple terms, if the IRR is of the amount invested.
higher than a predetermined hurdle rate then the project Percentile ranking is worthwhile.
The ranking of an item in relation to its peer group Treasury shares taking the population as 100% and identifying the Shares in the company which are held by the company itself.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS performance in terms of a grouping within the overall Previously known as International Accounting Standards, population e. g. 25th percentile means in the top 25% UITF these are the common accounting principles on which or quarter of all members of the peer group.
Urgent Issues Task Force a group set up to deal with the major industrial nations are harmonising their issues within the area of accounting convention or principle accounting treatments.
Price Earnings P E ratio which are deemed to be in need of timely resolution.
Ratio or multiple calculated by dividing the market price per Issues Abstracts on matters it reviews.
Interest cover share by the earnings per share.
It is a simple measure for The number of times a company could pay its most recent comparing the relative valuations of different companies.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC interest charges out of its net profit after tax.
The average cost weighted by market value of a companys Prior period adjustment debt and equity funding.
The cost of debt is the post tax Joint venture This arises where the accounting treatment of an item percentage cost of funding the debt and the cost of equity Co-operation on a project or business between two has changed and the new policy is applied to restate is the rate of return required by a companys shareholders.
or more parties, generally sharing management control the results and assets for the previous period to allow and profit loss.
Whistle-blowing policy The policy setting out the procedures an employee can LIBOR Record date take to alert management to a breach of the law or London Inter Bank Offered Rate the rate of interest The date on which a shareholder should be entered on the internal regulation in areas for Geest such as food safety, at which banks will lend in the inter-bank market.
companys share register to qualify for a dividend payment.
health and the environment and financial procedures.
The EURIBOR is similar the inter bank offer rate within the European banking system.
Related party Working capital This covers Directors of Geest, their immediate families, The cash that the business has tied up in funding day Listing rules or any other company in which those people have to day operations this includes the value of the stock The rules made by the Financial Services Authority which a significant interest excluding other Group companies it holds, the amount owed to it in trade debts by apply to all companies whose shares are listed in the UK.
and any Group company holding shares on trust for customers less any amounts that are funded by our the benefit of employees who may include Directors.
suppliers creditors in the form of our trade debts to them.
Liquidity The proportion of cash or cash equivalents in a companys Remuneration assets.
Sometimes used as a measure of the near term Pay, share scheme entitlements and benefits in kind financial health of a company.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Retail Price Index RPI A share incentive plan whereby the company awards A basket of goods services whose price is calculated shares to senior managers subject to performance criteria monthly and which provides a broad measure of the level related to the long term performance of the company.
Market capitalisation Return on Capital Employed ROCE Return on Value at current market prices of a companys share capital.
Invested Capital ROIC Calculated by multiplying current share price by the number These are measures of the profitability of the funds assets of shares in issue.
ROCE measures operating profit as a percentage of total capital employed excluding goodwill.
ROIC measures operating profit pre goodwill amortisation but after tax as a percentage of capital invested, which includes goodwill arising on acquisitions.
120 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Glossary of other terms used Accelerated Management Scheme AMS Food Standards Agency FSA Prohibition notice Geest specific training programme for recent graduates An independent food safety watchdog set up to protect the A ruling issued by Health and Safety Inspectors, and employees.
publics health and consumer interests in relation to food.
preventing the use of a machine factory etc.
until rectification work has been undertaken.
Base Code Fresh Produce Consortium Shorthand for Base Code of Labour Practice set by the ETI.
National organisation which represents retailers, Proxy form wholesalers, importers, growers and packers A form which allows a shareholder to nominate someone British Retail Consortium BRC in the fresh produce and floral industries.
else to vote on their behalf.
Trade association representing retailers in the UK.
Fusilli Safety committee Business in the Community Spiral shaped pasta.
A Geest committee of senior management including A movement whose purpose is to engage and support the Chief Executive Officer and a non-executive Director, business in continually improving its positive impact Geest European Forum GEF which meets quarterly, to ensure that issues relating on society.
A forum used to facilitate discussion and consultation to food safety, health and safety and the environment between employee representatives and management are dealt with appropriately.
Care index on pan-European issues.
Geest specific index, designed to measure employee SEDEX Supplier Ethical Data Exchange satisfaction at site level.
Genetically Modified Organism GMO A web-based tool to be launched in 2004 which An organism produced from genetic engineering facilitates the collation of ethical information between Chilled Food Association CFA techniques that allows the transfer of functional genes retailers and suppliers.
An association of food companies, created to promote from one organism to another, including from one the best standards of food safety.
Shelf life The safe amount of time a product can be kept placed Climate Change Levy Agreement Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point HACCP on sale before it has reached a stage where consumption A tax on the use of energy in industry, commerce and the HACCP was developed in the 1960s in the United States would be unwise or unsafe.
to ensure food safety for the first NASA manned space missions.
Since then, HACCP principles have been Site employee forum SEF Conscience groups defined and endorsed in international food standards, Situated on each Geest UK site, the SEFs aim to increase Geest specic meetings of key functional employees and in European and UK legislation.
HACCP is now the communication by providing updates on Company to help spread good practice across the Group.
Held by internationally recognised food safety methodology.
performance and allow consultation between employees function e. g. Manufacturing, Marketing, Development.
and management on local issues.
Health and Safety Executive HSE Development and Succession DAS The body responsible for ensuring that businesses Spot market The process by which employees are developed and comply with the rules regarding the well being Buying on the open market rather than using contracted moved through Geest.
of employees and other members of the public.
Delegated authorities Improvement notice Bibliography for pages 12 to 23 The process by which the Board delegates part of its Issued following a review of a business, outlining areas Consumer Attitudes to Food Standards Wave 4, authority to managers in the business e. g. a Purchasing where changes need to be made to improve the health Prepared for Food Standards Agency and COI Manager is authorised to place orders up to a specified limit.
Communications, February 2004 Portrait of the meal for one society, BBC News, EIRIS Ethical Investment Research Service Integrated crop management 30 January 2004 Organisation providing independent research into corporate The process of scientically planned crop rotation EU food agencies agree action plan to improve dietary behaviour for ethical investors to enable them to make to minimise pesticide residues.
health, Food Standards Agency, 10 February 2004 informed and responsible investment decisions.
Evening Eating Habits-UK, Mintel, September 2003 Management Board Rate hike on the cards, Reuters, 19 February 2004 Electronic communication with shareholders Geests executive operational team.
The European Marketing Pocket Book 2003, Documents which can be sent to shareholders World Advertising Research Centre, 2003 electronically e. g. by e-mail or placed on a website, Microbiological testing Health on-the-go, Datamonitor, 2003 where shareholders agree.
Part of the process to ensure adequate food safety Foodservice: Management briefing, AROQ management systems.
Tolerable levels of risk or food www.
com, December 2003 Enforcement action safety objectives are established and tested against What is convenience?, Graduate Project, As implemented e. g. by the Health and Safety Executive for use in controlling food-borne illness.
TNS Worldpanel 2003, September 2003 to ensure that factory improvements are made in Snacking, Graduate Project, TNS Worldpanel 2003, a timely manner.
Organic growth August 2003 Growth achieved by increasing the scale of business Unemployment drops to two-year low, Reuters, Ethical Trading Initiative ETI by internal activities as opposed to acquiring other 13 August 2003 An alliance of companies, non-government organisations established businesses.
The shape of UK shopping a view of the future and trade unions working to promote and improve the for Geest, TNS Worldpanel 2003 implementation of corporate codes of practice which Pathogen The Teenage Diet now and in the future, cover supply chain working conditions.
Micro organism capable of causing disease IGD consumer research, 2003 food poisoning.
Eat Well, Drink Well, retail initiatives towards Farfalle healthier eating, British Retail Consortium, 2003 Bow shaped pasta.
Price sensitive information PSI Top-up Shopping.
An opportunity for growth?, Any information which if in the public domain TNS Worldpanel 2003 could cause the share price to move.
UK sees girth increases for wallets and waists, www.
com, 10 June 2003 A Policy Framework for Salt Minimisation, British Retail Consortium, February 2003 Vital information Geest PLC 121 Corporate information Company Secretary Registrar and transfer ofce: Auditor: and registered ofce: Computershare Investor Services PLC KPMG Audit Plc Dawn E Durrant PO Box 82 St Nicholas House Geest PLC The Pavilions Park Row Midgate House Bridgwater Road Nottingham Midgate Bristol NG1 6FQ Peterborough BS99 7NH PE1 1TN Telephone: 44 0 870 7020001 Investment bankers: Company Number: 2017961 Citigroup e-mail: dawn.
co. uk Stockbrokers: Citigroup Centre Telephone: 44 0 1775 761111 Cazenove Canada Square 20 Moorgate Canary Wharf Principal bankers: London London Barclays Bank Plc EC2R 6DA E14 5LB PO Box 190 Barclays House Citigroup Financial calendar 2004 6 East Parade Citigroup Centre All future dates may be subject to change Leeds Canada Square West Yorkshire Canary Wharf Preliminary dividend date details LS1 2UX London Announcement date 18 March 2004 E14 5LB Ex dividend date 26 May 2004 Financial PR advisor: Record date 28 May 2004 Financial Dynamics Investor relations contact: Payment of dividend 30 June 2004 Holborn Gate Paula Cooper 26 Southampton Buildings Geest PLC Interim dividend date details London Midgate House Announcement date 16 September 2004 WC2A 1PB Midgate Ex dividend date 24 November 2004 Peterborough Record date 26 November 2004 PE1 1TN Payment of dividend 31 December 2004 e-mail: paula.
co. uk Telephone: 44 0 1775 761111 Annual General Meeting 19 May 2004 Interim report available September 2004 in collaboration with navyblue.
Photography by Tara Fisher, Lee Funnell.
Additional photography courtesy of Paul Zanre Photography, David Loftus, Nigel McMillan and Ian Pooley.
Printed by St Ives Westerham Press on paper made from totally chlorine free and elemental chlorine free pulps sourced from sustainable forests.
co. uk Registered office: Geest PLC Midgate House Midgate Peterborough PE1 1TN United Kingdom
