Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty sixth Annual General a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with Meeting of George Wimpey Plc will be held on 22 April 2004 a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer or at 11:30 am at The Royal Aeronautical Society, No 4 Hamilton Place, a scrip dividend alternative in each case in favour of ordinary London W1V 0BQ, to transact the following business: shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders Ordinary Business are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective 1 To receive and consider the report of the Directors number of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003. them, and subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal 2 That a final dividend in respect of the year ended with fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems 31 December 2003 be and is hereby declared due and arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any payable on 14 May 2004 to shareholders on the register regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter at close of business on 5 March 2004, such final dividend whatsoever: and to be payable only in respect of such of the shares in respect of which the relevant holder of the shares has not exercised b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph any entitlement to receive new shares instead of a dividend a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal in cash pursuant to the scrip dividend scheme.
value of 4,802,675: To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation: and shall expire 5 years after the date of passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry 3 Mr J H Robinson make an offer or agreement which would or might require 4 Mr J M Blackburn equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such 5 Mr D M Williams an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby and to re-appoint: had not expired.
6 Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde 10 That the Company be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within 7 To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 Company, to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next general of not more than 38,421,405 ordinary shares of 25p each meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and in its share capital at a price not less than 25p per share and that their remuneration be xed by the Directors.
not more than 5% above the average of the middle market To consider and if thought t, to pass the following resolutions quotations for the ordinary shares in the Company taken from which are to be proposed, in the case of resolutions 8, and 11, the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the 5 business as ordinary resolutions and, in the case of resolutions 9 and days immediately preceding the day on which such shares 10, as special resolutions of the Company: are contracted to be purchased in each case exclusive of any expenses provided that the authority hereby conferred shall 8 That the Directors be and they are hereby generally and expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting unconditionally authorised in substitution for all previous of the Company to be held after the date hereof except that authorities conferred upon them to exercise all powers the Company may make a contract to purchase its own of the Company to allot relevant securities within the shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the meaning of section 80 2 of the Companies Act 1985 up expiry of such authority, which will or may be executed wholly to an aggregate nominal value of 32,017,837, provided that or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a this authority shall expire 5 years after the date of passing of purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require Special Business relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the 11 That the Remuneration Report contained within the report Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such of the Directors and Accounts for the year ended 31 December an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby 2003 is hereby approved.
9 That subject to the passing of the resolution numbered 8 above, the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the resolution numbered 8 above as if sub-section 1 of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: 64 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 Explanation of Resolutions Under Resolution 9, the Directors will remain subject to Resolution 1:To Receive the Directors Report and Accounts constraints on the issue of shares for cash.
They will be able The Directors are required to present to the meeting the to issue such shares for cash only: Directors and Auditors reports and the accounts for the in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other year ended 31 December 2003. pre-emptive offer or a scrip dividend alternative, or: Resolution 2:To Approve a Dividend up to 5% of the nominal value of the Companys issued The proposed 2003 final dividend of 8.45 pence per share share capital as at 12 February 2004, i. e. 4,802,675. will be paid on 14 May 2004 to shareholders who are on the Resolution 10:To Empower the Company to Make Market Purchases register on 5 March 2004.
The final dividend will be paid in cash to all shareholders other than those who exercise their of its Shares.
This resolution is intended to renew the authority of the Directors right, to receive shares instead of their cash dividend pursuant to make market purchases of shares within a 10% limit, and in to the scrip dividend scheme.
accordance with Article 53 of the Companys Article of Association.
Resolution 3:To Re-elect Mr J H Robinson The Board has no immediate intention of exercising this authority.
Article 103 of the Companys Articles of Association states Moreover, purchases will only be made if they would result in an that one third of the Directors must retire annually, those expected increase in earnings per share, will take into account doing so being the longest serving since last being re-elected.
other available investment opportunities and will be in the best Mr J H Robinson offers himself for re-election.
Any shares purchased in accordance with this authority will subsequently be cancelled.
Resolution 4:To Re-elect Mr J M Blackburn Mr J M Blackburn offers himself for re-election in accordance Options were outstanding as at 12 February 2004 to subscribe with Article 103 of the Companys Articles of Association.
for a total number of 9,925,826 ordinary shares, or 2.58% of the Companys issued share capital.
Resolution 5:To Re-elect Mr D M Williams Mr D M Williams offers himself for re-election in accordance If the authority to purchase shares is ever used in full, the with Article 103 of the Companys Articles of Association.
proportion of issued share capital represented by this gure would be 2.87%.
Resolution 6:To Re-appoint Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde Article 108 allows the Board to appoint a person to the Resolution 11:To Approve the Remuneration Report Board during the year, subject to them being re-appointed of the Company.
at the subsequent Annual General Meeting.
Baroness Brenda In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Dean was appointed on 7 October 2003 and offers herself Regulations 2002 the Board is required to present the Directors for re-appointment.
Remuneration Report to shareholders for approval at the meeting.
The Remuneration Report is contained in the report of the Directors biographical details are shown on page 28.
The Board Directors and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 recommends the re-election and the re-appointment of the which is set out on pages 38 to 43.
The Board considers that above Directors.
appropriate executive remuneration plays a vital part in helping to achieve the Companys overall objectives.
The vote will have Resolution 7:To Re-appoint  as Auditors advisory status in respect of the remuneration policy and overall This resolution proposes the re-appointment of remuneration packages and is not specic to individual levels  LLP as auditors, and permits of remuneration.
the Directors to x their remuneration.
By Order of the Board Resolutions 8 9:To Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-emption Rights Under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, the Directors cannot generally allot shares in the Company unless they are authorised to do so by the Company in general meeting.
Resolution 8 will authorise the Directors to issue new shares JAMES J. JORDAN up to the lower of one third of the amount of the nominal value GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY GEORGE WIMPEY PLC of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this MANNING HOUSE 22 CARLISLE PLACE Notice i. e. up to a value of 32,017,837 or the amount of the LONDON SW1P 1JA nominal value of the authorised but unissued share capital of 24 FEBRUARY 2004 the Company.
The authority will expire 5 years after the date of passing of this resolution.
The Directors have no present intention of issuing shares, except as needed to satisfy the exercise of options under the Companys Employee Share Scheme and the allotment of shares pursuant to such elections made by shareholders of the Company.
George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 65 Notice of Meeting continued NOTES: Action to be Taken i.
A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint a proxy Whether or not you intend to attend the Annual General Meeting, to attend and vote instead of him or her.
The proxy need not be a member you are requested to complete the enclosed Form of Proxy and of the Company.
return it to the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The ii.
Instruments appointing proxies must be received by the Companys registrars Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA as soon as possible not less than 48 hours before the time xed for the meeting.
and in any event so as to be received no later than 48 hours iii.
Contracts of service with Directors and the register of Directors Interests will before the time appointed for the Annual General Meeting.
be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during usual business hours between the date of this Notice and the Annual General The completion and submission of a Form of Proxy will not Meeting and at the venue of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior prevent you from attending and voting in person if you so wish.
to the commencement of the meeting and until its conclusion.
A copy of the full report of the Directors and Accounts for the year ended Recommendation 31 December 2003, including the Remuneration Report referred to in Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be proposed Resolutions 1 and 11 respectively, is also available on at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of shareholders www.
co. uk as a whole and recommend you to vote in favour of them.
They v. As permitted by Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, only those shareholders who are registered on the Companys share register will be doing so in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
at 6:00pm on 20 April 2004 shall be entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting and to vote in respect of the number of shares registered in their Attendance and Voting names at that time.
Changes to entries on the share register after 6:00pm on As a shareholder of George Wimpey Plc, you have the right 20 April 2004 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
attend or vote at the meeting.
Please bring with you the accompanying Form of Proxy Admission Card.
It will authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote, and will speed your admission.
Please keep it until the end of the meeting.
The meeting will commence at 11:30am and light refreshments will be available from 11:00am and also after the conclusion of the meeting.
You may also nd it helpful to bring your Annual Report with you so that you can refer to it at the meeting.
If you do not wish, or are unable, to attend, you may appoint either the Chairman of the meeting or someone else of your choice to act on your behalf and to vote in the event of a poll.
That person is known as a proxy.
You are advised to use the enclosed Form of Proxy to appoint a proxy.
A proxy need not be a shareholder and may attend and vote on behalf of the shareholder who appointed him or her.
At the meeting, the proxy can act for the member he or she represents.
This includes the right to join in or demand a poll, but it does not include the right to vote on a show of hands.
The proxy is also valid for any adjournment of the meeting.
Please tick the appropriate box alongside each resolution on the Form of Proxy to indicate whether you wish your votes to be cast for, or against, or whether you wish to withold your vote from, that resolution.
Unless you give specic instructions on how to vote on a particular resolution, your proxy will be able, at his or her discretion, either to vote for or against that resolution or to withold from voting.
Before posting the form to the registrar, please check that you have signed it.
In the case of joint holders, either of you may sign it.
The Forms of Proxy must be received in the ofces of the Companys registrars no later than 11:30am on 20 April 2004.
Any Form of Proxy received after this time will be void.
66 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003
