Shareholder Information TABLE OF CONTENTS Annual General Meeting Private Shareholders The UKs leading housebuilder 01 Financial Highlights 22 April 2004 11:30am at The Royal Aeronautical Society, If you have a query about your holding of George Wimpey Plc 02 Chairmans Statement No 4 Hamilton Place, London W1V 0BQ.
shares or need to change your details, for example address or 04 Chief Executives Review payment of dividend requirements, please contact the Registrars George Wimpey Plc is a focused housebuilder, Results 18 Operating and Financial Review at the address shown.
2003 year end results 24 February 2004 28 Board of Directors dedicated to building quality homes in the UK and 2004 half year results 28 July 2004 Website 30 Corporate Social Responsibility 32 DirectorsReport Further details of the Groups activities and products can be Dividends 35 Corporate Governance the US.
Over recent years, the Group has undergone seen on its website at www.
Services Final Dividend subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, 38 Remuneration Report available include: a final recommended dividend of 8.45 pence will be payable on 44 Group profit and Loss Account significant change and now operates through three 14 May 2004 to ordinary shareholders whose names appear in the e-mail alert service 45 Balance Sheet register of members at the close of business on 5 March 2004.
46 Group Cash Flow Statement distinct brands: download Company reports The ex-dividend date is 3 March 2004.
47 Accounting Policies access press releases 48 Notes on the Accounts Interim dividend dates to be announced in July 2004 62 AuditorsReport George Wimpey is our core brand operating across download investor presentations 63 Five Year Review Once these dates have been approved they will be displayed 64 Notice of Meeting view management presentation via webcasts on our website www.
co. uk the UK through 23 regional businesses building 67 Business Directory UK and US interactive share price charting tool The scrip dividend scheme introduced by the Company in 2002 69 Shareholder Information a full range of products from one bedroom starter continues to be available to shareholders.
For more information, Registered Ofce please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Manning House homes, to inner-city apartments and large detached 22 Carlisle Place Shareholders Services London The Company continues to encourage private shareholders.
SW1P 1JA Shareview dealing Tel: 020 7802 9888 On the Companys behalf, Lloyds TSB Registrars operate a phone or Laing Homes was acquired by George Wimpey Plc internet based low cost share sales service in George Wimpey Plc Registered Number shares.
The telephone service is available on 0870 850 0852 and 1397926 in late 2002 and is our premium UK housing division, the internet based service at the website, www.
Registrars operating through five regional businesses across Lloyds TSB Registrars Postal share dealing service The Causeway Cazenove & Co also offer a low cost postal share dealing service the South East and Midlands.
Worthing on behalf of the Company.
West Sussex For any further details on either service please contact the BN99 6DA Morrison Homes is our US business operating Group Company Secretary at the Registered Office or by Tel: 0870 600 3970 telephone on 020 7802 9888. through 11 regional divisions located across six You can see more details of your shareholding on Lloyds TSB Corporate Individual Savings Account ISA Registrars website on www.
co. uk This service is available to George Wimpey shareholders.
ISAs are states in the Southeast, Southwest and West, a useful way of holding your shares as any gains made on the value of the shares held in the George Wimpey Corporate ISA building a range of single family homes.
are free of Capital Gains Tax when sold.
For further information, contact The Share Centre on 01296 41 41 44 With unparalleled experience in the house building or by e-mail to info@share.
Alternatively, you can visit their website at www.
industry, George Wimpey leads the way in health ShareGift and safety, build quality and customer service.
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity We are totally committed to creating and Published by Black Sun plc administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
A ShareGift donation form can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Further Photography: Location Richard Olivier, David Oliver and Tom Salyer delivering consistent value for customers information about ShareGift is available at www.
org Board of Directors Richard Olivier or by writing to: ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, and shareholders alike.
Printed by Royle Corporate Print George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 69 George Wimpey Plc 2003 Annual Report & Accounts George Wimpey Plc 2003 Annual Report & Accounts Building a strong business for the future... George Wimpey Plc Manning House 22 Carlisle Place London SW1P 1JA Tel 44 0 20 7802 9888 www.
co. uk George Wimpey Plc 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Making Progress... Chairman & Chief Executives Introduction Strengthening our commitment We are pleased to introduce the second George Wimpey Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
During 2003 we have continued to take our duty to behave responsibly towards all our stakeholders very seriously.
Central to the way we do business are our core values of integrity and respect.
All our businesses operate within policies which are designed to ensure fair and ethical treatment of our customers, employees, subcontractors and other business partners.
We believe we should act responsibly towards all our stakeholders, including the communities in which we build homes, not because we have to, but because we believe it is right.
Key Highlights Laing Homes was acquired on 1 November 2002 and last year we reported on LEFT TO RIGHT: PETER JOHNSON, JOHN ROBINSON Contents 01 02 their corporate social responsibility CSR Our Progress activities separately.
During 2003 Laing Homes Details of 2003 achievements and major targets for 2004. has been fully integrated as a division of our UK business and George Wimpey practices and 04 procedures, particularly in health and safety and Vision, Values and Governance environmental management and training, have Our approach to ethics, CSR and governance.
06 Strengthening our commitment to CSR, during Health and Safety 2003 we set up a new Board Committee, chaired Health and safety management systems by Christine Cross, which is responsible for and performance.
reinforcing and informing the Groups approach 09 to CSR.
Environment Environmental management and Last year we highlighted specic targets to be building sustainable communities.
measured and reported on as key performance indicators.
We have restated last years promises 14 Employees and clearly measured the progress that has been How we treat our employees and made.
Where appropriate new targets for action what they think of us.
16 Going Forward Community Being a good neighbour in our local During 2004 we will continue to strengthen and national communities.
our approach towards CSR across the Group.
Led by the CSR Committee we will develop a 18 Customer Care framework within the Group for deepening Our approach to customer service our understanding of what it means to be a and satisfaction.
At the same time the 21 Committee will ensure that all CSR activities Key Performance Indicators make good business sense for our shareholders.
Annual performance data for comparison over time.
We remain committed to transparent CSR reporting and to monitoring, reviewing and improving our performance.
We believe we have built on last years achievements but understand that sustainability will not be achieved quickly and we still have many steps to take.
JOHN ROBINSON CHAIRMAN PETER JOHNSON CHIEF EXECUTIVE George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 01 Our Progress KEY 2003 ACHIEVEMENTS MAJOR 2004 TARGETS CORPORATE Set up CSR Committee of the Board.
Deepen our understanding of what it means GOVERNANCE to be a responsible housebuilder.
Explore how to strengthen assurance around CSR-related processes.
HEALTH AND 100% relevant Laing Homes staff trained in H&S.
Continued stakeholder engagement to SAFETY identify and assess H&S risk.
100% of contractors inducted in H&S procedures.
H&S Held national safety workshops for designers.
Seek British Safety Council H&S accreditation.
Trained 2,800 workers on new fall arrest system, Reducing on-site slips, trips and falls, as 900 workers on use of safety nets and organised well as continuing to reduce the risk of falls groundworker training programme.
11% reduction in reportable accidents with comparison to 2002.
Engaged with stakeholders on H&S risks.
UK Improved weekly safety reports.
Continued focus on reducing the risk of falls US from height.
New Scored Safety Audit programme on 100% of sites.
100% of new builders must receive OSHA certication within 90 days of employment.
ENVIRONMENT 100% of site management and support staff Continuing to undertake a survey of suppliers trained in environmental management.
100% of sites have a Site Specic Environmental Gap and cost benefit analysis of seeking Action Plan.
Trained 389 sub-contractors on Increase waste segregation and recycling.
Increase use of technology-based UK Started sustainability survey of suppliers.
Engagement with suppliers to introduce New KPI to be introduced in 2004 on percentage US Freon-free HVAC systems to new homes.
of homes completed with a Freon-free HVAC system.
EMPLOYEES Published results of first employee survey Focus on areas highlighted by the first employee and drew up action plans to address areas survey and analysis of performance appraisal and of concern.
Introduced new human resources strategy.
Analysed effectiveness of current performance UK appraisal and training practices.
Published results of seventh annual Track recruitment success to increase new US employee survey.
16.6% increase in training hours per employee.
HR to co-ordinate, facilitate, communicate and provide feedback on new training initiatives.
CUSTOMER Won more than twice as many NHBC Pride Introduce new Customer Charter and best CARE in the Job Quality awards as any other housebuilder.
48 developments achieved the highest possible Review customer service training.
standards in our internal customer service award scheme.
Launched a new website and customer magazine.
UK Placed in the top quartile of all US builders Evolve customer experience and communications.
US in the 2003 JD Power & Associates customer Implement a customer communication satisfaction ratings.
Introduced new lead management system to enhance customer service.
02 George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 Our Progress 03 George Wimpey Plc SELECTED HIGHLIGHTS George Wimpey Plc is a leading UK housebuilder.
In 2003 we built over 16,500 homes in the UK and the US, and we employ more than 6,000 people.
We also % work with a significant number of sub-contractors 52 and other parties.
REDUCTION IN UK ACCIDENTS RESULTING FROM This report is produced in conjunction with FALLS FROM HEIGHTS IN COMPARISON TO 2002 George Wimpeys Annual Report and Accounts 2003.
The Group operates in the UK and US, and this report covers our operations in both countries: George Wimpey UK which now includes Laing Homes and Morrison % Homes in the US.
67 We remain committed to transparent CSR reporting and HOMES BUILT ON BROWNFIELD SITES EXCEEDING to monitoring, reviewing and improving our performance.
UK GOVERNMENT TARGET % Awards won in 2003 include: 83 UK Construction Health and Safety Group award for Contribution to Health OF STAFF AGREE THAT MORRISON HOMES IS A GREAT and Safety Training and Improved Standards.
PLACE TO WORK National House Building Council NHBC Pride in the Job Awards: 79 Quality, 22 Top 100 Seals of Excellence and one Regional Winner awards.
Chartered Institute of Building Construction Manager of the Year Awards: a Gold and a Silver award, plus a commendation.
% Health and Safety Executive Working Well Together Awards: Number 85 One Worker 2003.
OF US CUSTOMERS Daily Express British Housebuilder Awards: two Gold and one Silver awards.
WOULD RECOMMEND US TO FRIENDS AND FAMILY 21st Century Living Awards: Best Family Home and Best Executive Home.
North East Business Awards:Tyneside and Northumberland Environment Award.
Professional Builder Magazine named Morrison Homes one of the 101 Best Companies to Work For.
% 22 Housing Forum National Customer Satisfaction Survey 2003, a maximum three stars for all six categories relating to quality and service.
OF OUR US BUSINESS FROM REFERRALS BY SATISFIED HOMEOWNERS We also run our own annual award schemes in the UK and US, focusing on health, safety and environment, build and customer service quality.
George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 03 Vision, Values and Governance THE CSR COMMITTEE Corporate Social Responsibility Committee left to right.
Christine Cross, Non Executive Director Chair, Keith Cushen, Chief Executive, George Wimpey UK, Stu Cline, President, Morrison Homes, Baroness Dean, Non Executive Director.
Keith Cushen resigned as a Director of the Company on 31 December 2003 but will continue to provide advice to Corporate social responsibility the Company and the CSR Committee as an independent consultant.
makes sound business sense CHRISTINE CROSS CHAIR, GEORGE WIMPEY PLC CSR COMMITTEE Vision We aim to achieve leadership in our sector.
We want to be the housebuilder of choice for: Our shareholders, offering superior security and growth of earnings.
Our customers, offering unrivalled and consistent quality of product and service.
Our employees and subcontractors, providing fullling and rewarding careers or contracts in a safe and healthy environment.
The communities in which we operate, creating a better environment in which to live and work.
Values Five core, non-negotiable values underpin everything that we do.
These are: Integrity Customer focus Continuous improvement Respect for people Teamwork Ethics We aim to treat our stakeholders with respect and conduct our business to the 4George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 Vision, Values and Governance 05 2003 CASE STUDY MORRISON CORE VALUE AWARD highest standards of honesty Executive Director Christine as well as an internal, and fair dealing.
Cross with the other members perspective is particularly In 2002, Morrison Homes during the year consisting important.
As Chair of the new introduced a new employee George Wimpey UKs Code of award in memory of former of a Non Executive Director, Committee I am particularly Business Conduct and Morrison Vice President of Human the Chief Executive of pleased with progress to Homes Company Policy Manual Resources Claudia Patterson, George Wimpey UK and the date, whilst recognising that set out our approach to doing who sadly died in 2002.
we have a year on year Claudia played a pivotal business ethically.
These The Committee will strengthen programme of focused action role in developing the documents provide guidance and inform the Groups companys core values.
to deliver, in order to drive for staff and management approach to corporate continuous improvement.
The first winner of the on how we aim to treat responsibility issues.
Core Values Award was Jim Christine Cross employees, sub-contractors, Steinmiller, Area Sales Manager Chair, CSR Committee customers, suppliers and It will meet at least twice per for the Tampa division.
year and is responsible for the won the award for representing Future Targets the companys core values, Groups CSR strategy, policies, A key focus for 2004 is to Governance displaying leadership qualities reporting and performance deepen our understanding The George Wimpey Plc Board and actively participating in monitoring.
The Committee will of what it means to be a community programmes.
is committed to high standards seek to ensure that CSR strategy responsible housebuilder.
We The President of the Tampa of corporate governance.
The and activity is adequately Division described Jim as a will clarify what we are trying Board considers that, during caring individual and a resourced, has appropriate to achieve in terms of CSR and the year under review, it has model employee.
standing within the Group analyse how best to balance complied with the provisions Jim works in the best interest and is aligned to the needs our financial, social and of the Combined Code on of customers and the company, of the business.
spends time educating fellow the Committee will develop staff members and volunteers In 2004, we will investigate how The Board is reviewing the appropriate stakeholder as a mentor and tutor for to strengthen assurance around dialogue and analysis.
It will revised code which applies local schoolchildren.
our CSR-related processes and in respect of reporting also highlight significant social, review our procedures in the environmental and ethical risks years beginning on or after light of third party criteria.
We 1 November 2003 in detail and opportunities to the Board.
OUR FIVE CORE VALUES: will also explore CSR-related and believes that it is already Corporate social responsibility supply chain issues as they operating in substantial Integrity makes sound business sense.
For further details Customer focus The key to the George Wimpey on governance, please see In addition, we will seek approach is an integrated Continuous improvement George Wimpey Plcs Annual business plan where further ways to ensure that Report and Accounts 2003.
Respect for people environmental, social and our policies are practiced CSR Committee technical performance is throughout our businesses, and Teamwork Set up in June 2003, the CSR aligned with financial security will continue to measure and Committee is chaired by Non and returns.
Having an external, report on our performance.
More information about our Corporate Governance Find out practices and procedures is available on-line at www.
co. uk more George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 5 Health & Safety 2003 ACHIEVEMENTS KPI MEASUREMENTS 100% of relevant Laing Homes staff trained in health & safety.
Incident rate per 1,000 employees and contractors: UK UK 7.0 for all reportable injuries 100% of contractors inducted in health & safety procedures.
Held national safety workshops for designers.
Proactive monitoring identied the following potential Trained 2,800 workers on new fall arrest system, 900 workers on hazards on sites: safety nets and organised a groundworker training programme.
97 Category A potential serious 11% reduction in reportable accidents compared to 2002.
Engaged with stakeholders on health and safety risks.
20 hours is the minimum annual health and safety training time required for site management personnel.
US 3.98 the incident rate including employees and contractors.
Introduced Scored Safety Audit programme on 100% of sites.
US 0.27 the major accident rate per 1,000 completions.
We are proud of our Construction, Design and Management CDM process commitment to health and to provide a comprehensive safety and believe we lead the management system.
We UK and US housebuilding use our bespoke Hazard industries in standards, Categorisation System on procedures and training.
every site to identify and Peter Redfern, Managing Director, report on potential risks and George Wimpey UK, Stu Cline, to implement the required President, Morrison Homes.
Health and safety Staff and contractors are management is an integral involved in the development part of our Group approach of our procedures.
While groups meet regularly to construction is a hazardous discuss key issues while industry, it is unacceptable to briengs and newsashes allow our activities to cause keep managers informed harm to any employee, subabout new developments contractor, customer or and incidents.
Health and safety member of the public.
We is a key item on the agenda take our responsibilities in of every George Wimpey UK this area extremely seriously.
George Wimpey UK Our web-based Health, Safety Health and safety is the highest and Environmental Reporting priority of our company.
Our System ensures that complete regularly updated Health, Safety and accurate data is available and Environmental Procedures to help measure, monitor provide guidance on all aspects and improve performance.
of site safety and training External consultants requirements.
The procedures including R G Wilbrey are fully integrated into our audit our site performance.
Health and safety is our highest priority at George Wimpey UK DAVID CARTER DIRECTOR OF HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT, GEORGE WIMPEY UK Details of our health and safety policies are available on-line Find out at www.
co. uk csr as well as verication statements from R G Wilbrey and PROSAFE.
more Health & Safety 07 2003 CASE STUDIES % 52 REDUCTION IN GEORGE WIMPEY UK ACCIDENTS RESULTING FROM FALLS FROM HEIGHTS IN COMPARISON TO 2002 1.
NEW UK FALL PROTECTION Our Focus intensive training to 100 percent We run annual regional and SYSTEMS INTRODUCED In 2002, a thorough of our site management teams.
national safety competitions investigation of accident trends Previous UK accident gures to promote and reward best Many of the safety issues highlighted the fact that falls identied that our workers were practice and to recognise encountered during from height pose the greatest at greatest risk from: sub-contractors for notable danger to workers.
Over the construction can be reduced or safety practices.
past few years, we have Falls from height the most eliminated during the design introduced a range of new common cause of fatal and process.
We continually review Stakeholder Engagement safety features.
These include a major injury to construction our house designs to identify In 2003, we engaged with new scaffolding specication workers, according to the where we can improve safety.
that exceeds current British site managers, contractors, UKs Health and Safety In 2003, we ran a series of safety standards, mobile suppliers and other working platforms and soft Executive HSE.
bespoke national health and organisations to identify landing systems.
safety training courses for our and assess potential health On-site trafc incidents.
We introduced improved internal design teams and and safety risks.
We will use stairwell protection in 2003 to external design companies.
Being struck by falling objects.
this information to further prevent workers from falling down open staircases, having improve our systems and also We also trained 2,800 We developed an extensive identied this as one of the the efforts of our contractors.
employees and contractors action programme to target remaining areas of potential these priority areas.
This resulted in the use of a new fall arrest risk.
As of January 2004, all UK George Wimpey UK works system and 900 in the use of in a significant reduction of sites will use a proprietary closely with the HSE and system to provide increased the number of accidents in safety nets.
housebuilding industry safety and complete protection these areas during 2003.
We have against falls into stairwell voids.
Award Winning Safety focused on improved training, representation on the In 2003, we received a awareness campaigns and Construction Industry Training prestigious UK Construction 2.
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT significant investment in PLANS REMAIN KEY FOCUS Board CITB and House Health and Safety Group award suitable safety equipment.
Building Federation HBF for Contribution to Health and Vehicle-related injuries are health, safety and environment New Developments Safety Training and Improved some of the housebuilding industrys most serious committees.
We are working In 2003, we fully integrated Standards.
In addition, one of accidents.
We have detailed with the HBF and other Laing Homes with the existing our employees won the HSEs clear policies and procedures George Wimpey health and highly coveted Working Well housebuilders to introduce an on trafc management.
Our safety approaches, we updated Together Campaigns Number industry-wide Housebuilders key focus is developing site procedures and provided One Worker award in 2003.
Health and Safety Charter and trafc management plans, segregating vehicles from pedestrians and installing safe crossing points.
We design each of our compounds and sites to achieve effective Reduction Accidents on-site trafc management.
in Target Areas percent We also work closely 40 with UK and European manufacturers to enhance 30 the safety of current machines 20 and next generation telescopic handlers.
We undertook a 10 series of telehandler operator competency audits in 2003 00 01 02 03 and will ensure that, by the end Falls from height of January 2004, all operators Falling objects Traffic management and machinery will have been audited.
George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 07 00 01 02 03 04 08 Health & Safety 2003 CASE STUDY 3.98 2003 INCIDENT RATE AT MORRISON HOMES INCIDENT RATE REFLECTS THE STANDARD OSHA CALCULATION FOR THE RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY 3.
ONE OF THE BEST INDUSTRY a separate Consortium Compliance and monitoring We continue to run our FALL PROTECTION SYSTEMS Agreement.
We are also a including weekly and Contractor Awareness member of the British Safety quarterly safety inspections.
Program, which was started At Morrison Homes, we have Council BSC and involved identied falls from height as in 2002.
This programme Adopt policies and in the HSEs Working Well the area of greatest risk for teaches sub-contractors procedures for a positive employees, sub-contractors, Together campaign.
about our safety procedures fall protection system to customers, estate agents and and objectives.
Morrison Homes reduce the danger of falls in the general public.
To minimise In comparison to 90 percent homes under construction.
the danger to workers and In addition, relevant employees visitors, we use a system of of other homebuilders, in each division attend at least In 2003 we re-designed our steel guardrails in all houses Morrison Homes is way ahead one day of health and safety weekly safety reports to of two or more storeys.
of its competition in making training per year.
Customers include more specic items We believe that our interior fall advancements to its health often visit their new home for inspection.
We also protection system is one of the and safety programme.
during construction, so it is designed a Scored Safety best safety systems used by Mike McCarroll, CSP, President and vital that our managers and the US housebuilding industry.
Audit programme for every CEO, PROSAFE Solutions Inc. Other fall protection measures sales staff can identify and site which was implemented for workers include roof and avoid potential dangers.
The comprehensive Morrison at the beginning of 2004.
Local truss anchors, body harnesses, Homes Safety Program Manual senior managers inspect and bracket and stacked scaffolds, Future Targets forms the basis of our proactive score every site on a quarterly and safety straps.
In 2004, we will seek British safety programme.
Written and basis for safety compliance.
Safety Council health and regularly updated for us by Accident Reporting safety accreditation in the UK.
external consultants PROSAFE, We use accident statistics to In 2004, as well as continuing the manual covers Morrison measure and improve safety.
the focus on the priority areas Homes procedures and US develop and enhance our All accidents must be reported highlighted in 2003, we will safety regulation as laid down mandatory site safety training and dealt with according to turn our attention to slips, trips by the Occupational Safety and programmes.
Incidents in this area Health Administration OSHA.
Building Excellence, our analyse incident reports and, accounted for 45 percent of orientation course for new Our HAZCOM programme where relevant, identify all our reportable accidents builders, includes health and provides detailed guidance on preventative measures and during 2003. safety considerations.
All eld the ingredients of potentially procedural improvements.
construction personnel and Morrison Homes will continue hazardous materials.
HAZCOM In 2003, we changed from a senior management also to focus on reducing the risk helps us to use materials safely quarterly to a monthly safety undertake a 10-hour OSHA of falls from height.
As of and take immediate action if reporting system in order to certication programme.
2004, we aim to provide increase our awareness of on- 100 percent of our new Every month, we produce Our Focus site safety and respond more builders with a 10-hour OSHA monthly toolbox safety topics In 2003, our primary areas of quickly to issues.
certication course within for our builders to present to focus were: 90 days of employment Staff and Contractor Training all site workers.
The toolbox Training for employees and PROSAFE uses the results of talks, an OSHA requirement, and will report annually sub-contractors.
cover aspects of site safety.
site inspections and audits to PROSAFEs verication statement is available on-line Find out at www.
co. uk csr more 08 George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 Environment 2003 ACHIEVEMENTS KPI MEASUREMENTS 100% of site management and support staff trained 67% of homes built on browneld sites.
UK UK in environmental management.
92 average SAP rating of new houses.
100% of sites have a Site Specic Environmental 9.7 tonnes of waste produced per unit of Action Plan.
Trained 389 sub-contractors on environmental issues.
From 2004, we will measure the percentage Started sustainability survey of suppliers.
of waste recycled and sent to landll.
Engagement with suppliers to introduce Freon-free New KPI to be introduced in 2004 on percentage US US HVAC systems to new homes.
We conduct our business in a way that minimises adverse environmental impacts EDWARD WOODS HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT DIRECTOR, GEORGE WIMPEY UK We require all our UK and risk of causing environmental US companies to conduct pollution.
The George Wimpey their business in a manner Environment Management that, as far as practicable, System and contractors will minimise any adverse training programme will help effects upon the environment.
make sure that protection We recognise that good of the environment is environmental performance considered at every site.
is an important part of George Wimpey is making a business success and must real effort to make sure that be given full regard by environmental protection is company management.
built into the foundations of all their work.
George Wimpey UK Theresa Brown, Department We believe that our of Pollution Prevention proactive and responsive and Minimisation, approach to environmental Environment Agency.
management sets an industry-leading standard The construction industry among UK housebuilders.
causes more pollution Edward Woods, Health, incidents each year than Safety and Environment Director, any other industry.
Our main George Wimpey UK.
responses to this challenge are to: The Environment Agency is keen to work in partnership Continually develop with companies like and improve our George Wimpey UK who are Environmental committed to reducing the Management System EMS.
Our UK and US environmental policies are available on-line Find out at www.
co. uk csr, along with statements on UK performance by RSK ENSR and Wastele.
more George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 9 10 Environment 2003 CASE STUDY % 100 OF OUR SITES OPERATE WITH A SITE SPECIFIC ACTION PLAN 1.
TRANSFORMING THE METRO Provide employees and subhas been adopted as a National Retain trees and contractors with awareness House Building Council NHBC protected plants.
George Wimpey West Londons industry standard.
and environmental Metro development in Slough Create ponds, reed beds, is on the site of a former management training.
parks, woodlands and Land Remediation Local Authority depot.
Re-using previously derelict or Use the results of inspection, We demolished old buildings, contaminated land for modern, audit and incident reports to remediated the contaminated Protect watercourses and energy efficient housing has site and benchmarked the improve UK performance.
enhance river corridors and development against the positive environmental and ood plains.
Engage with the Environment Governments Movement for social impacts.
In 2003, 67 Innovation environmental Agency, industry and other Staff and Contractor Training percent of our developments performance indicators.
stakeholders to nd George Wimpey UK trains were built on browneld land, Our house and apartment all relevant personnel in environmentally preferable exceeding the UK Government designs exceed building environmental issues, from solutions that are practical target of 60 percent by 2008. regulations, use a range of production teams and site and affordable.
Furthermore, 48 percent of energy and water efficiency staff to architects, buyers and measures, and include our developments transformed Strive to minimise waste and regional managing directors.
photovoltaic roof tiles to land that was previously maximise energy efficiency.
The site contaminated with industrial In 2002, we identied the includes a wetland feature, Keep our regional or hazardous waste.
importance of training subHome Zone areas, live-work management teams informed contractors and, in particular, units, bicycle storage, bottle Enhancing Biodiversity about environmental bank facilities and communal our groundworks, roads, sewers By the end of 2003, we achieved outdoor spaces.
innovations and encourage and demolition contractors.
a target of 100 percent of During 2003, 389 contractors them to try out and learn our sites operating with a attended national seminars from new initiatives.
Site Specific Environmental developed by George Wimpey Action Plan.
Drawn up before Maximise our companies UK in conjunction with the construction begins, these positive environmental Environment Agency.
plans identify site-specific impacts, particularly in the Also in 2003, we integrated ecological issues and ensure the area of land regeneration.
the George Wimpey UK and protection and enhancement Environmental Management Laing Homes approaches to Brownfield land use of protected species.
percent environmental management Our EMS focuses on practical A significant number of our 60 and provided training for control and management of developments have involved 100 percent of relevant environmental risks.
externally veried by 30 projects include working with environmental auditors RSK In 2003 a total of 1,074 15 stakeholders to: ENSR Environment Ltd.
The EMS people received environmental includes our pioneering Guide Protect bats, badgers, birds, training from GWUK, building 00 01 02 03 to the Assessment, Remediation newts, grass snakes and on the 1,027 people trained water voles.
and Validation of Land, which in 2002.
10 George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 00 46 01 52 02 54 03 67 04 Environment 11 2003 CASE STUDIES 389 CONTRACTORS ATTENDED NATIONAL SEMINARS DEVELOPED WITH GEORGE WIMPEY 2.
BIODIVERSITY AT WORK IN Waste Management waste can be reduced further Home Zone areas giving GLOUCESTERSHIRE Working in partnership with through design and better pedestrians priority over cars.
specialists Wastele, we strive working practices.
We also ask Stonehouse in Gloucestershire Reduced car parking our timber manufacturers to is a key UK habitat for great to nd sustainable waste spaces and increased crested newts.
Our key pre-size materials, in order to access to public transport that a two-acre pond on decrease on-site waste.
aims are to encourage waste Laing Homes Stonehouse and cycle paths.
reduction, re-use and recycling development had one of the Secondly, we operate a waste in preference to waste disposal.
largest populations of these segregation system on our sites newts in the country.
We make significant efforts to and separate out materials for Recycling, composting and measure our construction Working with Gloucestershire re-use or recycling.
Our timber communal waste facilities.
Wildlife Trust, our engineers waste in collaboration with segregation increased by designed a newt-friendly Wastele.
We measure the Home ofce space.
130 percent during 2003 and road drainage system with tonnage of waste produced silt traps to stop newts from the resulting wood waste was Renewable energy per unit completed per month being trapped and drowned delivered to processors for technologies.
and use the data to identify in gullies.
re-use in a variety of products.
excessive or unnecessary Incident Reduction We also undertook remedial waste streams and nd ways work on the pond and its We increased plasterboard All environmental incidents surrounding area, and put of further reducing waste.
waste segregation by must be reported.
We have up protective barriers to 21 percent during 2003 and detailed incident response contain and protect the We tackle our waste streams on are working with suppliers procedures and provide newt population.
First, we work with access to a 24-hour hotline to increase the amount of our major suppliers to reduce plasterboard recycled by for emergency support waste at source.
BRISTOL ECOHOMES BREAKS their industry.
Our incident NEW GROUND we ask our plasterboard reporting system helps us to increased compactable suppliers to investigate whether George Wimpey Bristol is waste segregation by identify problem areas and working in partnership with develop solutions.
5.4 percent and sent paper North Somerset Council to WASTE SEGREGATION and cardboard waste to build cost-effective EcoHomes.
Recent Environmental PERCENTAGE INCREASE SINCE 2002 paper processors for re-use.
The councils groundbreaking Awareness Campaigns run agreement will lead to the by George Wimpey UK have Eco-friendly Homes TIMBER development of the biggest resulted in a significant annual George Wimpey UK seeks EcoHomes scheme in the UK.
reduction in incidents within to maximise the Standard The scheme will ensure that 130% targeted areas, as follows: Assessment Procedure ratings developers deliver 1,470 PLASTERBOARD new energy saving homes of new houses as far as is Fuel spillage 29% to the Building Research practical and affordable.
We Establishment BRE EcoHomes 21% Waste disposal 36% use energy efficient appliances, good rating.
dual ush toilets and comply COMPACTABLE A further 30 homes will be built Silt run off 46% with all building regulations.
In to the BRE excellent rating addition, many of our sites have We have also seen a marked 5.4% standard, saving residents up increase in the use of our integrated features such as: to 70 percent on fuel bills.
George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 11 00 01 02 03 04 12 Environment 2003 CASE STUDIES % 6.3 INCREASE IN WASTE SEGREGATION 4.
STAITHS SOUTH BANK environmental helpline, which also required under certain The community benefited WINS ENVIRONMENT AWARDS provides advice that helps us circumstances.
This helps us from houses built among to identify and avoid potential mature, full-canopied oak to prevent potential incidents.
George Wimpey City is building environmental problems.
trees and our solution was The same series of campaigns 800 homes in conjunction with Gateshead Metropolitan cost effective because the is currently running within In addition to complying Borough Council and with City of Round Rock would Laing Homes.
with legislation, we will take help from designers Wayne and have required us to plant new Gerardine Hemingway.
The steps to exceed our legal Morrison Homes trees to replace any mature Home Zone development will responsibilities when it makes Land acquisitions almost trees that were cut down.
give pedestrians and cyclists business sense to do so.
always involve greenfield precedence over cars and Environmental protection Morrison Homes has sites and selling to build encourage safer, friendlier responded to growing can, for example, enhance rather than building to sell.
neighbourhoods with play and the aesthetic appeal or concerns about ozone leisure areas for local residents.
Consequently, we have desirability of properties.
depletion and US different environmental We are paying for a wildlife Environmental Protection warden for three years and constraints in the US.
One illustration of this is the Agency EPA regulations will include communal strict US federal government Nevertheless, Morrison Homes recycling points, cycle routes, over the production and regulations concerning erosion a nature reserve, a salt marsh takes its environmental use of certain refrigerants control to prevent undue and more.
We won the Tyneside and amounts of silt from entering Employees are expected to have entered into national Northumberland Environment local creeks and streams.
comply with all federal, state partnerships with Lennox Award in the North East Morrison employees are International and Carrier and local laws and are required Business Awards 2002. expected to follow these to report any actual or potential Corporation who have regulations not only as a matter developed environmentally legal violations to management.
FURTHERING OUR WASTE of legal compliance, but also preferable Freon-free, MANAGEMENT AIMS because clean communities A key part of our approach heating, ventilation and help to sell homes.
to the environment is We are working in partnership air-conditioning HVAC with Wastele UK and other the requirement that systems.
We are working to Another example relates to the industry stakeholders to further environmental risks be introduce these systems into site plan for a new community our waste management properly assessed during the all new homes over the next in Round Rock, Texas, which aims.
We support Ecobond due diligence stage of land two to three years.
We will called for a road to be built International by providing acquisition.
Contamination, segregated waste for use report on our progress in through a sizeable stand of in composite construction presence of hazardous our 2004 CSR report.
Rather than products which the company substances, noise issues and the cut down the oak trees, our is developing.
We are piloting Supply Chain Management proximity of restricted habitat Austin Division suggested an Wastefiles Fold-a-Skip During 2004 we will explore or endangered species are alternative proposal to the City system to help us measure CSR-related supply chain issues among the issues considered of Round Rock.
The City agreed our waste more effectively as they affect the Group.
and increase segregation for during risk assessment.
that we could transplant the recycling.
In addition, we are Biological assessments of local original oaks and thereby Supply chain issues are often the first housebuilder to use plants, wildlife and habitats are complex and subject to wide preserve more than forty trees.
Glacier ARM, which aims to use selected waste to produce alternative raw materials for cement production.
This will re-use waste materials and subsequently reduce the amount of waste sent to landll.
More examples of George Wimpey CSR initiatives are Find out available on-line at www.
co. uk csr more 12 George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 Environment 13 2003 CASE STUDY 3miles OF HIGHWAY AND PARKWAY ADOPTED BY MORRISON HOMES SACRAMENTO 6.
There has been INITIATIVES FROM MORRISON an indication that the use of We assess environmental sustainably grown natural California is well known timber would be preferable for environmentalism and Morrison Homes Sacramento risks at the earliest stage to the use of manufactured Division has responded to materials.
We nd it more several community-based practical and cost effective to initiatives to protect the of land acquisition use MDF or chipboard in certain environment and reduce circumstances.
However, to FORREST GRIMES VICE PRESIDENT OPERATIONS, SACRAMENTO MORRISON HOMES energy usage.
ensure that our materials are In 2002, Morrison was one environmentally sensitive, all our of the initial contributors MDF and chipboard is made to the Adopt-a-Storm from timber residues or off-cuts.
Drain programme, which Our MDF suppliers have Forest educates the general Stewardship Council FSC public about the adverse effects of introducing accreditation and our chipboard pollutants into storm drains.
In 2003, we added to this programme by Future Targets taking responsibility for George Wimpey UK is currently maintaining two sections undertaking a survey of of roadside as part of a similar, Adopt-a-Highway suppliers environmental initiative in California.
and sustainability policies Along with the two with a view to seeing how miles of highway, our environmental concerns might Sacramento Division be better integrated into our adopted a one supply chain policies.
mile segment of the American While we have traditionally River Parkway, taken a self-assessment which is a paved approach to environmental trail for use by management, in 2004 we will walkers, cyclists undertake a full gap and cost and horse benefit analysis of seeking riders.
Central Valley Division also Morrison Homes will focus on participates in fully converting to Freon-free the Adopt-aHVAC systems within the next Highway three years.
George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 13 Employees 2003 ACHIEVEMENTS KPI MEASUREMENTS Published results of first employee survey and drew up 65% of staff rate George Wimpey above average or one UK UK action plans to address any areas of concern.
of the best companies they know or have worked for as measured by the bi-annual staff survey.
Analysed effectiveness of current performance appraisal and training practices.
83% of staff think that Morrison Homes is a great place US to work.
Published results of seventh annual employee survey.
16.6% increase in annual hours of training per employee.
28 the average number of hours of training received per person.
Our employees are our greatest asset.
We strive to treat them well and develop their talents ANNA EDGEWORTH GROUP HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR, GEORGE WIMPEY PLC We aim to be the employer Staff Satisfaction In 2003, we published the of choice in housebuilding results of our first employee in the UK and US.
We focus survey and communicated on providing an enjoyable, the results to our staff.
The rewarding environment with survey, conducted by The high quality training and Work Foundation, will be development opportunities.
Our UK Code of Business Survey highlights: Conduct and US company 65% rate us above average policies explain how we aim or one of the best companies to treat our employees and they know or have worked what we expect from them.
This is one of the best George Wimpey UK results recorded by The Work Foundation.
In 2003, we developed a new human resources strategy, 83% are confident that the UK looking at how to attract, business has a good future.
retain and develop 83% believe that health the best people for and safety is our number our business.
included an analysis of current During 2003, we drew up local performance action plans to address staff appraisal and concerns highlighted by the training survey and we will tackle key practices.
issues on a national basis in 2004.
Staff Development Along with training and development programmes, we have a number of schemes 14 George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 Employees 15 2003 CASE STUDIES % 83 STAFF CONSIDER MORRISON A GREAT PLACE TO WORK 1.
DEVELOPING TOMORROWS to encourage new recruits to training and development 85% plan to be working MANAGERS TODAY join us.
In 2003, we for Morrison Homes one reached an average of 28 year from now.
Each year, we encourage Apprentices hours of training per our regional UK companies Each regional company Staff Development employee, a 16.6 percent to recruit school or college takes on a minimum of 12 Morrison Homes offers a increase on 2002 gures.
leavers for our management apprentices each year in order series of career development training programme.
The We also encourage employee to tackle industry-wide skills recruits receive practical, opportunities for individuals.
An open door rotational training in shortages and develop skilled Our Management policy encourages two-way different disciplines workers for the future.
Development Program communication between within a specific company.
provides mentorship and Management Trainees managers and employees, We then support these rotational training for Each regional company while annual performance employees in obtaining recent college graduates employs school or college appraisals and surveys of professional qualifications and exemplary nonleavers each year for and help them to become new and leaving employees management employees.
architectural assistants, practical, rotational training help us to understand our engineers, surveyors and more.
in professions such as employees needs.
We use our Morrison Homes The recruits develop what we surveying and engineering.
Assessment Program MAP Staff Satisfaction hope is a rewarding career in to identify and develop housebuilding, and we benefit Graduates For the past seven years, we employees with high potential from competent, highly skilled We recruit up to ten highhave used external consultants young professional employees.
External calibre graduates per year for to conduct an annual employee organisations also help us survey.
During that time, we intensive, rotational training in 2.
A TOP COMPANY TO WORK with development plans for have responded to feedback different businesses including FOR YET AGAIN!
by improving bonus plans, the US.
The graduate should have the potential to reach healthcare, communications Morrison Homes is once Future Targets and introducing numerous regional board director level again one of the top 101 In 2004, George Wimpey UK other initiatives.
US residential construction within six years.
In 2004 we will take action on key issues industry companies to work will extend this scheme to The 2003 survey showed highlighted by the employee for, according to Professional recruit graduates with a improvements in work survey, such as the need to Builder magazines 2003 technical background.
The award organisers improve communication and received over 6,000 practices and view of the future: the appraisal process.
Senior Management nominations for more whilst setting a clear agenda for Launched in partnership Morrison Homes will start than 300 companies.
2004 to review compensation with Henley Management tracking recruitment success and benets, company values Organisers judged us on College, our management in the US and strive to everything from corporate and co-worker relations.
development programme culture and job satisfaction increase the length of time enhances the business Survey highlights: to workplace trust and that new employees stay with and leadership skills of key 83% agree or strongly agree customer satisfaction.
They based the final list that Morrison Homes is a resources team will also focus on the results of anonymous great place to work.
Morrison Homes on co-ordinating, facilitating, employee surveys.
Honesty Morrison Homes provides 91% are proud to tell communicating and providing and clarity are hallmarks a team-oriented work people that they work feedback to management on a of the top 101, the environment with extensive for Morrison Homes.
series of new training initiatives.
The UK Code of Business Conduct and relevant Find out sections of the Morrison Homes manual are available on-line at www.
co. uk csr more George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 15 Community 2003 CASE STUDY 500 GEORGE WIMPEY EMPLOYEES RAISED OVER 120,000 FOR CHARITY PLAYING 5-A-SIDE SOCCER 1.
CHARITY SUPPORT KICKS OFF Part of our vision is to be the safe play areas, trafc calming housebuilder of choice for the initiatives and more.
See the In October 2003, 35 teams communities in which we Environment section of this from across George Wimpey UK and our suppliers took part operate, creating a better report for examples.
in our first annual five-a-side environment in which to live We also integrate affordable football tournament.
We strive to be a Group Chief Executive housing into our developments good neighbour and for us Peter Johnson and UK in co-operation with planners.
this means: Chief Executive Keith Across the UK, 35 percent of our Cushen took to the pitch Carefully planning new sites.
2003 developments included for their respective some affordable housing.
Over 500 people Effectively managing the figure will increase to 48 percent turned up for a great day redevelopment of of team building and we in 2004.
raised over 120,000 to Central London incorporated support UK charities Regenerating run down areas.
an element of affordable SCOPE and Capability housing into 80 percent Scotland in their work with Playing a fuller role in other of its developments in handicapped children.
We focus on sensitively integrating affordable We provide a valuable housing with private housing.
contribution to local communities by building Charitable Donations our businesses such homes.
Much of our work in In addition to our community as housing and the UK involves transforming initiatives, our charitable homelessness.
disused or contaminated sites donations policy is administered We also concentrate on into habitable living spaces.
by the Charitable Contributions charities in which our Committee and focuses on UK planners increasingly employees or business want housebuilders to causes linked to our business, partners are actively help develop sustainable to the local communities in involved or on causes communities and we have a which our companies operate within the communities wide range of experience in or to our business partners in which we operate.
We have introduced and employees.
In particular, we In 2003, George Wimpey green spaces, wildlife havens, focus on initiatives related to UK set a budget of We strive to be a good neighbour, supporting local communities and charitable causes KAREN ATTERBURY ASSISTANT COMPANY SECRETARY, GEORGE WIMPEY PLC 16 George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 Community 17 2003 CASE STUDIES % 100 OF AUSTIN AND DALLAS DIVISION EMPLOYEES WERE INVOLVED WITH THE CASA SCHEME 2.
COMMUNITY EDUCATION 500,000 and Morrison Homes The scheme helps individuals to build, paint and decorate IN ACTION allocated $178,000 for charitable to develop skills and build a childrens playhouse for a purposes.
The following text confidence so they have charity auction, raising several George Wimpey UK engages provides recent examples.
a better chance of nding with schools and local thousand dollars for CASA communities as part of our and staying in employment.
George Wimpey UK health and safety management.
In winter 2002, we helped We contact local schools, In the same year, George Wimpey Employee volunteers worked nurseries, playgroups and CRASH, the UK construction UK paid for a substantial together in Spring 2003 to community centres before and property industry charity refurbishment of the main refurbish bathrooms in eight starting construction.
for the homeless, to turn a kitchen at Crewe YMCA.
The new villas in the Give Kids the We make safety presentations former ofce in Reading into a kitchen will allow the YMCA to World foundation village to school children and other temporary winter shelter with run NVQ catering courses for in Florida.
The foundation groups about the potential room for up to 15 people.
Their aim is to help pays for children with lifedangers of construction sites.
young, vulnerable people to In addition, we contact the local threatening illnesses to visit education authority, police, develop practical job skills.
the village and central Florida In 2003, we supported the emergency services and others tourist attractions for much Fast Track Hardship Fund, a Morrison Homes who could be affected by our needed holidays.
new pilot scheme from the work.
We produce safety In March 2003, employees from Foundations Trust which will leaets and distribute them the Phoenix Division of Morrison During 2003, our Austin Division to residents and community pay for urgent small home Homes worked with trade made two deliveries each week groups.
Our sites are fenced off improvements for vulnerable, partners to help refurbish a for its local Meals on Wheels and designed for community, older and disabled people.
local womens shelter as part of organisation.
Staff volunteered visitor and worker safety.
the Rebuilding Together scheme their time and their cars to pick We also provided funding for vulnerable, low-income up food, prepare containers and for CRISIS SmartMove, a 3.
REBUILDING LIVES EACH homeowners and families.
make a series of deliveries to new programme to help AND EVERY YEAR local residents.
solitary homeless people Also in 2003, 100 percent of Each year, Morrison Homes with advice and access to supports US branches of Austin and Dallas Division Future Targets rental accommodation.
international housing charity employees got involved with In 2004, we will analyse the mix Habitat for Humanity.
Also in 2003, we supported the CASA scheme which pairs of our charitable activities and Our employees fundraise homelessness charity caring adults with abused or investigate ways to improve the and participate in events to neglected children.
Each year, effectiveness of our charitable Broadways Meaningful help the charity to build Occupations Scheme.
the employees use their skills donations policy.
decent and affordable homes for vulnerable families and individuals.
In 2003, we won an award for the highest participation by a company in the North Fulton Habitat for Humanity five-kilometre Walk on Home event.
% We even participate in building 48 some of the houses.
Volunteers from our Atlanta Division and OF OUR UK 2004 DEVELOPMENTS WILL INCLUDE trade partners built a threeAFFORDABLE HOUSING bedroom house for a mother and her teenage sons just in time for Christmas 2002.
George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 17 Customer Care 2003 ACHIEVEMENTS KPI MEASUREMENTS Won more than twice as many NHBC Pride in the Job 83% of customers would recommend us to friends UK UK Quality awards as any other housebuilder.
48 developments achieved the highest possible standards 54% customer care score as highlighted by in our internal customer service award scheme.
85% of customers would recommend us to friends US and family.
Placed in the top quartile of all US builders in the 2003 US JD Power & Associates customer satisfaction ratings.
32.5 escalated customer complaints Code Purples per 1,000 completions.
22% of sales came from customer referrals.
Setting the standard and raising the bar for serving our customers GRAHAM HUGHES DIRECTOR OF CUSTOMER SERVICES, GEORGE WIMPEY UK Our long-term aspiration is November 2003 show that to provide customer service 83 percent of customers on a par with the worlds best would recommend us to retail companies.
Our focus their friends and family.
is on integrity, quality and Our overall customer care excellence and our UK and score for all UK companies US teams work together with remains 54 percent.
the ambition of providing The Housing Forum consistent standards of commissioned MORI in customer service.
2003 to conduct their We try to eliminate as much National Customer stress as possible from our Satisfaction Survey.
We customers home buying achieved a maximum three experience.
We aim to provide stars for all six categories excellent service and a relating to quality and spotless, high quality new customer service.
home, while dealing with Our Approach any problems quickly and Our customer thoroughly.
In addition, all service begins homes in the UK and the the moment US come with a two year a prospective guarantee, which is twice customer visits the industry average.
any of our George Wimpey UK showhomes.
The results of our Customer Our sales executives Care Monitor surveys from and site managers guide 2003 December 2002 to customers through the home For more information visit our customer websites: Find out www.
com more 18 George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 Customer Care 19 2003 CASE STUDY Gold Award PRESENTED TO GEORGE WIMPEY WEST SCOTLAND 1.
LEARNING QUICKLY FROM purchasing process and provide communication with JDPA, Morrison Homes OUR MISTAKES advice on obtaining finance, prospective and existing outperformed the national arranging legal representation customers.
We also published Two years ago, customer average on eight of nine drivers and customising a new home.
feedback put George Wimpey Nest and Wall To Wall our of customer satisfaction.
West Scotland near the bottom Once the house is nished, we magazines for George Wimpey of our national customer In 2003, 84.7 percent of conduct a familiarisation visit and Laing Homes customers, service rankings.
Staff and customers said they would to explain everything and to be issued three times a year.
management sat down recommend us and one third ensure that all is as it should be.
together to understand Awards of our Divisions exceeded our We then visit the customer in what was going wrong Build quality is a fundamental customer services target of 90 their new home after seven and identify how to bring part of the service we provide about a cultural change.
days and again after 28 days to customers.
In the 2003 All 190 staff got involved and to check for any problems.
Our Approach National House Building Council received training.
In 2003, the If something does go wrong Our Signature Pledge company became our second NHBC Pride in the Job awards, within our two-year guarantee highest UK achiever in terms sets out our approach to George Wimpey and Laing of customer care.
Plus, thanks period, we will make contact housebuilding.
We focus on Homes received 79 Quality to customer feedback, within 24 hours of the query building a partnership with awards, more than twice as George Wimpey West Scotland and arrange for work to be done customers, being different by many as any other housebuilder.
received a prestigious Gold within seven days or within 28 Award in the Daily Express design, building a new spirit of days if materials are required.
During 2003 we saw British Homebuyer Awards.
community and providing the Customers have access to our an unprecedented 48 ultimate blanket warranty.
Our site teams and, thereafter, to a developments achieve the primary focus is to deliver a 24-hour emergency helpline.
highest possible standards great home at great value.
in our George Wimpey UK Our Respond customer care an improvement of six index At Morrison Homes, we customer service award management system allows points since 2002. scheme.
Four developments try to ensure that our high us to compare data and standards of customer received 100 percent scores Our overall customer highlight areas of concern so care and build quality turn in all sections.
satisfaction rating was 84.7 we can rectify problems and homebuyers into raving fans percent more than 10 percent improve our service.
Morrison Homes of our company who are higher than the JDPA national Customer service and Conducted by independent passionately pleased with their average of 74 percent among satisfaction drive everything consultants, customer new home.
We measure our success satisfaction surveys provide the not only by the satisfaction of basis for monthly benchmarking UK CUSTOMER CARE PROCESS our homeowners, but by how of our regional companies.
often those homeowners With around 55 percent of Rectify faults not Rectify faults that recommend us to their friends Call the customer requiring materials do require materials questionnaires returned, the back within within within and family.
data is an invaluable resource for identifying progress In 2003, JD Power & Associates and problems.
JDPA customer satisfaction ratings placed us in the top In 2003, we launched a 24 7 28 new website for improved quartile of all US builders, with Hours Days Days George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 19 20 Customer Care 2003 CASE STUDY 2year WARRANTY IS TWICE THE LENGTH OF AVERAGE HOUSEBUILDING INDUSTRY 2.
MANAGING CUSTOMER training programmes play an on personalising a home, manage communication EXPECTATIONS throughout the housebuying important role in achieving this.
working with a builder, completing the home purchase process.
We will also focus Our Morrison Homes Seven Customer satisfaction is Steps to Satisfaction customer on evolving our customers and maintaining a new house.
measured at pre-determined care approach helps us engage experience by expanding intervals during construction In 2003, we also introduced with customers, manage their channels of communication expectations and provide an and over the next two years.
a new customer lead and enhancing excellent service.
Customers Independent consultants collate management system points of contact.
are offered at least seven and analyse our customer to further improve our key meetings to make satisfaction survey data.
house buying as smooth as possible.
We meet to We use the data to identify Future Targets personalise the house, ways to improve service and George Wimpey UK is visit the site during build quality.
We also have a currently developing a new construction, tour the finished home and programme to identify and Customer Charter.
At the review the property two eliminate the gaps that add same time, we are nalising a and 11 months after time and frustration to the national procedural document purchase.
Unlike any of home buying process.
to raise awareness of best our competitors, we offer practice and set minimum a 22-month home We work closely with our review to inspect standards of customer care customers to make their a house for across the UK.
We will also problems house buying experience re-evaluate our customer before our as easy as possible.
Our little service training in 2004. two-year purple book guides customers warranty through the housebuilding In 2004, Morrison Homes expires.
process and helps them will implement a customer make the most of a new communication management home.
It includes information system to monitor and The quality and service that distinguishes Morrison Homes is a direct reection of the skills of our valued employees KATHI JAMES VICE PRESIDENT MARKETING, MORRISON HOMES 20 George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 Key Performance Indicators The following table provides measurements for the Key Performance Indicators KPIs identied in our 2002 CSR Report.
Our next report will provide comparative data for the first time.
KPI OBJECTIVES 2003 RESULTS Group Maintain compliance with the Combined Code or explain non-compliance.
Yes GOVERNANCE Measure and reduce: HEALTH AND UK SAFETY our incident rate per thousand employees and contractors for all reportable injuries.
7.0 our incident rate per thousand employees and contractors for major injuries.
1.3 Measure: the number of category A serious potential incidents identied per year.
97 the number of category B moderate potential incidents identied per year.
1,512 Measure and highlight minimum annual hours of health and safety training required for site management personnel.
20 Measure and reduce incident rate including employees and contractors.
3.98 US From 2004, we will report on the percentage of relevant personnel who complete a 10-hour OSHA training within 90 days of employment.
Our annual target will be 100 percent.
Measure and reduce the number of major accidents per 1,000 completions.
0.27 ENVIRONMENT Measure and maximise the number of homes built on browneld sites UK the UK Government has set a target of 60 percent by 2008.
67% Measure and highlight the average SAP rating of new houses built each year.
92 Measure and reduce the tonnage of waste produced per unit of housing completed.
9.7 From 2004, we will measure the percentage of waste segregated on site and the percentage of waste sent to landll.
From 2004, we will measure the percentage of homes completed with a Freon-free US HVAC system.
Our target is 100 percent within two to three years.
EMPLOYEES Measure and improve staff satisfaction as highlighted by our bi-annual UK employee survey and measuring the percentage of staff who rate us above average or one of the best companies they know or have worked for.
65% Measure and reduce annual employee turnover.
22% Measure and improve staff satisfaction, as highlighted by our annual employee US survey and measuring the percentage of staff who say that Morrison Homes is a great place to work.
83% Measure and reduce annual employee turnover.
28.5% Measure and increase the average number of training hours per employee.
28 hours CUSTOMER CARE Measure and increase the percentage of customers who would recommend UK us to friends and family.
83% From 2004 we will measure and reduce the number of escalated customer complaints.
Measure and increase our overall customer care score as highlighted by customer questionnaire results.
54% Measure and increase the percentage of customers who would recommend us US to friends and family.
85% Measure and reduce the number of escalated customer complaints known as Code Purples per 1,000 completions.
32.5 Measure and increase the percentage of sales from referrals.
22% From 2004, we will measure our ranking in customer satisfaction ratings by JD Power & Associates.
George Wimpey Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 21 Published by Black Sun plc Printed by Royal Corporate Print Find out more Further details of our CSR policies are available on-line at www.
co. uk csr George Wimpey Plc Manning House 22 Carlisle Place London SW1P 1JA Tel 44 0 20 7802 9888 www.
