Accounting Policies Basis of preparation Stock The Group Accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis Land held for development and construction work in progress of accounting.
They have been drawn up in accordance with are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Other stock applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
comprises materials, equipment and goods for resale valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes Basis of consolidation appropriate overheads.
The Group Accounts consolidate the accounts of George Wimpey PLC and all its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 December Retirement benets each year.
Undertakings, other than subsidiary undertakings, Pension costs are charged to the profit and loss account so as over which the Group exerts significant inuence, are treated to spread the cost of pensions at a substantially level percentage as associated undertakings.
The Group Accounts include the of payroll costs over the expected lives of members.
appropriate share of these undertakings results and reserves Operating leases based on audited accounts to 31 December 2003.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account Turnover in equal amounts over the lease term.
Housing turnover comprises the value of new houses and land Foreign currencies sales legally completed during the year.
Other turnover is based Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate on the invoiced value of goods and services supplied during the ruling at the date of the transaction.
Turnover excludes value added tax and intra-group turnover.
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at profit closing rates of exchange or the relevant forward rate where Operating profit comprises new houses and land sales.
All differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
profit is taken only when legal completion has taken place.
On consolidation, the trading results of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings are translated at the average rate for the Depreciation year and the balance sheets at the closing rate.
Exchange Depreciation is provided on all tangible xed assets at rates differences arising on the retranslation of opening balance calculated to write off the cost or valuation of each asset evenly sheets, together with the difference between profit and loss over its expected useful life as follows: accounts translated at average rates and closing rates, are dealt Ofces occupied by the Group: with through reserves.
Freehold buildings and long leaseholds in excess of 50 years Translation differences on intra-group currency loans and foreign over 50 years currency borrowings, to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against Group equity investments in foreign Short leaseholds enterprises, are taken directly to reserves together with the over the period of the lease.
exchange difference on the carrying amount of the related Plant and equipment: investments.
All other translation differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
over the expected useful life of the assets ranging mainly from 3 to 5 years.
Financial instruments Derivative foreign exchange instruments that are deemed Goodwill hedges of specic foreign currency assets liabilities are matched Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the against the underlying asset or liability.
Derivative interest rate fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the instruments are matched within interest payable or receivable identiable net assets acquired.
Historical goodwill has been over the life of the instrument or relevant interest period.
Interest written off to reserves in the year in which it arose.
Goodwill now rate instruments are not recognised in the balance sheet.
arising on acquisitions is capitalised, and amortised through the Changes in fair value of financial instruments are not recognised profit and loss account over its useful economic life.
in the profit and loss account or balance sheet.
Taxation Provision is made for deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their recognition for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised where it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 47
