One day... Every day more than 27,000 people are diagnosed with cancer... over 2,600 people in the USA die from heart disease... about 100,000 young people become addicted to tobacco more than 3,000 children in Africa die of malaria globally, more than 8,000 people die from AIDS.
Products for the future in key disease areas One day statistics such as Diabetes A new concept featuring a PPAR pan agonist.
677954, an Avandia followthese will not be as bleak.
Tona Gilmer is on a path to a up, promises glucose and lipid day she hopes will see more cures for control without weight gain cancer.
For 15 years, Tona has been and fluid retention.
GSK is playing a leading working in oncology research, seeking Malaria In 2003 we launched better ways to treat cancer with a passion a new anti-malarial, Lapdap, and commitment borne from knowing and we now have two early that so many people are or have been malaria compounds in part in tackling these global affected by the disease.
We are also developing vaccines against My mother was extremely ill when I diseases of the developing was a baby and, as I grew up, I wanted challenges, constantly world.
One example is so much to know what causes illness Mosquirix, which has and why there are so few effective demonstrated clinical proof treatments.
Today, as director of of concept in a field efficacy striving to make the world Oncology Biology at Research Triangle trial in Africa.
Park in the USA, Tona and her team of Heart disease GSK has about 30 scientists are playing a key role a number of projects in a healthier place.
in GSKs efforts to find these treatments.
cardiovascular research that hold the prospect of I have never lost sight of the bigger significantly improving picture - the patients - in the detail of my treatment options.
A novel We are now beginning to see implicated in breast cancer and GSKs bold and creative new R&D work because its very personal.
class of compounds targets the benefits of our innovative other solid tumours and may help model is working and the company While much progress has been made, a newly identified risk factor restructuring of the R&D process convert the management of some is developing more quality for heart disease, an enzyme the end of Tonas path remains unclear.
As a result cancers to chronic stable disease compounds than ever before.
These Perhaps as we search for clues to a cure, of dramatically improved rates of states.
inhibitors sharply lower the productivity, the whole span of our That has to be good news for we can treat cancer in a way that activity of this enzyme in pipeline is strong and bursting with In phase I studies among patients patients around the world waiting becomes more like treating chronic atherosclerotic plaque, which potential.
Where once a disease who had failed multiple prior for new and better treatments in diseases.
GSKs compound in is expected to reduce was thought to be untreatable, treatments with other drugs, 46 many major diseases and illnesses.
development, 572016, is hopefully one inflammation in arterial walls.
modern day research will provide per cent of breast cancer patients such treatment.
So far the results are hope for sufferers.
treated with 572016 showed either extremely encouraging.
We have huge a partial response or stable disease.
hopes for it and maybe the future will One of the compounds featured see an even better 572016. on this page is a first of its kind.
Each On a December day in 1998, the full The investigational compound, and every day, GSK spends nearly 572016, is a dual kinase inhibitor 8 million in research for future number of this compound was scrawled being studied for the treatment of therapies therapies that will on a whiteboard in Tonas office by a solid tumours.
provide hope for millions of people.
This is it - this is the one, he said.
It is a daily oral therapy under Im never going to remove it, said investigation for advanced breast Tona.
moment and cancer, non-small cell lung, bladder, part of the excitement of our work, all of gastric and head and neck cancers.
which is such a great opportunity to help It blocks two of the kinases answer the sort of questions I have had for so long.
