T Ten million people en million people wer were tr e treated against lymphatic filariasis eated against lymphatic filariasis in one day in one day Global Community Partnerships Through its Global Community Partnerships function, GSK partners with and supports organisations whose goals and objectives reflect its mission of improving the quality of human life.
In just one day... Lymphatic filariasis The Groups flagship programme is its role in the Global Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis, one of the Administration Day.
The people of Sri Lanka will not forget Sunday, 27th July, 2003.
On that Elimination by 2020 The goals of this partnership with Since 1998, the Group has pharmaceutical industrys An estimated 120 million people the WHO and other organisations supplied a total of 240 million day, ten million people nearly half of the countrys population received free tablets to help prevent largest donation programmes.
are affected by LF, a tropical disease are to interrupt the transmission free albendazole treatments.
the transmission of lymphatic filariasis LF, a disfiguring disease also known as elephantiasis.
More than HIV AIDS Through its Positive that has plagued humanity with of LF, country by country, until it In addition to donating drugs, Action programme, GSK works immense suffering, social stigma has been eliminated as a public GSK provides significant financial 50,000 healthcare workers and volunteers distributed GSK-donated albendazole and other tablets to in partnership with individuals and severe disability for thousands health problem.
This is expected resources and staff expertise to people living in areas where LF is endemic.
It was one of the largest mass administrations of its type to and groups at the community of years.
A further one billion to take 20 years.
support coalition building, advocacy, have taken place in the developing world.
But our efforts against the spread of LF did not stop there.
level to pursue more effective people in 80 countries are at research, community mobilisation HIV prevention, education and risk of infection.
GSKs antiparasitic albendazole is and educational initiatives.
In 2003, through our partnership with the World Health Organization WHO, we donated 94 million support for people living with, used with one of two other drugs treatments of albendazole to 34 countries worth 11 million.
We have committed to provide or affected by, HIV AIDS.
The mass drug administration to stop the transmission of LF.
The Today, there is hope that a new albendazole free of charge for as long as it takes to eliminate LF.
effort in Sri Lanka on that July Group donates the tablets to the generation of children will have Malaria The GSK African day was spectacular, but GSK WHO which then provides them lives free of LF.
Malaria Partnership is a continues to help in a long-term to the health authorities of affected community partnership which global programme to eliminate countries for local distribution.
The aims to develop effective the disease through its active mass administration day in Sri Lanka, malaria control behaviours membership of the Global Alliance for example, was organised by the in African communities.
