Chairman & Chief Executive Officers statement GSK demonstrates continued strength Building a strong and diverse R&D pipeline people.
The World Health Organization target Acknowledgements licences, but gives assurances that this will not of generic competition, have seen their earnings Key features of 2003 2003 provided the clearest evidence yet of our is to eliminate LF by 2020, by which time we During the year there were a number of changes be abused.
Nevertheless, the external pressure fall significantly.
success in creating the most productive R&D expect to have donated six billion treatments of to the Board.
The Board now benefits from the to amend the TRIPS agreement, which protects organisation in the industry.
At our R&D our medicine albendazole, worth around direct presence of Dr Tachi Yamada, who has intellectual property, remains strong.
2004 will be a year of transition for GSK.
By Day in December we demonstrated how our $1 billion.
This is one of the pharmaceutical great knowledge and experience in medical the end of 2004 the companys profile will be 1 New products accounted for 25% re-designed R&D operation is delivering a industrys largest ever donation programmes.
practice as well as the pharmaceutical industry.
This is not the place to debate the rights transformed.
As well as having one of the most of total pharmaceutical turnover.
product pipeline of exceptional diversity, quality We reduced the not-for-profit prices of our HIV Three new Non-Executive Directors joined the and wrongs of these challenges to the broadly-based product portfolios in the industry, and quantity that will drive the future growth treatments twice in 2003, taking the price of Board during the year: Larry Culp, President pharmaceutical industrys traditional business from 2005 onwards we will also have one of the 2 Trading profit of 6.9 billion on of the company.
Combivir down from $1.70 to just 65 cents a of Danaher Corporation: Crispin Davis, Chief model.
It is the place for us to reassure lowest exposures to patent expiries measured as turnover of 21.4 billion.
However, much more needs to be done Executive of Reed Elsevier PLC: and Sir Robert shareholders that we have every aspect of a percentage of turnover.
At the same time, we We now have 148 projects in clinical to tackle the enormous HIV AIDS crisis.
Real Wilson, Chairman of BG Group plc.
They each that model under review in order to continue expect to see a big increase in the number of 3 Ten major products recorded development.
These span a variety of therapeutic progress will only be made if responsibility is bring many years of experience and successful the development of medicines on a basis which major new compounds entering Phase III trials double-digit growth.
areas and encompass a number of pioneering shared by all sectors of global society track records in different industries.
Their reconciles our responsibility to society with a fair from our promising pipeline.
approaches to treating patients, including governments, international agencies and undoubted skills further strengthen the Board.
We are determined to 4 Regulatory approval for ten exciting new compounds in the areas of companies such as GSK.
change with the times imaginatively, flexibly and Broad product portfolio drives growth important new products and new indications.
The Sir Roger Hurn and Paul Allaire left the Board effectively, and to fight for what we believe will GSKs ability to continue delivering robust 148 projects include 83 new chemical entities We are very proud of our global community in June.
Dr Michle Barzach, John McArthur best serve the long term interests of GSK as one pharmaceuticals sales growth, despite these NCEs, 45 product line extensions PLEs and 20 investment of 338 million, 5.3 per cent of the and Donald McHenry will step down from the of the worlds leading producers of medicines.
generic challenges, is primarily due to its vaccines.
Forty six of the NCEs are now in clinical Groups pre-tax profit.
This included 125 million Board after the AGM in May.
We express our exceptionally broad product portfolio of fastphases II and III registration and we expect to for the Group's Patient Assistance Programs and appreciation to each of them for their Robust financial performance in 2003 growing, high-value products.
GSK is a global make a record number of filings over the next other initiatives for low-income groups in the contribution to the company and for their During 2003, our business performance earnings leader in several therapeutic areas including five years.
As many as 20 of these compounds USA and 105 million of humanitarian product dedicated and effective service to the Board.
per share grew ten per cent, which was in line respiratory, anti-viral, central nervous system, have the potential to reach blockbuster status.
with the guidance we had issued.
Trading profit diabetes and vaccines.
In conclusion, on behalf of the Board and the rose nine per cent to 6.9 billion and we had an Included in the many promising compounds Governance Corporate Executive Team, we thank you, our operating cash flow of 7.0 billion.
We also The company now has ten major products highlighted in December were: 016, a first of its The Financial Reporting Council's new Combined shareholders, for your continued support raised the dividend to 41 pence.
accounting for 7.6 billion of sales growing kind dual kinase inhibitor for the treatment of Code on Corporate Governance was published through this challenging time.
These include breast and lung cancer: Cervarix, a vaccine with in 2003.
The Board supports the New Code and Total pharmaceutical turnover grew five per cent Seretide Advair for asthma and chronic Trading Profit growth the potential to prevent more than 70 per cent has moved quickly to bring GSK's governance to just over 18 billion, with US sales also up obstructive pulmonary disease COPD which of cervical cancers: 162, a next-generation procedures substantially in line with the best five per cent to 9.4 billion.
This achievement grew 39 per cent during the year to 2.2 billion, anti-depressant: Lp-PLA2 inhibitors which target practices that flow from the Code.
confirms the underlying strength and resilience of and is now one of the top ten pharmaceutical Trading Profit a newly identified risk factor for heart disease: our business, particularly given continued generic brands in the world.
Our diabetes treatments odiparcil, a novel anti-blood clotting treatment, up 9% to erosion during the year to sales of Augmentin Avandia Avandamet also continue to perform Sir Christopher Hogg JP Garnier and 381, the first dual action COX-2 inhibitor and the introduction of generic competition to well, with sales of 0.9 billion, up 24 per cent.
Chairman Chief Executive Officer 6.9 billion targeting both inflammatory and neuropathic Paxil in September.
Products such as Valtrex for herpes and Lamictal pain.
Building on our strong heritage in for epilepsy are growing very strongly and are respiratory medicine, we are also developing a The Consumer Healthcare business also did well, now approaching blockbuster status.
Also, both next-generation Seretide Advair a once-daily making a trading profit of 603 million for the year, our vaccines and HIV AIDS businesses have sales combination of a new long-acting corticosteroid, up 16 per cent.
698, and a long-acting selective beta2 agonist, 797, developed with Theravance Inc. 2004 a year of transition before returning New product launches in 2003 and 2004 to growth in 2005 Several new and important products were Corporate responsibility 2004 will be a particularly challenging year as introduced in 2003.
Highlights included US Corporate responsibility has particular resonance we see the full impact of generic competition launches of Wellbutrin XL, a new and improved for the pharmaceutical sector.
Our business is to Paxil and the introduction of generic version of the anti-depressant, and Levitra for 01 02 03 creating medicines to treat and prevent disease Wellbutrin.
Together, these products had erectile dysfunction.
Approval was received These are based on business performance results.
something that society needs and values.
At the US sales of 2.1 billion last year.
For most for Lexiva for HIV AIDS, Advair for COPD and All percentage growth rates are at constant same time, healthcare and the way it is delivered companies, a threat to sales on this scale would Lamictal for bi-polar disorder in the USA, and exchange rates, unless otherwise stated.
and funded provoke much debate.
But we expect to be able to Avandamet for diabetes in Europe.
See Business Operating Review page 22.
Corporate Responsibility Report sets out the weather the impact well partly because of our issues that we face in this area and explains size, partly through the introduction of improved We plan to make several significant product how we are addressing them.
Where possible, versions of these medicines and partly by driving launches and filings during 2004.
These include: performance measures are included to show growth of the other key products in our broad solifenacin for over-active bladder developed our progress.
In fact, we expect to be able to deliver with our partner Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals 2004 earnings per share EPS at least in line with Ltd of Japan : Avandaryl, a fixed-dose Significant achievements this year include the business performance EPS in 2003 at constant combination treatment which will further extend progress we are making in our programmes for exchange rates, before returning to growth in the Avandia family of treatments for type 2 the developing world, such as our efforts to 2005.
This will represent a solid achievement for diabetes: and Epivir plus Ziagen, the first onceeliminate lymphatic filariasis LF or elephantiasis, GSK.
Many other pharmaceutical companies, daily combination HIV AIDS treatment to be a debilitating disease affecting 120 million which have faced a similar loss of sales as a result available in a single tablet.
02 Annual Review 2003 million 6,053 6,694 6,920 A day to deliver Our unique R&D structure starts to deliver.
GSKs radical redesign of its R&D organisation is a bold move to tackle the problem of R&D productivity, a real challenge to the global pharmaceutical industry.
The impact of the reorganisation can now be seen in GSKs broad and deep pipeline of medicines across a spectrum of key therapeutic areas.
The projects that GSK now has in clinical development comprise a number of pioneering approaches Asthma affects 100-150 million people worldwide, killing 180,000 each We have vaccines in clinical development against numerous to treating patients in need.
Our new structure is working well, said Tachi Yamada, Chairman of R&D.
Seretide Advair has revolutionised the treatment of asthma and chronic diseases affecting all age brackets, from children to the developing more quality compounds than ever before.
This is enabling us to renew our pipeline in disease areas obstructive pulmonary disease COPD.
One of our development compounds, elderly, and in all regions, from the developed to the 685698, is a third generation inhaled corticosteroid.
It promises to be a oncedeveloping world.
In 2004, we plan to file our Rotarix vaccine where we are leaders such as respiratory and psychiatry and to build strong portfolios in areas such as oncology a-day treatment and to offer greater potency.
to help stem rotavirus gastroenteritis, a disease that is and cardiovascular disease.
estimated to lead to the death of one child every minute.
Two thirds of Americans are obese or overweight: one in three Americans born in 2000 will become diabetic.
Forty two million people worldwide live with HIV.
Our 181771 compound is an appetite suppressant that creates a natural feeling of fullness while our SGLT2 inhibitor is a new approach to diabetes treatment.
GSK also has development compounds against HIV in all phases of its replication cycle.
Our CEDD structure Vaccines Metabolic & Viral diseases Respiratory & Inflammatory diseases Microbial, Musculoskeletal & Cardiovascular & Urogenital diseases Neurological & Gastrointestinal diseases Psychiatry Biopharmaceuticals Proliferative diseases Cancer affects one in three people.
Our 572016 compound, Our new CEDD was launched in January 2004 with the aim of extending a dual kinase inhibitor being investigated for the treatment GSKs R&D model through monoclonal antibodies, therapeutic vaccines and of solid tumours, is a first of its kind.
It may help convert the recombinant therapeutic proteins.
Biopharmaceuticals is a field where we are Cardiovascular disease is the number one killer in the western management of some cancers to chronic stable disease states.
progressing a growing number of assets in our early stage pipeline.
world and a growing problem in developing countries as well.
We are pioneering a novel class of compounds that sharply lower the activity of an enzyme associated with cardiovascular Diseases in our CEDD portfolio encompass some of the worlds Psychiatric illnesses include schizophrenia, anxiety and addiction.
This new approach could lead to the next generation highest un-met medical needs multiple sclerosis, Alzheimers The mission of our CEDD is to provide direction and light to the minds of drugs to reduce cardiovascular events and deaths.
disease, irritable bowel syndrome and migraine.
Our compound of patients lost in the shadow of psychiatric illnesses.
353162 is our next 406381 targets inflammatory and neuropathic pain and is expected generation noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor NDRI, a new to lead to greater effectiveness across a range of pain types.
anti-depressant with the potential for greater control of symptoms.
The Research & Development meetings The path to products GSKs R&D is structured to take CEDDs that emphasise flexibility and unveiled to analysts.
Thirty five GSKs goal is to bring more than advantage of size at the beginning therapeutic focus.
promising compounds, selected 20 NCEs to phase III development and end of the R&D process where for novelty, impact on disease and over the next three years, leading large-scale research is needed The CEDD structure aims to make commercial potential, were outlined.
to an anticipated record number such as screening targets against the R&D process more effective and Some of these compounds are of filings in the next five years.
It is compounds and conducting largeefficient, and our broad and deep featured on this page along with expected that over 20 of these have scale clinical trials.
However, to bridge pipeline is an early sign of the images from our R&D organisation.
the potential to reach blockbuster the interface between discovery and evolution in this approach.
status of annual sales of $1 billion development, the organisation is GSK currently has 148 projects in 600 million.
divided into small biotech-like In December, R&D presentations were clinical development, comprising 83 business units called Centres of made in the UK and USA, where new chemical entities, 45 product line Excellence for Drug Discovery GSK's pipeline of future products was extensions and 20 vaccines.
