NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED AD NOVISORS TICE OFAND SHAREHOLDER INFORMA MEETING CONTINUED TION 10.4 unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the companys APPENDIX next annual general meeting or fifteen months from the date of this resolution whichever is earlier : and The following is a summary of the principal features of the SAYE Scheme: 10.5 the company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority conferred by this resolution prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and 1.
Eligibility may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
All employees and directors of the company and any participating subsidiaries who have been employed for not less than six months shall be invited to participate in the SAYE Scheme.
Invitations will normally be made during the period of 42 days following the announcement of the companys interim or final results.
Invitations may not be made more than 10 years after the date of adoption of the SAYE Scheme in general meeting.
By order of the board Invitees will be given not less than 14 days in which to decide whether to accept the invitation, and, if they choose to accept the I P Butcher invitation, to decide how much per month they wish to save which shall be not less than 5 nor more than 250 per month Secretary under a SAYE contract which they will be required to take out at the same time as the option is granted to them.
Grant of Options Registered office: Where invitations are accepted, options will be granted not later than 30 days after the date of the invitations not later than 3rd Floor 42 days after that date, if invitations are oversubscribed see paragraph 3 below.
No consideration shall be payable for the 41 51 Grey Street Newcastle upon Tyne grant of options.
Options may not be transferred.
Oversubscription NOTES The rules of the SAYE Scheme set out steps for scaling down applications in the event that invitations are oversubscribed.
Exercise price i The company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders The price at which participants may acquire shares will be not less than 80% of the middle market price quoted on the London registered in the register of members of the company as at 18:00 hours on Tuesday 14 October 2003 shall be entitled to attend Stock Exchange at close of dealings on the day immediately preceding the date of invitations.
or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 18:00 hours on Tuesday 14 October 2003 shall be disregarded in determining 5.
Limit on share capital the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
No option may be granted to any participant which would cause the number of shares issued or remaining issuable by virtue of options or other rights granted in the preceding 10 years under the SAYE Scheme and any other employee share scheme ii A member may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a member including the existing Savingsrelated Share Option Scheme established by the company to exceed 10% of the issued share of the company.
A form of proxy is included with the Annual Report for use if required.
To be effective this must be deposited at, capital at that time.
Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL not later than 48 hours before the meeting.
Exercise, lapse and exchange of options iii Completion and return of the proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending and voting at the meeting.
Options will normally be exercisable during the period of six months following the bonus date of the SAYE contract taken out by participants at the time options are granted.
iv There will be available for inspection at the registered office of the company and also, in the case of the document referred to in c below at the offices of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, during usual business hours Saturdays excepted from the date Options normally lapse on cessation of employment.
However, exercise is permitted for a limited period irrespective of the of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting: period for which the option has been held following cessation of employment for specified good leaver reasons: for example, redundancy, retirement, ill health, etc.
Exercise is also permitted on an amalgamation or takeover of the company.
There are a a statement of all transactions of each director and of his family interests, in the equity share capital of the company: also provisions for the exchange of options in specified circumstances.
b copies of the contracts of service of the directors employed by the company: and The number of shares which participants can acquire on exercise of their options cannot exceed the amount that they have c the draft rules of the SAYE Scheme.
saved under their SAYE contract, together with any bonus or interest payable.
Adjustments These documents will also be available for inspection during the Annual General Meeting and for at least fifteen minutes With the prior approval of the Inland Revenue, the number of shares comprised in an option and or its exercise price may be before it begins.
adjusted if any capitalisation issue, offer by way of rights or any subdivision, reduction, consolidation or other variation of the companys share capital takes place.
Rights attaching to shares The company will apply to the London Stock Exchange for the listing of any shares which are to be allotted and issued to participants following the exercise of options.
Those shares will rank pari passu with all other issued shares, except for any rights determined by reference to a date preceding the date on which the option is exercised.
Amendments and general The remuneration committee may at any time amend the rules of the SAYE Scheme, provided that, in the case of amendments to the material advantage of participants relating to eligibility, limits on participation and the basis of determining a participants entitlement in the event of any variation of the companys share capital, the prior approval of the company in general meeting is first obtained.
Such prior approval will not, however, be required for amendments made to obtain or maintain Inland Revenue approval or to comply with the provisions of any existing or proposed legislation or to maintain favourable taxation treatment of any participating company or any participant.
No amendments shall have effect without the prior approval of the Inland Revenue.
Benefits provided are not pensionable.
56 THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC 57 THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC Form of Proxy for use at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 October 2003 I We Note 1 of Note 2 being a shareholder of The Go-Ahead Group plc hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting Note 3 as my our proxy to vote for me us and on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held on 16 October 2003 at the Vermont Hotel, Castle Garth, Newcastle upon Tyne.
"I We desire to vote in relation to the Resolutions set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting as indicated below Note 4 RESOLUTIONS FOR AGAINST Resolution 1 To adopt the Directors Report and Accounts Resolution 2 To approve the final dividend of 18p per share Resolution 3 To re-elect Sir P Brown Resolution 4 To re-elect Mr R Pennant-Rea Resolution 5 To re-elect Mr I P Butcher Resolution 6 To approve Directors Remuneration Report Resolution 7 To re-appoint Auditors Resolution 8 To give authority to issue shares for cash Resolution 9 To adopt the ""SAYE"" Scheme Resolution 10 To give authority to the company to make market purchases of its own shares A member of the Remuneration and Audit Committees appropriately Dated 2003 Signature Note 5 and 6 : NOTES 1."
Please insert FULL NAME in BLOCK CAPITALS.
Please insert ADDRESS in BLOCK CAPITALS.
Any person may be appointed as proxy.
If you wish to appoint another person delete `the Chairman of the Meeting' and insert the name and address of the person in the space provided.
Please indicate how you wish your proxy to vote on the Resolutions set out in the Notice of Meeting.
In the absence of any direction your proxy may in his discretion vote or abstain from voting in respect of all or any of the Resolutions.
This proxy will be used only in the event of a poll being directed or demanded.
If the shareholder is a corporation this form of proxy must be under its common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised in writing.
In the case of joint holders the signature of the first named in the Register of Members will be accepted to the exclusion of the other joint holders.
Any alteration made in this form of proxy should be initialled.
This form of proxy must be lodged at Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL, not later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting at which it is to be used, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified or office copy of such power of authority.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR Annual general meeting 16 October 2003 Record date 24 October 2003 Final dividend paid 21 November 2003 Half year end 3 January 2004 Interim results announced February 2004 Interim dividend paid April 2004 Next financial year end 3 July 2004 Full year results announced September 2004 Annual general meeting October 2004 Final dividend paid November 2004 SECOND FOLD BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No SEA10846 2 Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6ZL THIRD FOLD & TUCK IN FIRST FOLD THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC - ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 28TH JUNE 2003 The Go-Ahead Group plc 3rd Floor, 41-51 Grey Street, Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 6EE Telephone 0191 232 3123 Facsimile 0191 221 0315 www.
