ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 4 May 2003 Basis of accounting and consolidation The accounts are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting and financial reporting standards.
They are prepared under the historical cost convention modified by the revaluation of property.
The group accounts incorporate the accounts of the company, its subsidiaries under the acquisition method and its associates under the equity method.
Turnover Turnover represents the value of goods and services supplied to third parties net of discounts and excluding value added tax.
Revaluation of properties Fixed asset properties were revalued in earlier years and the surplus reflected in the balance sheet.
With effect from 2 May 1999, and following the implementation of the FRS 15 accounting standard, revaluations are no longer undertaken.
Earlier valuations are retained but not updated.
Depreciation Freehold land is not depreciated, freehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated residual values over periods up to fifty years, long leasehold properties are depreciated to their estimated residual values over periods up to fifty years, short leasehold properties are depreciated to their estimated residual values over the remaining term of the lease and furniture, fixtures and equipment assets are depreciated over their estimated lives which range from three to twenty years.
Where the carrying value of properties may not be recoverable an impairment in the value of fixed assets is charged to the profit and loss account.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value and where applicable include an element of production overheads.
Loan capital Loan capital and equivalent financial instruments include the premium realised on issue, or recognised on acquisition, which is amortised over the term of the loan to keep the effective interest rate constant.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not been reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not recognised when an asset is sold if it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Provisions for deferred tax are not discounted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to the interest expense over the period of the swap contracts.
Pensions The cost of providing defined benefit pensions is charged against profits on a systematic basis taking account of actuarial surpluses and deficits arising which are allocated over the remaining average service life of current qualifying employees.
The cost of providing defined contribution pensions amounts to the value of contributions made.
Goodwill Goodwill arising from the premium paid on businesses acquired after 3 May 1998 is amortised over its estimated useful life of 20 years.
Previously goodwill was written off to reserves and has not been re-instated.
Operating leases Rental payments in respect of operating leases are charged against trading profit on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
