36128 CR 2003 Annual Report A4 4 22 04 9:50 AM Page 20 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Groups accounts.
A BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The accounts are prepared under the historical cost accounting rules and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The requirements of all new accounting standards and pronouncements required to be adopted during the past year have been implemented where relevant.
B CONSOLIDATION The consolidated accounts include the results of Greggs plc and its subsidiary undertakings for the period of 52 weeks ended 27 December 2003.
The comparative period is the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2002.
C DEPRECIATION Depreciation is provided on the cost of tangible fixed assets before deducting government capital grants and after taking the estimated residual value into consideration.
Freehold and long leasehold properties are depreciated by equal instalments over a period of 40 years.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Depreciation of other tangible fixed assets is provided on a straight line basis as follows: Short leasehold properties 10% Plant: General 10% 1 Computers 20% - 33 3% Motor vehicles 20% - 25% 1 Delivery trays 33 3% Shop fixtures and fittings: General 10% Electronic equipment 20% D GOVERNMENT GRANTS Grants received in respect of specific capital items are credited to deferred income and transferred to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the estimated average life of the relevant fixed assets.
Grants which are related to the fulfilment of certain conditions or to the expiry of a period of time are also credited to deferred income and are transferred to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over a period from the commencement of the project until these conditions are met.
E STOCKS Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
F TAXATION The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred or accelerated because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation purposes and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
PAGE 20 36128 CR 2003 Annual Report A4 4 22 04 9:50 AM Page 21 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 G GOODWILL Purchased goodwill arising in respect of acquisitions before 1 January 1998, when FRS 10: Goodwill and Intangible Assets was adopted was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent disposal occurs any related goodwill previously written off to reserves is written back through the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired arising in respect of acquisitions since 1 January 1998 is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful life.
Negative goodwill arising in respect of acquisitions since 1 January 1998 is included within fixed assets and released to the profit and loss account in the periods in which the fair values of the non-monetary assets purchased on the same acquisition are recovered whether through depreciation or sale.
H LEASED ASSETS The rental costs of properties and other assets acquired under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
I PENSION COSTS The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution schemes for its employees.
The assets of these funds are held by the Trustees of the schemes and are entirely separate from those of the Group.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of the defined benefit scheme is based on actuarial estimates and is calculated to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives with the Group.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of the defined contribution schemes represents the contributions payable in respect of the accounting period.
J FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Changes in the value of financial instruments are disclosed in the notes to the accounts but are not reflected in the profit and loss account or the balance sheet.
K CASH AND LIQUID RESOURCES Cash, for the purposes of the cash flow statement, comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less overdrafts repayable on demand.
Liquid resources are current asset investments which are disposable without curtailing or disrupting the business and are either readily convertible into known amounts of cash at or close to their carrying values or traded in an active market.
Liquid resources comprise term deposits of less than one year other than cash, government securities and investments in money market managed funds.
L FOREIGN CURRENCY Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged, at the forward contract rate.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
All exchange rate differences are included in the profit and loss account.
