Accounting policies Year to 31 August 2003 Basis of accounting Turnover The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention Turnover represents sales to external customers including excise and comply with accounting policies generally accepted in the duties but excluding sales taxes and franchise income.
The accounts have complied Stocks with the disclosure requirements of Financial Reporting Standard Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost FRS 17 Retirement Benefits in line with the transitional timetable laid comprises purchase price or direct production cost, together with down by the standard.
The Group intends to adopt FRS 17 duties and manufacturing overheads.
The cost of spirits and wine in full from 1 September 2003. stocks is determined by the weighted average cost method.
Stocks Pages 82 to 84 describes the significant differences between are included in current assets, although a portion of such stocks may UK GAAP and US generally accepted accounting principles be held for periods longer than one year.
US GAAP and presents a reconciliation of net income and shareholders equity from UK GAAP to US GAAP as a result Deferred tax of such differences.
Full provision is made for deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from timing differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the Basis of consolidation extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Allied Domecq PLC the Group or Company accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and its interests in Financial instruments subsidiary undertakings.
Interests in associated undertakings The Group uses financial derivative instruments to manage are included using the equity method of accounting.
The results exposures to movements in interest and exchange rates.
of businesses acquired or disposed of during the year are Transactions involving financial instruments are accounted consolidated for the period from, or up to, the date control passes.
for as follows: i Gains or losses arising on forward exchange contracts are Acquisitions taken to the profit and loss account in the same period as the On the acquisition of a business, or an interest in an associate, underlying transaction.
Premiums paid or received on foreign fair values, reflecting conditions at the date of the acquisition, currency options are taken to the profit and loss account when are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Adjustments are also the option expires or matures.
made to bring accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
ii Net interest arising on interest rate agreements is taken to the profit and loss account over the life of the agreement.
Intangible fixed assets iii Gains and losses on foreign currency debt and foreign exchange Goodwill arising on acquisitions of a business since 1 September contracts held for the purposes of hedging balance sheet 1998 is capitalised and amortised by equal instalments over its translation exposures are taken to reserves.
anticipated useful life, but not exceeding 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 September 1998 was charged directly Foreign currencies to reserves.
On disposal of a business, any attributable goodwill Monetary assets and liabilities arising from transactions in foreign previously eliminated against reserves is included in the calculation currencies are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the of any gain or loss.
Other purchased intangible assets are capitalised date of transaction.
Subsequent movements in exchange rates and amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line are included in the Group profit and loss account.
Where intangible assets, such as brands, are regarded of undertakings outside the UK are translated at weighted average as having indefinite useful economic lives, they are not amortised exchange rates each month.
The closing balance sheets of but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
undertakings outside the UK are translated at year end rates.
Exchange rate differences arising from the translation of foreign Tangible fixed assets currency denominated balance sheets to closing rates are dealt Tangible fixed assets are capitalised at cost.
Depreciation is with through reserves.
provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic Pension and post employment benefits lives as follows: Land and buildings the shorter of 50 years or the Pension and post retirement medical benefit costs are charged length of the lease: distilling and maturing equipment 20 years: to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis over the service storage tanks 20 to 50 years: other plant and equipment and life of employees, with the advice of actuaries, using the projected fixtures and fittings 5 to 12 years: and computer software unit credit method.
Vineyard developments are not depreciated in the first 3 years unless they become productive within that time.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments are stated at cost, less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
