Statement of directors Board committees responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Audit Committee 1 for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state Peter Jacobs Chairman 2 3 of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss John Rishton 2 for that year.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors Paul Adams are required to: Bruno Angelici Donald Brydon Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 1 Sir Ross Buckland consistently: Gerry Robinson Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Summary terms of reference: to assist the Board in exercising and prudent: its responsibilities for accounting, financial reporting and internal State whether applicable accounting standards have been control and risk assessment, to keep the work of internal and followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and external audit under review and to oversee the independence explained in the financial statements: and of the external auditor.
Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis Remuneration Committee unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will Donald Brydon Chairman continue in business.
2 Paul Adams Bruno Angelici The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 1 Sir Ross Buckland records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 1 Peter Jacobs the financial position of the Company and the Group and to 2 John Rishton enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with Gerry Robinson the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibilities for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard Summary terms of reference: to set terms of employment, the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and including remuneration, for Executive Directors.
Nomination Committee Gerry Robinson Chairman Philip Bowman Donald Brydon 2 John Rishton Summary terms of reference: to consider and recommend candidates for appointment to the Board.
Executive Committee This Committee comprises mainly the Executive Directors.
Summary terms of reference: to formalise Group strategy, run the day-to-day operations of the Group, approve projects within capital expenditure limits delegated by the Board and lead the management development process.
Financing Committee This Committee comprises mainly the Executive Directors.
Summary terms of reference: to exercise the powers of the Company concerning the financing of approved acquisitions and the refinancing of debt.
Key: 1 Until 30 January 2004 2 From 5 December 2003 3 Chairman from 30 January 2004 39
