Glossary Advertising and promotion A&P Liquid resources Expenditure on advertising and promotion of brands.
Liquid resources comprise short-term deposits which have maturity dates of less than three months.
Associated undertaking An entity in which the Group is able to exercise significant influence, Local market leaders normally by controlling more than 20% of the voting rights.
These are brands that have a strong position in a particular market.
These will include such brands as Stolichnaya and Hiram BMC Walker Liqueurs in the US: Mexican brandies: Whisky DYC Brand Market Combination.
For example, Ballantines in Spain and Centenario in Spain: Imperial in Korea: Fundador in the is a BMC.
Philippines: Teachers in the UK and Kuemmerling in Germany.
These brands fall into two categories: those that deliver critical Bulk sales mass in key markets and those that provide an opportunity for Sales of unbottled unbranded spirit sold in bulk to other spirits strong value growth.
Market capitalisation Constant actual exchange The price of one of the Companys Ordinary Shares multiplied Profits or earnings where the prior year results of operations by the number of shares in issue.
outside the UK are stated in sterling at the current year weighted average exchange rate to give a constant measure of growth Net brand contribution NBC year on year.
A measure of brand profitability before overhead costs but after A&P has been allocated.
Core brands The global priority brands are Ballantines, Beefeater, Canadian Net turnover Club, Courvoisier, Kahla, Makers Mark, Malibu, Sauza and Gross turnover excluding excise duty.
Normalised Dividend cover Profits or earnings before exceptional items and goodwill Earnings per share divided by dividends per share, to assess excluding discontinued operations.
the Groups ability to pay dividends.
Ready-to-drink RTD Earnings per share EPS These are drinks which are sold in a premixed format.
Profit for the year after tax and minority interests Earnings divided by the average number of shares.
Reserves Mainly profits and surpluses retained within the business.
EBITA Earnings Before Interest and Tax and Amortisation of intangible Return on investment ROI fixed assets.
Trading profit after tax expressed as a percentage of the average and total of capital and reserves plus net debt and goodwill EBITDA written off.
Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation of tangible fixed assets and Amortisation of intangible fixed assets.
Same store sales Sales from established stores that have traded for at least two Exceptional items years and therefore the year on year comparison is not distorted Gains or costs that are disclosed separately because they arise by openings and closings.
outside the normal business activity.
Subsidiary undertaking Franchising An entity in which the Group exercises a dominant influence, Business where individuals and or corporations are provided normally by controlling more than 50% of the voting rights.
with the rights to market a specific companys goods and or services in a designated area for a designated fee.
Trade working capital Trade working capital comprises total stock plus trade debtors Free cash flow less trade creditors.
Operating cash less taxation, interest and dividends paid to shareholders and minority interest.
Gearing enterprise value EV Net debt expressed as a percentage of the total of the Groups market capitalisation plus net debt.
Goodwill The difference between the price paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
88 Designed and produced by williams and phoa Photography by Lee Funnell Printed in the UK on paper made from 50% pulp, 50% recycled fibres and is biodegradable.
All brands mentioned in this Annual Report are trademarks and are registered and or otherwise protected in accordance with applicable law.
Allied Domecq PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bedminster Down Bristol BS13 8AR UK Registered number: 3771147 Telephone: 44 0 117 978 5000 www.
