US GAAP reconciliation US GAAP reconciliation d Investments Allied Domecq PLC listed on the New York Stock Exchange Under UK GAAP, other investments include amounts in respect on 31 July 2002.
Pages 82 to 84 provide an explanation and of Ordinary Shares including ADSs held by the employee trusts.
reconciliation from UK to US GAAP.
Under US GAAP, these amounts would be treated as Treasury Stock and deducted from Shareholders funds.
Differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles e Restructuring costs The Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared Under UK GAAP, provisions are made for restructuring costs once in accordance with UK GAAP, which differ from those generally a detailed formal plan is in place and valid expectations have been accepted in the United States US GAAP.
The significant raised in those affected that the restructuring will be carried out.
differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP which affect Provision is made for voluntary redundancy payments to the extent the Groups net income and shareholders equity are that it is expected that volunteers will come forward.
requires a number of specific criteria to be met before restructuring costs can be recognised as an expense.
Also, to the extent a Brands, goodwill and other intangible assets restructuring costs are related to the activities of an acquired Under UK GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions of a business company, US GAAP allows them to be recognised as a liability since 1 September 1998 is capitalised and amortised by equal upon acquisition provided certain specific criteria are met whereas instalments over its anticipated useful life, but not exceeding UK GAAP does not.
Accordingly, timing differences arise between 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 September UK GAAP and US GAAP recognition of restructuring costs.
1998 was charged directly to reserves.
On disposal of a business, any attributable goodwill previously eliminated against reserves f Pension and other post retirement benefits is included in the calculation of any gain or loss.
Other purchased Under the Groups accounting policy for post employment intangible assets are capitalised and amortised over their benefits, in accordance with SSAP 24, pension costs are charged useful economic lives on a straight line basis.
Where intangible to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis over the assets, such as brands, are regarded as having indefinite useful service life of employees based on consultation with actuaries economic lives, they are not amortised but are subject to annual and using the projected unit credit method and a set of long-term impairment reviews.
Under US GAAP, prior to the adoption of Statement of Financial Under US GAAP, pension costs and liabilities are calculated Accounting Standards SFAS No.
141 Business Combinations in accordance with SFAS No.
87 Employers Accounting for and SFAS No.
142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Pensions.
This standard requires the use of the projected unit goodwill and other intangible assets arising on acquisition were credit method and prescribes, in particular, the use of a marketcapitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives, but not related discount rate.
This is not the same as the long-term exceeding 40 years.
The Group adopted the provisions of SFAS approach used under SSAP 24.
Goodwill and intangible assets determined to have an g Share compensation indefinite useful life acquired in a purchase business combination Under UK GAAP, the cost of share option plans are amortised are no longer amortised and are subjected to annual impairment based on the cost of the shares including ADSs acquired by testing.
Accordingly, net income no longer includes amortisation the employee trusts to fulfil the plan, less the amount contributed of brands, and goodwill amortisation recognised under UK GAAP by the employee.
Under US GAAP, compensation for fixed plan is reversed.
awards is determined at the date of grant, based on the cost of the fair value of the shares subject to the award, less the option The amount of goodwill under UK GAAP differs to that under exercise or purchase price, if any, except for allowable discounts US GAAP due to the fair values allocated to intangible assets, with respect to certain qualified plans where the discount is no significantly brands, stock, and the exclusion from the purchase greater than 15% of the fair value of the shares.
Compensation price consideration of certain costs.
costs for variable plan awards is estimated at the end of each period from the date of grant to the date final compensation costs b Associated undertakings are determinable based on the difference between the fair value The principal difference between UK GAAP and US GAAP relates of the shares subject to the award and the option exercise or to the accounting treatment of goodwill which is discussed in note a. purchase price.
Such cost is allocated to compensation expense over the vesting period and, if performance criteria are applicable c Stocks to the award, based on actual performance attained.
Under UK GAAP, stock acquired through a business combination is valued at the lower of replacement cost and net realisable value.
Under US GAAP, stock acquired through a business combination reflects the selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal and a reasonable element of profit for the selling effort by the acquiring company.
82 h Proposed dividends k Exceptional items Under UK GAAP, the proposed dividends on Ordinary Shares, as Under UK GAAP, exceptional items are those that, by virtue recommended by the Directors, are deducted from Shareholders of their size or nature, the Board of Directors believes should equity and shown as a liability in the balance sheet at the end of the be separately disclosed.
Such items are included within the profit period to which they relate, including proposed dividends which and loss account heading and disclosed in the notes to the have been recommended but not yet approved by shareholders.
Under US GAAP, there is Under US GAAP, such dividends are only deducted from no such concept as exceptional items.
Exceptional items would Shareholders equity at the date of declaration of the dividend.
not be considered extraordinary or non-operating items under US GAAP.
i Derivative instruments The Groups foreign currency, interest rate and commodity l Mexican excise rebate contracts hedge forecast exposures that do not meet the Under UK GAAP, we are recognising the amount due when offset US GAAP hedge accounting criteria.
Under US GAAP, these against future excise duty and other taxes payable.
Under US contracts are marked to market at the balance sheet date and GAAP, the Mexican excise rebate was recognised upon the gains and losses arising are included in net income.
Under UK issuance of a favourable court judgment and additional interest GAAP, these gains and losses can be deferred until the hedged and inflation adjustments are recognised as they accrue.
m Liabilities The Group may enter into foreign currency contracts to hedge The Group is contractually obligated to make a payment to a the purchase price consideration on certain acquisitions.
Under business venture partner upon termination of the venture which, UK GAAP, the gains and losses arising on these foreign currency unless renewed, is scheduled to terminate in 2029.
Under UK contracts are recognised in the purchase price consideration.
GAAP, the Group records the obligation at the present value of the Under US GAAP, the gains and losses arising on these foreign payment obligation, discounted at a risk-adjusted rate to reflect the currency contracts are recognised within net income.
time value of money, and recognises interest expense each period such that the recorded obligation will equal the payment obligation j Deferred taxation at the currently best estimated scheduled maturity.
Under US The Group adopted FRS 19 Deferred Tax in the year ended GAAP, the obligation is recorded at the amount payable at maturity 31 August 2002.
FRS 19 brings accounting for deferred tax i. e. undiscounted.
under UK GAAP conceptually closer to US GAAP, although some differences remain.
Following the Groups restatement n Franchise income under FRS 19, and other than the tax effect of other UK to The Group has entered into agreements to sell the right to US GAAP differences, there is only one material difference develop multiple stores within a specified territory, which entitles between UK GAAP and US GAAP.
This difference relates the Group to non-refundable franchise fees.
Under UK GAAP, to the recognition criteria for recording deferred tax assets these franchise fees are recognised upon signing of the under US GAAP and UK GAAP.
Under US GAAP, the calculation agreement.
Under US GAAP, the revenue recognition is based of current and deferred tax assets is based on the probable tax on store openings or until the rights to develop the territory have treatment of the tax position taken.
Once it is determined that been forfeited.
there is a probable deferred tax asset, it is then reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent it is deemed more likely than not a likelihood of more than 50% that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realised.
Under UK GAAP, both the existence of the asset and the probability of its recoverability are considered in combination, and a deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that its existence and recoverability are probable a threshold which is higher than more likely than not.
83 US GAAP reconciliation Year to Year to 31 August 31 August 2003 2002 Note m m Profit earned for Ordinary Shareholders in accordance with UK GAAP 340 392 Adjustments to conform with US GAAP: Brands a Goodwill a 42 38 Other intangible assets a 3 4 Stocks c 22 66 Restructuring costs e 7 4 Pension costs and other post retirement benefits f 20 28 Share compensation g 5 Derivative instruments i 61 90 Mexican excise rebate l 40 54 Franchise income n 10 9 Other 3 1 Deferred taxation other j 11 40 Deferred taxation on above US GAAP adjustments j 30 28 Minority share of above adjustments Net income in accordance with US GAAP 280 406 Other comprehensive income: Minimum pension liability 61 203 Currency translation differences 78 130 Comprehensive income in accordance with US GAAP 297 73 Net earnings per Ordinary Share Basic 26.0p 38.1p Diluted 26.0p 38.0p Shareholders equity Year to Year to 31 August 31 August 2003 2002 Note m m Shareholders funds as reported in the Group balance sheet 918 706 Adjustments to conform with US GAAP: Brands a 1,408 1,410 Goodwill a 227 185 Other intangible assets costs a 166 168 Other intangible assets accumulated amortisation a 145 144 Associated undertakings b 57 57 Stock c 23 45 Investments d 129 93 Restructuring costs e 1 8 Pension and other post retirement benefits f 620 555 Share compensation g 6 1 Proposed dividends h 93 88 Derivative instruments i 18 26 Mexican excise rebate l 40 Liabilities m 42 38 Franchise income n 19 9 Other 8 6 Deferred taxation other j 11 Deferred taxation on above US GAAP adjustments j 277 319 Minority share of above adjustments Shareholders equity in accordance with US GAAP 1,657 1,541 84
