ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accounts have been prepared in accordance with Accounting Standards currently applicable in the United Kingdom.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, are set out below.
Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts incorporate the audited accounts of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC and all its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of businesses are included from the effective date of acquisition and businesses sold are included up to the date of disposal.
The principal operating subsidiary undertakings are listed on pages 99 and 100.
US filing and corresponding amounts The financial statements incorporate the financial information required to satisfy the Companys US Form 20-F filing requirements which includes three year profit and loss account and cash flow statement information.
Intangible fixed assets goodwill Businesses acquired have been dealt with in the consolidated accounts using acquisition accounting.
Upon the acquisition of a business, the fair values that reflect the condition at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Adjustments are also made to bring the accounting policies of the businesses acquired into alignment with those of the Group.
Where the consideration paid exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference is treated as goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or after 27 September 1998 is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life, a period not exceeding 20 years.
Previously all goodwill was written off against reserves in the period of acquisition.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously acquired business, the profit or loss on disposal is determined after including the attributable amount of purchased goodwill previously written off to reserves.
Intangible fixed assets trade marks and licences Trade marks and licences are included at cost and amortised in annual equal instalments over a period which does not exceed 20 years.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are shown at cost less depreciation.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Depreciation of other fixed assets is calculated to write off their cost less residual values over their expected useful lives as follows: Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years straight line Plant and equipment 2 to 20 years straight line reducing balance Fixtures and motor vehicles 3 to 14 years straight line Impairment of fixed assets The carrying value of fixed assets is subject to periodic review and any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
Cost includes an addition for overheads where appropriate.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on all material timing differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where their recovery is considered more likely than not.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been discounted.
Turnover Turnover represents the amount charged to customers in respect of goods supplied, exclusive of VAT but inclusive of excise duty.
ITG 61 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction, or where forward cover contracts have been arranged, at the contracted rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, where a contracted rate does not apply, are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
The profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the average rate of exchange ruling during the year.
The balance sheets of the overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences between the profit and loss accounts translated at average rates and at balance sheet rates are shown as a movement in reserves and in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The Groups significant overseas equity investments are hedged by borrowings in the currencies in which those assets are denominated.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of the overseas net investments, including goodwill, less exchange differences on the borrowings, to the extent that they finance those investments, are taken to reserves through the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Other exchange gains and losses are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Instruments qualify for hedge accounting where the underlying asset or liability has characteristics which can be directly related to the instrument transacted.
The gains and losses on those instruments, qualifying for hedge accounting, are recognised in the financial statements over the life of the transaction.
All current derivative financial instruments qualify for hedge accounting under UK GAAP.
The Group excludes all short-term debtors and creditors from its derivatives and financial instrument disclosures, other than those on currency risks relating to monetary assets and liabilities.
Pension costs The cost of providing pensions is charged to the profit and loss account over employees service lives.
Variances arising from actuarial valuations are charged or credited to profit over the estimated remaining service lives of the employees to the extent that any resulting credit does not exceed the regular cost.
Leases Rental costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Interest Interest payable and receivable is recognised in the profit and loss account on an accruals basis.
Derivative transactions, principally interest rate swaps, are used to reduce exposure to interest rate movements on a proportion of floating rate debt.
Hedge accounting is applied to these transactions and as a result the interest differentials under these transactions are recognised in the financial statements by adjustment of interest payable and receivable over the life of the transactions.
