OPERATING ENVIRONMENT We recognise that to build a sustainable profitable business, we need to PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP ensure high standards of corporate responsibility across all aspects of our The Group believes no one should regard cigarettes as safe.
We have grown rapidly during recent years, both organically and welcome further discussion with government authorities to agree through substantial acquisitions of businesses operating in widely different objective criteria and predictive tests by which they could judge whether markets.
This has created new opportunities and challenges as we build future products offered a potentially reduced risk.
Under the terms of the the profitability and sustainability of the business.
EU Directive 2001 37 EC, we provided the national authorities within the EU with information on the ingredients used in our tobacco products.
A team focused solely on corporate responsibility has been established and tasked with embedding our corporate responsibility principles and practices Through the UK Tobacco , we have continued into the Groups executive management processes and across the business.
to work with the UK Department of Health on the analysis of 44 smoke constituents in 25 cigarette brands, representing around 60 per cent of the An external review was completed during 2003, and a strategy for UK market.
The study shows a strong relationship between almost all of stakeholder engagement and dialogue is being introduced to ensure the smoke constituents and the tar and carbon monoxide CO levels in stakeholders views can be better understood and incorporated into the brands studied.
This study calls into question the value of measuring management decision-making as appropriate.
smoke constituents other than tar, nicotine and CO routinely.
Details of We take our obligation to act as a responsible corporate citizen seriously the study may be found at www.
uk and are committed to our wider stakeholders and to supporting the local communities in which we operate.
A more detailed review of the Groups corporate responsibility activities is to be published on our website OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT www.
We continue to place a high priority on occupational health, safety and the environment OHS&E, setting standards that go beyond basic compliance.
The key issues identified in the 2002 OHS&E report remain our priority EMPLOYEES and progress will be outlined in more detail in the corporate responsibility The health, safety and general welfare of all employees is a high priority.
review which will be published on our website in December 2003: We believe that fundamental to our business success is the way in which www.
com we encourage and reward openness, innovation and good performance The introduction of the ISO 14001 environmental management system among our employees at all levels.
to all manufacturing sites is on schedule and a total of seven sites have The Group has an equal opportunities policy, which recognises and now gained certification.
This progress is reflected in a 27 per cent increase in our score in the UK We aim to promote good working relationships with employees and with Business in the Environment Index 2002, raising our ranking from 144 their representatives through trade unions, works councils and other to 75.
Future scores may show a dip in performance until acquired sites organisations.
Where business changes may impact employment in a are fully integrated.
particular location, we aim to reconcile the needs of the business with A climate change strategy for the Group has been developed following those of employees, ensuring those that are affected are treated fairly.
the Carbon Disclosure Project involving the Global 500 companies.
Mechanisms are put in place to inform and consult with employees and A review of air-conditioning plants is underway, and vehicles with lower their representatives.
The local community and other stakeholders may be carbon emissions have been selected in revised fleet management involved if the changes are significant.
The renewable energy contract in the UK has resulted in a The Group encourages employees to share in the financial success of the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions of around 28,000 tonnes in the Company, through Sharesave, Share Matching and Long-Term Incentive year.
Independent energy audits in the EU, Central and Eastern Europe Plans where permitted by statute, which were extended to 27 countries and our main African factories have been conducted this year and in 2003. identified additional potential energy savings.
ITG 30 Around 60 per cent of non-hazardous solid waste produced by sites in the TOBACCO INDUSTRY ISSUES Group able to report data was recycled.
Less than 0.3 per cent of the total Regulatory pressures on the industry have continued in 2003. was classed as hazardous, as defined in local regulations.
In May 2003, the World Health Organisations Framework Convention The Group has commissioned a biodiversity impact assessment across all on Tobacco Control FCTC was adopted at the 56th World Health operations.
In Madagascar, plans for the operation to be self-sufficient in Assembly.
We agree with several aspects of the Convention, most notably wood in 2007 remain on target and native hardwood is being planted in the need to prevent youth smoking and the urgent need to stamp out addition to fast-growing eucalyptus.
Improved curing barns are being both smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products.
However, the introduced which will be more sustainable and fuel-efficient.
FCTC also includes measures more appropriately dealt with by other relevant authorities, and some that we believe are inappropriate.
The Convention needs to be ratified by 40 countries before it comes into SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT effect, 90 days after the fortieth country has done so.
We purchase over 95 per cent of our tobacco from leaf suppliers and grow In 2001, the EU passed a Directive on the manufacture, presentation and the remainder, primarily in Madagascar.
We are a significant employer in sale of tobacco products.
Imperial Tobacco, together with British Madagascar, both directly and indirectly.
Employees have benefited from American Tobacco, challenged it on the grounds that it violated several the Group securing electricity and food supplies, as well as making principles of European law.
In December 2002, the European Court of contributions towards local healthcare provision.
Justice ruled that the Directive was valid.
In 2003, we extended the Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production The Directive has now been transposed into national regulations in all programme across all our operations to ensure high standards for the Member States.
Several EU accession countries are also starting to cultivation and purchase of tobacco leaf.
The programme covers implement the Directive prior to their accession in May 2004.
By actively integrated crop management, tobacco processing and socio-economic sharing best practice and information across the Group, we are seeking to issues.
It involves self-assessment, continual improvement and verification ensure we are in a strong position to meet these regulations.
visits on an intended three-year cycle.
The most visible requirements of the Directive are the larger health The Board has decided that the Group will be guided on human rights warnings required for all tobacco products and the removal of descriptors issues by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development such as light and mild.
In September 2003, the EU Commission guidelines for multinational enterprises, and a programme of social audit adopted a Decision which outlines the use of pictorial health warnings and performance improvement has been established.
that may replace the warnings on the back of the pack, should a Member As a matter of policy, the Group does not employ children and our State choose to require them.
It is unlikely that the precise details of the supplier policy promotes compliance with international standards on warnings will be known until September 2004. child labour.
We are an active member of the Eliminating Child Labour The Directive also required manufacturers and importers to submit in Tobacco Foundation www.
details of all ingredients used in tobacco products to each Member State, The Group has long supported community activities in the geographical along with any available toxicological data.
In December 2002, we areas of its operations and, in 2003, our total charitable donations were submitted ingredient information and toxicological data in all Member 575,000.
States, even in the absence of national regulations.
The format in which the ingredient information was submitted has been accepted by most We support and encourage employees to participate in community Member States.
activities and to raise money for charitable causes, and in many cases we match the money raised.
We also match donations made by employees under the Give As You Earn scheme, administered through the Charities Aid Foundation.
ITG 31 OPERATING ENVIRONMENT However, The Netherlands has rejected this format, and required the The debate on smoking in public places continues in many countries.
To submission and publication of the detailed recipes of all tobacco products date, the UK Government has indicated that it prefers to proceed with sold in the Dutch market.
The Group believes that the Tobacco voluntary restrictions on smoking, working with the hospitality industry Lists of Ingredients Regulation 2003, which provides for publication of rather than introducing legislation.
ingredients and formulae of tobacco products, goes beyond what is We remain committed to continuing to work constructively with allowed by the EU Directive on which the Dutch regulation is based.
individual governments and other regulatory bodies to ensure the sensible Like any company, we have concerns about revealing unique product and proportionate regulation of tobacco products.
formulae and, together with other leading tobacco manufacturers, we began legal procedures in September 2003.
Belgium has also expressed concerns about the format of the ingredients information but as yet there TAXATION has been no similar action.
We have seen the announcement of a number of significant tax increases In December 2002, the Council of EU Health Ministers adopted a across Western Europe during 2003, particularly in France, The Recommendation on the prevention of smoking and on initiatives to Netherlands and Belgium, with the most notable being proposed in improve tobacco control 2003 54 EC.
On 7 November 2003, the Federal Council Bundesrat decided non-binding to the Member States and includes restrictions on vending to invoke a conciliation procedure to review the Governments tax machines, a ban on packs of less than 19 cigarettes and the prohibition of proposals including the amounts, structure and timing of the increases.
promotional items bearing tobacco brand names.
A final decision is expected in mid-December.
We remain concerned that continued tax increases will fuel the level of illegal cross-border trade.
The EU also passed a new Advertising and Sponsorship Directive in May 2003.
Whilst the new Directive is narrower in scope than its predecessor, The fall in the smuggling of Imperial Tobaccos brands back into the UK which was annulled by the European Court of Justice in October 2000, we has been significant and encouraging.
An investigation by the German believe it contains several flaws.
Germany recognised this and voted against authorities into Reemtsma trading practices, which relates to a period it, and is now challenging the Directive in the European Court of Justice.
prior to the acquisition, is ongoing.
In July 2003, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding with HM Customs & Excise in the UK, In the UK, the Advertising & Sponsorship Act came into force in February formalising the adoption of jointly developed protocols to combat the 2003.
All advertising is now prohibited except at the point-of-sale, which smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products.
We continue our may also be severely restricted if the draft regulations notified to the dialogue with governments in other markets to explore opportunities for European Commission come into force.
Sponsorship is also banned but the possible extension of protocols.
there is an exemption for world events such as Formula 1 and the Embassy World Snooker Championships until July 2005, in line with the dates set by the EU Advertising Directive.
TOBACCO RELATED LITIGATION In Ireland, the Office of Tobacco Control has been established and the The one legal action in England and Wales, in which Imperial Tobacco draft Public Health Tobacco Bill has been notified to the EU was involved, has been dismissed.
The Bill prohibits cigarette packs containing less than 20 cigarettes and the display of tobacco products at the point-of-sale.
The In Scotland, Imperial Tobacco is currently involved in 11 separate cases, Irish Government also intends to introduce a ban on smoking in public where individual claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking-related places from early February 2004.
There is considerable opposition to this health effects.
Of these cases, nine have been stayed.
In one of the other cases, ban from the hospitality sector concerned at its effect on trade.
commenced by Alfred McTear in 1993, the trial started on 7 October 2003 and is scheduled to last until March 2004.
In the other case, the claimant is representing himself and there has been no activity since July 2001.
ITG 32 In the Republic of Ireland, the number of active individual claims against In Australia, an individual claimant has served proceedings on seven Imperial Tobacco currently stands at 45.
Statements of claims have been tobacco companies including Imperial Tobacco.
A statement of claim has served in 42 of these cases.
Since 1997, 351 claims against Imperial been served.
Tobacco and other tobacco companies have been dismissed, discontinued To date, no judgment has been entered against Imperial Tobacco and no or confirmed as not proceeding.
No trial dates have been set in any of the action has been settled in favour of a claimant in any tobacco-related claims against Imperial Tobacco.
litigation involving Imperial Tobacco or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial In The Netherlands, Imperial Tobacco has received claim letters on behalf Tobacco has been advised by its lawyers that it has meritorious defences of 44 individuals, although 15 of those individuals have now withdrawn.
to the legal proceedings in which individuals are seeking damages for Other tobacco companies have received similar letters.
Testimony has alleged smoking-related health effects and to threatened actions of a been taken from a majority of the claimants at preliminary hearings but similar nature.
no actual proceedings have been commenced against Imperial Tobacco or any of its subsidiaries in The Netherlands.
In Germany, one individual claimant had served proceedings on Imperial Tobacco.
On 14 November 2003, the German court rejected this claim as being without merit.
In Poland, one individual claimant has served proceedings on Imperial Tobacco.
There have been several preliminary hearings with further hearings anticipated during 2004.
We take our obligation to act as a responsible corporate citizen seriously.
We are committed to our wider stakeholders and to supporting the local communities in which we operate.
