Glossary ABI Association of British Insurers, a body which, inter alia, sets standards of corporate governance on behalf of insurance companies.
Availability A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was available during the year, after taking account of both planned and unplanned plant outages.
BACT Best available control techniques.
BITC Business in the Community, a charitable foundation.
Bond Security that obligates the issuer International Power to make specified payments to the bondholder financial institutions.
CCGT Combined cycle gas turbine turbines, that are typically fuelled by natural gas, are used to drive generators to produce electricity.
The exhaust gases are then passed through a boiler to produce steam that in turn drives an additional turbine coupled to a generator.
Cogen The simultaneous generation of heat and electricity, typically where the need for both arises for industrial or commercial purposes.
Debt capitalisation Net debt divided by the sum of the net debt and total equity Demerger Agreement The demerger agreement dated 21 August 2000 between National Power, Innogy Holdings and Innogy.
EH&S Environmental, health and safety.
EPS Earnings per share, calculated by dividing the profit after interest and tax by the number of shares in issue.
EV Enterprise value market capitalisation plus debt capitalisation.
ERCOT The Electric Reliability Council of Texas is the corporation that administers the power grid for the state of Texas.
ESPS Electricity Supply Pension Scheme.
Gearing Net debt divided by total equity.
Generator nameplate The maximum output of a generator under specific conditions designated by the manufacturer.
capacity installed Installed generator nameplate capacity is commonly expressed in megawatts MW and is usually indicated on a nameplate physically attached to the generator.
GT24B Proprietary gas turbine built by Alstom Power.
Heat rate A measure of the amount of heat required to produce a unit of electricity.
HUBCO The Hub Power Company.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
IGCC Integrated gasification combined cycle a combined cycle gas turbine that is fired on a gas fuel derived from the gasification of liquid or solid carbonaceous material, eg.
ISO 14001 The international standard of environment management systems.
KAPCO Kot Addu Power Company.
Merchant market A merchant market is a deregulated market.
annual report 2003 99 Glossary continued Merchant plant Our merchant plants operate in deregulated markets selling power into the traded market without long-term power purchase agreements PPAs.
MIGD Millions of imperial gallons per day.
MW Megawatt: one MW equals 1,000 kilowatts.
MWth One megawatt of thermal power.
NEPOOL The New England Power Pool together with the ISO New England Independent System Operator, New England is responsible for managing the region's electric bulk power generation and transmission systems.
Non-recourse debt Debt secured on an asset.
OCGT Open cycle gas turbine.
Turbines, typically fuelled by gas or diesel oil, are used to drive the generators to produce electricity.
OHSAS 18011 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 18011.
A management system specification, developed by the British Standards Institute, for health and safety which is compatible with ISO 9001:1994 Quality and ISO 14001:1996 Evironmental management.
O&M Operations and maintenance, usually used in the context of operating and maintaining a power station.
Off-take agreement Power purchase agreement between International Power and its customer the offtaker whereby the customer takes the electricity generated by a power station.
PBIT Profit before interest and tax.
Peak load The maximum demand during a specified high demand period.
This may require use of plant for example, pumped storage that is generally idle.
Put To sell a security back to the issuer at a pre-determined price.
Recourse debt Debt secured by the Company.
Reliability A measure giving the proportion of planned electrical energy that was actually available during the year, after taking account of unplanned plant outages.
Safety walk A formally structured safety inspection of all operational areas to assess aspects of general safety, good housekeeping, lighting etc.
SCR Selective catalytic reduction equipment to reduce the concentration of NOx in flue gases.
Spark spread The difference between the power price and fuel costs.
Tolling contract A form of long-term electricity contract where the buyer of the electricity also supplies the fuel and the generator provides the energy conversion services in the form of the plant and operational services required to change the energy in the fuel into electricity.
Toolbox talk Team discussions held on topics related to health and safety, environment, technical and business environment as a means of improving communication.
Trade investment A business entity over which the investor does not excercise significant influence.
UK GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the UK.
100 International Power WE ARE CONTINUALLY UPDATING INFORMATION TO KEEP YOU INFORMED OF DEVELOPMENTS WITHIN THE COMPANY, PLEASE VISIT THE INTERNATIONAL POWER WEBSITE AT : www.
com Available on the website: latest presentations press releases share price information financial data and reports Registered Office International Power plc Senator House 85 Queen Victoria Street London EC4V 4DP Registered in England and Wales No: 2366963 This document is printed throughout using soya-based inks on  paper.
The paper supply chain via both mill and merchant is covered by international standard ISO 14001.
Published by International Power plc www.
com Designed and produced by Natural www.
com Printed in the UK by Royle Corporate Print
