Profile of operating divisions Facilities Services Industrial Services Project Services Through the Facilities Services division Through the Industrial Services division Through the Project Services division Interserve is one of the leading players Interserve is a market leader in terms of Interserve specialises in delivering in the growing UK facilities management its breadth of service offering, its safety building and infrastructure projects in market.
Our approach is to focus on record and its client relationships.
The the UK and the Middle East through key clients offering significant long-term UK market for outsourced industrial framework agreements, PFI contracts revenue streams, building a detailed maintenance services continues to grow and negotiated relationships.
In the UK understanding of their operations and as more and more clients realise the our approach is to work with our clients adding value with an integrated suite economic and managerial benefits in long-term relationships, delivering of related services.
These are tailored resulting from this approach to service our services from resources in both through bespoke service-level agreements delivery that contributes to their own our strategic projects and regional and sustainable commercial relationships.
competitive position in world markets.
businesses, increasingly through openOur preference is for complex Our approach is to provide an integrated book arrangements providing supply outsourcing projects, where our single-point relationship for our clients, chain transparency and demonstrating change-management skills, integrated managing and controlling on their behalf the added value of our co-ordination, management and direct-delivery the interfaces between the various planning and management role.
In capabilities and our willingness to services necessary to deliver effective the Middle East we work through our structure risk and reward innovatively maintenance and successful project associate companies almost entirely set us apart from our competitors.
solutions, as well as delivering those on negotiated and or repeat business services directly.
Our clients benefit contracts using our skills to deliver As the outsourcing market continues to from this approach not only through business development and project develop and grow we see a continuing a reduction in the direct cost of management in concert with our sophistication in service specification maintenance services, but, critically, partners market knowledge and and measurement and in transparency of from a reduction in plant downtime access to the supply chain.
By combining an achieved by improved efficiencies in anticipation of these trends with our the execution of planned and unplanned UK activities are focused mainly on public broader-based service capabilities and tasks.
As the range of services we service amenities and infrastructure, those of our supply chain partners, we deliver increases, Interserve becomes where market conditions remain generally believe we are well positioned to deliver increasingly integral to the infrastructure favourable.
Our involvement in the on growing client expectation and to support needs of our clients, which we private sector market in the UK is maintain competitive advantage.
believe enhances the longevity of our predominantly through framework client relationships.
agreements for blue chip clients where spend profiles are predictable and The division operates in markets where relatively reliable.
Overseas, market safety and environmental concerns are conditions are driven by the macroparamount and the ability to provide economic environment in the Middle East, effective safety and quality management which is seeing continued confidence and systems is a prerequisite.
Our approach was largely unaffected by the 2003 Iraq is to focus on continual improvement conflict.
In all instances our approach from our already very high standards in is characterised by partnering and the knowledge that sustainable safety collaborative working with our clients and environmental performance is a and our supply chain, founded on key differentiator on which clients will excellent technical skills and a first increasingly base their buying decisions.
We believe that As a reflection of our capability and of these attributes, together with our our clients focus on this value added pragmatism and consistent record in area, we have, during 2003, established delivering to time and budget provide a safety training business unit within Interserve with a differentiated position the division, which will provide services in our chosen markets.
into our existing contract base and also generate third party revenues.
4 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 Equipment Services PFI Investments Through the Equipment Services division Our approach is to invest only in PFI PPP Interserve is a leading player in the projects where one or both of our principal global system formwork and falsework downstream activities of facilities market, supplying a key service integral services and design construction services to the delivery of complex infrastructure are involved.
Therefore our investment and building projects in most parts of strategy is led by the growth needs of the world.
The use of system formwork our core businesses in sectors in which and falsework the temporary support we have appropriate skills and resources.
equipment required in the creation of Where it is not desirable for Interserve substantial concrete structures enables companies to fulfil all the downstream construction processes to be designed delivery roles, we work with partners to optimally and saves time and space deliver the total PFI PPP solution.
We compared to traditional alternative also provide management and back technologies.
Trading globally as RMD office support services to a number of Kwikform, a well-respected and special purpose companies.
Our key established brand within its target market sectors are health, education, markets, the business operates around custodial and defence accommodation.
two centres of excellence in the UK and Australia from where design and engineering support is provided to the operating units in each country of operation.
Equipment Services business model is based on the hire and sale of its equipment in meeting the challenges of often demanding construction projects.
We offer engineering advice in the application of the equipment as part of each hire transaction and this, together with our proprietary designs and the ability to produce customised solutions, differentiates us strongly in the market.
Divisional split by turnover 2002 110m 428m 75m 396m 2003 448m 148m 476m 75m Project Services Equipment Services Industrial Services Facilities Services Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 5
