Shareholder information Registered office Invensys nominee service Invensys plc The Company has a nominee service under which shareholders Invensys House can hold their shares electronically rather than in certificate form.
Carlisle Place Through the service, shareholders can also take advantage of London SW1P 1BX streamlined dealing arrangements.
Details of the service are Telephone 44 0 20 7834 3848 contained in the Invensys Nominee Service brochure which is Facsimile 44 0 20 7834 3879 available from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Registered in England and Wales number 166023 Sharegift Sales of very small holdings of shares may suffer commission that is Stock Exchange listing disproportionate to the sale price.
Some sellers may wish to consider The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London donating them to charity through Sharegift, a registered charity Stock Exchange.
administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
A Sharegift Internet donation form is available from the Companys registrars.
Further If you have access to the internet, you are welcome to visit Invensys information about Sharegift is available at www.
org or from website at: www.
The annual report and accounts 2003 The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 24 Grosvenor Gardens, London can be obtained from the Invensys Investor Relations website on: SW1W 0DH telephone 44 0 20 7337 0501. www.
html Capital gains tax American Depositary Receipts ADRs For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value on 31 March The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for which 1982 of an Invensys ordinary share, adjusted for capitalisation issues, the Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas acts as Depositary.
Shareholders who are in any doubt as to their tax ADR represents two 2 ordinary shares of the Company.
The ADRs position should seek specific advice from their financial advisers.
trade on the Over-The-Counter OTC market under the ticker Further information in relation to capitalisation issues and other symbol IVNSY.
For enquiries, beneficial ADR holders may contact the matters affecting the base cost of Invensys ordinary shares may be Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas Broker Service Desk on obtained from the Company Secretary.
Registered ADR holders Financial calendar may contact the dedicated Invensys plc ADR shareholder services Financial year end 2002 03 31 March 2003 line on 1 888 778 1318 toll free for US residents only.
Further information is also available at http: www.
com Results for 2002 03 announced 29 May 2003 Annual general meeting 23 July 2003 Registrars For all shareholder enquiries and changes of name and address, Interim results for 2003 04 announced November 2003 please contact: Final dates and any changes will be announced and notified as appropriate.
Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Forward-looking statements Worthing This report includes forward-looking statements, within the meaning West Sussex BN99 6DA of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 1995, which are Telephone 44 0 870 600 3963 based on market projections, forecasts and expectations.
ForwardFacsimile 44 0 870 600 3980 looking statements are by their nature subject to uncertainties and http: www.
co. uk external factors that may affect the actual outcomes compared with those anticipated.
Electronic communications Shareholders can also view up-to-date information about their shareholding and register to receive future electronic communications from the Company by visiting the shareholders website at www.
co. uk shareholder reference number, shown on share certificates and tax vouchers, will be required.
68 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Designed and produced This report is printed on paper by Fishburn Hedges from sustainable forests using an Printed in the UK elemental chlorine free process.
Summary financial statement 2003 01 Results overview 17 Summary directors report 02 Chairmans statement 18 Remuneration report 04 Chief Executives review 25 Summary financial statement for 08 Management discussion & analysis the year ended 31 March 2003 10 Sustainable development 25 Statement of the independent 14 Board of directors auditors to the shareholders of 15 Corporate governance Invensys plc 26 Consolidated profit and loss account 27 Consolidated balance sheet 28 Consolidated cash flow statement 28 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 29 Segmental analysis Back cover Shareholder information 00 Financial summary 00 Shareholder information Results overview 1 2 Continuing operations operating profit 250 million Continuing operations margin 5.9% 3 Production Management 4.2% 2002 2.1% Energy Management 8.3% 2002 10.1% Development 6.9% 2002 6.0% Restructuring charges 2.4% of sales Operating cash flow 433 million Free cash flow 87 million Disposals proceeds 1.6 billion for the year and 1.8 billion in total Net debt reduced from 3.0 billion to 1.6 billion Results overview 2003 2002 1 Continuing operations sales m 4,258 4,623 4 Continuing operations sales at CER m 4,258 4,420 Continuing operations operating profit m 250 312 Continuing operations operating profit at CER m 250 301 Continuing operations operating profit margin % 5.9% 6.7% Operating cash flow m 433 818 Free cash flow m 87 266 Dividend pence 1.0 2.0 1 Production Management, Energy Management & Development Division 2 All references to operating profit throughout are stated before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and goodwill impairment 3 Production Management excluding Baan 4 CER constant exchange rates 01 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Chairmans statement Results summary and dividend Disposals Sustainable development Customers and suppliers Employees Board Outlook Chairmans statement On completion of these actions, your Board believes that Invensys will offer investors a In future, Invensys will be focusing on smaller Group possessing higher quality Production Management and Rail Systems.
growth prospects and leading competitive positions, financed by a stronger balance We will be disposing of all other businesses.
In seeking to create value for On completion of these actions, your Board shareholders, the priority will be to establish stability, to provide assurance for customers believes that Invensys will offer investors a and employees and to achieve margin smaller Group possessing higher quality improvement.
More information on the new structure of the Group going forward is growth prospects, financed by a stronger provided in the Chief Executives review.
Results summary and dividend Group sales were down 28% at 5,018 million Dear Shareholder, 2002 6,972 million, principally due to the At the time of our interim results in sale of non-core businesses that last year November, there were clear indications that contributed sales of 2,349 million.
Group our transformation programme was starting operating profit before exceptional items, to work in areas where management had goodwill amortisation and goodwill focused its resource.
Since then, our impairment fell by 40% to 330 million disposal of designated non-core businesses 2002 549 million.
Corporate and has been completed, banking covenants operating exceptional items, including have been consistently met and margin a write off of goodwill associated with Lord Marshall of Knightsbridge, Chairman improvement has been achieved in a disposals of 1,321 million and goodwill number of businesses, most notably in impairment of 585 million, have Production Management.
However, a resulted in the Group recording a loss of minority of under-performing businesses 1,442 million for the year 2002 loss of have reported disappointing results with 869 million.
The underlying earnings per trading conditions continuing to weaken.
share for continuing operations were 2.2p As a consequence, your Board recognises 2002 2.8p.
Free cash flow of 87 million the need to secure a greater level of was 179 million lower than the previous financial stability for the Group.
year, mainly due to a reduction in operating profit of 219 million.
Net debt at the year In April, we announced that we will be end was down to 1,556 million.
disposing of further businesses and focusing on Production Management.
We will also In the context of the Groups performance, continue to develop our Rail Systems the Board is recommending that no final business.
The remaining businesses in the dividend be paid.
Given the interim dividend Group will be divested, either partially or of 1.0p, this makes a total for the year of wholly, by seeking suitable equity partners 1.0p 2002 2.0p.
or new owners, as appropriate to the development needs of each business.
A structured and phased process to achieve this is already underway.
Proceeds raised from asset sales will be used to satisfy the cash requirements of the Group, including reduction of indebtedness and funding of pension schemes, as well as the investment required to grow market share in Production Management and Rail Systems and return the Group to overall profitability and earnings per share growth.
02 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Chairmans statement Results summary and dividend Disposals Sustainable development Customers and suppliers Employees Board Outlook Disposals Employees Subsequent events proved that to be We successfully completed the disposal I thank all our employees for their loyalty, unfounded, thereby causing a major programme announced in February 2002, professionalism and hard work in what has downturn in many of our markets at a time ahead of schedule and with proceeds been a particularly difficult year.
It is very when management was striving to deliver exceeding the target of 1.5 billion.
It was disappointing that, despite the best efforts synergies from the merger.
Mistakes have a significant achievement to have realised and commitment of our people, we have been made and lessons learned which will sale proceeds of 1.8 billion in total for not been able to continue with the full benefit future decisions.
strategy that we announced in February 2002.
I believe that the revised course of Martin Jay will take over as your Chairman On 15 April, we announced the creation action we have now set out will offer the following the AGM.
Martin has first-hand of a newly enlarged Development Division best prospects for the future of the Group.
experience of the demands of steering a for whose businesses we will seek new business through a period of significant owners or equity investors.
We expect this Board transition.
In Rick Haythornthwaite, Adrian transition process to take 18 to 24 months There have been a number of changes to Hennah and their colleagues I believe your and we are not, at this early stage, putting the Board in the past year.
We have seen Company has an extremely competent a precise target on disposal proceeds, the retirement of Bob Bauman, Kathleen executive management which, together with for two reasons.
Firstly, if we are able to ODonovan and Sir Graham Hearne, all of your Board, is fully prepared to face the manage liabilities down from their current whom contributed significantly to your challenges ahead.
level, we may opt to retain an equity stake Company in the case of Kathleen in some businesses to retain exposure to ODonovan, over twelve often challenging Outlook an eventual market rebound.
Secondly, the years as Finance Director of BTR, then At this moment, it remains difficult to sale of multiple businesses is complex and Invensys.
I thank them, as I do the predict the timing of a recovery in our involves numerous decisions regarding the continuing directors, and I wish them well.
The focus for the coming year will retention or inclusion of various liabilities remain the achievement of further progress on sale.
Adrian Hennah was recruited in October, in Invensys own productivity, in order to and became Chief Financial Officer on mitigate any factors outside our control.
Martin Jay and Jean-Claude The Production Management team last year We have made sound progress this year Guez joined the Board as non-executive delivered a margin improvement of over on our commitment to broaden social directors in January 2003, and Andrew two percentage points, excluding Baan, and responsibility and sustainability based on Macfarlane in March 2003.
Each of them expects to deliver further improvement in our statement of guiding principles, the will bring their different expertise and the coming year, whether or not trading Invensys Intent.
We participated in Business experience to the benefit of the Group.
At the same in the Communitys 1st Corporate time, the Group has a major disposal Responsibility Index and were pleased to be Sir Philip Beck, who has been a valued programme underway and a detailed placed towards the top of the third quintile colleague on the Board at Siebe and then process to actively manage the reduction of companies who took part.
We have also Invensys, will retire at this years AGM.
taken a number of further steps to Philip for his contribution over twelve years.
implement the principles of the United Nations Global Compact.
A full report on This year also marks the end of my fiveour progress in this area is contained in the year tenure.
As I look back on my time as Sustainable development section.
Chairman, initially of Siebe, then Invensys, I would not want the decline in our Customers and suppliers performance to overshadow totally the The performance initiatives focusing on positive achievements of management and Lord Marshall of Knightsbridge, Chairman Customer Development and Lean Supply employees of the Group during that period.
28 May 2003 Chain have produced real improvements When we created Invensys through the for many of our customers and suppliers.
merger of Siebe and BTR in 1999, it was We appreciate their support in the past and against a backdrop of almost a decade of give them our commitment to maintain and sustained world economic growth, and build our relationships as we go forward.
considerable optimism for it to continue.
03 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Chief Executives review 15 April announcement Performance Assessment of progress Rationale to 15 April announcement Future Invensys Summary Chief Executives review 15 April announcement This was the background to our Tougher trading conditions than announcement on 15 April, that we we anticipated were compounded had made the decision to move from two core divisions to focus our efforts by continuing weak financial markets.
on the Production Management and Rail Further actions had to be taken for Systems businesses.
the good of Invensys and its investors.
All other businesses were moved into an enlarged Development Division and the process begun at once to divest all or part It has been a demanding and of our interest in these businesses.
In addition to Baan, the businesses In February 2002, we outlined plans to impacted are the largely product-based simplify our Groups structure by creating Appliance Controls, Climate Controls, two core divisions, Production Management Metering Systems and Powerware from the and Energy Management, secure its financial Energy Management Division, APV Baker position and rebuild underlying performance.
from Production Management and Lambda, It was a difficult task, but one to which our Teccor and Hansen Transmissions.
For the Rick Haythornthwaite, Chief Executive management was committed and in which year ended 31 March 2003, the expanded we achieved real progress.
Development Division would have had combined revenues of 2.6 billion.
IMServ In the end, this has not been enough.
and certain data management technologies Tougher trading conditions than we that were formerly within Energy anticipated were compounded by continuing Management have been incorporated into weak financial markets.
our disposal programme ahead of target, and achieving significant performance Successful completion of the disposal improvements, it became clear that we programme over the next 18 to 24 months could not afford to develop both core should result in a smaller, more agile and divisions and reduce our liabilities to an focused Group, with higher growth potential acceptable level.
Further actions had to and above all greater financial stability.
be taken for the good of Invensys and its investors.
Performance In the year to 31 March 2003, sales of the continuing operations, Production Focusing our efforts on Production Management, Energy Management and Management and Rail Systems Development divisions, were down 8% to 4,258 million or 4% at constant exchange All other businesses to be divested in rates.
Operating profit was down 20% a structured and phased process to 250 million, which meant that the operating margin for the continuing operations fell almost one percentage point to 5.9%.
04 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Chief Executives review 15 April announcement Performance Assessment of progress Rationale to 15 April announcement Future Invensys Summary The Development Division improved profits These plans have been only partially Rationale to 15 April by 10 million, driven by Rail Systems, successful.
Most of our businesses have announcement where margins remained at 12.6%.
Energy shown measurable productivity gains, but The decision announced on 15 April may Management Divisions margins, however, our failure to turn around a minority of appear radical, but it was driven by a simple fell almost two percentage points.
under-performing businesses as quickly as truth: we did not have the financial we anticipated has given away those gains, resources to resolve the Groups liabilities At Production Management, excluding Baan, and impacted on our final figures.
and to continue to invest in both the margins rose more than two percentage Production Management and Energy points.
An apparent weaker second half For our plans to be successful, we also Management divisions at the same time.
performance reflected adjustments on needed to generate sufficient cash flow So we have narrowed the focus of Invensys a small number of problem contracts within to deal with mainly pre-existing financial down to Production Management and a particular business.
Excluding the impact obligations such as tax, legal settlements Rail Systems.
of these adjustments, second half margins and above all, debt.
We chose Production Management for The one liability that we could not have several key reasons.
The management team, Restructuring charges were lower than last foreseen in late 2001 was the dramatic led by Chief Operating Officer Leo Quinn, year at 2.4% of sales, but slightly above our decline in the financial markets and the has been in place longer and has made target of 2%.
Free cash flow before resulting impact on our pension funding significant progress in gross margin dividends was 87 million: not what we had obligations, where we calculate that the improvement, controlling costs, maximising hoped for but a partial recovery from the total deficit on an FRS 17 basis was cash flow and translating operational working capital outflow in the first half.
931 million at 31 March 2003. improvements into bottom line success.
We believe that, as a more service and Overall, we reduced our net debt from All of this left us no room for slippage in solutions-based business, the underlying 3.0 billion to 1.6 billion through our either performance improvement or market growth prospects and return on capital successful divestment programme.
recovery and certainly no headroom to for Production Management are higher.
It has always been clear that we had We announced in our update on 15 April to strengthen our balance sheet and at no It is also the business that addresses more that, in the circumstances, the Board would time have I felt it reasonable or feasible to critical issues for our customers, and a not be recommending payment of a final do so other than by selling businesses.
This business in which we have stronger overall dividend.
meant that further choices had to be made.
Invensys technology is Assessment of progress These are certainly not the headline Future Invensys numbers that we had hoped for when we Production Management Rail Systems New Development announced our plans in February 2002.
These plans looked to remove the complexities and historic issues inherent within the merger of two conglomerates: Process Systems Westinghouse Climate Controls meet our customers needs for solutions to productivity and energy problems: reduce APV Safetran Powerware debt by selling non-core businesses: and reposition the business for the eventual Eurotherm Dimetronic Appliance Controls upturn in our markets.
M & I Burco Metering Systems Wonderware Lambda ArchestrA Baan IMServ APV Baker Hansen Transmissions Teccor 05 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Chief Executives review 15 April announcement Performance Assessment of progress Rationale to 15 April announcement Future Invensys Summary currently installed at over 50,000 customer sites worldwide.
These factors, combined with the launch of innovative technologies 2 such as ArchestrA, Foxboro A and Digital Signalling faster and safer Coriolis, provide exciting long-term journeys on London Underground growth prospects.
When Bombardier Transportation, The drive towards integration and growth part of the Metronet consortium working amongst the Production Management for the London Underground, was looking for businesses will continue and, we anticipate, a supplier to design, supply, install, test and commission will accelerate as we manage down the new signalling and train control equipment on two key financial constraints to our growth.
projects, it selected Westinghouse Rail Systems, part of Invensys Rail Systems business.
The contract is worth over Rail Systems, which has enjoyed strong 850 million and will run from 2003 to 2014.
This is the growth over the last year, has extremely largest mass transit, signalling and train control contract good prospects.
We believe Rail Systems ever awarded in Invensys history: a represents an exciting opportunity for contract that will enable the operators Invensys investors.
to manage the system more efficiently and more safely, improving journey times We have already begun the work to reduce for passengers and ensuring a much or divest our holdings in all other businesses.
Proceeds from this programme will be used to deal with our financial obligations, most notably debt and pension funding, enabling us to remove the constraints of financial instability and invest in the growth Currently in the market there is a range of investors with the need for funds to grow opportunities of Production Management estimates for net proceeds from the sale of our retained businesses and meet our and Rail Systems.
these businesses of up to 1.8 billion.
Given financial obligations over the next two years.
our track record, we are comfortable that Future Invensys we can substantially exceed this.
We are not, So will a smaller, more focused Invensys Our plans for the next two years prompt however, placing a precise target value on offer investors higher quality growth a number of questions: how will we this programme.
This is because, if we find prospects?
maximise value from the expanded that we are able to manage total liabilities Development Division?
Will this value be down from their current level, we may opt Rail Systems is an attractive business in sufficient to restore the balance sheet?
to keep some equity in businesses where we a high growth sector with strong market Will Invensys eventually offer investors feel there is still value to be achieved through positions in the UK, Spain, Portugal, the higher quality growth prospects?
the continued growth of the business or an US and Asia.
Operating margins were eventual market rebound.
Furthermore, maintained over the last year and it has Our last disposal programme yielded setting a publicly declared target for such recently been awarded a 850 million proceeds totalling 1.8 billion, above target, a complicated process may potentially contract under the London Underground and was completed early.
We will follow the constrain us and limit our options.
same formula for our new disposal programme, securing strong, independent, There is also the issue of timing.
Our entrepreneurial leaders: incentivising financial obligations do not crystallise management to maintain performance and immediately, so the pace of the disposal maximise sale proceeds: and sufficient programme can be timed to achieve financing to ensure flexibility and maximum value.
We have the flexibility to manoeuvrability on timing and process.
balance our desire to get the right value for 06 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Chief Executives review 15 April announcement Performance Assessment of progress Rationale to 15 April announcement Future Invensys Summary Production Management has a strong The third challenge rests in the successful maintain a steady focus on the need to competitive position with a large customer creation of an integrated, efficient business.
build on the progress already achieved base and, excluding Baan, showed clear First we need to get the structure right.
and to continue to increase the operating margin improvement in 2003.
There have We need high-calibre people with the skills performance and financial stability also been concrete achievements in the and experience to profitably marry customer of Invensys.
development of our customer relationships needs with Invensys capabilities.
At an over the last twelve months.
We are learning underlying level it is also about adequate to deploy the combination of a deep investment to ensure flawless execution with understanding of customers industries with one face to the customer.
our unique spread of technologies in order to regain market share.
Summary The issues facing Invensys are clear and We have strengthened our technology substantial.
There is no escaping the difficult Rick Haythornthwaite, Chief Executive offering over the last 18 months, filling gaps task that lies ahead.
However, the problems with interfaces like Hart and Foundation have been recognised, and decisive action Fieldbus.
We have taken technology already taken.
Behind the headlines is a group 2 in our portfolio and created Foxboro A where solid performance improvements to increase our reach at the smaller end have been achieved, and where the of the distributed control systems spectrum.
execution of a major disposal programme We have also launched ArchestrA and Digital has already begun.
The key thing is to Coriolis, which is opening a new market to us.
Internally, we have appointed a Chief Technology Officer and are now following a single Invensys technology roadmap.
The biggest challenge is of course to predict Record production for the return of market growth: but in the Aracruz Celulose meantime, there is no shortage of With a relationship with Aracruz Celulose opportunity from technical innovation, the that can be traced back nearly 30 years, Invensys development of new productivity solutions continues to deliver sophisticated control systems that for customers, and the ongoing enable its client to get the most out of its pulp production improvement in customer satisfaction.
Its latest success involves a third pulp production unit, Fiberline C, at its mill in Brazil that has The second challenge lies in continuing set a new world record for the speed taken to achieve full the performance improvements to increase production capacity.
Within six months of commissioning, margins, cash flow and return on capital.
the plant achieved daily average production of 1,984 tons, We remain committed to building on the higher than the 1,978 average that had been targeted.
progress already made in areas of supply Aracruz cited the achievement as being down to chain, project and contract management, the intelligence, competence, engineering and manufacturing excellence, commitment, motivation and the technology innovation and knowledge engagement of all those involved management.
We will balance this objective in the process, and by choosing with the need to invest in order to drive the the best technology providers to future growth of this business.
Our objective be the suppliers.
of improving the conversion of profit into free cash flow also remains a key target.
07 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Management discussion & analysis Operating results Production Management Energy Management Development Division aggressive management actions to control Management discussion & analysis contracts, project management and supply This statement combines reviews of the chain costs.
operational and financial performance of While costs were tightly controlled, the Invensys for the year to 31 March 2003.
Division continued to invest in new technologies.
ArchestrA, the future platform for all Invensys technology, was launched Operating results These results include a 203 million negative commercially and customer feedback has 2 Invensys operating results include currency translation impact on continuing been positive.
Foxboro A, an ArchestrAthe performance of continuing and operations sales and 11 million on based, smaller scale complement to the discontinued operations.
Continuing operating profit due to substantial movement I A series, and Digital Coriolis, our awardoperations encompass the three main in US dollar to sterling exchange rates over winning flow meter and transmitter, were divisions in existence during the year ended the year.
also successfully introduced to the market.
31 March 2003: Production Management, Energy Management and Development.
Production Management Process Systems manufactures process Discontinued operations are those Production Management sales were automation systems, advanced process businesses that were sold during the year 1,449 million 2002 1,584 million.
control solutions, safety and critical control including Rexnord, Flow Control, Sensor Sales were 9% lower than the prior year technologies and software focusing on the Systems, Fasco Motors and Drive Systems.
Sales in Europe were significantly management and control of information affected by the decline in the software flow, in addition to providing project Sales from continuing operations were market served by Baan.
Sales in North management and services to the process 4,258 million 2002 4,623 million down America were 5% lower CER, reflecting the automation industry.
8% in absolute terms and reflecting a continued lower spending by organisations decline of 4% at constant exchange rates served by the industrial automation Process Systems achieved a significant CER.
Total Group sales for the year were businesses, while South America, Asia increase in operating profit from 8 million 5,018 million 2002 6,972 million reflecting Pacific and the Middle East and Africa all to 21 million, despite a slight decline in the disposal of businesses during the year.
Operating profit was 28 million sales to 713 million 2002 768 million.
2002 33 million and operating margin was Increases in plant intelligence software sales, Operating profit for continuing operations 1.9% 2002 2.1%.
Sales for the year excluding including growth associated with Triconex, was 250 million 2002 312 million in line Baan were 6% lower at 1,261 million were offset by lower process systems sales with our trading update in April.
in Europe, Middle East and Asia.
Operating Group operating profit was 330 million margin increased from 1.0% to 2.9%, after overall 2002 549 million.
Total Group Excluding Baan, Production Management including significant investments in operating margin was 6.6% 2002 7.9%, achieved strong underlying improvements technologies including ArchestrA, through while operating margin for continuing with a rise in operating profits from improved portfolio management and operations was 5.9% 2002 6.7%, primarily 28 million to 53 million and in operating project execution and the positive impact due to the under-performance in a minority margin from 2.1% to 4.2%.
This underlying of performance initiatives.
performance improvement was the result of APV provides process equipment, project management and services to food, beverage Sales from continuing operations and pharmaceutical producers in North down 8% to 4,258 million America and Europe, Middle East and Asia.
Operating profit for continuing APV saw sales reduced from 303 million operations of 250 million last year to 291 million.
Lower sales in certain markets were more than offset by Continuing operations operating operational improvements and a closer margin 5.9% integration between the Products, Solutions & Services businesses, contributing to an Production Management operating operating profit of 11 million compared to margins, excluding Baan, increased a 1 million loss last year.
08 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Management discussion & analysis Operating results Production Management Energy Management Development Division Eurotherm manufactures control and Energy Management operating profit measurement instrumentation for a wide down 28% to 170 million range of industrial and process markets.
Energy Management operating margin Eurotherm successfully maintained operating down to 8.3% profits at 17 million 2002 20 million as sales dipped from 127 million to 119 million in difficult trading conditions Energy Management and wind turbine markets, which more than impacted by overcapacity in the Sales were 12% lower than the prior offset continued weakness in IT hardware semiconductor, steel and plastic processing year 7% CER at 2,054 million 2002 and semiconductor devices.
Operating margin fell to 2,341 million as the continued weaknesses for the Division was 52 million, with an 14.3% 2002 15.7%.
in IT Telecoms affected Powerware and a operating margin of 6.9%.
sharp decline in the commercial buildings Baan is a provider of enterprise application markets impacted sales in Climate Controls.
Sales in Rail Systems were up 15% to software and related services.
Actions have been taken to reduce costs 404 million 2002 350 million for the and stabilise profits, including closing down year with growth in the UK, Spain and the Sales for Baan reduced to 188 million loss-making operations.
Operating profit increased 16% to 2002 242 million.
Significant cost and and Metering Systems, the other key 51 million 2002 44 million, with an headcount reductions were not able to businesses in the Division, performed well operating margin of 12.6%.
Its combination offset a decline in high margin licence sales, in flat markets.
of proven technology and engineering resulting in an operating loss of 25 million, expertise resulted in the Westinghouse compared with an operating profit of Operating profit for the year was down business winning a contract worth over 5 million last year.
from 237 million in the prior year to 850 million to improve signalling, safety 170 million, with an operating margin and train operation on the London Baans performance had a significant of 8.3%.
A decline in operating profit at Underground.
Other notable current impact on the performance of Production Climate Controls was the key factor in the projects are the UK West Coast Route Management as a whole, reducing operating Divisions performance.
While businesses modernisation, the Channel Tunnel Rail Link margin from 4.2% to 1.9%.
targeting the US and European consumer and a US$50 million 32 million per markets, such as MapleChase, performed annum maintenance logistics contract with APV Baker is a leading manufacturer of steadily, Building Systems, Ranco Japan and Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad in process equipment specifically for the dry Energy Services reported significant declines North America.
in operating profit driven by depressed end markets.
Appliance Controls and Metering Although demand for its products remained APV Baker maintained sales at 78 million Systems continued to deliver double digit strong, Hansen Transmissions continued to 2002 77 million with contract wins in operating margins and Powerware showed be impacted by undercapacity.
The the US bakery industry.
Operating profit overall improvement in both margin and construction and commissioning of its new remained at 2 million and operating operating profit.
factory in Lommel, Belgium is progressing margin at 2.6%.
on schedule and will alleviate this situation.
Development Division M&I manufactures measurement tools The Division continued to perform Strong cost management in difficult markets and instrumentation primarily for the strongly with sales for the year up 8% on allowed Teccor and Lambda to control cash process industries.
prior year 11% CER at 755 million 2002 flows and minimise losses.
698 million, driven by growth in the rail M&I experienced a steady decline in markets resulting in a decline in sales to Development Division operating 60 million 2002 67 million.
Despite margin up to 6.9% this, the positive impact of prior year restructuring and cost containment Rail Systems operating profit programmes resulted in an operating profit up to 51 million of 2 million compared to an operating loss of 1 million the previous year.
Rail Systems operating margin remains at 12.6% 09 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Sustainable development Governance structure and management systems Environment Health and safety Our employees Community relations Index.
For the first time, this Index offers Sustainable development companies a means of benchmarking their We are committed to delivering long-term social responsibility performance against others in their sector.
growth for our investors in a manner compatible with the interests of our Governance structure and management systems employees, customers, business partners, The Board is responsible for the Groups governments and local communities.
overall environmental, health and safety and social policies and procedures and holds the Chief Executive accountable for Invensys is committed to acting in a socially During the year, we have reviewed the their implementation.
The risks associated responsible manner.
In last years report, options for future reporting on our with these areas are identified, considered we said we were developing a set of guiding environmental and social performance and and managed through the Audit Committee principles, the Invensys Intent, on those impacts.
We believe it is important to have and Risk Committee, which report regularly issues that affect all our stakeholders.
an objective framework, against which we to the Board.
Our purpose this year has been to create a and others can measure our progress.
Based greater understanding of, and a higher level on emerging best practice in this field, we In the environment, health and safety of engagement with, these issues have decided to work towards compliance EH&S arena, a new EH&S Council has throughout the Group, as the foundation for with the requirements of the Global been established to provide leadership our business, financial and social relations.
While the Groups and direction to the Groups programme.
risk profile will change over the next The newly-appointed Vice President, Significant advances have been made 18 to 24 months, as we divest the Environment, Health & Safety is responsible over the last twelve months in fulfilling the businesses in the expanded Development for implementing this programme, for commitments embodied in the Invensys Division, the GRI will provide a consistent establishing best practice standards and Intent, despite the difficult trading reporting framework for our environmental for the monitoring and reporting of conditions and turnaround pressure: and social performance and a roadmap performance.
Invensys has well-developed advances in governance structure and for improvement.
environmental management and reporting management systems: improvements systems, which are described in the new in environmental, health and safety: delivery As a measure of our progress, we were EH&S area on our website launched during of new resource productivity solutions to pleased to be placed in the third quintile of the year.
For further details please visit customers: and specific initiatives to take companies participating in the 1st Business www.
html forward our dialogue with key stakeholders.
in the Community Corporate Responsibility In this Sustainable development section, we report on these advances against each of Corporate Responsibility Index the commitments in the Invensys Intent.
This year, we made a detailed Although we have now decided to narrow submission to Business in the our focus to our Production Management Communitys 1st Corporate and Rail Systems businesses, our Responsibility Index.
The results of the commitment to sustainable development is Index, published in March 2003, placed unaltered.
In current trading conditions, it Invensys towards the top of the third would be tempting to give these issues quintile of 122 participating companies.
We think this would be The Index is a valuable benchmark of short-sighted and we have made selective the Groups achievements to date, as investments in health and safety and well as an indicator of areas for further training and development and will continue focus in the coming year.
10 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Sustainable development Governance structure and management systems Environment Health and safety Our employees Community relations Environment We aim to make the optimal use During the year, we have continued to work of natural resources and minimise hard to minimise any detrimental impact environmental impact, through both from our operations on the environment or the solutions we provide to our public health.
Detailed performance data for customers and the management 2002 03 is currently being collected and of our own facilities.
verified and will be published on the EH&S page of invensys.
In China, a fine of RMB153,600 11,743 By adopting a uniform approach worldwide, For three years now, we have benchmarked resulted from noise levels at the boundary a strong signal is being sent that EH&S is just our performance using the annual Business of the site exceeding those set for a as important as our other financial and in the Environment BiE Index of Corporate residential area.
An acceptable solution has operational key performance initiatives and Environmental Engagement.
In this years been found and will shortly be completed.
This best in class reporting system seventh Index, we again improved our will help us create a safer workplace by overall score from 90% to 93%.
We have made good progress towards our targeting specific reductions in the number commitment to achieve Industria Limpia of accidents and days lost on the basis of We have also continued to work closely with certification at all our Mexican facilities by better information.
our customers, to help them minimise the 2005.
Five sites in Mexico have started the use of materials and natural resources and process and one has already completed all There were two employee fatalities during reduce their production of waste and the actions identified during the audit phase the year.
The first involved a truck driver harmful emissions.
Enabling customers to and is awaiting its certificate.
One site in in Canada, killed whilst unloading railway achieve more output with fewer resources Brazil has also decided to follow the same sleepers: the second was a supervisor in the remains central to our offering.
process and in February received an award US, killed in a car accident whilst returning for their progress so far from a representative from a customers site.
Both deaths are There were two instances of environmental of the Mexican Federal Enforcement Agency deeply regrettable, and we continue to non-compliance during the year.
In Long for the Environment PROFEPA.
review our health and safety procedures.
Beach, California, an inspection by the local Air Quality Management authority found Health and safety In the US, the Occupational Safety and degreasers utilising percholorethylene to As part of our commitment to excellence in Health Authority OSHA carried out four be non-compliant, resulting in a fine of health and safety, a new Incident Reporting inspections, two of which resulted in fines US$2,500 1,582.
An alternative cleaning System is now in operation.
In simple terms, of US$1,120 709 and US$750 475. process that does not use percholorethylene the system uses an intranet based system Elsewhere, no reports have been received was found and production resumed.
to enable employees to report all incidents of any fines or other action from breaches near misses as well as injuries in a of health and safety regulations.
The objective is to achieve a major shift in our health and safety culture, encouraging openness in reporting unsafe conditions, promoting a thorough investigation, and tracking resulting actions through to completion.
We regard the health and safety of our employees in the workplace and the protection of all visitors to our facilities as vital and we allow no compromise on safety standards.
11 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Sustainable development Governance structure and management systems Environment Health and safety Our employees Community relations Our employees Group-wide employee survey We stated last year that our strategy depends on building a strong customerThe first ever Group-wide employee focused culture and on developing the skills survey, Invensys Direct, achieved a of our people.
Considerable progress has response rate of approaching 70%, been made on both counts during the an excellent result, which confirmed employees desire to give their views on how past year.
The survey covered areas such as how employees felt about working for Invensys, whether they understood the company strategy, and whether In January 2003, we conducted our first they felt they were being properly rewarded for their work.
The survey underlined Group-wide employee survey, which the Groups commitment to dialogue with employees, made in the Invensys Intent, prompted nearly 32,000 replies a response and has established a baseline of employee attitudes from which we will develop rate of approaching 70%.
Overall programmes to address the problems identified.
satisfaction, based on answers to all questions, was 69%, with Environmental and Social Responsibility 80% and Job We ensure that employees are recruited Satisfaction 76% attracting the highest and assessed on the basis of their skills scores.
Less encouraging were the results for and suitability for the work performed.
Training and Career Development 62% and No employee receives less favourable Pay, Benefits and Working Conditions 58%.
treatment on grounds of colour, religion, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, One of the most significant developments during the year was the rationalisation of disability, age or sexual orientation.
our disparate, fragmented training and development programme under the auspices of the Invensys University.
The The INVEST performance improvement We made further enhancements to our ultimate aim of the University is to offer a programme provided a focus for employee Group-wide employee communications full range of training tools, from instructorengagement during the year, with a range of programme, including the creation of a led training sessions to e-learning courses, training courses, ideas generation workshops Site Communicators Network to ensure giving our employees the opportunity to and other communications tools employees at our 400 sites are kept fully expand their skills, whatever their role in the encouraging and supporting employees to informed about the Groups progress.
Initially there are four colleges play their part in our drive for Group-wide Research among employees has shown, covering Sales, Leadership, Lean Supply productivity improvements.
in particular, that there is a great desire Chain Management and Change for more information about progress and Management, and the first 200 students One in three of our employees has been development at a local site level.
Further colleges, including involved in either an INVEST project or an a network of Communications Co-ordinators Project Management and EH&S, are being INVEST ideas generation workshop so far at all sites, we aim to ensure that the planned.
To be a successful Group, it is vital and we plan to increase this level of differing information needs of our that we share knowledge and ensure that participation as INVEST continues to be a employees in different locations are met.
everyone has the necessary skills to grow key part of our Group performance This network has also been a valuable and deliver high performance.
feedback mechanism, enabling us to gauge employee response to and concerns We continue to give strong support to the resulting from major Group announcements.
Invensys European Employees Forum, which is now in its fourth year.
It remains an important channel for debating major issues that affect the well-being of our European employees.
12 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Sustainable development Governance structure and management systems Environment Health and safety Our employees Community relations In 2001 Invensys signed up to the United As a global Group, we are committed Nations Global Compact.
To collect data that to universal principles of human rights, is relevant to implementation of Principles respect local laws and customs wherever 3,5, 6,7 and 8, our annual environmental we operate and expect our employees questionnaire was extended to include to operate on this basis.
questions on health and safety and social responsibility.
This has helped to raise awareness of the issues at site level as well the answers to the questionnaire as well as Community relations as providing valuable information at the overall management of human rights We made donations of 1.0 million to a the centre as a means of identifying and labour issues, as embraced in Principles range of charitable causes during the year, potential issues.
As well as identifying some specific the majority being made by our operating items to be addressed at each site, the results businesses to support their local Additionally, a high level risk assessment was of the audits have been used to modify the communities.
undertaken by independent consultants to questionnaire to provide improved data.
identify specific countries and critical social In addition to the donations we make as a responsibility issues so as to prioritise areas As an example of our response to Principles Group, we actively encourage and support for further attention.
As a result, audits were 7 and 8, a case study was submitted to the employees to become involved in charitable commissioned by independent experts of UN Global Compact in October 2002 and is activities.
For example, in August 2002, a two sites in China and one each in India and published on their website: group of 20 Safetran employees entered a Mexico.
These focused on the accuracy of www.
org charity fund-raiser benefiting the Special Olympics.
The objective was to pull a 100 ton UPS Boeing 757 a distance of Mexicali environmental workbook twelve feet.
The Safetran Team finished in To spread environmental awareness and engender a sense first place for the second consecutive year, of responsibility among local children, Invensys Climate covering the distance in 6.51 seconds.
The Controls Mexicali plant in Mexico sponsored the funds raised have been used to support production and distribution of an environmental sports training and competition for athletes workbook which employees then used in local primary in Kentucky with mental disabilities.
The workbook helps educate children in different In November 2002, two Climate Control aspects of environmental concern, such as water pollution employees from Plymouth, England trekked and recycling, and demonstrates the Groups commitment across Cuba in a fundraising event for the to engaging local communities in dialogue about subjects NCH childrens charity, which was sponsored of mutual importance.
by a major Invensys customer, Plumb Center, part of Wolseley plc, the worlds largest specialist trade distributor of plumbing and heating products.
We recognise our responsibilities towards the communities in which we work.
We support the development and well-being of these communities through charitable donations to a wide range of health, educational and social causes.
13 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Board of directors Board of directors Lord Marshall of Knightsbridge Sir Philip Beck Martin Jay Chairman Non-executive director Non-executive director Joined the Siebe plc Board in January 1998 Appointed to the Siebe plc Board in Appointed non-executive director of and appointed Chairman in June 1998.
Non-executive director of Invensys plc in January 2003.
Chairman Chairman of British Airways Plc and Delta plc.
Formerly Chairman of Railtrack of VT Group plc and prior to that Chief non-executive director of HSBC Holdings PLC, Chairman of John Mowlem and Executive for 13 years.
Formerly President of the Confederation Company PLC and non-executive director range of leadership positions at GEC and was of British Industry.
aged 69 of Kitigawa Europe Limited.
aged 68 a member of the GEC Management Board.
Member of Nominating Committee and Mr Jay will succeed Lord Marshall of Remuneration Committee.
Knightsbridge as Chairman of Invensys plc Richard Haythornthwaite at the annual general meeting in July 2003.
Chief Executive Rolf Brjesson aged 63 Joined the Invensys plc Board in July 2001 Non-executive director Member of Nominating Committee.
and appointed Chief Executive in October Appointed to the Siebe plc Board in 2001.
Non-executive director of Imperial July 1998.
Chief Executive and Managing Andrew Macfarlane Chemical Industries PLC and, until 30 June Director of Rexam PLC.
Non-executive Non-executive director 2003, Lafarge SA.
Formerly Chief Executive director of Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget Appointed non-executive director of Officer of Blue Circle Industries plc until SCA and Copenhagen Airports A S. Formerly Invensys plc in March 2003.
Group Finance the company was acquired by Lafarge SA, Chief Executive of PLM AB.
aged 60 Director of Land Securities Group plc and formerly non-executive director of Senior Independent Director.
previously Chief Financial Officer of the Cookson Group plc and held senior Chairman of Remuneration Committee and hotels division of Bass plc subsequently positions with BP and Premier Oil.
aged 46 member of Audit Committee.
Prior to this, Director of Corporate Finance of Bass plc.
aged 46 Adrian Hennah Larry Farmer Chairman of Audit Committee.
Chief Financial Officer Non-executive director Joined Invensys plc as Senior Vice President, Appointed non-executive director of Simon Robertson Finance in October 2002, appointed to the Invensys plc in March 2002.
Non-executive Non-executive director Board in October 2002 and became Chief director of Digital Steps Energy Limited and Appointed non-executive director of Financial Officer on 1 January 2003.
Formerly Chief Invensys plc in February 1999, having joined Formerly Senior Vice President, Finance and Executive of Halliburton Brown & Root the BTR plc Board in 1997.
Managing Operations with GlaxoSmithKline Plc, R&D.
aged 63 Director of Goldman Sachs International and Prior to this he was the Chief Financial Member of Audit Committee and President of Goldman Sachs Europe Ltd.
Officer for Glaxo Wellcome Inc USA.
Non-executive director of Inchcape plc and aged 45 Berry Bros. & Rudd Limited.
Former Jean-Claude Guez Chairman of Kleinwort Benson Group plc.
Non-executive director aged 62 Appointed non-executive director of Invensys plc in January 2003.
Non-executive director of Exel plc and Eurostar Group Ltd and a former management consulting partner at Accenture, where he remains as a part-time adviser to senior management.
Advisory partner with Rocket Ventures LP.
aged 59 Member of Remuneration Committee.
14 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Corporate governance Principles attend meetings of the Committee.
On occasions, the other The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate non-executive directors attend meetings of the Committee to obtain governance.
Throughout the year, Invensys has been in full a fuller briefing on significant issues and this forum is particularly compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code appended to valuable in providing a direct line of communication between the the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority the Code.
The following external auditors and the non-executive directors.
describes how the Principles set out in the Code have been applied.
The Audit Committee reviews the work undertaken by the external auditors going beyond the scope of the audit itself in order to ensure The Board that the independence of the auditors is not impaired.
This review The Board currently has ten members, comprising eight non-executive covers the nature of the work, the method of appointment and the directors, including the Chairman, and two executive directors.
This work generally falls into two categories as follows: There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, which ensures that there is a balance of power Audit and assurance: this includes work that in their role as auditor and authority.
All the non-executive directors are regarded as they are best placed to undertake.
This comprises formal reporting independent.
Mr Rolf Brjesson is the Senior Independent Director.
and other work related to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars, Biographies of all the directors are presented on page 14.
As can be various regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and seen, they have a wide range of international business and financial disposals: and experience relevant to the direction of a global company.
Taxation: the auditors are used in cases where they are best suited, Although all the directors have an equal responsibility for the such as tax provision and statutory work.
Other significant tax operations of Invensys, the role of the non-executive directors is advisory projects are put out to competitive tender.
particularly important in ensuring that the strategies proposed by In 2000, Ernst & Young disposed of its management consulting the executive management team are fully discussed and examined business and as a result the auditors do not carry out such work for to ensure that they meet the long-term interests of shareholders and the Group.
The payments made to Ernst & Young LLP are detailed in also take account of issues affecting employees, customers, suppliers note 4 on page 41 in the full annual report and accounts.
and the many communities in which Invensys conducts its business.
The Audit Committee also reviews the work undertaken by the Risk The Board meets at least eight times during the course of a year with Committee and by Group Internal Audit as described in more detail additional meetings convened as necessary: in the financial year under in the section of this report dealing with internal control.
review, the Board met on nine occasions.
It is exceptional for any director to be absent from any meeting.
There is a formal schedule The Remuneration Committees constitution and role are of matters reserved for the decision of the Board that includes all described in the Boards Remuneration report on page 18. major strategic and financial decisions: other decision-making is Communication with shareholders delegated through structured procedures to committees and senior Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority and a management.
To enable the Board to perform its duties, all directors number of means are used to promote greater understanding and have full and timely access to all relevant information.
Each director dialogue with investment audiences.
is required to retire by rotation no later than the third annual general meeting following their appointment or re-appointment.
The summary financial statement provides shareholders with the material information concerning Invensys in a form more readily The Board Committees assimilated than the full annual report and accounts.
Shareholders The Board has three standing committees: can also request the full report.
At the half year an interim report is The Nominating Committee is responsible for monitoring the published.
All of these documents are available online through the performance of directors, reviewing induction and training Invensys website www.
com, together with details of all requirements for individual directors and or the Board as a whole announcements, investor presentations and share price information.
and making recommendations to the Board for the appointment During the year, shareholders are kept informed of the progress of or re-appointment and removal of directors.
Its current members the Company through trading statements and other announcements are: Lord Marshall who chairs the Committee, Sir Philip Beck of significant developments that are released through the London and Mr Martin Jay.
Mr Robert Bauman until 24 July 2002 and Stock Exchange and other news services.
There is regular dialogue Sir Graham Hearne 14 June 2002 to 31 March 2003 also served with institutional shareholders and participation in sector conferences.
on the Committee during the year.
Shareholders can also raise questions directly with the Company at The Audit Committee is composed of three independent any time of the year through a facility on the website.
non-executive directors: Mr Andrew Macfarlane Chairman of the Additionally, there is an opportunity at the annual general meeting Committee from 1 April 2003, Mr Rolf Brjesson and Mr Larry for individual shareholders to question the Chairman and the Farmer.
Sir Graham Hearne was Chairman of the Committee from chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominating Committees.
1 ApriI 2002 until his retirement on 31 March 2003.
It meets at least The report and accounts are sent to shareholders at least 20 three times a year to review the published financial information and working days prior to the annual general meeting.
The results of the effectiveness of both external and internal audit and of the Groups all polls held at general meetings are announced to the London internal controls and risk management procedures.
auditors normally attend all the meetings and there is a meeting at least once a year between the Committee and the external auditors at which management is not present.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer regularly 15 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Corporate governance continued Internal control Operating controls Controls are detailed in formal procedures, In accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal Control, instructions and manuals and compliance is verified by the Groups the Board reports on its reviews of internal control which includes internal auditors and, to the extent necessary to form their opinion consideration of the effectiveness of identification, evaluation and on the truth and fairness of the annual accounts, by the external management of all significant risks affecting Invensys.
Senior managers are required annually to certify compliance with the Groups financial and operational procedures and controls, The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal including environmental and health and safety matters, and in relation control.
Each division is individually accountable to the Chief to compliance with the Groups legal and ethical conduct policy.
Executive and is managed by a Chief Operating Officer who, with his senior management team, provides day-to-day control over the Internal audit The scope of the internal audit function divisions operations within the strategic guidelines and delegated encompasses the examination and evaluation of the adequacy and authorities adopted by the Board.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal financial control and the quality of performance in carrying out assigned responsibilities, The internal control system is designed to meet the Groups reporting to the Audit Committee as necessary.
particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed but it should be appreciated that, however effective a system of internal control is, Audit Committee and Main Board review of Internal Control it can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against The Audit Committee reviews reports from internal and external material misstatement or loss.
In the following paragraphs the auditors, executive management and the Risk Committee to obtain directors consider the key components of the Groups system of reasonable assurance that appropriate control procedures are in internal control and the process by which they have reviewed the place and being adhered to and reports on all these matters to the effectiveness of such controls.
The Board is satisfied that the information that it has received for its annual review and throughout the year together Overall strategy on risk and control The Risk Committee with the procedural framework that is in place are sufficient to comprises the Chief Financial Officer chairman, the Chief Executive, enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of the General Counsel, the Group Financial Controller, the Group internal control in accordance with the Guidance for Directors Treasurer, the Vice President Risk Management, the Director of on Internal Control.
Internal Audit, the Vice President Litigation and the Company Secretary.
Its principal purpose is to provide further assurance to the Sustainability and social, environmental and ethical matters Audit Committee and the Board.
During the year, its activities have The Board attaches high importance to sustainable development included reviewing the Groups risk framework and its monitoring and the Invensys Intent that is the foundation of our corporate functions and assessing all major risks together with their related behaviour as described on pages 10 to 13.
The risks inherent in risk management responses and, where appropriate, corrective these matters are assessed as part of the Groups overall risk programmes.
The risk management strategy is determined and management processes described above.
Accordingly, the Board, monitored by the Board with the objective of setting clear guidelines through the Audit and Risk Committees, receives regular information in relation to the levels of retained risk acceptable to the Group.
and reports to enable it to make appropriate assessments in these Procedures for the Group-wide assessment of all business risks are areas.
Performance management, incentivisation and training subject to continuous review, monitoring and improvement.
procedures are being continuously developed so as to reflect more fully the Invensys Intent.
The processes required to achieve Risk management The internal risk management function reports appropriate assurance and verification across all aspects of these to the Chief Financial Officer and is responsible for assessing the matters continue to be developed and it is the policy of Invensys that Groups exposure to risk in areas such as product liability, for making over time its success in meeting the Invensys Intent should be appropriate policy recommendations to the Board and for monitoring increasingly measurable and transparent.
compliance with policies adopted by the Board.
Responsibility for health, safety, the environment and property rests with the Senior Vice President Human Resources and Group Services, who reports to the Chief Executive.
More details regarding this area are included on pages 10 to 13.
The legal function, which reports to the Chief Executive, also monitors and acts on specific legal issues, legal claims and litigation.
16 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Summary directors report The full directors report is set out on page 20 of the Groups Employee policy and development annual report and accounts 2003.
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is given in note 5 to the accounts on page 41 of the full annual report and Activities and review for the year accounts.
The Group seeks to ensure that fair consideration is given to The principal activities and review for the year are contained on applications for employment received from disabled persons pages 2 to 7. and to ensure continued employment, training and advancement Dividends where possible of employees who are, or become, temporarily or The directors do not recommend a final dividend 2002 1.0p.
interim dividend of 1.0p was paid on 4 March 2003 making a total The Company also recognises the need to provide information on for the year of 1.0p 2002 2.0p.
matters of concern to employees and, to satisfy that need, the Board of directors Company provides employees with published financial and economic The current directors of the company and their biographical information through its consultative procedures.
details are given on page 14.
A statement of their remuneration General information and interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out Group donations to charities and community causes world-wide in the remuneration report on pages 18 to 24.
Mr R P Bauman, were 1.0 million 2002 1.6 million with UK charities receiving Ms K A ODonovan and Sir Graham Hearne retired from the Board 0.3 million 2002 0.4 million.
No donations were made to political of directors on 24 July 2002, 31 December 2002 and 31 March 2003 parties 2002 nil.
The Group carries out research and development respectively.
In addition, Mr P Scaroni joined the Board on 1 May in support of its activities.
During the year expenditure on 2002, and subsequently resigned on 14 June 2002, following his the development of new products and processes amounted to appointment as Chief Executive of ENEL SpA in Italy.
Lord Marshall has 222 million 2002 265 million.
announced that he will retire at the Companys annual general meeting in July, to be succeeded as Chairman of the Company by Mr M Jay, Auditors when Sir Philip Beck will also retire from the Board.
Mr A N Hennah, Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in Mr J-C Guez, Mr Jay and Mr A E Macfarlane joined the Board on office as auditors and resolutions proposing their reappointment and 23 October 2002, 21 January 2003 Mr Guez and Mr Jay and 19 March to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be 2003 respectively.
All other directors served throughout the year.
proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Mr R L Brjesson Annual general meeting retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election The annual general meeting of the Company will be held at The at the annual general meeting.
In addition, Mr Guez, Mr Jay, Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, Mr Macfarlane and Mr Hennah, who were appointed during the year, London SW1P 3EE on Wednesday 23 July 2003 at 11am.
The separate retire in accordance with the Articles of Association and offer circular including the notice of meeting sent to all shareholders gives themselves for election at the annual general meeting.
full details of the meeting and the resolutions to be proposed.
Mr Hennah has a service contract, details of which are given on pages By order of the Board 19 and 20.
Mr Guez, Mr Jay and Mr Macfarlane are non-executive J R W Clayton directors and as such do not have service contracts.
Mr Jays letter of Company Secretary appointment is described on page 20.
28 May 2003 Substantial shareholders As at 28 May 2003 the Company had been notified of the following interests in its ordinary shares: Number of % of issued Name ordinary shares share capital Aviva plc 175,173,461 5.01 Brandes Investment Partners, LP 485,131,884 13.86 Legal & General Group plc 110,482,897 3.16 The Capital Group Companies, Inc 240,432,923 6.87 17 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Remuneration report This report is presented to shareholders by the Board and sets out The Chief Executives salary is currently 660,000 which was last the Boards remuneration policy and details of the remuneration increased on 1 April 2002 and the Chief Financial Officers is of each director.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee 400,000 which took effect on 1 January 2003, being the date of his is responsible for developing policy on executive remuneration and appointment as Chief Financial Officer.
No increase will be awarded for approving the remuneration packages of individual executive to either director in respect of the 2003 04 financial year and the directors.
The members of the Committee during the period under next review date will be 1 April 2004. review were Mr R L Brjesson Committee Chairman, Sir Philip Beck, In view of the restructuring of the Group explained in the Mr L E Farmer and Mr J-C Guez appointed on 21 January 2003.
Chairmans statement on page 2 of this report, the Committee They are all independent non-executive directors.
considers it appropriate to ensure that the executive directors are The Committee takes advice, as appropriate, from independent properly incentivised to undertake the restructuring in the interests remuneration consultants and internally from relevant executives of all shareholders.
Accordingly, the Committee is satisfied that the and human resources professionals.
Specifically, the Committee has arrangements explained in the following pages represent an taken advice internally from the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the appropriate balance between fixed and performance linked pay.
Senior Vice President Human Resources and Group Services Regina 2 Executive Bonus Plan Hitchery, the Vice President Compensation and Benefits John Reed The main objectives of the Executive Bonus Plan the Plan for and the Company Secretary.
Externally, following a review, the the executive directors are to encourage executives to achieve Committee has during the year appointed and taken remuneration defined annual financial objectives and focus on the most important consultancy advice from New Bridge Street Consultants.
This firm measures of business success whilst rewarding them for outstanding now provides the principal source of external advice to the performance.
In this way the Plan seeks to align the interests of Committee on issues relating to the remuneration of the executive shareholders and those participating in the Plan.
Prior to the appointment of New Bridge Street Plan, the Committee has followed the provisions set out in Schedule Consultants, the Committee received advice on such issues from A to the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Mercer HR Consulting.
The Committee has also received advice from UK Listing Authority.
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and previously from Linklaters in their capacity as lawyers to the Company on such issues and from As described in last years report, the targets for the Chief Executive Punter Southall & Co Limited which provided advice in relation to for the year ended 31 March 2003 were set to reflect profit and executive directors pensions and actuarial advice to the Company cash flow targets and a number of measurable operational targets generally.
New Bridge Street Consultants provided no other services reflecting the key areas of targeted performance improvement.
Mercer HR Consulting also acts as actuary to No bonuses were paid under the Plan to executive directors in certain of the Groups overseas pensions schemes.
respect of that year except a guaranteed bonus of 88,125 due to the Chief Financial Officer.
This was negotiated as a term of his No non-Committee member may attend other than by invitation recruitment.
He has no such guarantee in respect of 2003 04 or of the Committee Chairman.
No director is involved in deciding subsequent years.
For the forthcoming year 2003 04, the performance targets, for Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors both the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer, have been The Invensys Group operates world-wide and will be focusing its set to reflect targets related to operating profit before interest operations within the production management industry with a high and tax, with a range of supplemental measures.
The achievement proportion of executives in the US.
The markets for executives of all targets would produce a payment of 50% of annual base salary and staff within which it will operate are therefore the electronic, and the maximum bonus achievable in respect of performance in software and related industries.
It is the objective of the excess of targets is 100% of annual base salary.
remuneration policy with respect to the current year and, subject to any changes of circumstances, future years to provide a The Committee considers these targets to be fully appropriate as remuneration package which is competitive and performance-linked they provide an effective blend of measures reflecting the need whilst attracting, motivating and retaining the highest calibre both to develop the ongoing operations and to dispose of non-core executive directors and senior executives.
The Committee has activities on as favourable terms to shareholders as possible.
established a remuneration package for the executive directors after The Committee confirms that it is not its policy to pay transactiontaking proper account of the specific requirements of the business related bonuses.
including the international spread of the business, the remuneration Shareholder approval has been given for the operation of a applicable at other levels within the Group and developments in UK Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
In the current circumstances, the best practice.
The main components of the remuneration package Committee has concluded that it will not be appropriate to operate are as follows: this plan for the foreseeable future.
1 Salary 3 Long Term Incentive and Option Schemes The Committee determines the level of salary for each executive i Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP director annually.
Base salaries are set at a level to take account The Committee has decided that in future the LTIP will be operated of personal performance and salaries in comparable companies.
as the principal vehicle for long-term incentivisation for the In establishing individual levels the Committee is conscious that it executive directors.
Under the LTIP, awards may be made subject to a should pay no more than is necessary to retain the executive whilst performance condition under which the Companys Total Shareholder ensuring business objectives are fulfilled.
There is no automatic Return TSR will be ranked over a fixed three year period against adjustment in respect of inflation.
18 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 the TSR of the constituents as at the date of grant of the FTSE Typical pension and life assurance benefits are provided to the Mid 250.
The Companys TSR must rank at the median position for executive directors, comprising participation in the Companys final 25% of an award to be available subject to a retention period of, salary pension on salaries up to the Inland Revenues earnings cap generally, two years, rising to all of the shares being available if currently 99,000 with appropriate top-up arrangements.
the upper decile position is achieved.
Intermediate awards between 5 Other benefits those points are assessed on a straight-line basis.
If at least the Other benefits provided for executive directors comprise the median position is not achieved, the whole award lapses.
In addition provision of a company car or the use of a pool car and health care.
to satisfying the TSR test, awards will only vest to the extent that the Committee is satisfied that there has been sustained delivery, 6 Service contracts over the performance period, regarding the trading performance i Policy of continuing operations, disposal proceeds and reduction in The Combined Code and the latest guidelines issued by institutional Group indebtedness.
investors recommend that notice periods of no more than one year be set as an objective for executive directors and that any payments TSR was selected as an effective means of determining the to a departing executive director should be determined having full Companys performance relative to that of other companies of regard to the duty of mitigation.
It is the Companys policy to comparable size.
The Committee selected the supplemental tests achieve these objectives, wherever possible.
as being appropriate to the strategy and scale of the Company following the recently announced new strategic direction and ii Specific contracts because they would be capable of being measured by reference Mr R N Haythornthwaite and Mr A N Hennah are employed under to the progress achieved in implementing that strategy.
service contracts with the Company dated 24 July 2001 and 29 July 2002 respectively.
The TSR calculation will be periodically undertaken by New Bridge The following summary sets out certain provisions that applied Street Consultants using data supplied by Datastream and reported during the year.
Certain modifications have been made following to the Committee.
The Committee will monitor performance against the year end as explained below.
budget and other objectives set by the Board in considering whether the other tests have been met.
Both contracts terminate automatically on the executive directors 60th birthday.
The level of awards to executive directors is determined by the Committee according to the prevailing market practice and within Both contracts can be terminated by either party giving the other the overriding limit of two times salary.
not less than twelve months written notice and do not contain any pay in lieu of notice provisions.
Accordingly, if either of the executive For the forthcoming year 2003 04, each executive director will directors contracts is terminated other than for cause, any termination receive an award of shares worth one times salary.
This reflects an payment will be negotiated subject to mitigation and offset.
award in respect of broadly 50% of the value of shares awarded in previous years.
The Committee considers this to be an effective, In certain change of control circumstances, each contract could be but not excessive, award in light of the current circumstances that terminated by the director giving the Company 30 days written is likely to be sufficient to cover both the 2003 04 and 2004 05 notice provided two conditions are satisfied.
First, a change of financial years: it is not currently intended that a further award be control must occur defined to include: i the acquisition of shares made before June 2005 as the awards were structured to incentivise carrying more than 50% of voting rights of the Company: ii the the executive directors through the principal phase of restructuring.
approval by shareholders of a merger or consolidation of the Company: iii a compromise or scheme of arrangement between ii Executive Share Option Scheme the Company and its members under section 425 of the Companies The Company does not propose to operate the Executive Share Act 1985 or a resolution for the voluntary winding up of the Option Scheme in relation to executive directors except by Company: or iv the sale or disposition of 50% or more of the exception, in the case of recruitment situations, where it may be Companys assets.
Secondly, the directors title, responsibilities, considered appropriate.
status or place of work must be materially and adversely changed or diminished without the directors prior consent.
iii Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS The Company has an established SRSOS that operates in the UK, Where a director terminates his service contract by giving 30 days together with a related SRSOS that operates in approximately written notice under the provisions set out above, the Company is 20 overseas countries.
It is based on a three, five or seven year required to pay him an amount in cash equal to: i one years annual UK only savings plan and offered to eligible full and part-time base salary: plus ii the amount if any of his expected award employees.
Options may be granted at up to a 20% discount to the calculated at the target bonus level under the Executive Bonus Plan market price of the Companys shares immediately preceding the for the preceding fiscal year if such award has not already been paid: date of invitation.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in plus iii a pro rata share calculated at the target bonus level the SRSOS.
whether or not performance is at target level at the termination date of his expected award under the Executive Bonus Plan 4 Pensions calculated in respect of the period from the beginning of the fiscal Details of the individual executive directors pension arrangements year in which his employment terminates to the date his employment are set out on page 24.
Pensionable pay is defined as base salary terminates: plus iv in the case of Mr Hennah only, the amount, if only: bonuses are not pensionable.
any, of the supplementary cash payments, as described in the next paragraph, that remain to be paid to him.
This payment is not subject 19 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Remuneration report continued to any discount or reduction for early payment and the director Fees for non-executive directors other than the Chairman are is not under any duty to mitigate his losses in connection with determined by a committee of the Board comprising the Chairman this payment.
In addition, the Company will continue to provide and the executive directors.
The Chairmans fees are set by a the director with pension and certain other benefits for up to Committee comprising the Senior Independent Director, as chairman twelve months.
of the Committee, two other non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
The fees currently paid to the Chairman and the other In addition, Mr Hennah is entitled to receive a payment of 250,000 non-executive directors, which are subject to the limits set in the on each of 5 April 2004 and 5 October 2005 provided he remains Articles of Association, were set in 1999 and have not been employed on those dates.
This was agreed as a term of his joining increased since that date.
The Chairmans fees are set at 250,000 the Company reflecting the then value of entitlements from his per annum.
The basic fees for a non-executive director have been previous employer that he lost as a result of his decision to join fixed at 28,000 per annum.
An additional fee of 5,000 is payable the Company.
to the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and all Reflecting the developing views of institutional shareholders members of the Boards standing committees receive a fee of 750 regarding termination provisions, Mr Haythornthwaite has requested for each meeting attended.
The fees of each non-executive director and the Committee has agreed that his contract be amended so that for the year are set out in the table on page 21. it may be terminated by either party giving one months notice and External directorships with no provision for liquidated damages in any circumstances.
The executive directors are encouraged to hold non-executive Mr Hennah has agreed that he will not give notice with respect to directorships in other companies in order to broaden their any change of control as defined arising by virtue of the disposal experience for the benefit of the Company.
Such appointments are and restructuring programme at least until the Committee shall have subject to approval by the Board and the director may retain any agreed that such programme is substantially complete.
fees paid in respect of such directorships.
As explained on page 21, Ms K A ODonovan retired from the Performance graph Company on 31 December 2002 and received no compensation in Companies are required to include a graph indicating their total relation to her retirement.
Prior to that date she had served under shareholder return performance ie share price growth assuming a service contract dated 30 June 1999 that, except in the case of reinvestment of any dividends over the last five years relative to dismissal for cause, required twelve months notice by either a recognised equity index.
Accordingly, the following graph shows party.
On early termination at the request of the Company, any the Companys performance relative to the FTSE 100, of which compensation would have been subject to mitigation and offset.
the Company has been a constituent during substantially all of Non-executive directors that period.
The Chairman and other non-executive directors do not have service contracts or contracts for services save that Mr M Jays letter of Total Shareholder Return appointment dated 28 May 2003 requires, except in the case of dismissal for cause, twelve months notice by either party: on early termination at the request of the Company any compensation will be subject to mitigation and offset.
They are appointed under the Companys Articles of Association under which they are required to seek re-election not later than the third annual general meeting following their last election and are subject to review by the Nominating Committee prior to being considered for election or re-election by shareholders.
They do not participate in any bonus plan or any of the Groups share incentive or option or pension schemes.
Any director aged 70 or over there are none currently is required to be re-elected each year.
20 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Directors remuneration The remuneration of the executive directors for the year ended 31 March 2003 was as follows: Supplementary pension Total Total Note Salary Benefits payment Bonuses 2003 2002 Current directors R N Haythornthwaite 1,2 660,000 24,861 105,600 790,461 645,276 A N Hennah 3 162,303 23,533 88,125 273,961 Former directors K A ODonovan 4 354,808 30,959 385,767 455,761 A M Yurko 727,987 1,450,189 1,829,024 Notes 1.
The 2002 remuneration for R N Haythornthwaite relates to the seven month period 1 September 2001 to 31 March 2002.
R N Haythornthwaite received a cash supplementary pension payment of 105,600 in lieu of certain benefits being based on final salary as set out in note 1 following the table headed Directors pensions entitlements on page 24.
A N Hennah was appointed to the Board of Directors on 23 October 2002 and the emoluments disclosed relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2003.
K A ODonovan retired from the Board of Directors on 31 December 2002 and received no compensation in relation to her retirement.
The emoluments disclosed relate to the period to 31 December 2002, save that the benefits of 30,959 include an amount of 3,696 being the value attributable to her being allowed to retain the use of her company car until 31 March 2003.
In recognition of her service and her remaining with the Company to ensure an efficient transition to her successor, A N Hennah, the Committee determined that her outstanding options should remain exercisable for a period following her cessation as detailed in the Share schemes table on page 22, in accordance with the rules of the various option schemes.
She has subsequently been appointed as the Chairman of the Board of the Companys pension company which is independent to the Company, the annual fees for which are 50,000 which will be paid directly by the pension fund.
The emoluments of the highest paid director, R N Haythornthwaite, excluding pension rights were 790,461 2002 727,987 paid to A M Yurko for the period 1 April 2001 to 31 January 2002.
J-C Guez and M Jay were appointed to the Board of Directors on 21 January 2003 and their fees relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2003.
A E Macfarlane was appointed to the Board of Directors on 19 March 2003 and his fees relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2003.
Lord Marshall also received benefits of 32,828 2002 nil in respect of the provision of a car.
His transport arrangements are shared by both the Company and British Airways Plc.
Last year the relevant vehicle was leased by British Airways Plc and the benefit was disclosed in the accounts of that Company.
R P Bauman retired from the Board of Directors on 24 July 2002 and his fees relate to the period from 1 April 2002 to this date.
Sir Graham Hearne retired from the Board of Directors on 31 March 2003.
P Scaroni was appointed to the Board of Directors on 1 May 2002 and subsequently resigned on 14 June 2002 following his appointment as Chief Executive of ENEL SpA in Italy.
His fees relate to this period.
21 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Remuneration report continued Directors interests Ordinary shares The interests of the current directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below: At 1 April 2002 At 31 March 2003 or at date of appointment if later Sir Philip Beck 56,152 48,196 R L Brjesson 117,672 15,000 L E Farmer 2,000 J-C Guez R N Haythornthwaite 250,000 200,000 A N Hennah M Jay A E Macfarlane 7,500 7,500 Lord Marshall 78,518 23,323 S M Robertson 2,165 2,165 Notes 1.
The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2003 was 10.50p.
Between 1 April 2002 and 31 March 2003, the highest mid-market price was 122p and the lowest mid-market price was 9.75p.
All interests referred to above are beneficial.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors over ordinary shares between 31 March 2003 and 28 May 2003.
Full details of the directors interests over the Companys ordinary shares are contained in the Register of Directors Interests which is kept by the Company and is open to inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
This includes rights granted under the Companys various share schemes as detailed on pages 22 to 24.
No options were exercised by directors or shares released under the LTIP during the years ended 31 March 2002 and 31 March 2003.
The details of the share schemes, including performance conditions which apply if any, are set out below.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors over share options or LTIP awards between 31 March 2003 and 28 May 2003 other than in respect of R N Haythornthwaite whose option granted under the ISRSOS over 18,388 ordinary shares lapsed on 1 April 2003.
BSESOS BTR Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 1985.
Options granted under this scheme are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Consistent with the then prevailing practice at many companies no performance conditions apply to grants made under this scheme.
Grants made under this scheme have been rolled over into options over Invensys plc shares.
No further options can be granted under this scheme.
BESOS BTR Executive Share Option Scheme 1995.
Grants made under this scheme have been rolled over into options over Invensys plc shares and any performance conditions have ceased to apply.
ISESOS Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme.
Options granted under this scheme are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant provided that the relevant performance condition has been met.
The performance condition which applies to grants made under this scheme are as follows: i grants made between 30 July 1998 and 24 July 2001, no options may be exercised unless, over any consecutive three year period prior to exercise, earnings per share EPS growth is equal or in excess of the Retail Price Index RPI plus 12%: ii grants made between 25 July 2001 and 16 June 2002, no options may be exercised unless, over the measurement period commencing with the financial year in which the options were granted, EPS growth is equal or in excess of RPI plus 12% over three years, RPI plus 16% over four years and RPI plus 20% over five years.
If not achieved after five years, the options will lapse: iii grant made on or after 17 June 2002, no option may be exercised unless a performance condition based on Total Shareholder Return TSR is met.
TSR is calculated as the percentage variance in the price of shares and the value of re-invested net dividend payments over the performance period compared to that of a group of comparator companies Peer Group selected at the discretion of the Committee.
The performance period will be the period of three, four or five years commencing on the date of grant of the option.
On the third anniversary of the date of grant, each constituent of the Peer Group will be ranked in descending order of TSR.
The TSR ranking of Invensys against the TSR of the Peer Group will determine the number of shares awarded.
Invensys must rank at the median position in order for 40% of the shares under option to become exercisable, rising to all of the shares if the upper quartile position is achieved.
Between these positions, the shares under option will vest on a straight-line basis.
If the Company does not meet the performance condition in full at the first measurement, then it will be re-tested, from a fixed base, in years four and five.
If the median position has not been achieved by the end of the fifth year, the option will lapse.
The Peer Groups for the grants made on or after 17 June 2002 are the companies that comprise the FTSE 100 Index on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
BSRSOS BTR Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
These options are not subject to a performance condition as this is an all-employee share scheme governed by specific tax legislation.
ISRSOS Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
23 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Remuneration report continued Share schemes continued LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan.
The vesting of the awards is generally subject to the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR being ranked, against a group of comparator companies the Peer Group selected at the discretion of the Committee, at least at the median over a fixed three year period the Performance Period commencing on the date of award with no re-testing opportunities.
Additionally the Committee must determine that the underlying financial performance of the Company over the Performance Period is satisfactory.
On completion of the Performance Period, the Companys TSR must rank at the median position when the Peer Group is ranked in descending order of TSR in order for 50% of the shares that are subject to the award to be available subject to a retention period of, generally, two years, rising to all of the shares if the upper quartile position is achieved.
Between these positions, the shares that are subject of the award will be available on a straight-line basis.
If the Company does not achieve at least the median position the whole award will lapse.
The Peer Groups selected for the above grants are as follows: R N Haythornthwaite Award dated 25 July 2001: GKN, Smiths Group, BAE Systems, Marconi, ABB, Schneider Elte, Siemens, Emerson Electric, Honeywell International, Rockwell International, Johnson Controls and Tyco International: A N Hennah Award dated 4 December 2002: The companies that comprised the FTSE 100 Index on the dealing day preceding 4 December 2002.
Directors pension entitlements Executive directors participate in defined benefit and defined contribution R N Haythornthwaite only pension arrangements sponsored by the Company.
The defined benefit schemes provide benefits based on earnings at or near retirement and are part externally funded and part reserved for within the Company.
No Company contributions were paid to the defined benefit schemes this year.
The following table gives details of the individual directors pensions values for the year ended 31 March 2003, including the disclosures required by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Increase Transfer Accrued Change in during the value as at pension Increase Transfer value Transfer value transfer value year in 31 March 2003 at year ended during the of accrued of accrued over year accrued of increase 31 March 2003 year in pension pension at end less any pension, a less any or at date of accrued as at of previous contributions excluding contributions cessation pension 31 March 2003 year made inflation a made Note per annum per annum 000 000 000 per annum 000 R N Haythornthwaite 1 5,459 3,281 54 20 34 3,244 32 A N Hennah 2 4,098 4,098 38 38 4,098 38 K A ODonovan 2 144,033 15,660 1,355 1,151 204 13,478 127 Notes 1.
The benefits shown for R N Haythornthwaite relate to his participation in the approved pension scheme up to the Inland Revenue earnings limit.
With respect to his earnings above that limit, 158,400 was paid to an unapproved money purchase scheme together with the supplementary pension payment as set out in the table headed Directors remuneration on page 21.
K A ODonovan ceased to be employed on 31 December 2002.
A N Hennah commenced employment on 5 October 2002.
The changes in transfer values over the year reflect any changes in pensionable pay and the service of each director.
They also take into account changes in the actuarial assumptions, particularly those related to equity and bond returns.
As a result, changes in transfer values may be positive or negative, depending on investment conditions.
All benefits are due at age 60.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by the level of inflation subject to a maximum increase of 5% per annum.
A minimum increase of 3% per annum applies to K A ODonovan.
For death before retirement a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members prospective pension is payable, if applicable, plus a capital sum of four times the members salary.
For death after retirement a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pension is payable plus the balance of a five year guarantee if applicable.
In the event of death after leaving service but before commencement of pension a spouses pension of two-thirds of the accrued preserved pension is payable plus a capital sum of five times the accrued preserved pension.
In all circumstances childrens allowances are also payable if applicable.
Auditable information The information in the remuneration report subject to audit pursuant to the Directors Report Regulations 2002 is that included in the tables and related notes in the sections relating to directors remuneration, directors interests over ordinary shares, share options and long term incentive awards and directors pension entitlements.
The directors remuneration report was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 May 2003 and signed on its behalf by: R L Brjesson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Summary financial statement for the year ended 31 March 2003 Important note This summary financial statement, which comprises the summary the full annual report and accounts for 2003 are available, free of directors report on page 17 and the financial information on pages charge, from the Company Secretary, Invensys plc, Invensys House, 26 to 29, is a summary of the information in the full annual report Carlisle Place, London SW1P 1BX or on our website at and accounts of Invensys plc.
It does not contain sufficient www.
com information to allow a full understanding of the results of the Group The auditors have reported on the full annual accounts.
Their report and state of affairs of the Company or of the Group.
For further was not qualified and did not contain statements under section information, the full annual accounts, the auditors report on those 237 2 or 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985. accounts, and the directors report should be consulted.
Copies of Statement of the independent auditors to the shareholders of Invensys plc Pursuant to section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 Auditors statement to the shareholders of Invensys plc Basis of opinion We have examined the summary financial statement set out on We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 page 25 and the financial information on pages 26 to 29.
The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
To the Opinion fullest extent required by the law, we do not accept or assume In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's the full annual accounts, Directors report and Remuneration report members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2003 and complies with opinions we have formed.
the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the summary financial Ernst & Young LLP statement in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is Registered Auditor to report to you our opinion on its consistency with the full annual London accounts, Directors report and Remuneration report, and its 28 May 2003 compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We have also read the other information contained in this document and have considered the implications for our report if we became aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
25 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Consolidated profit and loss account 2003 2002 For the year ended 31 March m m Turnover Continuing operations 4,258 4,623 Discontinued operations 760 2,349 5,018 6,972 Operating profit before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and goodwill impairment Continuing operations 250 312 Discontinued operations 80 237 330 549 Operating exceptional items Restructuring costs 119 223 Market related write downs 76 119 299 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and goodwill impairment 211 250 Goodwill amortisation 122 124 Goodwill impairment 585 Operating loss profit 496 126 Share of operating profits of associated undertakings Discontinued operations 2 Total operating loss profit Continuing operations 572 63 Discontinued operations 76 191 496 128 Corporate exceptional items Fundamental reorganisation costs 172 Costs of closure 29 45 Loss on sale of fixed assets 12 34 Loss on disposal of operations 741 565 Loss on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 1,278 688 Net interest payable and similar charges 113 170 Loss on ordinary activities before taxation 1,391 858 Tax on loss on ordinary activities 57 9 Loss on ordinary activities after taxation 1,448 867 Minority interests equity 6 2 Loss for the financial year 1,442 869 Dividends 35 70 Retained loss for the financial year 1,477 939 Loss per share basic and diluted 41.2 p 24.8 p Earnings per share continuing operations before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and goodwill impairment 2.2p 2.8p Average exchange rates for the year US$ to 1 1.54 1.43 Euro to 1 1.56 1.62 Yen to 1 188.14 179.68 The results for the financial year have been translated into sterling at the appropriate average exchange rates.
26 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Consolidated balance sheet 2003 2002 At 31 March m m Fixed assets Intangible assets goodwill 746 1,512 Tangible assets 880 1,515 Investments in associated undertakings 4 14 Other investments 30 59 1,660 3,100 Current assets Stocks 489 824 Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 1,054 1,490 Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 529 510 Investments 31 33 Cash and short-term deposits 365 506 2,468 3,363 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Short-term borrowings 136 1,066 Other creditors 1,483 1,748 1,619 2,814 Net current assets 849 549 Total assets less current liabilities 2,509 3,649 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Long-term borrowings 1,785 2,456 Other creditors 84 117 1,869 2,573 Provisions for liabilities and charges 557 686 83 390 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 875 875 Share premium account 15 15 Capital redemption reserve 83 83 Capital reserve 2,047 210 Exchange variation reserve 501 417 Profit and loss account 2,622 622 Shareholders deficit funds equity 103 144 Minority interests including non-equity 186 246 83 390 The summary financial statement on page 25 and the financial information on pages 26 to 29 were approved by the directors on 28 May 2003 and are signed on their behalf by: Lord Marshall of Knightsbridge R N Haythornthwaite A N Hennah Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Year end exchange rates US$ to 1 1.58 1.42 Euro to 1 1.45 1.63 Yen to 1 187.43 188.73 The balance sheet has been translated into sterling at appropriate year end exchange rates.
27 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Consolidated cash flow statement 2003 2002 For the year ended 31 March m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 210 536 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 115 170 Taxation 62 43 Capital expenditure and financial investment 76 129 Acquisitions and disposals 1,446 209 Equity dividends paid 71 217 Cash inflow before use of liquid resources and financing 1,332 186 Management of liquid resources 69 104 Financing Decrease in debt 1,417 Decrease increase in cash in year 16 82 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2003 2002 For the year ended 31 March m m Decrease increase in cash in year 16 82 Cash outflow from decrease in debt 1,417 Cash inflow outflow from decrease increase in liquid resources 69 104 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 1,332 186 Short-term deposits, loans and finance leases acquired divested in respect of the acquisition disposal of subsidiary undertakings 15 2 New finance leases 1 Exchange movements 113 15 Movement in net debt in year 1,460 202 Net debt at beginning of year 3,016 3,218 Net debt at end of year 1,556 3,016 28 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Segmental analysis Net Net Operating Operating operating operating Turnover Turnover profit profit assets assets 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m m m Business division Production Management 1,449 1,584 28 33 267 323 Energy Management 2,054 2,341 170 237 729 956 Development 755 698 52 42 297 299 Continuing operations 4,258 4,623 250 312 1,293 1,578 Discontinued operations 760 2,349 80 237 772 5,018 6,972 330 549 1,293 2,350 Operating exceptional items 119 299 Goodwill amortisation 122 124 Goodwill impairment 585 Share of operating profits of associated undertakings 2 Corporate exceptional items 782 816 Loss on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 1,278 688 Geographical analysis by origin United Kingdom 450 443 27 39 62 102 Rest of Europe 992 1,000 29 84 203 175 North America 2,069 2,340 184 152 638 843 South America 100 158 2 8 46 83 Asia Pacific 588 630 9 28 327 365 Africa and Middle East 59 52 3 1 17 10 Continuing operations 4,258 4,623 250 312 1,293 1,578 Discontinued operations 760 2,349 80 237 772 5,018 6,972 330 549 1,293 2,350 Operating exceptional items 119 299 Goodwill amortisation 122 124 Goodwill impairment 585 Share of operating profits of associated undertakings 2 Corporate exceptional items 782 816 Loss on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 1,278 688 Borrowings 1,921 3,522 Cash and short-term deposits 365 506 Deferred tax 109 177 Taxation 291 244 Dividends 35 Goodwill 746 1,512 Net assets per consolidated balance sheet 83 390 Geographical analysis of turnover by destination United Kingdom 406 422 Rest of Europe 1,020 1,022 North America 1,943 2,203 South America 124 174 Asia Pacific 643 680 Africa and Middle East 122 122 Continuing operations 4,258 4,623 Discontinued operations 760 2,349 5,018 6,972 Before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and goodwill impairment.
29 Invensys plc Summary financial statement 2003 Shareholder information Registered office Invensys nominee service Invensys plc The Company has a nominee service under which shareholders Invensys House can hold their shares electronically rather than in certificate form.
Designed and produced This report is printed on paper by Fishburn Hedges from sustainable forests using an Printed in the UK elemental chlorine free process.
