Accounting policies Basis of accounting Goodwill These accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention On acquisition, the fair value of net assets is assessed and and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies of businesses acquired into alignment with those of the Group.
The difference Basis of consolidation between the price paid for new interests and the fair value of The consolidated profit and loss account and balance sheet identifiable net assets acquired is capitalised and amortised over its incorporate the accounts of Invensys plc and its subsidiary economic life, depending on the nature of the acquisition for a undertakings together with the Groups share of the results of period not exceeding 20 years.
Any costs of integrating the acquired associated undertakings for the financial year to 31 March 2003. business are taken to the profit and loss account.
Goodwill is The results of subsidiary undertakings sold or acquired during the currently amortised over a period of 12 to 20 years.
year are included in the profit and loss account up to, or from, the date control passes.
Goodwill relating to acquisitions prior to 5 April 1998, the date that Financial Reporting Standard No 10: Goodwill and Intangible Assets New financial reporting standards FRS 10 became applicable to the Group, has been written off to In November 2000 the Accounting Standards Board ASB issued reserves.
Goodwill previously eliminated against reserves is charged to Financial Reporting Standard No 17: Retirement Benefits.
The full the profit and loss account in so far as it relates to disposals in the year.
implementation of the requirements of FRS 17 has been deferred by the ASB.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are depreciated to their residual values In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 17, Invensys on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives at the has disclosed in note 6 the impact that FRS 17 would have on the following rates applied to original cost.
closing balance sheet of the Group as at 31 March 2003 and also discloses the amounts that would have been charged to the Freehold land Nil consolidated profit and loss account and consolidated statement of Freehold buildings 2 to 2.5% total recognised gains and losses under FRS 17 for the year ended Leasehold properties Over the period of the lease 31 March 2003.
Plant and machinery 7 to 35% The Group intends to fully adopt FRS 17 effective from 1 April 2003.
Computer software systems 10 to 25% Foreign currencies Impairment of tangible fixed assets and goodwill The trading results of overseas subsidiaries and associated Impairment reviews are undertaken if there are indications that fixed undertakings are translated into sterling at average rates asset carrying values may not be recoverable.
The discount rate used of exchange ruling during the year.
The retranslation of the retained is the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital, as adjusted earnings of overseas operations to closing rates is dealt with as a for the particular risks associated with the income-generating unit movement in reserves.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, including goodwill, Leased assets are translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange ruling at Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included the balance sheet date and any exchange differences are taken in tangible fixed assets at fair value.
Each asset is depreciated to reserves.
over the shorter of the lease term or its useful life.
Obligations related to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future Currency differences arising from the translation at closing rate periods, are included as appropriate within creditors.
The interest of the investment in subsidiaries and associated undertakings are element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods taken to reserves, together with exchange gains and losses arising on during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the foreign currency borrowings which finance a proportion of foreign remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss All other exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Turnover Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less Turnover represents the invoiced value of goods supplied by the provisions for impairment.
Group excluding inter-company transactions, sales by associated Stocks undertakings and sales taxes.
Turnover relating to long-term Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and contracts represents the value of work performed during the year.
Cost comprises the cost of raw Research and development materials and an appropriate proportion of labour and overheads.
Research and development expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow moving items and for unrealised profits on items of inter-company manufacture.
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits The expected costs of providing pensions and other post-retirement The net realisable value of long-term contracts has been arrived at benefits are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread having regard to estimated cost to completion.
A prudent level of the costs over the service lives of the participating employees.
profit attributable to the contract activity is taken up if the final The costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of actuaries, outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
On all contracts, and provision is made in the accounts along with the associated full provision is made for any losses in the year in which they are deferred taxation effect.
35 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Accounting policies continued Cash and borrowings Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates Cash and short-term deposits at the balance sheet date are that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences deducted from bank loans and overdrafts where formal rights of reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted set-off exist.
at the balance sheet date.
Taxation Derivative instruments Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where and interest rate swaps to manage its exposures to fluctuations transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in in interest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments an obligation to pay more or a right to pay less or to receive more are accounted for as hedges when designated as hedges tax, with the following exceptions: at the inception of the contract.
As a result, gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts are offset against the foreign i Provision is made for tax on gains arising from fair value exchange gains and losses on the related financial assets and adjustments of fixed assets or gains on disposal of fixed assets, that liabilities.
Where the instrument is used to hedge against future have been rolled over into replacement assets only to the extent transactions, gains and losses are not recognised until the that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to transaction occurs.
Where the instrument is used to adjust dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made the currency profile of net borrowings which are matched where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet to net assets of subsidiaries, any gains and losses are recorded date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled in reserves.
Interest rate swaps are disclosed in the fair value over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the table in note 29, and are not revalued or otherwise required replacement assets are sold.
to be shown in the Group balance sheet at the year end.
Interest ii Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance differentials are recognised by accruing the net interest payable.
of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and Gains or losses arising on hedging instruments which are cancelled joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, due to the termination of underlying exposure are taken to the dividends have been accrued as receivable.
profit and loss account immediately.
iii Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
36 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003
