Amec back WACE 3 31 04 5:24 AM Page 81 Shareholder Information Financial Calendar Electronic Communications March Preliminary announcement for the year ended 31 December.
AMECs web site has a facility whereby shareholders can link to the April Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December.
companys registrar Capita Registrars via its web site in order to May Annual general meeting.
gain access to general shareholder information as well as personal September Interim report for the half year ended 30 June.
You will need an internet-enabled computer with Internet Explorer 4 or Netscape 4 or above to access these Interim and preliminary announcements notified to the London Stock shareholder services.
If you wish to access details of your personal Exchange are available on the internet at www.
Copies shareholding you will need your investor code, which is printed in of annual reports and accounts are also available upon written the bottom right-hand corner of your AMEC share certificates and request from: WILink, Hook Rise South, Surbiton, Surrey KT6 7LD, dividend tax vouchers.
To access these services: Payment of Dividends Interim ordinary dividend announced in August and paid in January.
1 Select the Investors home page of www.
com 2 Click on the Need to contact the registrar?
link Final ordinary dividend announced in March and paid in July.
3 Select the service required Shareholders who do not have dividend payments made directly into AMEC now offers shareholders the opportunity to receive their bank or building society accounts through the Bankers Automated communications such as notices of shareholder meetings and Clearing System BACS may do so by contacting the companys the annual report and accounts electronically.
AMEC encourages registrar, Capita Registrars.
the use of electronic communication as, not only does it save the Dividend Reinvestment Plan company printing and mailing costs, it is also a more convenient A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP is available for the convenience and prompt method of communication.
of shareholders who would prefer the company to utilise their dividends If you decide to receive communications electronically, you will be for the purchase, on their behalf, of additional shares of the company sent an e-mail message each time a new shareholder report or instead of receiving cash dividends.
notice of meeting is published.
The e-mail will contain links to the The DRIP provides for shares to be purchased in the market on, or appropriate web site where documents can be viewed.
It is possible as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, any dividend payment to change your instruction at any time by amending your details on date at the price then prevailing in the market.
of the DRIP may be obtained from: If you would like to receive electronic communications, you will need Capita Registrars to register your e-mail address as follows: The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU 1 Select the Investors home page of www.
com United Kingdom 2 Click on the Need to contact the registrar?
link Tel: 44 0 20 8639 2000 3 Click on the Electronic shareholder communications link E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com or visit the web site at 4 Subject to having accepted the conditions of use of the Electronic www.
com Communications Service provided by Capita Registrars, enter your family name, investor code and postcode and then click on go If you decide not to register an e-mail address with the registrar, you will continue to receive all communications in hard copy form.
If you have any queries regarding electronic communications, please contact the companys registrar, Capita Registrars, on 44 0 870 162 3100.
Registered Office AMEC plc Sandiway House, Hartford, Northwich, Cheshire CW8 2YA United Kingdom Registered in England No 1675285 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 81
