JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 59 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements 35 Principal subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings at 31 March 2003 35 Principal subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings at 31 March 2003 continued a Principal subsidiary undertakings b Joint Venture and Associated Undertakings Country of Year end incorporation Nature of where Company registration business Country of not incorporation Percentage 31 Jarvis Facilities Limited England & Wales Rail infrastructure services Company registration owned March Nature of business Jarvis Fastline Limited England & Wales Rail infrastructure services Jarvis Rail Limited England & Wales Rail infrastructure services Accord Jarvis Limited England & Wales 50% Road services Jarvis Projects Limited England & Wales Project Management Agilisys Limited England & Wales 50% Provision of outsourcing services Jarvis Projects Limited Eire Project Management Chapel Wharf Limited England & Wales 34.4% Regeneration and Development of Chapel Jarvis Workspace FM Limited England & Wales Facilities management Wharf, Salford, Greater Manchester Jarvis Construction UK Limited England & Wales Construction Management Cruciform Services Limited England & Wales 50% A Special purpose company for UCL Cruciform PFI David Wylde Project Finance Limited England & Wales Arrangement of project finance Consul Services NI Limited Northern Ireland 33.3% C Special purpose company for Belfast Courts PFI OnTrack Plant Limited England & Wales Plant Hire Defence Training Services Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for Army Training Jarvis Property Company Limited England & Wales Property investment, dealing and development College PFI Jarvis Estates Limited England & Wales Property Investment Jarvis JNP Limited England & Wales Underground infrastructure services Bridlington Schools Services Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for schools PFI Jarvis LUL Limited England & Wales Underground infrastructure services Brighton & Hove Schools Services Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for schools PFI Prismo Limited England & Wales Road services Debden Schools Services Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for schools PFI Techspan Systems Limited England & Wales Road services Haringey Schools Services Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for schools PFI Jarvis Training Management Limited England & Wales Training Services Kenton School Services Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for schools PFI Avonwood Developments Limited England & Wales Technical services Liverpool Schools Services Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for schools PFI Barnhill School Services Limited England & Wales Special purpose company for schools PFI Sunderland CLC Schools Services Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for schools PFI Jarvis Insignia House Limited England & Wales Special purpose company for the development, Torbay Schools Services Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for schools PFI funding and operation of the Goldsmiths College Wirral Schools Services Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for schools PFI project.
Kirklees Schools Services Limited England & Wales 35% Special purpose company for schools PFI Colfox School Services Limited England & Wales Special purpose company for schools PFI Eccles Special High Schools Company Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for schools PFI Cardinal Heenan School Services Limited England & Wales Special purpose company for schools PFI Richmond Upon Thames Schools Services Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for schools PFI Braddons Limited England & Wales Risk management and insurance services Jarvis Primary Health Limited England & Wales 45% Health Services Jarvis Education Services Limited England & Wales Local education authority support services Birmimgham Healthcare Services Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for Health Services PFI Jarvis Plant Hire Limited England & Wales Plant Hire Jarvis UPP Holdings Limited England & Wales 50% B Holding company for UPP Dundee Healthcare Services Limited Scotland Special purpose company for healthcare PFI UPP Aberdeen Limited Scotland 50% B Special purpose company for UPP Chippenham Offices Limited England & Wales Special purpose company for local authority PFI UPP Manchester Holdings Limited England & Wales 50% B Special purpose company for UPP Balfron Schools Services Limited Scotland Special purpose company for schools PFI UPP Miller Street A Limited Scotland 50% B Special purpose company for UPP East Ren Schools Services Limited Scotland Special purpose company for schools PFI UPP Miller Street B Limited Scotland 50% B Special purpose company for UPP Harrowby Developments Limited England & Wales Special purpose company for schools project UPP Nottingham Limited England & Wales 50% B Special purpose company for UPP Prosign SA France Road and airport services UPP Oxford Brookes Limited England & Wales 50% B Special purpose company for UPP Enterprise Fourlon SA France Road services UPP Plymouth Limited England & Wales 50% B Special purpose company for UPP Jarvis Netherlands BV The Netherlands Road services UPP Plymouth Two Limited England & Wales 50% B Special purpose company for UPP Veluvine BV The Netherlands Road services UPP RNCM Limited England & Wales 50% B Special purpose company for UPP Veluvine GmbH Germany Road services UPP Reading Limited England & Wales 50% B Special purpose company for UPP Jarvis Benelux NV Belgium Road services UPP Rachel Macmillan Limited England & Wales 50% B Special purpose company for UPP Jarvis Belgium NV Belgium Road services UPP York Limited England & Wales 50% B Special purpose company for UPP Jarvis Estonia BV The Netherlands Holding company for Estonian rail operation Jarvis-Danker Debrecan Developments kft Hungary 50% Special purpose company for UPP Jarvis Infrastructure Services USA, Inc USA Road services UPP Duncreggan Student Village Limited Northern Ireland 50% B Special purpose company for UPP Jarvis Infrastructure Services USA Georgia, Inc USA Road services UPP Lancaster Limited England & Wales 50% D Special purpose company for UPP Jarvis Workspace FM Ireland Limited Eire Facilities management Schools Public Private Partnership Limited Eire 50% Special purpose company for PFI Asquith Jarvis Limited England & Wales 50% Provision of nursery services All of the above companies have been consolidated in these financial statements.
TW Accommodation Services Limited England & Wales 50% Special purpose company for fire service PFI Tube Lines Limited England & Wales 33.3% Operating Company for London Underground PPP Indirectly owned by the Company Tube Lines Holdings Limited England & Wales 33.3% Holding Company for London Underground PPP Baltic Rail Services OU Estonia 27% Rail services SMC Specialist Surfaces Limited Eire 50% Road services Sena Prismo Sdn Bhd Malaysia 50% Road services Shivalik Prismo Limited India 50% Road services Seguravias SA Chile 40% Road services All investments are in ordinary shares PFI Private Finance Initiative Indirectly owned by the Company UPP University Partnership Programme Associated undertaking, indirectly owned by the Company.
All other companies are joint ventures.
All have 31 March year ends, except where marked A 31 May B 31 August C 31 October D 30 September 58 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 59 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 61 Directors remuneration report INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT Elements of remuneration The Remuneration Committee Basic Salary The Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the policy of the Group for balanced executive remuneration and specific remuneration The basic salary of the Executive Directors is reviewed each year by the Remuneration Committee.
The review is undertaken to ensure that packages for each Executive Director and other senior staff who report to the Chief Executive and to the Chairman.
This authority extends the remuneration package and benefits for Executive Directors represents a fair return for employment.
Due consideration is given to to pension rights, terms of service contracts, and equity and non-equity based incentives.
The remuneration of Non-executive Directors is performance and reward relative to that of comparable companies.
Basic salary and benefits are only part of the total remuneration package, a matter reserved for the Board.
Membership of the Committee consists of Steven Norris, Owen Luder and Brian Mellitt.
Colin Skellett was which includes a bonus scheme and share options.
A recommendation will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for the a member of the Committee until his resignation in August 2002 and Sherry Coutu until her resignation in March 2003.
Lord McGowan introduction of a revised Share Option Scheme and Performance Share Plan to replace the existing option element for Executive Directors remained a member until his death in May 2003.
The Chairman of the Committee during the year was Steven Norris.
Following the and certain other senior executives.
appointment of Steven Norris as Chairman of the Audit Committee in June 2003, Brian Mellitt has agreed to be appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
This Report forms part of the Groups compliance with the principles of good governance outlined in the Bonus Scheme Combined Code.
The Executive Directors are set objectives at the beginning of each financial year.
These objectives are a blend of common primary objectives for the Group as a whole and additional objectives in line with their respective corporate role and the group strategic direction, During the year the Committee met on five occasions to consider, inter alia, matters relating to directors remuneration.
Paris Moayedi as which are personal to each Director.
For individual directors objectives include: the then Chief Executive, the Company Secretary and the Group Director of Human Resources attended such of those meetings as did not The continuous improvement in the management of occupational and operational safety: directly affect their own remuneration and provided information and advice relating to the directors current entitlements and performance Achievement of relevant Divisional Group budget for turnover, profit and operating cash flow: against targets.
At one of the meetings of the committee to review directors remuneration, assistance was given in the form of a report The delivery of forward order book growth: from New Bridge Street Consultants Limited relating to comparative remuneration within both a selected peer group of companies and the The development of environmental sustainability within operations: FTSE 250 group of companies measured in terms of activity, market capitalisation, turnover and employee numbers.
Other services Effective risk management: and provided by New Bridge Street Consultants, who were formally appointed by the Committee on 13 March 2003, included employee and The re-engineering of business processes to ensure the Company derives maximum benefit from investment in new systems and that executive incentive scheme advice.
these deliver demonstrable improvements in shareholder value.
Remuneration Policy These performance conditions have been selected in order to align the individual directors targets with the Groups overall business The key Terms of Reference of the Committee are: performance objectives, which include social responsibility and environmental sustainability targets.
1 To ensure that the Groups remuneration policies and practices for Executive Directors and other senior employees facilitate the employment and motivation of top quality personnel, and adequately reward individual contributions made to the Group, while at the same Performance against objectives is assessed through a formal process during and after the year-end.
Typically this involves interviews and time remaining justifiable in terms of the Groups performance and in comparison to its competitor companies.
the review of objective measurements where targets represent discrete aims.
If the objectives are achieved, a pre-determined percentage of salary, currently 50% of basic salary, is paid in the following financial year as a bonus to the Director.
The Remuneration Committee 2 To keep under review the long term incentive plans and employee share schemes operated by the Group in light of legislative and market reviews the performance of each Director after the end of each financial year and, where the targets have been achieved and in recognition developments and overall remuneration policy, and to determine the awards of options under such schemes together with performance of the contractual relationship thus created, will award the bonus.
In the event that a target has been significantly exceeded the Committee conditions linked thereto.
has the option to increase the normal percentage applied, to reflect that achievement, but within the overall parameter of a pool comprising the on target earnings achievable by members of the Executive Committee.
The figures shown in the table on page 62 are for bonuses In order to comply with the terms of reference the remuneration policy is based on the following core principles: payable in respect of the financial year under review.
Total rewards are designed to support the Groups strategy and are set at levels, taking into account each executives total remuneration package, that are competitive within the relevant market: Employment Benefits It is the current policy of the Committee not to award share options in any year which amount to greater than an Executive Directors annual Benefits provided to Directors typically include a fully financed company car or car allowance, private medical insurance and life assurance.
salary: Incentive based awards can only be earned through the achievement of demanding performance conditions, designed to align the executive Pensions with the interests of the shareholders in the short, medium and longer terms: and The Group operates defined contribution schemes for Executive Directors.
None of the Executive Directors are members of the defined Total rewards are designed to maintain a balance between fixed and variable elements of remuneration.
benefit schemes operated by the Group.
Where an individual Director has earnings beyond the earnings cap they are offered the opportunity to contribute to a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme FURBS or to take an element of the Companys pension contribution as a taxable pension supplement.
Share Incentive Schemes Historically the Group has operated an Executive Share Option Scheme, originally introduced in 1988 and updated in 1998 in line with best practice at the time.
Options granted under the 1998 scheme may only be exercised where the percentage growth in normalised earnings per share over a period of three years between the date of grant and exercise have grown by an average of at least 4% above the increase in the Retail Prices Index.
These performance criteria were selected to provide a target in line with market practice at the time of the adoption of the Executive Share Option Scheme and the grant of the options.
Having reviewed the effectiveness of this Scheme, the Remuneration Committee has concluded that it does not effectively link rewards to performance and, in particular, is outdated with regard to the structure of the rolling 3 year performance condition and the limit to the value of outstanding options that may be held, as opposed to an annual grant limit.
Therefore, a proposal will be made to the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the introduction of a new Annual Grant Share Option Scheme and Performance Share Plan to comply with ABI guidelines and the latest best practice.
Options granted under the new Share Option Scheme will be exercisable on a pro rata basis against a range of EPS based performance conditions, with performance being measured over a single, three year period.
Vesting of shares under the Performance Share Plan will be conditional on achievement of a range of EPS and Total Shareholder Return performance conditions with each condition applying to 50% of the award.
Performance will again be measured over a single three-year period.
60 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 61 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 63 Total Shareholder Return Directors Service Agreements When appointing Executive Directors, the Committee considers it appropriate to offer Service Agreements with a rolling one year term which are determinable by the employing company upon not less than twelve months notice, and by the individual director upon not less 120 than six months notice.
The Group intends to retain these terms for future appointments, believing them to be appropriate to the nature of the business.
The authority of the Committee extends to the compensation terms on any early termination of a Directors service 100 agreement.
The Committee considers it fair and reasonable to respect these existing contractual terms in the event of termination of an Executive Directors service contract.
Ordinarily the Director will be entitled to payment in respect of full salary for their notice period together with any accrued holiday entitlement.
Options granted to the Director may become exercisable dependent upon the reasons for 80 the termination.
Each Directors contract date is shown in the table below.
During the year, Colin Skellett resigned from the Board in August 2002 whilst Sherry Coutu resigned in March 2003, both were Non-executive Directors and neither received any compensation on termination of office.
60 Director Effective Date Unexpired Term Notice Period Notice Period 40 of Contract by Company by Director P Moayedi 03 11 1994 Rolling one year 12 Months 12 Months 20 K Hyde 02 02 2000 Rolling one year 12 Months 6 Months A Cunningham 02 02 2000 Rolling one year 12 Months 6 Months 0 R N Johnson 03 02 2003 Rolling one year 12 Months 6 Months 31 Mar 98 31 Mar 99 31 Mar 00 31 Mar 01 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 R W Kendall 03 11 1994 Rolling one year 12 Months 6 Months Source: Datastream A J Sutton 03 11 1994 Rolling one year 12 Months 6 Months Brief details of the letters of appointment between the Company and the Non-executive Directors are set out below.
There are no This graph looks at the value, by the end of March 2003, of 100 invested in Jarvis on 31 March 1998 compared with the value of 100 provisions for compensation on early termination of these contracts.
invested in the FTSE Support Services Index.
The graph shows daily movements in these values over the period.
Director Effective Date Notice Period Notice Period Key of Letter of by Company by Director Jarvis Appointment FTSE Support Services Index O Luder 21 03 1995 None None The above graph compares the performance of Jarvis plc ordinary shares with the companies comprising the FTSE Support Services Index B Mellitt 05 10 2002 3 Months 3 Months for the last five years.
Jarvis is a component of this index.
Total Shareholder Return has been calculated by New Bridge Street Consultants S Norris 03 08 2000 3 Months 3 Months using data provided by Datastream.
INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT Directors Remuneration Following the adoption of the new reporting requirements under the Directors Reporting Regulations 2002, the table on page 62 reflects amounts paid or confirmed as payable in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2003.
It will be clear from the table that, as yet, no bonuses have been paid for the year to Directors serving at the time of the Potters Bar accident.
At the Remuneration Committee in July 2002, an across the board percentage pay award was approved for each of the Executive Directors then in office.
As yet this increase has not been paid to those directors.
The deferral in decision on the payment of bonuses and pay increases is in accordance with the statements made by the then Chairman Colin Skellett at the Annual General Meeting in August 2002.
It should be noted that the prior year column reflects bonuses which were paid in the year in respect of performance in the previous year.
The figures for C Skellett and S Coutu are to the date of their resignations from the Board.
2 The comparative figures for S Coutu and A Cunningham reflect only the period from their appointment to the Board to 31 March 2002.
Executive August 1999 23,000 2.710 - - 23,000 02.08.02 02.08.09 3 Directors pension contributions comprise the amounts paid by the Group to defined contribution arrangements.
Executive July 2000 30,000 1.995 - - 30,000 28.07.03 28.07.10 4 In respect of the year ended 31 March 2003, each of the Executive Directors had a bonus opportunity of up to 50% of salary upon delivery of individual target objectives as described Executive January 2001 25,000 2.640 - - 25,000 24.01.04 24.01.11 above.
SAYE August 2000 937 1.530 - - 937 01.10.03 31.03.04 5 The 50,000 bonus paid to R N Johnson during the year was a contractual commitment entered into by the Group prior to his appointment as a Director and was in respect of the achievement of reaching financial close of the Tube Lines contract with London Underground Limited.
R N Johnson 6 Pension Contributions for both R W Kendall and K O Hyde include contributions to FURBS.
P Moayedi does not have a FURB.
The Company makes a supplementary payment to him Executive July 2000 15,000 1.995 - - 15,000 28.07.03 28.07.10 enabling him to make his own provision for pension in respect of salary above the earnings cap.
Executive January 2001 20,000 2.640 - - 20,000 24.01.04 24.01.11 7 Pension contributions are calculated and payable on basic salary only.
Executive August 2000 937 1.530 - - 937 01.10.03 31.03.04 When, in future, the shareholdings of Executive Directors include shares acquired under the all employee Buy As You Earn Plan, which is a groupwide share incentive plan introduced in May 2003, no performance conditions for the acquisition or retention of such shares will apply.
Directors shares and share options Ordinary shares of 5p each The closing middle market price of the Ordinary Shares as at 31 March 2003 was 2.495 and the range during the year was between 5.380 and 1.945.
Notes Shares held at Shares acquired Shares sold Shares held 1 April 2002 or date during the year during the year at 31 March 2003 This report will be submitted for approval at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The shareholdings of Paris Moayedi and Robert Kendall include shares held in a family trust for the benefit of their adult children.
64 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 65 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 67 Director Actual Meetings Attended Possible Maximum Duncan McGowan 21 21 Corporate governance Tony Cunningham 11 11 Kevin Hyde 11 11 Rob Johnson 5 5 Robert Kendall 11 11 Owen Luder 21 21 Brian Mellitt 7 10 Paris Moayedi 11 11 Steven Norris 21 21 Andrew Sutton 11 11 Sherry Coutu 10 21 Colin Skellett 8 9 This statement explains the Boards the Board in the interests of continuity that in conformance with best practice the Board through the Chief Executive.
Until her resignation on of the Audit Committee is contained in application of the principles contained Paris Moayedi surrender his position as corporate governance criteria, to be The Non-executive members of the Board 31 March 2003, Sherry Coutu also sat as this annual report although consideration within the Combined Code and best Chief Executive and assume the role of independent.
The ratio of Non-executive are also entitled to receive the minutes of a member of this committee.
Only Owen will be given if required under any update practice in governance matters as defined Chairman.
The Chairman being appointed Directors to Executive Directors is the Executive Committee.
Luder has been on the Audit Committee to the Combined Code.
by the recent Higgs review of the role of by the agreement of the whole Board currently 1:2 and at no time during the year for more than six years, and it is not Non-executive Directors.
In this report the rather than by nomination.
This has the ratio dropped below that level.
Performance Evaluation expected that his membership will Remuneration Committee Board has adopted the comply or explain appointment is not in accordance with the The Group intends to maintain the ratio of In the year under review there was no continue beyond the time when further The terms of reference of the principle introduced by the Cadbury Report recommendations of the Higgs report, more than one third of the Directors being formal evaluation of the performance of Non-executive Directors have been Remuneration Committee have been and reinforced by Higgs and explains however the Board considers that it Non-executive and is actively looking to the Board, save that a review was recruited.
Lord McGowan, who as the revised in the light of recent legislation and where the Group does not fully comply provides a degree of stability required in increase the numbers of Non-executive undertaken of the Executive Directors former Chairman of West LB Panmure, are available for review at the registered with the recommendations giving the light of the sudden loss of the previous Directors to a ratio in line with that performance against targets agreed at the had relevant financial experience, which office of the Company.
The Remuneration reasons for such non compliance.
recommended by the Higgs Review.
The Chairman and was of considerable value to the workings Committee is responsible for all aspects of the Company Secretary are currently of the committee.
Steven Norris as Senior the remuneration of Executive Directors.
It is the belief of the Board that the Group A clear division of responsibilities has been Decisions are taken by the Board as a reviewing proposed process for the formal Independent Director is also deemed by The level of fees payable to Non-executive complies with the Combined Code in its established.
Paris Moayedi will be whole, based on detailed papers sent out evaluation of the performance of the the Board to have relevant financial Directors are set by the Board as a whole form, current at the date of this report.
responsible for the running of the Board in advance of each Board meeting.
As the Board, its committees and its individual experience and now assumes the role of on the recommendations of the Chairman.
whilst Kevin Hyde as Chief Executive is Group grows and develops, the Board members.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The In preparing these recommendations the The Board responsible for the running of the business continues to review and adapt its operating Finance Director and the Commercial Chairman reviews the fees payable to The Group Board meets on average 11 of the company.
processes and procedures to meet the Company Secretary Director are required to attend when Non-executive Directors of comparable times every year with a pre-agreed changing requirements of the Group.
The Company Secretary reports to the requested.
The Company Secretary is the companies to provide a benchmark.
The rotational agenda to ensure important Directors Attendance statistics at Board and Board Board through the Chairman on all secretary to the Committee.
At least once Committee comprises all the Nonmatters such as strategy and risk are Professor Brian Mellitt, a Non-executive committee meetings during the year are governance matters.
All of the directors a year, the Non-executive Directors meet executive Directors and was chaired during regularly reviewed at the appropriate level Director and Rob Johnson, Group shown in the table on the top of the page.
have access to the services of the without the presence of the Executive the year by Steven Norris.
In June 2003, within the organisation.
The first item on Commercial Director, both joined the Board Company Secretary to obtain impartial Directors.
Brian Mellitt succeeded Steven Norris as every regular board agenda is safety, with in October 2002 and will submit themselves Non-executive Directors, have attended advice.
The Company Secretary is Chairman of the Committee.
The Company regular reports on both operational and for election by the shareholders at the certain meetings with major investors.
responsible to the Board for ensuring that The Committee meets regularly with the Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Regular Board forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Whilst it is not policy to make the Nongood procedure is followed and that external auditors to review the Groups The Chairman and Group Director of agenda items also include a Financial Their biographical details are included on executive Directors readily available in compliance with applicable regulations is annual report and interim results and has Human Resources are invited to attend as report, a report from the Chief Executive pages 20 and 21, as are those of the other response to the increasing demands of maintained.
The Company Secretary is responsibility to ensure that appropriate appropriate.
No Executive Director is and reports on Corporate Governance and Directors.
Owen Luder, who is now 74 the investment community, where relevant responsible for ensuring the timely flow accounting policies and compliance present at a meeting where his or her own Corporate Social Responsibility issues.
years old, will also be standing for retheir expertise and knowledge are utilised of information to the Board and its subprocedures are in place.
The Committee remuneration is discussed.
The Report of On a rotational basis the Board receives election, as he has done for the last three in this way.
Additionally, as part of the committees as well as ensuring that ensures that the principles of the Code the Remuneration Committee and the reports on specific topics including risk years.
The Board feels that, following the regular reporting to the Board, information Directors not only receive a suitable relating to accountability and audit are Companys compliance with the Combined management and insurance, human untimely death of Lord McGowan and the on the issues and concerns of the induction to the Board, but also receive any followed for financial reporting, internal Code in relation to Directors remuneration resources and corporate development resignation of Sherry Coutu for family investment community are considered.
ongoing training that they require.
control and the relationship with the is given on pages 60 to 65.
Management of day-to-day reasons, Owen is able to provide valuable Companys auditors.
The Committee also be submitted for a shareholders vote at operations of the business is delegated continuity and therefore the Board proposes Any Director may, if necessary, seek The appointment and removal of the reviews the fee ratio of non-audit work the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
to individual Directors and to an Executive his re-election.
The Board recognises that independent external advice at the Company Secretary is a matter reserved undertaken by the external auditors and Committee composed of the Executive Owen as a Non-executive Director has Companys expense and has access to for the Board as a whole.
has adopted a policy that the Audit Nomination Committee Directors together with three senior exceeded the two three-year appointment the Company Secretary for his advice and Committee must give prior approval for Nominations for appointments to the Board executives of the Company, including the terms suggested by the Higgs review and services and to procure such independent Board Committees any non audit services provided by external are dealt with by a separate Nomination Company Secretary and the Group Director has accordingly agreed with Owen that he advice if requested.
On appointment, The Board has appointed an Audit auditors in excess of 100,000.
The Committee consisting of the Nonof Human Resources.
Certain commercial will step down from the Board when an Directors are entitled to receive any Committee, a Remuneration Committee Committee will review all other non audit executive Directors and the Chairman.
It is matters including the Board ratification of appropriate balance of independent Nontraining they consider necessary on issues and a Nomination Committee.
Both the spend with the external auditors.
The Audit recognised that the membership of the bid submissions, project closures and executive Directors to Executive Directors of relevance to their role and are Audit and Remuneration Committees are Committee also regularly address the issue Committee does not comply with the banking and guarantee matters are is achieved.
All other Directors submit subsequently entitled to attend relevant comprised solely of the Non-executive of auditor independence and it is current recommendations of the Higgs delegated to a committee of any three themselves to re-election triennially.
Directors and meet regularly throughout considered that adequate provision is review, in as much as the Chairman is a Directors.
All matters considered in this the year to scheduled agendas.
Currently, made to ensure the protection of auditor member of the Committee.
However, it is way are submitted for ratification at the The Board currently includes three NonThe Executive Committee given the numbers of Non-executive independence.
The Committee also meets not the intention of the Company to next following regular board meeting.
executive Directors, all of whom are The Board has approved Terms of Directors and the overall size of the Board, regularly with the Chairman of the Group comply with this recommendation of the deemed independent according to the Reference for the Executive Committee.
it is not considered practical to adopt the Risk Management Committee in Higgs review since it is the belief of the The Chairman criteria detailed in the report of the Higgs This Committee was established four years Higgs recommendations that no one Nonconnection with its review of the Board that good team selection should As discussed elsewhere in this report, Review, and six Executive Directors, each ago to manage and review the day-to-day executive Director should sit on all three effectiveness of the system of internal involve the Chairman who is responsible Colin Skellett resigned both as Chairman with responsibility for specific areas within operational development and financial principal Board committees.
control, which includes monitoring and to shareholders for the management of and as a Director in August 2002 with Lord the business of the Group.
business activities of the Group in line with reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups the Board.
This has been recognised by McGowan taking over the Chairmanship.
strategies, policies, capital expenditure Audit Committee internal audit function.
The Committee may the Financial Reporting Council which The Chairmans report notes the death of The Senior Independent Director role is authorities and Corporate Governance The Audit Committee was chaired during call upon the Company Secretary to ensure noted in its press release of 14 May 2003 Lord McGowan on 6 May 2003.
The held by Steven Norris.
All Non-executive requirements approved by the Board.
The the year by the late Lord McGowan and that it is provided with sufficient resources that it concluded that the Chairman should Nomination Committee recommended to Directors are considered by the Company Committee meets regularly and reports to included Steven Norris, Owen Luder and to undertake its duties.
No separate report be allowed to chair the Nomination 66 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 67 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 69 Committee, except when discussing the Internal Control of risk management and control processes.
6 Risk Management technology enablement The Agilisys Board continues to develop Internal Audit recruitment of a new Chairman.
The In the financial statements for the year Additionally, in line with the The Group is continuing to examine and and review its approach to these A Group Internal Audit function was Committee meets on an ad hoc basis, ended 31 March 2001, the Board stated recommendations of the Smith Report, evaluate the benefits of introducing requirements with Jarvis plc.
established in June 2001 to provide an but at least once every year.
that the necessary system of internal the Audit Committee will continue to information technology solutions to independent mechanism for monitoring control had been established to comply review risk control processes with the improve the efficiency and effectiveness In January 2003 the Tube Lines and reviewing internal control The terms of reference of the Nomination with the requirements of Internal Control Chairman of the Group Risk Management of the formalised risk assessment process consortium, of which the Group holds 33% effectiveness across the Group.
Committee include the responsibility for Guidance for Directors on the Combined Committee, supplementing the Boards and ongoing management of the business assumed responsibility for the identifying and nominating for approval of Code the Turnbull Guidance and that this formal review of outputs in this area on risks identified.
maintenance and renewal of the Jubilee, A programme of Internal Audit reviews has the Board suitable candidates to fill board system would be the subject of evolution a quarterly basis.
7 Embedding Risk Management As part of Northern and Piccadilly Lines from London been completed during the year ended 31 vacancies.
In doing so, the Committee and continuous improvement.
The Board the Groups drive to continuously improve Underground, as the first of the London March 2003 and resulting action plans to takes account of the skills knowledge and can confirm that the system of internal Control Environment and Control Activities the system of internal control, the Board Underground Public Private Partnerships.
improve processes have been agreed.
experience required on the Board before control, which complies with the The control environment is supported by recognises the importance of establishing These plans are reviewed by Group commencing their search.
To undertake the Combined Code and Turnbull Guidance, appropriate policies, procedures and specific risk management targets.
The As with Agilisys, assurance has been Internal Audit to ensure implementation.
search, external advice is sought to ensure has been in place for the whole of the year business processes that are designed to Division and Business Unit Risk Champions sought that the 5 key risk management The Board and Audit Committee have that a wide range of candidates are under review.
Further improvements to the enable the organisation to manage and Risk owners review on a regular basis issues are being addressed.
The Tube agreed a further annual plan of reviews considered.
The Committee also has procedures adopted by the Group for significant business risks.
The Board is the progress made on key target actions to Lines Holdings Board, which meets on a for the year ending 31 March 2004. responsibility for succession planning for internal control have been developed committed to improving the control mitigate the risks.
quarterly basis, has established a rotational the Board and makes recommendations to during the year and the Board remains environment and has implemented the agenda to review these matters.
A Board Annual review of the effectiveness of the Board regarding the re-appointment or committed to ensuring that the Group following initiatives amongst others: These initiatives will further improve sub-committee, which meets monthly, the system of internal control re-election of all directors.
continues to operate and improve a sound internal control within the Group and receives a monthly report from the The Board performs a review of the system of internal control.
1 Emergency Response and Business demonstrate the Boards ongoing management of Tube Lines Limited effectiveness of the system of internal Shareholder Communications Continuity Planning.
A formal template for commitment to enhancing the control addressing key risk issues.
This review Institutional shareholders have frequent Any system of internal control can only Emergency Response and Business environment across the business.
considers the adequacy of the systems contact with the Chairman Paris Moayedi, provide reasonable and not absolute Continuity Plans have been developed for Regular Reporting on the effectiveness in place and seeks to ensure continuous the Chief Executive, Kevin Hyde, and with assurance against material mis-statement use throughout the Group.
The evaluation Joint Ventures of the system of Internal Control improvement.
The Boards annual review Robert Kendall, the Group Finance Director.
or loss, as it is designed to manage rather of the effectiveness of these plans is It is the policy of the Group to ensure that The Board receives and reviews regular includes consideration of the changes in The Company welcomes and encourages than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve ongoing throughout the Group and new all current and future material joint ventures reports on performance against budget, nature and extent of risks, the scope and such dialogue, within the constraints of the business objectives.
plans are being drafted, where appropriate.
are committed to operating a sound system strategic planning and operational issues quality of executive managements UK Listing Authority guidelines.
These plans include Terms of Reference of internal control.
The major joint ventures as well as reports on the ongoing monitoring activities, the incidence of any Additionally, the company has a Director of In seeking to achieve these objectives, for Head Office and Divisional crisis commencing in the year under review are assurance processes currently operating major control weaknesses and the Corporate Affairs who is not a main Board many of which are already a feature of the management teams.
effectiveness of year end reporting.
member but sits on the Executive existing processes and procedures within 2 Divisional Risk Working Groups focus on Committee and whose prime responsibility the Group, the Board has instituted risk management.
Their role is to In April 2002, the Company entered into a Board meetings have a pre-agreed The annual effectiveness review concluded is to enhance relationships with processes described below: coordinate the quarterly risk assessment, material joint venture with netdecisions Ltd rotational agenda to ensure important in June 2003, has identified the following institutional shareholders.
Institutional to drive performance improvement and to form the Agilisys joint-venture.
In light of matters such as operational safety are objectives to further improve the system investors may, if they have concerns which Regular evaluation of Business Risks identify appropriate actions in their the Turnbull Guidance on internal control regularly reviewed at the appropriate level of internal control: they believe are not being addressed by The Group operates a formalised business divisions.
They have ensured successful concerning joint ventures, a shareholders within the organisation.
Achieving greater consistency of the Executive Directors or the Chairman, risk identification and evaluation process.
roll-out of the process across the group, note was sent to Kevin Lavery, Chief standards: approach the Senior Independent Director As part of the evaluation of specific risks, including international operations.
Business risk profiling information is used Enhance knowledge sharing: to provide validation or further information.
consideration is given to their potential 3 Systems and procedures are in place to drive and further integrate assurance Continuous ongoing process improvement Private investors are encouraged to attend impact on achieving business objectives throughout the Group to identify, control This note requested that Agilisys activities, with regular internal control to satisfy changes in business the AGM or, if they cannot, to vote by and the development of appropriate and report on major risks and to develop management confirm that five key risk reports which incorporate business reports environment: proxy.
In preparing the agenda for all mitigation actions.
Each Jarvis operating actions to reduce the risks.
The Risk requirements had been addressed, as on control performance.
Assessing the appropriate retention of General Meetings of the Company, care is division reports on a quarterly basis, and Management Committee reviews and follows: records to support significant contractual taken to ensure that substantial issues are these reports are consolidated to create reports on the exposure of these risks Agilisys has a recognised and appropriate The Audit Committee makes an important relationships: and the subject of separate resolutions.
At the a Group view of the key risks facing the to the Group.
risk management policy in place: contribution to ongoing effectiveness Improving IT security.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and business.
This is also addressed quarterly 4 Target Action As part of the ongoing Agilisys has a mechanism for identifying evaluation, by way of its regular review of as at all recent General Meetings, the by a Group Risk Management Committee drive to mitigate key risks, the divisions and reviewing key risks and controls in the Group internal control reports.
By order of the Board numbers and voting intentions of comprising representatives from each of report formal Risk registers, identifying business: G K H Mason shareholders voting by proxy will be the operating divisions, the Head of Group significant risks and actions being taken The risk management process is clearly Insurance Secretary disclosed to the meeting.
The Company Internal Audit, the Director of Safety and to manage the risk to an acceptable level.
embedded in Agilisys: The Group operates a comprehensive 11 June 2003 will give at least twenty working days the Group Company Secretary under the 5 Risk Management Information In A quarterly board reporting procedure is insurance cover for its operations, including notice, of the Annual General Meeting and Chairmanship of the Group Commercial recognition of the importance making risk established for reviewing, updating and material damage, third party liability and the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Director.
management information widely available actioning as necessary, key risks: and employers liability.
As part of the Audit Committees will be available to throughout the Group, both policies and There is visibility of business continuity operational requirements of the Strategic answer shareholder questions relating to These reports are supplemented by selfprocedures have been made readily planning in Agilisys for key operations Rail Authority, Jarvis carries extensive third the responsibilities of the Committees certification statements, which requires available to all staff through the Company and processes should the identified risks party liability insurance, which would not which they chair.
management throughout the Group to intranet site.
exclude gross negligence, up to the level attest to the effectiveness or otherwise required by the Authority of 155 million.
68 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 69 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 71 Steve Carswell Corporate social responsibility A former pit deputy at the Prince of Wales colliery in Pontefract, Steve joined Jarvis Rail in March 2002 after 25 years in the mining industry.
His experience as the operator of a coalface shearer proved valuable as he retrained to operate The Slinger, Jarvis innovative sleeper delivery train.
Although in some ways it was a big change from working in the mine to being on the railways, in many respects I was on familiar ground.
As a pit deputy Id been used to doing risk assessments and Significant improvements in accident issues impacts and influences for both to oversees all the Companys actions arising following very strict safety procedures: frequency and incidence rates direct and indirect stakeholders: from developments in accounting standards its second nature in both industries.
Carrying out a gap analysis of performance and policies, legislative and regulatory Over 2,000 new staff successfully against established and accepted best developments and changing investor needs.
Jarvis is always pushing you to do more integrated into the company practice: training.
They sent me on a basic computer Establishing a framework of revelant key Recognition for progress course recently, and we are constantly Environmental management systems performance indicators KPIs : Since September 2002, Jarvis has been keeping up to date with health and safety.
introduced across most of the business Adapting and or developing appropriate listed on both the Dow Jones Global I appreciate that, because Im always and under development in all remaining management systems for managing and Sustainability Index DJSI which striving to improve.
I also like the fact that major business units reporting KPIs: represents the top 10% of leading Jarvis listens to us.
If you have a Integrating the new CSR framework with sustainability companies within the top suggestion for improvement, the managers Started work on a comprehensive CSR our existing risk management systems: and 2,500 companies in the Dow Jones Global will act on your ideas provided theyre framework for all Jarvis operations Developing reporting and auditing frameIndex and the Dow Jones European financially viable.
Thats why the Slinger works, which are relevant to key internal Stoxx Index.
We were the only UK keeps getting better and better, Im still Listed in major ethical indices, and external audiences.
company in our FTSE sector to be impressed by it.
The improvements were including the FTSE4Good and Dow accepted on to the Global Index.
Jarvis has making mean we need less manpower to Jones Global Sustainability and We expect this project to take around two also been included on the FTSE4Good do more work, which has important safety European Stoxx Indices years, assisted by Maplecroft, a wellIndex, which is already established as the benefits.
respected CSR-focused organisation with fide facto UK-based benchmark index for This CSR report is built on our belief that very strong academic links and practical socially responsible investment.
This is also a much healthier environment.
companies that will be successful and experience of creating operational CSR Youre working outside: not stuck down profitable in the future are actively working performance management systems.
Initially More recently the Company was a founder the pit doing the same thing for 25 years.
to create sustainable relationships with all we will focus on developing indicators for participant in Business in the Communitys I dont mind being out in all weathers, their stakeholder Groups: from employees, environmental and health and safety issues, inaugural Corporate Responsibility Index, because we get to see different parts of shareholders, customers and suppliers, to followed by other areas.
This programme is which assessed companies against a full the country.
Not long ago we had to drop the wider community, investors and being built on solid business cases, both range of criteria.
We were ranked around a consignment of sleepers at the line regulators.
In the sectors in which we financial and non-financial.
Our aim is to the middle of the 122 companies who took running next to the Troon golf course, operate, Jarvis aims to set the standard in ensure that our efforts to develop CSR best part most of them from within the FTSE while the British Open was being played.
our approach to the full range of CSR issues.
practice and business profitability are 350.
The material generated for this Were fully briefed about every job, mutually complementary and supportive.
survey is feeding into our CSR framework including any environmental issues.
Over the past year, we have made good and will help us to refine and improve our For example, we had to be particularly progress on major elements of corporate Improving communications CSR programmes.
careful with a colony of rare lizards near social responsibility: the health and safety Appropriate two-way communications are Southport recently.
of our employees and other people directly an essential enabler for effective corporate Working to contribute to society affected by our services, the general social responsibility.
In terms of external Jarvis business activities are generally in working conditions for our staff, our CSR forums, Jarvis delegates and speakers sectors that contribute to the well-being of involvement with the wider community, have been involved in regional and society.
We are not engaged in business and our environmental responsibilities.
international conferences on business in the relating to the production of armaments, community, environmental and sustainability alcoholic drinks, tobacco, pornography, Although we have made progress in many issues.
We are actively contributing to CSR nuclear power, gambling facilities or animal areas, we recognise that we cannot be initiatives at the national and, where testing.
Whilst we do not engage in the complacent.
The Jarvis Board remains possible, at European Union level.
promotion of alcohol or tobacco as a primary committed to developing and extending source of revenue, we recognise that we the policies and supporting processes that As part of a growing emphasis on internal provide, as a standard part of our student transform our aims and ideas into actions.
communications, we are updating the accommodation offering, bar facilities where Environment Handbook: a simple alcohol and tobacco products are sold.
The Jarvis is a founder participant in introduction to environmental issues which income from these facilities is less than 1% is distributed widely, to all new employees, of the contract revenue.
the Business in the Community on training courses, to sub-contractors and Corporate Responsibility Index to other people we work with.
Under our contract to manage the training facilities at the Army Foundation College A framework for measuring our CSR Strengthening corporate governance at Harrogate, we provide a range of activities This year we established a new corporate generic management services.
Included Last year we committed ourselves to governance working group, led by the Group in the services is the management of the developing a properly structured approach Finance Director and the Group Company armoury and a facility for small arms to our environmental and social Secretary, designed to make sure that we training.
These are estimated to make up responsibilities.
We have started work on take positive and appropriate action in less than 2% of the contract revenue for this CSR framework, which will include: response to the constantly changing external the project.
Creating a stakeholder map identifying key business environment.
The working group 70 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 71 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 73 Michael Green Corporate social responsibility Michael is the Project Manager for the manage and co-ordinate all the specialist Every contractor has to work to signed and new Weatherhead High School to cater firms from the designers and architects agreed working methods.
Its all about Health and safety for 1,500 girls aged 11-18, which Jarvis to the many sub-contractors who carry out creating an H&S culture.
Its a neat and tidy is building at Wallasey on the Wirral.
the construction work as well as to liaise site: everything is clearly signposted.
We After leaving school he trained as an with the client so that we deliver a school provide cooked food facilities on site and engineer in the construction industry, which meets all curriculum and community ensure that the toilets and drying rooms working for several major companies needs.
and canteens are cleaned daily, because before joining Jarvis in June 2001 at we want to create a sense of ownership the start of this project.
With 160 people typically on site at any here, and it works well.
one time most of them sub-contractors This is a challenging site from a design health and safety is absolutely the top Were also pioneering environmental point of view: a brown-field site on a priority.
Before anyone starts work here issues.
This was one of the first sites to slope and with quite an awkward shape.
they go through a pre-start Health and segregate waste into different skips, which We also have to meet current and upSafety meeting to make sure they conform has the added benefit of reducing disposal Health and safety remains the first item for reviewing hand-arm vibration issues, of track across the country.
A total coming disability accessibility regulations.
Weve also had to protect a colony discussion and action on all Board agendas with the help of an external specialist: Once wed overcome the initial design the site operatives undertake a site safety of Great Crested Newts in the pond on of 160,000 safety checks have across the Group.
We recognise that it is carrying out business health and safety risk challenges, my priority was to operate a induction to familiarise them with site site.
Overall Im very proud of this site and been made during the year.
vital to conform to the highest safety and reviews, to support the work of the Group clean and safe site.
Jarvis role is to specific health and safety information.
the finished product were creating.
health standards, in the interests of our Risk Management Committee: employees and all other people who may reviewing and updating the health and Investment in training be affected by tasks, operations or safety section of the Jarvis intranet: In the Jarvis rail business alone, processes under our control.
reviewing external contributions to employees have completed over 23,000 government initiatives such as the days of health and safety related training Commitment throughout the Revitalising health and safety campaign, this year, a 57% increase on the previous organisation road traffic safety and Health & Safety year.
A further 140 managers have The Groups health and safety policy is Executive guidance: and attended the externally assessed concerned both with establishing standards examining the cost of accidents and Institution of Occupational Safety & Health and procedures to safeguard health and collating lost time statistics.
IOSH training programmes, making a safety, and also with ensuring that managers, total of almost 400 IOSH-qualified as individuals, appreciate the personal Increased transparency managers in Jarvis rail operations.
contribution they must make to minimise Over the past year, we have improved Over 17,000 training days were spent on the risk of injury and ill health at work.
the clarity of our reactive monitoring of operational rail training, such as plant and accident incidence rates across the Group.
equipment, civil engineering, signalling We remain fully committed to the UK This involves calculating moving averages and welding courses.
governments ongoing Revitalising Health for the previous 12-month period, each and Safety campaign and, as part of this, month, making it easier to immediately Forty-four managers and supervisors from to exceed the campaign targets by compare accident rates.
The resulting the Highways business attended IOSH achieving a 10% year-on-year reduction graphs are reviewed and discussed at training this year.
Operatives and in accidents and ill health.
The campaigns every meeting of both the Executive supervisors have spent over 1,000 training within each business unit to support this Committee and the main Board.
days attending general health and safety aim are now well established.
awareness courses and a further 650 Safety Check: a breakthrough in rail training days have been spent on specific Co-ordinated efforts safety awareness training such as plant and machinery, The Jarvis Health and Safety Liaison Group In early 2002, Jarvis began the manual handling and road works.
Prismo HSLG made up of the professional development of its ground-breaking new have arranged nationwide safety forums heads of safety throughout the business Safety Check system.
This uses an to discuss progress and actions arising met four times during the period to discuss extensive new safety database to ensure from regional safety audits.
The emphasis and review activities and initiatives, that all rail crews are aware of the safety has been placed on safety audits by site exchange ideas and learn lessons for the imperatives, operational and environmental management teams and a programme of benefit of the Group as a whole.
risks for the particular stretch of track on pro-active monitoring has been set up.
which they are about to work.
The crews In total, 229 Prismo people have attended Top of the agenda has been the continuous must call the Jarvis Control Centre in York one-day safety-awareness courses, 65 drive to create and develop a measurement before starting any piece of maintenance have completed internal inductors courses tool for monitoring our compliance with work.
The Safety Check database and 68 have attended the internal safety health and safety procedures at our diverse structures a series of specifically tailored auditors course.
This pro-active monitoring tool questions that are designed to ensure has now been successfully trialled in each awareness of the relevant risks and The construction business continues to business unit to the maximum degree of constraints for that particular job and follow a rigorous IOSH and modular health compatibility that our businesses will allow.
Only when the Control Centre and safety training programme to support The results are encouraging and we are is satisfied with the crews certification the review carried out last year.
Over 100 already working to develop the system to work and awareness of the safety managers and supervisors have now further so that we can be sure that it requirements are they given clearance attended the courses during the year.
provides us with reliable, realistic measures to start work on the site.
In addition, site operatives continue to of health and safety performance.
receive induction and specific training on In the trial period alone for the construction projects throughout the UK.
The HSLG has also covered a wide range of new Safety Check system in the other important areas, including: In our facilities management operations, rail business from April to progress on developing our on-line the IOSH training programme began with a September 2002, over 39,000 business risk management tool: course attended by senior directors in May.
safety checks were carried out assessment tools for health and safety: This will be followed up by the lOSH reviewing insurance claims and before crews were given the Managing Safely course in the coming year.
arrangements for external audits of policy authorisation to work on stretches and site practices: 72 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 73 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 75 Graph A role in producing safety guidelines for work Construction improves safety processes opportunity for attacks of this kind, Jarvis Rail and Safety & Environment Plan Performance Monitor 2002 03 in the road services sector through the There has been a marked improvement and ensuring that any fire is restricted and Trackside Major Accidents per 750 staff national term maintenance and traffic in the integrated management systems cannot spread to endanger life.
inc employees, contractors and agency labour accidents for which Jarvis Rail could influence the pre-cursor events management committees.
The Company has instigated a rolling The FM business has placed emphasis Prismo is successfully continuing to reduce programme of independent, project on developing its compliance auditing 10.00 the Accident Incidence Rate see graph D level health and safety audits, providing programme, first trialled in June 2002.
9.00 and the number and severity of burns continuous feedback into safety These audits are based on a 14-point injuries caused by the use of hot road management systems as well as an schedule that is compatible with the safety 8.00 markings materials is down to 14% of the objective measure of continuous management systems across the Group.
total reportable injuries over a two-year improvements.
The plan includes a rolling programme of 7.00 period.
This follows a nationwide campaign visits to all UK and Ireland locations.
to increase awareness and to monitor the The business has also introduced a new 6.00 wearing of personal protective equipment.
early stage risk identification programme We also prepare and serve food to a for all its projects, providing key health and number of schools and other 5.00 Graph D safety information for everyone involved, establishments in the UK and we follow 4.00 Continuous Improvements in Prismo from the bid team to construction and a rigorous programme of compliance with facilities management teams.
We are planning 3.00 to bring all training of food handlers in- 0 2.5 Operational safety house, to be delivered by qualified 2.00 2001 02 Operational safety covers all aspects of our members of our FM catering team.
Food 2002 03 operations, but has particular relevance for safety is also audited in-house by our own 1.00 AIR 100 Workers our rail and facilities management specialist team, and health and safety businesses.
advisers, supported by a specialist external 0.00 Construction and facilities management consultant.
The construction business has seen Rail Year and Period significant falls in major and reportable In Rail we have continued to have a very injuries over the period and has met their good record, making significant reductions Key targeted reduction in reportable injury in risk on the areas that we maintain.
A key Jarvis Rail Major Injury Rate Moving Average rates.
The accident incidence rate is half performance indicator is the number of Railway Group Major Injury Rate Moving Average that of the latest available HSE LFS figure broken rails, where against a national Jarvis Rail S&E Plan Target Ceiling currently 2.0 for 2002 03 see graph E. reduction of 16.4%, Jarvis has achieved a 32.2% reduction in the areas we maintain.
Graph E In track geometry we have also achieved Accident reporting Ahead of targets in rail Measurable improvements on the roads Continuous Improvements in AIR the lowest level of Level 2 track defects The Group closely monitors accidents, This year, accident rates in Jarvis Rail were In the highways maintenance business, the Construction per mile of track maintained and the incidents and near misses, with a view to below our target rates for major injuries, 20-point health and safety plan launched lowest percentage nationally of track in the preventing any recurrence.
Where demonstrating considerably better last year resulted in a significant fall of poor very poor category.
possible, our performance is measured performance than the latest available peer 20% in reportable accident incidence rates HSE 2.58 Averaged against national benchmarks.
We continue Group information see graph A.
After over the year see graph C. 0 2.58 LFS 00 01 Turning to our responsibilities as a major to encourage our peers to take part in experiencing a slight upturn in the accident 2001 02 operator of rail plant, we have achieved the benchmarking, through best-practice clubs incidence rate for all reportable accidents, Graph C 2002 03 lowest number of Signals Passed At Danger and relevant industry bodies.
Rail showed continuous improvement over Continuous Improvements in AIR AIR 100 Workers amongst the major infrastructure companies.
the last six months of the year, whilst the Highways We were responsible for only two Currently, the following formulae are used accident frequency rate for trackside Our Facilities Management FM and occurrences, with only one of these being to calculate the various accident rates: workers demonstrates continuous 0 3.25 6.5 University Partnerships Programme in connection with actual train driving.
Accident Frequency Rate AFR number improvement for six consecutive years 2001 02 businesses have continued to demonstrate of reportable accidents multiplied by see graph B.
2002 03 continuous improvement in accident Facilities Management and University 100,000, divided by the number of hours AIR 100 Workers incidence rates and have achieved a Partnership Programme UPP worked for rail : Graph B reduction of 10% below their target In our FM work in schools and university Major Injury Rate MIR number of major Jarvis Rail Accident Frequency Rates AFR The highways maintenance business reportable accident rate over the period accommodation, the key focus is on fire injuries per 750 trackside workers for rail : continued its successful behavioural safety see graph F. safety.
The business has been to all such accommodation that comes Accident Incident Rate AIR number of 1997 98 particularly focused on audits and Graph F under our control, whether new build or reportable accidents multiplied by 100, 1998 99 compliance, toolbox talks, traffic Continuous Improvements in WFM UPP transferred, to ensure that all buildings divided by the number of workers at risk.
1999 00 management and achieving best practice 0 1.5 operate at fire safety standards above the 2000 01 in their specialist areas of business.
Schools are a major 2001 02 A significant contributor to national safety 2002 03 target for arson in the UK, so our new build 2002 03 initiatives, the business has played a major AIR 100 Workers designs focus on minimising the 74 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 75 Major Accident Rate Per 750 Trackside Staff P1 2001 02 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P10 P11 P12 P13 P1 2002 03 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P10 P11 P12 P13 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 77 Richard Tsang Corporate social responsibility Richard works for Jarvis Training At the end of my placement, Jarvis to training classroom assistants.
We even Management in Liverpool, as part of a offered me a permanent job and now Im train people who want to get into acting Social responsibility team of ten helping unemployed 18-24 a Jobsearch Tutor, advising people who or work backstage in the media.
year olds find work under the come to us under the New Deal governments New Deal programme.
Because of my computer skills, I tend to He has a BTEC national diploma in specialise in this area.
That might involve computer studies.
Since I joined, Ive had more computer helping a client create or update their cv, training and Ive gained my Personal Track complete an application form, write a letter When I came to Liverpool three and a Safety PTS card, so Im allowed to work or search the Internet for jobs.
A lot of the half years ago, I was unemployed myself.
Thats really important as people who come to us have problems The Job Centre helped me to find a sixwe have a very successful rail with basic literacy, so it can be very month graduate training placement with maintenance training scheme, so I have to challenging at times.
But you get to know Jarvis Training Management.
I learnt all be able to understand what people might them quite well over the six months of about how the office operates, doing be doing as part of their job.
We run a the programme, and its good to motivate Although we face a wide spectrum of 97% of the orders phoned in by paperwork and filing, and looking after wide range of New Deal schemes, from them and see many of them getting jobs social and community challenges, we see reception.
painting and decorating in schools, at the end of the process.
our staff to the new Personal this as a positive business driver.
With Protective Equipment hotline are some 10,500 people now on our payroll, delivered to their home doorstep our responsibility to our employees has within 48 hours.
We also have responsibilities towards the wider items of PPE were issued during communities in which we operate.
During the year, employees in our Skills transfer As many of the UKs coal fields close, Rail business alone completed hundreds of highly skilled people face the over 40,000 training days, prospect of unemployment.
Jarvis is working including 23,000 days of safetywith UK Coal and the Government related training Employment Service on a pioneering scheme to retrain skilled former miners for Employees sustain our success the rail industry.
For example, we are taking Jarvis has continued to grow, largely over a property on the site of the Selby coal through TUPE transfers.
This year alone, field in Yorkshire, which we will refurbish employee numbers increased by 23%.
and convert into a new training centre.
Even with these growth rates we are Some 150 former Selby miners have already determined to ensure that we encourage a shown an interest in the scheme.
We hope common culture based around responsible that they can follow their colleagues from as well as profitable business practices.
several other mines in successfully transferring to Jarvis: capitalising on their Altogether, over 80% of the people who existing skills and experience in health and work for Jarvis have transferred to the safety, engineering disciplines and working Company under outsourcing contracts.
Our success in managing this process is underlined by our staff turnover rate, which Reinforcing the skill base is one of the lowest in the industry.
The Jarvis graduate recruitment programme has seen a further 29 graduate Personal protective equipment on engineers as well as the 18 already demand recruited in 2002 join the rail business.
Many of our employees work day in, day This is in addition to the 100 trainees we out in situations where protective clothing have taken on in Spring 2003 to serve and equipment are essential to their safety, modern apprenticeships in the signalling health and comfort.
In these and telecoms area.
circumstances, people need to be able to order appropriate new equipment quickly In the construction business, we are and easily, without necessarily having to go launching a new construction industry back to their depot to collect a new hightraining programme for facilities visibility jacket or protective boots.
management specialists, covering a wide range of skills.
We are also setting up This year we have introduced a new a special management development Personal Protective Equipment PPE programme for our senior managers, system.
Employees simply choose what in conjunction with Manchester Business they need from a comprehensive catalogue School.
and phone through their order to a special hotline.
Items are delivered straight to the At the other end of the spectrum, we have persons home address, typically in less than continued our work in Liverpools Education 48 hours.
In the first year of the scheme, Action Zone to encourage unemployed over 66,000 items of clothing and equipment people to take up training and work have been issued.
experience as classroom assistants under the governments New Deal programme.
76 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 77 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 79 Corporate social responsibility Environmental issues Balancing responsible corporate behaviour recommended for certification in April Table 2: Numbers of vehicles in Table 4: Key dates for implementation of resource management in buildings against commercial imperatives is a constant 2003.
The remaining major units in Jarvis company fleet challenge.
Jarvis has already established are now all actively involved in establishing STARK implementation Target date Comments clear environmental policies and we continue environmental management systems and Number of vehicles, 31 March 2003 to work on implementing these across our undergoing certification programmes.
Energy use, CO equivalent 2 business and supply chain.
We are Diesel 295 determined to reduce the negative impact By May 2003, 80% of the business Data loaded, from start calendar year 2002 to present June 2003 Total no.
of properties in database approx.
which the Companys activities have on the by turnover had achieved ISO 14001 Petrol 405 460.
environment, on a year on year basis.
Our new stretching target 2002 CO equivalent determined Second half 2003 Initially, Jarvis-occupied properties only 2 is that, by 31 March 2004 all major units Improving communications will be certified to this standard.
2003 CO equivalent target figure set Second half 2003 Initially, Jarvis-occupied properties only 2 As a clear indication of the importance Future target set Second half 2003 May include construction sites if data can which Jarvis places on environmental Utilities management software be properly captured management, a new corporate Environment This year we installed a utilities Working Group was created separate from management software package, which the Health and Safety Liaison Group in the we will use to monitor the use of water, Water consumption last quarter of 2002.
This enables us to gas, oil and electricity across all 460 Data loaded, from start calendar year 2002 to present June 2003 Total no.
co-ordinate the discovery and properties occupied and managed by Key 460.
implementation of best practice across Jarvis.
More than 10% of the energy Commercial vehicles 2,771 the Group more quickly and effectively used in schools where Jarvis provides Company cars 700 2002 water consumption determined Second half 2003 Initially, Jarvis-occupied properties only than before.
The Group has chosen to focus FM services comes from renewable 2003 water consumption target determined Second half 2003 Initially, Jarvis-occupied properties only initially on utilities management and waste energy sources.
While the decision to Notes: Company cars include short term hires Commercial vehicles are company vehicles other as the two key areas for action, in line with use renewable energy is customer-led, Future target set Second half 2003 May include construction sites if data can than company cars the proposed key performance indicators we actively support customers who wish be properly captured set out in last years annual report.
to do this and we are actively proposing schemes that include innovative energy Note: Energy supplies from renewable sources and or from reduced nil emissions sources are currently being investigated and trialled.
ISO 14001 recognition for conservation and renewable energy The feasibility of using carbon offset initiatives in addition to resource minimisation measures is being explored.
Table 3: Fuel usage and CO emissions 2 During the year, we made progress in from vehicle fleet embedding good environmental behaviour We have continued our programme to into the whole business, by introducing move the Company vehicle fleet from Total fuel usage CO equivalent, 2 and consolidating certified ISO 14001 petrol to diesel.
We are replacing old 2002-03, litres tonnes environmental management systems in all engines in our Rail plant with new, more our major business units.
This is coupled Petrol 2,502,695 5,781.2 with ongoing reviews of fuel use, Diesel 7,990,475 21,414.5 Most notably, Prosign, our French road equipment upgrades and working LPG 525 0.8 markings business, and Jarvis Training practices, to minimise unnecessary activity Total 27196.5 Management achieved ISO 14001 and machine use, and to improve work certification in April and July 2002 efficiencies.
Notes: Petrol includes leaded, regular and premium fuels.
respectively, and Jarvis Construction was Data extracted from fuel cards.
There is no distinction between business and personal use where personal use of vehicles is permitted The CO equivalent translates to 7.84 tonnes CO 2 2 Table 1: Actual target dates for certification equivalent per vehicle.
This includes all vehicles to ISO 14001 standard at 31 March 2003.
This figure does not equate directly with the 6.79 tonnes CO per vehicle 2 reported last year, which referred only to company Business Unit ISO 14001 achieved target date cars.
Rail August 2001 Prosign France April 2002 These figures only cover motor vehicles.
Training Management July 2002 Information on CO resource use in buildings, 2 on-track machines, small plant and other sources Construction April 2003 is being researched See main text note on Prismo: Product Services May 2003 Utilities Management Software.
The feasibility Prismo: Contract Services March 2004 of providing reliable and verifiable information on Highways March 2004 emissions from these sources will be assessed for possible reporting in 2004.
Workspace FM March 2004 78 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 79 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 81 Improving waste management The five-strong environmental protection Caroline Grant A pilot waste survey, which we carried out team in Jarvis Rail works closely with towards the end of 2002, illustrated the English Nature and other wildlife protection wide range of situations where waste is authorities to identify sites where we need Caroline is an Environment Manager We also do a lot of briefings, training generated, disposal channels, disposal to take extra care in our work.
From rare within Jarvis Rails five-strong and audits, as well as writing articles for sites, cost variations, contractors and sand lizards to badgers tunnelling alongside environment team.
She has a degree internal and external magazines to raise contractual relationships present within railway lines, our teams are fully briefed in biology from York University, where awareness.
This is a clear opportunity and prepared to protect the wildlife which she specialised in ecology and for improvement and we will begin a thrives in this unusual habitat.
Before Occasionally we encounter a problem comprehensive initiative across all our joining Jarvis in 1998 she worked as a with badgers causing subsidence to the major sites in mid 2003 with a view to We are using this accumulated experience countryside ranger for the Scottish track.
They like rail embankments rationalising arrangements.
Following on to spread good practice by having Wildlife Trust.
because its easy for them to burrow in from this, we will aim for significant cost members of the rail team work with other the soft, well-drained soil, and theyre savings, streamlined processes and better business units as they develop and Jarvis Rail, in particular, takes not usually disturbed by human activity.
We also integrate their own environmental environmental issues very seriously.
The usual way to deal with this situation hope to provide incentives for contractors management systems.
We were the first rail engineering is to erect one-way gates at the entrance to work with us to minimise waste.
company to gain ISO 14001 certification to the sett which allows the badger to Managing the supply chain for our environmental management leave but not return, but in the rail Construction activities have specific and Recent surveys, such as Business in the system covering all rail functions.
I was environment there isnt much point unique waste management issues.
Jarvis Communitys Corporate Responsibility responsible for helping the East Coast because they just move along to Construction UK is now running a pilot Index, have highlighted the general lack Main Line to meet the necessary another part of the embankment.
waste management programme on a of focus on CSR as part of an active standards within that programme.
number of sites to benchmark current approach to supply chain management.
As an alternative, we have been liaising performance and to trial management We recognise that Jarvis initially needs to Im the wildlife specialist within the Rail with Council Rangers, Local Badger options before launching new reduction concentrate on internal issues, before we environment group.
The environment groups and Network Rail to build initiatives nationally.
can seriously engage with our supply beside railway tracks tends to attract artificial setts away from the tracks, chain.
However, we are aware of the wildlife, so we have quite a few issues reinforced with concrete sleepers to Jarvis teams working on the growing need to report comprehensively to deal with.
On any one day, I might be deter baiters.
The badgers seem quite and verifiably on supply chain matters, and advising rail teams on dealing with happy in their new homes, and West Coast Route Modernisation we will do so in more detail in the future.
owls, foxes, bats, newts or sand lizards.
ultimately theres a business benefit to programme removed over 400 Jarvis as well, as it saves the cost of tonnes of fly-tipped waste from a We actively support efforts to source all stabilising the embankments.
vital access point in North London, timber from sustainable sources.
Already and we have installed CCTV the vast majority of the timber that we use is from sources approved by the cameras to monitor the area in Forest Stewardship Council.
We are case the illegal tippers return currently reviewing all sources of supply to confirm whether we can mandate that Positive progress this definitely applies to all of our timber, Jarvis recognises teams who contribute so that we can confidently promulgate to environmental protection.
We have given a policy that all timber will be procured awards for initiatives in many areas, from verifiable renewable sources.
including waste segregation, labelling and storage, clean-up initiatives, recycling, energy conservation and communication.
For example, each quarter we award a cash prize to the rail depots who have achieved the best clean-up of their facilities.
We are continuing to trial wind turbine generators, solar powered and battery lighting for trackside work, and we encourage our teams to consider local issues such as noise and dust when working close to peoples homes.
80 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003
