44 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 31st March 2003 Accounting convention: The accounts are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards under the historical cost convention.
Basis of consolidation: The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the parent company and all its subsidiary undertakings and include the groups interest in associates.
The results of companies acquired or disposed of in the year are dealt with from or up to the effective date of acquisition or disposal respectively.
The net assets of companies acquired are incorporated in the consolidated accounts at their fair values to the group at the date of acquisition.
The parent company has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Turnover: Comprises all invoiced sales of goods and services exclusive of sales taxes.
Financial instruments: The group uses financial instruments, in particular forward currency contracts and currency swaps, to manage the financial risks associated with the groups underlying business activities and the financing of those activities.
The group does not undertake any trading activity in financial instruments.
A discussion of how the group manages its financial risks is included in the Financial Review on page 10.
Financial instruments are accounted for as follows: Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge foreign exchange exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments in foreign currencies.
These forward contracts are revalued to the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date and any aggregate unrealised gains and losses arising on revaluation are included in other debtors other creditors.
At maturity, or when the contract ceases to be a hedge, gains and losses are taken to the profit and loss account.
Currency options are occasionally used to hedge foreign exchange exposures, usually when the forecast receipt or payment amounts are uncertain.
Option premia are recognised at their historic cost in the group balance sheet as prepayments.
At maturity, or upon exercise, the option premia net of any realised gains on exercise are taken to the profit and loss account.
Interest rate swaps are occasionally used to hedge the groups exposure to movements on interest rates.
The interest payable or receivable on such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value prior to maturity.
Currency swaps are used to reduce costs and credit exposure where the group would otherwise have cash deposits and borrowings in different currencies.
The difference between spot and forward rate for these contracts is recognised as part of the net interest payable over the period of the contract.
These swaps are revalued to the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date and any aggregate unrealised gains or losses arising on revaluation are included in other debtors other creditors.
Realised gains and losses on these currency swaps are taken to reserves in the same way as for the foreign investments and borrowings to which the swaps relate.
The aggregate fair values at the balance sheet date of the hedging instruments described above are disclosed as a note on the accounts.
The group has taken advantage of the exemption available for short term debtors and creditors.
Foreign currencies: Profit and loss accounts in foreign currencies and cash flows included in the cash flow statement are translated into sterling at average exchange rates for the year.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses arising on the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings are taken to reserves, less exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings.
Other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Research and development expenditure: Charged against profits in the year incurred.
Goodwill: Goodwill arising on acquisitions made after 1st April 1998 is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic life, which is 20 years or less if it is considered appropriate.
Goodwill previously eliminated against reserves has not been reinstated, but will be charged to the profit and loss account on subsequent disposal of the businesses to which it relates.
Depreciation: Freehold land and certain office buildings are not depreciated.
The depreciation charge and accumulated depreciation of these properties would be immaterial and they are reviewed for impairment annually.
Other fixed assets are depreciated on a straight line basis at annual rates which vary according to the class of asset, but are typically: leasehold property 3.33% or at higher rates based on the life of the lease : freehold buildings 3.33%: and plant and equipment 10% to 33%.
Leases: The cost of assets held under finance leases is included under tangible fixed assets and the capital element of future lease payments is included in borrowings.
Depreciation is provided in accordance with the groups accounting policy for the class of asset concerned.
Lease payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the profit and loss account using the annuity method.
Rentals under operating leases are expensed as incurred.
45 Johnson Matthey ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 31st March 2003 Grants in respect of capital expenditure: Grants received in respect of capital expenditure are included in creditors and released to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the expected useful lives of the related assets.
Precious metal stocks: Stocks of gold, silver and platinum group metals are valued according to the source from which the metal is obtained.
Metal which has been purchased and committed to future sales to customers or hedged in metal markets is valued at the price at which it is contractually committed or hedged, adjusted for unexpired contango or backwardation.
Leased metal is valued at market prices at the balance sheet date.
Other precious metal stocks owned by the group, which are unhedged, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Other stocks: These are valued at the lower of cost, including attributable overheads, and net realisable value.
Deferred taxation: Provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date and which could give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
Pensions and other retirement benefits: The group operates a number of contributory and non-contributory schemes, mainly of the defined benefit type, which require contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
The cost of these schemes is charged to the profit and loss account over the service lives of employees in accordance with the advice of the schemes independent actuaries.
Variations from the regular cost are spread over the average expected remaining service lives of current employees.
The cost of the defined contribution schemes is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
The cost of post-retirement health care benefits is charged to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis over the expected service lives of employees.
The actuarial liability for the cost of these benefits is fully provided for in the balance sheet.
Additional disclosures are included for pensions and other retirement benefits in accordance with the transitional arrangements of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
The group will be adopting FRS 17 in full for the financial year ending 31st March 2004.
