Part of Life Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 81 Notice of MEETING Notice is hereby given that the seventy-fifth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held in the Boardroom, The Caledonian Hilton Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh on 30 April 2004 at 11am to transact the following business of the Company: 1.
To receive the Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 and the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
To receive the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2003.
To re-elect Mr H C M Johnston and Mr S R Paterson and to elect Mrs M A King and Mr S J Waugh as Directors of the Company.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions of which number 6 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and numbers 7, 8 and 9 will be proposed as Special Resolutions:- Ordinary Resolutions 6.
That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined for the purpose of that section up to a maximum nominal amount of 9,466,496.
This authority shall expire on 30 April 2009 save that the Company may, before this authority expires, make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after it expires.
All previous general authorities under Section 80 of the Act shall cease to have effect.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 6 set out in the notice of this meeting, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to the provisions of Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act pursuant to the authority granted by that Resolution for cash, as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: i to the allotment of such equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of Ordinary Shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all Ordinary Shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them subject only to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body in, any territory: and ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,419,974.
This power shall expire, unless previously revoked or varied, on the date of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2005 save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Part of Life 82 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Notice of MEETING 8.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company Ordinary Shares PROVIDED THAT: i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 28,000,000: ii the maximum price which may be paid for any such Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased and the minimum price which may be paid for any such share is 10p in each case exclusive of associated expenses : and iii the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 12 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier: but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be completed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
That the Articles of Association be and are hereby altered as set out in the Appendix to the Circular to Shareholders dated 17 March 2004 circulated with the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board P R Cooper, ACA Secretary 53 Manor Place Edinburgh EH3 7EG 17 March 2004 Notes A In accordance with the Articles of Association, only holders of Ordinary Shares of the Company are entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting.
B An Ordinary Shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
C A form of proxy is enclosed for Ordinary Shareholders which, to be valid, must be completed in accordance with the instructions printed thereon and be lodged with the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
D The Register of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company maintained under section 325 of the Companies Act 1985, will be available for reference at the place of the Meeting from 10.30am until its conclusion.
E Copies of all Directors Service Contracts will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of this Notice until the date of the Meeting and on that date at the place of the Meeting from 10.30am until its conclusion.
F Copies of the current Articles of Association, together with the circular containing the proposed changes will be available at the Companys Registered Office during normal working hours on weekdays Saturdays and bank holidays excepted up to and including the date of the Annual General Meeting and on that day at the place of the Meeting from 10.30am until its conclusion.
Johnston Press plc FORM OF PROXY for Annual General Meeting on Friday 30 April 2004 I We Block capitals of being a member s of Johnston Press plc hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting as my our proxy to vote for me us and on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 30 April 2004 and at every adjournment thereof.
My our proxy is to vote as indicated in respect of the following resolutions: For Against Abstain 1.
The adoption of the accounts and of the Directors and Auditors Reports thereon 2.
The adoption of the Remuneration Report 3.
The declaration of the dividend 4.
The re-election election of Directors as follows: Re-election of: a Mr H C M Johnston b Mr S R Paterson Election of: d Mrs M A King e Mr S J Waugh 5. a The re-appointment of Auditors b To authorise the Directors to fix the Auditors remuneration 6.
Ordinary Resolution authority to allot securities 7.
Special Resolution disapplication of pre-emption rights 8.
Special Resolution authority to purchase own shares 9.
Special Resolution alteration of Articles of Association Signature s Dated this day of 2004 Please indicate with an X in the appropriate box how you wish to vote.
Unless otherwise instructed the proxy will vote, or abstain from voting, at his discretion.
To be valid, this proxy, together with any power of attorney or the authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof, must reach the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS13 8FB at least 48 hours before the meeting.
Appointments by corporations must be under the common seal or under the hand of an officer authorised in writing.
In the case of joint holders the signature of any one joint holder is sufficient.
Should a member wish to nominate any other person strike out the Chairman of the Meeting and insert the name of the alternative proxy which need not be a member of the Company.
Completion of this proxy will not prevent members from attending and voting at the Meeting if subsequently they find that they are able to do so.
Please tear along this line Second fold BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
SWB 1357 1 Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS13 8FB Third fold and tuck in First fold ADVISORS Solicitors MacRoberts 152 Bath Street Glasgow G2 4TB Ashurst Morris Crisp Broadwalk House 5 Appold Street London EC2A 2HA Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Saltire Court 20 Castle Terrace Edinburgh EH1 2DB Investment Bankers Schroder Salomon Smith Barney Citigroup Centre 33 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5LB Principal Bankers The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 36 St Andrew Square Edinburgh EH2 2YB Principal Clearing Bankers Barclays Bank plc Luton Corporate Banking Centre 1 Capability Green Luton LU1 3US Stockbrokers Deutsche Bank AG London Winchester House 1 Great Winchester Street London EC2N 2DB Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC Lochside House 7 Lochside Avenue Edinburgh Park Edinburgh EH12 9DJ Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.
co. uk Johnston Press plc 53 Manor Place Edinburgh EH3 7EG Tel: 0131 - 225 3361 Fax: 0131 - 225 4580 e-mail: enquiries@johnstonpress.
