The figures for 1999 have been extracted from the Listing Particulars.
1 Divisional profit and margin are shown before charging operating exceptional items, acquisition reorganisation costs and goodwill amortisation.
2 The net assets for 1998 to 2001 have been restated to comply with FRS 19, which was adopted in 2002.
56 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Financial calendar Financial calendar 2004 Results announced 4 March Annual general meeting 28 April Ex-dividend date for final dividend 28 April Record date for final dividend 30 April Final dividend payable 21 May Interim results announced 9 September Interim dividend payable 22 October Financial year end 31 December It is our policy to produce the documents constituting our Annual and Interim Reports with a minimum impact on the environment.
To this end, the paper used is 100% chlorine free woodpulp from sustainable plantation forests, using thinnings and waste from the timber industry, and is totally recyclable and biodegradable.
Covers are not laminated, saving polythene and polypropylene.
Our printers are fully accredited or in the process of becoming accredited to the ISO 14001 environmental management system.
They utilise soya based inks having a lower environmental impact than mineral based inks, and operate a direct computer to plate repro system, eliminating the need for film with its chemicals such as developer and acid fixers.
As well as extraneous paper, cleaning rags, fount solutions, repro chemicals, films and plates are also recycled.
Kidde plc is continually seeking methods of environmental management that will lessen the impact on unsustainable resources and reduce contributions to global warming.
Designed & produced by Carnegie Orr T 44 0 20 7610 6140 www.
com Kidde plc Mathisen Way, Colnbrook Telephone 44 0 1753 689848 Slough, Berkshire SL3 0HB Fax 44 0 1753 682572 United Kingdom www.
com PROTECTED BY KIDDE Annual Review 2003 1 Chairmans statement Kidde is the worlds leading independent 2 Kidde today fire protection company.
3 A growing business 4 Chief Executives review 8 Executive Committee 10 Business review Its growth is driven by safety regulations, 18 Corporate social responsibility strategic acquisition and new product 20 Board of directors 22 Summary directors report development.
Its resilience is derived from 23 Summary corporate governance statement the diversity of its end-user markets.
24 Summary directors remuneration report 26 Summary consolidated profit and loss account 27 Summary consolidated balance sheet 28 Shareholder information GROUP FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS SALES ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Sales up 6.6% 938.1m 8.8p Divisional profit up 2.3% 03 938.1 03 8.8 Operating profit up 14.3% 02 Operating cash flow equivalent to 02 879.7 7.8 110.5% of operating profit 01 901.0 01 7.3 Net debt reduced by 28.6m, 00 821.3 00 5.7 interest cover 4.5 times Adjusted EPS up 12.8%, basic EPS up 26.8% OPERATING PROFIT DIVIDEND PER SHARE Final dividend up 6.5% to 1.81p 92.7m 2.7p Year end order book levels similar to last year 92.7 03 03 2.7 02 81.1 02 2.55 01 91.6 01 2.4 00 98.6 00 1.5 Based on results before exceptional items, acquisition reorganisation costs and goodwill amortisation.
Only final, after demerger Year Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2003 2002 Turnover m 938.1 879.7 Business performance Divisional profit m 107.6 105.2 Adjusted Earnings Per Share p 8.8 7.8 Statutory results Operating profit m 92.7 81.1 Net debt m 264.6 293.2 Basic Earnings Per Share p 7.1 5.6 Dividend per share p 2.7 2.55 Divisional profit and adjusted Earnings Per Share exclude exceptional items, acquisition reorganisation costs and goodwill amortisation.
This Annual Review, together with the accompanying Annual Report and Accounts, constitutes the full Annual Financial Statements of the Group.
Chairmans statement I joined the Board of Kidde in February 2003 and was delighted to take on the role of Chairman at the end of the year.
I have got to know the business well during this time, having visited most of the operations.
I have met many employees around the world and I am impressed by their talents and commitment.
The business has excellent management and prospects.
The results for 2003 demonstrate the ability of the Group to make progress despite challenging market conditions and an adverse exchange rate environment.
The Group has resumed organic growth and I am encouraged by the reorganisation initiatives, which should have a positive effect on margins in the coming year.
In the Aerospace and Specialist Equipment Division, good growth in military business and the regional jet market, and a gradual recovery in the civil aerospace after market were offset by the anticipated decline in the civil OEM business, and reduced demand for cargo bay retrofits.
The specialist combustion controls business improved profit contribution CHAIRMAN NORMAN ASKEW slightly, despite lower volumes in difficult markets.
The Residential and Commercial Division achieved good annual organic growth.
Investment in stimulating consumer demand showed positive results, and improved market positions with key retailers were achieved, with associated costs absorbed in the year.
The Industrial Fire Protection Division grew organic sales and benefited from previous reorganisation work which will help to improve margins.
In Europe infill acquisitions performed well, particularly Ajax in the Netherlands and the marine fire protection business acquired from Kongsberg.
In North America, the telecom and power generation markets were depressed and, with delays in a number of petrochemical projects, led to slower sales.
Kidde Fire Trainers formerly IFTE, acquired in September, made an encouraging start.
The proceeds of the sale of the Groups investment in Baxi will further reduce borrowings, as well as enhance the Groups ability to make acquisitions, with the goal of replacing the earnings of this associate, though we will maintain the Groups stringent investment criteria.
Kidde has reviewed the implications of the revised Combined Code and the related guidance and good practice suggestions including Turnbull, Smith and Higgs and I am pleased to confirm compliance with the vast majority of the principles.
I would like to thank Sir Nigel Rudd, who retired as Chairman at the end of the year, for his important contribution.
He guided the business through its early years, working with the team at Kidde to make it the leader in its field.
I wish him continued success in the future.
I would also like to welcome Richard Gillingwater to the Board.
His distinguished banking and finance background will be of great benefit to Kidde.
Kidde has entered the new year with a good order book and improving market conditions evident in all three Divisions.
Accordingly, we expect to make further progress during 2004.
Norman Askew Chairman 1 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Kidde today OUR BUSINESS Kidde is the worlds leading independent safety products, systems and services, fire protection company.
We serve our covering detection, protection, diverse markets through three divisions prevention and fire fighting.
We aim offering the widest range of fire and to make your world a safer place.
DIVISION SALES AEROSPACE & SPECIALIST EQUIPMENT Products and systems for civil and military aircraft, military vehicles and 168.4m -3.4% bridging, plus combustion controls for 2002 174.3m the power generation and industrial heating sectors.
RESIDENTIAL & COMMERCIAL Extinguishers, smoke and carbon monoxide alarms, and other safety 142.4m 1.7% products to the retail and 2002 140.0m commercial markets.
INDUSTRIAL FIRE PROTECTION Fire and gas detection, suppression and fire fighting products to industrial 627.3m 10.9% markets and fire brigades globally, 2002 565.4m plus distribution and service-related activities.
GEOGRAPHIC PRESENCE Aerospace & Specialist Equipment Residential & Commercial Industrial Fire Protection 2 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 A growing business STRATEGY IN ACTION An effective overall strategy provides both organic and acquisitive growth in diverse markets, and offers a platform for future growth.
EXTENDING CAPABILITY THROUGH ACQUISITION The acquisition of what is now Kidde Fire Trainers enables Kidde to provide fire simulators, which offer realistic training facilities for a large range of fire scenarios, including airport emergencies.
BUILDING BRAND AWARENESS As airlines develop hubs, the use of Our sponsorship of ABC television regional jets has grown dramatically, announcements, alerting consumers to and Kidde is a market leader in the the need for adequate fire and carbon sophisticated fire protection systems monoxide protection, has increased they use.
demand for Kidde home safety products.
INNOVATION AHEAD OF REGULATION 4 We have developed the Open Path Eclipse, an infrared detector capable of seeing a hydrocarbon gas, offering gas detection vital to safety in the petrochemical sector.
TIMELINE OF LEGISLATIVE CHANGES WORLDWIDE As Kidde serves a wide spectrum of mainly regulated markets, developing products in anticipation of new legislation is a powerful driver of growth.
1999 1998 1997 1996 1994 1990 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 3 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 All fire hose to be tested to new standards in Brazil Federal Aviation Authority Class D Mandate requiring all narrow-bodied aircraft to have fire protection systems fitted in cargo bays EN-3 is a common standard in Europe for manufacture and Canadian Aviation Authority Class D supply of fire extinguishers Mandate adopting the FAA mandate throughout Europe.
It displaced all old National standards.
French Civil Aviation authority mandates training of fire fighters at a certified training centre every 3 years Hard-wired smoke alarms in new UK homes and loft conversions ISO 14520 adopted as standard for halon alternatives including clean agent gases such as FM200 worldwide NFPA 2001 sets new design standards for fixed fire suppression systems in USA EC Directive requires replacement of non-essential halon systems Montreal Protocol regulating the States of Massachusetts, New manufacture and use of halon Jersey, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, gases worldwide Tennessee and City of New York require residential buildings to be fitted with carbon monoxide detectors All motor vehicles to be fitted with a new standard of fire extinguisher in Brazil New ICAO regulations governing capacity of fire fighting vehicles on civil airports.
All countries subscribing to ICAO regulations Chief Executives review In 2003, we successfully followed our stated strategy and, as a consequence, have delivered what I believe to be satisfactory results in difficult market circumstances.
We can be pleased with achieving the main objective we set ourselves, which was organic growth.
We achieved this at the half year and increased the sales growth rate over the full year to 2.4%, achieving organic growth in all three Divisions.
We also delivered an improvement in underlying margins, that is, excluding the impact of currencies and acquisitions.
Reported growth in sales was 6.6% to 938.1m 879.7m in 2002 : and after a negative impact of approximately 9m from exchange rates, divisional profits still grew 2.3%, at 107.6m 2002 105.2m.
During the year we reduced our debt from 293.2m to 264.6m, a figure which will reduce further in 2004 with the proceeds from the sale of our interest in our associate company Baxi.
Adjusted Earnings Per Share EPS of 8.8p shows a 12.8% increase.
The final dividend proposed is 1.81p, making the full year dividend 2.7p, which represents a 5.9% increase on last year.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE MICHAEL HARPER We made further progress on infill acquisitions by being selective and investing in their integration, and these acquisitions have done well.
During 2003, we also created a new A SATISFACTORY YEAR IN WHICH structure of three divisions, by combining our European Fire Protection and North WE WORKED CONSISTENTLY TO OUR American Fire Protection businesses into one Industrial Fire Protection Division, which also BUSINESS MODEL TO DELIVER AN includes our Emerging Markets business.
The objective is to improve the profitability of IMPROVEMENT IN UNDERLYING our industrial fire protection business, focusing on reducing costs and improving margins.
MARGINS, AND A SUBSTANTIAL We will continue to focus on this throughout 2004, and expect to see benefits coming INCREASE IN ADJUSTED EARNINGS through from 2005.
PER SHARE AND THE FULL YEAR DIVIDEND A proven business model The resilience of our business is derived from the diversity of end-user markets we serve with a wide portfolio of strong product brands.
Regulation and legislation drive demand, creating potential for growth, and we also support organic growth with investment in marketing and new product development.
This is complemented with our strategy of infill acquisitions designed to consolidate market structures, extend our distribution and service THE KIDDE INVESTMENT PROPOSITION capabilities, and achieve cost and revenue synergies.
Adhering to this growth strategy in attractive markets improves the strong cash generative qualities of the business, providing Consistent Attractive application of interest cover to service debt.
markets strategy The increase in adjusted Earnings Per Share means Kidde has achieved growth of 15.6% p. a. compound since demerger in 2000.
This demonstrates that our business model is working, and I believe the continued application and execution of this model represents Value-creating an effective and healthy strategy for future growth.
The outlook for the year ahead is the investments most promising we have had since 2000.
Aerospace and Specialist Equipment The net result of 1.6% organic sales growth for the Division demonstrates the strength in Healthy interest Good cash flow diversity.
The Division also delivered an increase in operating profit of 1.3m in the year cover characteristics and a margin improvement of 1.7 percentage points.
This is after 1.1m of expense to rationalise the production facilities in North America, the benefit of which will be about 1.3m a year from 2005.
Good growth in our defence related business and a recovery in the demand for civil aerospace spares contributed to the 1.6 % organic growth in sales, despite the decline in Operating Equipment Manufacturers OEMs aerospace programmes.
Consistent dividend growth and improving returns 4 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 A STRATEGY THAT DELIVERS GROWTH Sales growth in regional jets and good military sales compensated for the decline in civil Targeting expanding markets plus an aerospace and specialist combustion controls.
Wins on new programmes during the year ongoing cycle of product development, provide a platform for future growth and the Division is positioned for an upturn in the in step with regulation.
The Division also benefited from the reorganisation we began in 2001 and further cost reductions combined with effective cost controls and a more profitable mix led to the Innovation through central R&D skills improvements in operating profit and margin.
base and cross-transfer of technology into new markets.
The civil aerospace business was affected by the sharp and anticipated decline in production at the major OEMs but the year included significant business wins at Airbus Distribution capability through infill and Boeing.
The Division also reinforced its market leadership on regional jet programmes acquisitions, strategic partnerships and by growing its sales and winning the ARJ-21 programme in China.
The aftermarket in leveraging group network.
spare parts continued to stabilise throughout the year but sales of upgrade equipment slowed notably compared to previous years.
By contrast, it was a good year for sales of Investment in our core brand through equipment in support of military aircraft and bridges, boosted further by full production a supportive brand architecture and on the dry support bridge contract and progress on the design phase of the F-35 Joint awareness programmes.
Overall our specialist combustion control businesses performed well in difficult market circumstances and improved their profit contribution.
Improving demand from Asia and steady business from the industrial heating sector were offset by difficult power generation markets in North America.
Effective measures to reduce costs and overheads resulted in an improved return on sales despite lower volumes.
While the market in North America will not improve in the short term, there are better prospects elsewhere, particularly in China where investment is creating new opportunities in growing markets.
Residential and Commercial The Division had a good year, with organic sales growth of 8.5%.
Exchange rate changes reduce this to a reported growth of 1.7%.
We established significantly stronger positions with major retailers such as Lowes, Home Depot and Wal-Mart, and our broad range of products, was a factor in this.
The one-off costs associated with setting up the new arrangements for these major customers were absorbed in the year and contributed to a small drop in margins.
Our success also lies in developing the market with our demand pull strategy: having tested marketing programmes in 2002, we continued by launching a major awareness campaign in 2003, which runs into 2004.
Central to this is our television sponsorship of announcements by former New York mayor Rudolf Giuliani.
The series, called Operation Save A Life, brought about a positive impact on consumer awareness and product demand at the point of sale.
The Division is in an excellent position to make positive progress this year.
Industrial Fire Protection Organic sales growth in the Industrial Fire Protection Division was limited to 1.1%, though total sales growth was 10.9%.
We were successful in our desire to improve margins in Europe, increasing them by half of one percentage point.
However, in North America slower markets, plus project delays in the petrochemicals sector, put pressure on margins.
5 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Chief Executives review continued 1 Rationalisation projects previously announced have progressed according to our plans.
The reorganisation into a single Industrial Fire Protection Division allows better co-ordination of marketing and new product development activity, and the aim is also to grow the service element of our business, to complement our comprehensive product offering and to co-ordinate the approach to global customers more effectively.
The resulting direct contact with end-users of our product also enables improved customer service.
The infill acquisition strategy continues to build value, while adding service activity improves performance.
The Division made good progress in Europe and we will continue to work on this by 2 developing the service element of sales in Europe, together with the benefits derived from reorganisation activity.
Ajax, acquired in 2002, had a very good year in 2003, while acquiring the fire protection business of Kongsberg Marine has added materially to the success of our Autronica business.
Similarly the Division had a good year in Asia-Pacific, and with its acquisitions in South America.
However, overall performance in North America was relatively disappointing, particularly in prices and sales of fire suppressants, and was adversely affected by the poor markets for fire protection associated with power generation and telecommunications.
Delays POLICIES THAT DELIVER in a number of petrochemical projects also had an adverse effect.
We maintained the Environmental management, employee acquisition programme with the addition of the IFTE Group in September, which is now communication and community renamed Kidde Fire Trainers.
It enhances our product range and position in technologies involvement are all pillars of a wellfor fire training, and is making a positive contribution ahead of expectations.
managed CSR programme, which is fundamentally good for business.
Group issues The initial phase of our 16 million investment in an ERP system, a common software 1.
Working in partnership with fire platform across the Group, is progressing satisfactorily.
The infrastructure is now established brigades in schools and working, and the first operating unit began live use of the system in February 2004.
Keeping employees informed Others will now follow at regular intervals over a 5-6 year period, and we expect to see 3.
Minimising water usage a positive return in cost savings, operational efficiency and reduced working capital.
We are also making good progress in maintaining our corporate governance and social 3 responsibility in line with industry best practice.
Our CSR policies have continued to deliver results in the areas of procurement, environmental impact, health and safety management, community involvement and communication.
A separate CSR report is available on request or through our website.
We announced the sale of our investment in Baxi in January 2004 and expect to complete the transaction in March 2004.
The cash proceeds will further reduce borrowings, thereby enhancing the Groups potential for making acquisitions in the year ahead.
We continue to work on realising the value of our other associate company, Robbialac.
Sir Nigel Rudd stood down as Chairman at the end of the year, having occupied the position since the companys creation in 2000.
I would like to thank him for his huge contribution.
He guided the business through its first three years and we have worked together to make it the leader in its field.
6 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Management development programme 03 7,758 In 2003 we initiated our first corporately sponsored international management 02 7,268 development programme, in conjunction with Henley Management College.
This brought together executives from different geographic, functional and business areas, 01 7,518 with the intention of developing key management skills for our future potential senior 00 6,921 management.
As a result of the success of this first programme, we have committed to a further programme in conjunction with Henley College in 2004, which will be supported by other management development initiatives for our wider international management personnel.
These initiatives reflect Kiddes increasing investment in the development of employees worldwide, and are supported by active training and development programmes in local operating companies.
This progress could also not be achieved without the tremendous effort, initiative and dedication of our staff, and I would like to thank everyone in the Kidde Group worldwide for their commitment and hard work.
It is showing in our achievements.
Outlook and strategy for growth Our business model is proving its worth.
In 2004, we expect to see further growth, both organically in what I expect to be more favourable markets, and from infill acquisitions, for which we will have more resource as a result of the Baxi disposal.
We have entered the new year with a good order book and improving market conditions evident in all three Divisions.
Reported sales and profits will be affected by currency movements this year, although the impact will be moderated by the hedging contracts in place for 2004.
We have been successful in maintaining good cash flow characteristics and improving the trend in return on invested capital, and I expect another good year in these respects.
The aerospace business is stable and I see continuing opportunities for growth by targeting expanding markets such as fire protection for regional jets and military applications.
Although the power generation market in North America remains slow, there are good growth prospects for our specialist businesses in Asia, particularly China.
The Residential & Commercial Division will benefit from the new programmes being rolled out with major retail customers and stands to enhance market share accordingly.
I expect the marketing programmes, which are designed to grow the market, to increase demand through brand recognition as well as safety awareness.
I anticipate the Industrial Fire Protection Division will benefit from improved demand in North America and continued growth in Europe and the Emerging Markets.
Infill acquisitions that we have already integrated will support continued sales and profit growth, alongside partner programmes such as that with Rolls Royce.
Further growth will come from acquisitions such as Crodas fire fighting chemicals business now renamed Kerr Fire Fighting Chemicals and the launch of new products for gas detection, fixed fire suppression and fire fighting.
We look forward to a year of continued progress for the Group in 2004.
Michael Harper Chief Executive 7 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Executive Committee A strong team 13 2 4 5 The Board delegates authority for the The Committees role also includes ensuring 1.
Michael Harper day-to-day operational management of that all employees have an understanding Chief Executive the Companys business to the Executive of the Company, its objectives, the He is 59 and a Mechanical Engineering Committee, which meets regularly, in industries and markets it operates in and graduate from Kings College, London with accordance with the needs of the business.
the risks and opportunities it faces, as an MSc in Business Management from The Committee is chaired by the Chief well as ensuring that there is an open Imperial College.
He has been with the Executive and comprises the Group communication process to ensure Company for 20 years.
He was Managing Finance Director, Divisional Managing feedback.
Director of the fire protection business Directors, the Director of Business when Kidde was a Division of Williams, Development, the Director of Technology, The operational and policy issues subject and has been Chief Executive of Kidde the Director of Human Resources and the to review by the Committee include, but since demerger in 2000.
Other representatives are not limited to: from the Kidde Group and external guests 2.
John Nicholas are invited to attend as required.
Strategy Group Finance Director Group policies, operating procedures He is 47, a Fellow of the Chartered The purpose of the Committee is, on and guidelines Association of Certified Accountants behalf of the Board, to review operational Vision and mission statement with an MBA from Kingston University.
activities and policy issues of the Group, incorporating objectives and values He joined in 1992 as Divisional Finance focusing on the review of trading results for the Group Director and moved to his present role at and forecasts and activity relating to Organisational structure demerger.
He is a trustee of the Kidde UK acquisitions and disposals.
It also reviews Resource Pension Plan.
the nature and extent of the risks and Technology opportunities including those arising from Review of external matters affecting 3.
Diane Quinlan social, environmental and ethical matters the Group Company Secretary to which the Company is exposed and Information Technology She is 38, a graduate of the University of provides an assessment of how they have Marketing London with an MBA from Edinburgh been identified, evaluated and managed, e-Commerce e-Business Business School.
She joined the Group in and it reports to the Board accordingly.
Human Resources 2000 as Company Secretary, with previous Internal controls financial and experience at several blue chip companies.
non-financial She is responsible for legal, secretarial, risk Insurance management, property and trademarks and Risk Management is a trustee of the Kidde UK Pension Plan.
Peter Moore Managing Director, Aerospace & Managing Director, Industrial Fire Director of Technology Specialist Equipment Division Protection Division He is 55, is a Chartered Physicist with He is 49 and joined the Group in 1995 He is 53 and holds a BSC in Business a PhD in Physical Sciences from the as Managing Director of Angus, later Administration.
He joined the Group in University of Surrey, and is a recognised becoming Managing Director of the fire 1997 as Managing Director of the US expert on dust explosions.
He joined the fighting businesses.
At demerger he Aerospace and Defence businesses and Group in 1971 as a trainee scientist and became head of the Acquisition and headed the Aerospace, Specialist and held senior management positions before Projects team and in 2001 was also Emerging Markets Division at demerger.
being appointed to his present position.
appointed Managing Director of European In July 2003 he became Divisional He is responsible for all research in the Fire Protection Division.
In July 2003 he Managing Director of the newly formed Group as well as quality assurance and became Divisional Managing Director of Industrial Fire Protection Division.
He is a trustee the Aerospace and Specialist Equipment of the Kidde UK Pension Plan.
Division based in Wilson, NC.
Dick DeMarle President, North American Fire 10.
Ed LeBlanc Protection Director of Business Development President, Residential and He is 52 and holds an engineering degree He is 42 and holds a BA Hons in Commercial Division from Cornell and an MBA from Stanford.
Economics and History from London He is 57 and has a business degree from He joined the Group in 1995 as President University.
He joined the Group in 2001 Lamar University.
He joined the Group in of Kidde Fenwal, with previous experience and is responsible for corporate and September 2000 as President of Kidde in Siebe plc, TRW and Eastman Kodak.
At business unit strategic development, postSafety having worked at a senior level demerger he became head of the North acquisition activities, including integration in several hardware manufacturing American Fire Protection Division, now a of new companies, and is responsible for businesses.
He was promoted to Divisional part of the Industrial Fire Protection Division.
Managing Director of the Residential & Commercial Division in 2001 and is Vice 8.
Bob Dwyer Chairman of the Home Safety Council in Director of HR the USA.
He is 55, an economics graduate and Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
He joined the Group in 2003 having worked in a range of international and plc HR roles.
Within Kidde he is responsible for international management development, recruitment and remuneration and benefits planning.
9 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Aerospace & Specialist Equipment Business overview Good growth in the sale of products to military applications, an improvement in the regional jet market, and a gradual recovery in the civil aerospace after market were all positive features in the aerospace and defence sector.
Nevertheless the anticipated decline in the civil OEM business together with a reduced demand for cargo bay retrofits, reduced overall volumes for the sector.
The Divisions performance was affected by the weakness in the civil aerospace market caused by the SARS epidemic in Asia and tension in the Middle East, which led to a general reduction in business confidence.
The overall result for the DIVISIONAL PRESIDENT L RON FLEMING Division was that sales declined by 3.4%, although in organic terms they grew by 1.6%.
FINANCIAL DIRECTOR R The Division benefited from the reorganisation work begun in 2001, which combined YATES PARKER with effective cost control and a higher proportion of sales to the aftermarket to increase the margin by 1.7% percentage points to 27.8%, leading to profit growth of 2.9%.
DIVISIONAL SALES Civil aerospace We maintained our strong position on new programmes with significant wins at Airbus 168.4m -3.4% and Boeing, and reinforced our market leadership on regional jet programmes by winning the important ARJ-21 programme in China.
However, the OEM market continued to DIVISIONAL PROFIT tighten as the major manufacturers cut back their rates of building and reduced their inventories.
The aftermarket also declined, with the sale of upgrades such as for cargo 46.8m 2.9% holds on narrow-bodied aircraft being the most significant of these as compliance with US regulations was completed and with no mandate in Europe yet.
Despite the difficult trading environment, spares sales were only a little below 2002 levels and repairs and TARGETING GROWTH retrofit sales grew later in the year.
Overall though, the Groups civil aerospace business We are building on our success in declined 13% to 51.9m, much as expected.
regional jet programmes, consolidating leading positions in military programmes, Defence and targeting growth in combustion Demand for Kidde products on military aircraft, vehicles and bridges was boosted by an control projects in Asia.
acceleration in some build programmes plus spares provisioning as part of the preparation for war in Iraq.
Overall sales to this sector grew by 11% to 74.8m.
Aftermarket sales were strong throughout the year and successful first deployments of the Stryker light armoured vehicle and the WFEL Dry Support Bridge led to increased demand for both from the US Department of Defense.
We made significant progress on the fire protection system for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and our leading position in military aviation was further reinforced by winning the contract to update the US Airforces C-17 fleet and the fire detection and control system for the Boeing 767 tanker programme.
Specialist equipment Trading conditions in the combustion control markets remained difficult as demand for power generation and associated environmental equipment in the US fell further.
Sales of flame scanners and igniters for commercial boilers were steady as a result of severe winter conditions at the start of the year.
Kidde companies in this sector found growth in Asia to help offset the decline in the domestic market and are planning further investment in this region in 2004.
Although sales fell by 11.6% to 41.7m, reorganisation and cost cutting increased the return on sales by 4.5 percentage points.
AIRBUS A380 Kiddes Fenwal Overheat Detection System to monitor the airframe and ducts taking hot air from the engines to the air conditioning and fide-icing systems has been selected for the Airbus A380 programme.
It will be the largest system ever developed for a commercial airliner.
The value of the contract will be about $50 million over the life of the project.
A380 Overheat Detection System 10 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Targeting expanding markets reinforcing YOUR JOURNEY market leadership in the growing number of regional jet programmes.
PROTECTED ARJ21 $70 MILLION REVENUE OVER 20 YEARS BY KIDDE Kidde is to develop the first totally integrated fire protection system for this new Chinese regional jet.
The system, with its integrated controller shown right, covers the engines and auxiliary power unit, and bleed air leak detection, as well as detection and extinguishing throughout the cabin.
11 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Residential & Commercial Targeting opportunities with our pull ONE IN SIX marketing strategy to grow the overall residential market.
NORTH AMERICAN OPERATION SAVE A LIFE In partnership with ABC television, Kidde is HOMES IS running an awareness campaign that could reach 30% of all US households.
The PROTECTED campaign advises people of the importance of protecting themselves, their families and their property from fire or carbon monoxide.
BY KIDDE This is particularly important during the cold months, when homes will be heated and windows and doors closed.
12 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 The Division achieved good sales and profit in 2003, with sales growing by 8.5% organically, which translated into 1.7% growth after accounting for exchange rate movements.
Profit grew organically by 5.3%, but after translation to Sterling, the reported profit declined by 4.8%.
The new positions achieved at the major US hardware retailers were a significant factor in the growth, which was supported by the new marketing programmes directed at increasing awareness among consumers of the need for appropriate home safety protection.
DIVISIONAL PRESIDENT L ED LEBLANC Continued development of our position in both the retail and commercial channels for FINANCIAL DIRECTOR R home safety was supported by the launch of several new products which have enabled PAT HARVEY the Division to offer the broadest range of products.
Due to this we were able to establish Kidde as the sole supplier, or having a leading position, at North Americas largest home improvement and mass market retailers.
The underlying growth from these stronger DIVISIONAL SALES positions is evident in the business, and sales to many of the major customers showed material year-on-year growth.
142.4m 1.7% After successfully test marketing an awareness campaign in late 2002, we launched a DIVISIONAL PROFIT larger campaign in 2003 in collaboration with the ABC television network in the USA.
Named Operation Save A Life, television advertisements in the style of public service 15.9m -4.8% announcements, by former New York Mayor Rudolf Giuliani, alert viewers to the need to have adequate fire and carbon monoxide safety products in their homes.
This campaign was well supported by the retail channels, which used supportive point-of-sale TARGETING GROWTH material and other promotions to carry the message.
The results of this and other Investment in high profile marketing awareness campaigns are showing results and the current programme is to be continued campaigns is growing the market by during 2004. increasing consumer awareness of appropriate home safety protection, The Division continued its efforts to expand its worldwide presence, with notable success while new product development is in Australia and Asia and good growth in Canada.
Restructuring undertaken in 2002 broadening our product offering and began to deliver the benefits of lower costs in 2003 and we maintained the emphasis on leading to improved positions with the cost controls in the year.
However, progress on margins was limited by the one-off costs major retailers.
associated with the newly expanded positions with key retail partners, as they switched to Kidde products in their displays.
We have installed an ARC recovery system By using a closed loop we have in our manufacturing plant in North eliminated environmental risk and expect Carolina, to save over 1,000 gallons of the savings due to reduced waste to be water a day.
It also saves us the cost of more than 50% of previous costs.
We have installed a similar system to re-use lubrication oil.
13 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Industrial Fire Protection This is the first time the industrial business is being reported as a single division, following the reorganisation at mid-year to bring our North American and European Fire Protection Divisions together with our Emerging Markets businesses.
The reason for this change was to bring activities focused on similar markets around the world together under a single management.
This action will help us take greatest advantage of synergies across a broad based and fundamentally good business.
The aim is to continue the rationalisation programmes, to grow our service activities in Europe and to offer a co-ordinated approach to our global customers.
DIVISIONAL PRESIDENT L DOUG VADAY FINANCIAL DIRECTOR R The new Division achieved organic sales growth of 1.1% and total sales growth of 10.9% DAVID JOHNSTON to 627.3m.
Most of this was achieved in Europe, where sales grew 19.2% to 373.0m and in Emerging Markets, where sales were up 8.8% to 40.8m.
In North America sales were similar to those of 2002 at 213.5m.
It DIVISIONAL SALES improved in Europe as a result of the growth in the service content, as well as the full year benefit of cost saving actions taken in 2002 and continuing savings programmes 627.3m 10.9% implemented during 2003.
However, lower volumes in North America and delays in some projects for the petrochemical market largely offset these improvements.
DIVISIONAL PROFIT The rationalisation projects previously undertaken in the UK, Italy and Spain, plus those 44.9m 4.4% associated with acquisitions, including Ajax and Kongsberg Marines fire protection business, are delivering improving results.
The rationalisation of the fire hose manufacturing in North America has proceeded to plan with the closure of one plant now complete, TARGETING GROWTH and we expect to see the benefits of this from 2004 onward.
We are continuing our established pattern of growth through strategic acquisitions, The Division also benefited from acquisitions made in the year, all of which performed focusing on growing our service-based ahead of expectations.
The addition of IFTE, now named Kidde Fire Trainers, has enhanced activity to add to our overall market the Groups position in technologies for fire training as well as for the breadth of product proposition.
Reorganisation into one it can now offer to fire fighters through its global distribution network.
industrial division allows us to bring similar operations around the world Innovation underpins the organic development of the Division, helping maintain under a single management, and to competitive advantage by providing customers with fire protection solutions that not only offer a co-ordinated approach to global meet all regulatory requirements, but also meet the growing environmental concerns of customers.
During the year we introduced a new fixed fire suppression system which uses 3Ms new environmentally safe, clean agent gas Novec 1230.
We also enhanced the capability of the FM200 based systems, enabling them to be used for the first time in naval applications.
In fire fighting products, we extended the range of foams to include a low cost, limited capability foam for use in training.
We launched, through the UK MOD, the first approved fluorine-free foam for use in fighting aircraft fuel spill fires.
We also made advances in detection products, introducing new flame and gas detectors for monitoring the production processes of petrochemicals, and extended the range and capability of control systems for fire alarms used in buildings, ships and process control.
RAPID RESPONSE Back up supplies of foam required for a refinery fire were shipped from Manchester by a heavy transport aircraft within 24 hours of the call.
3M and Novec are trademarks of the 3M Corporation.
FM200 is a trademark of Great Lakes Chemical Corporation.
14 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Customer service a priority reacting CUSTOMER quickly to customer emergencies.
RELATIONSHIPS PBK REPSOL REFINERY A serious fire at a Repsol refinery in Spain PROTECTED put our response systems to the test in August 2003.
After immediate local Kidde BY KIDDE response, we mobilised large air freight carriers and week-end truck transport across Europe to ship very large quantities of foam, stepping up to 24-hour production to ensure our customer had the supplies they needed.
15 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Industrial Fire Protection continued Growth opportunities through strategic WORLDWIDE partnerships.
INDUSTRY ROLLS ROYCE ENERGY SYSTEMS INC.
Detector Electronics and Rolls Royce engineers PROTECTED have worked together to create an integrated solution for Rolls Royces industrial turbines.
BY KIDDE Using a broad range of Kidde products, this is flexible enough to meet differing local approval requirements around the world, and also simplifies the tasks of engineers and service technicians.
16 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 The major end-user markets experienced differing levels of investment and the diverse nature of Kiddes activities served well to take advantage of growing sectors, thereby offsetting the results in slower market areas.
Petrochemicals the market remained steady throughout the year, with particular growth achieved in Europe and South America.
European customers for products ranging from fire fighting equipment and vehicles for refineries to detection systems in process areas all increased their business with Kidde companies.
However, our US companies sales in this market remained fairly level in dollar terms as projects for fire and gas detection systems experienced delays, limiting the result for 2003, but providing a strong GROWTH OF SERVICE BUSINESS order book for 2004.
Having identified direct service contact with the UK marketplace as a growth Commercial & industrial buildings the markets remained steady and we achieved opportunity, Kidde UK developed a plan good overall growth in the sale of fire safety products to the sector.
The European market to establish new routes to the market.
showed good growth in this area, largely as a result of the full year effect of Ajax in the From having no presence in 2000 rapid Netherlands and generally firm markets for the broad products offering from Kidde for development means Kidde now has over buildings.
There was also notable growth from Autronica in Norway, which enjoyed 70,000 live direct service accounts in the further benefit from the growth in demand for its Autrosafe detection and alarm systems.
This number continues to increase Growth in Europe was partly offset by slow conditions in the US markets.
as Kidde delivers organic and acquisitive growth.
Industrial process and plant the sector saw good growth in 2003, where new regulations in North America for commercial cooking facilities boosted demand for new products launched in the year.
There was also a good performance from Badger in its sales of portable extinguishers.
The market in Europe was also buoyant and sales grew strongly overall.
Power generation the North American market was particularly slow in power generation protection and opportunities were limited.
By contrast, success on several large projects in Europe partially offset some of the decline in sales.
Telecommunications and data storage investment in infrastructure projects demanding fire protection was very slow and combined with the decline of gas extinguishant prices to reduce sales in this market in 2003.
Fire brigades European businesses all experienced good demand for their products and sales to this sector grew over the year, boosted by the emergencies referred to earlier.
In North America the growth improved in the second half as new Federal funds were released to the emergency services.
Kidde Fire Trainers has made an encouraging start and contributed ahead of expectations.
Marine & transportation the acquisition of the fire protection business of Kongsberg Marine added materially to the success of our Autronica business in this market which, GROWTH THROUGH INNOVATION AHEAD OF REGULATION when combined with the activity of other Kidde companies in both Europe and North When new fire regulations were introduced America, resulted in 19% growth of sales to the sector.
in North American commercial kitchens, Kidde was a step ahead.
Our engineers had already developed an entirely new fire protection system to meet the approval standards on the product it replaced and growing the product group sales by more than 30%.
17 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Corporate social responsibility A MORE DETAILED REPORT OF OUR CSR This is our third report on Corporate Social Responsibility, a principle we remain fully COMMITMENT IN PRACTICE IS AVAILABLE committed to, believing it appropriate for a significant international company and good ON REQUEST AND AT WWW.
We place great emphasis on engaging our companies in the CSR process and several of their successes feature in our separate, more detailed report, which reflects the broader and deeper scope of CSR in Kidde.
This is available on request and at www.
It has been a year of hard work and steady improvement, with more consistent and comprehensive reporting.
We switched from a financial reporting system to a purposebuilt CSR database, and due to this, many changes in numbers are because of better reporting, rather than variance in performance.
Kiddes business is about saving life and property so we operate in highly regulated markets.
Positive engagement with a widening range of stakeholders is a key responsibility.
We have, for example, engaged with the Department of Trade and Industry with respect to the introduction of EU directives including WEEE and RoHS.
Managing CSR The Board sets our CSR strategy and monitors progress, and the Executive Committee implements it.
The CSR Steering Committee works with the people responsible within our Divisions and businesses to stimulate activities which reinforce the development of the CSR strategy.
Procurement A large proportion of our environmental impact lies in our supply chain and we are determined to minimise this impact.
Our environmental procurement policy defines our commitment to responsible and sustainable development in our purchasing activities.
The CSR Procurement Committee meets quarterly with representatives from all Divisions and is chaired by the Head of Group Purchasing.
At the beginning of the year it ratified STAKEHOLDER FRAMEWORK a communication to go to those suppliers we consider a priority in terms of the Media and environmental impact of the goods or service they provide and their significance within reporting our supply base.
We have made good progress in getting suppliers involved, for example, community NGOs and Approval bodies interest groups our Kidde Fyrnetics factory in China, which is certified to ISO14001, encouraged three suppliers to achieve the certification in 2003.
Local Employees communities Employment, Human Rights and Bribery Kidde Kiddes Employment and Human Rights policy, Bribery policy and Health & Safety policy Investors and Suppliers are all available on our website and are understood and observed by all our companies potential investors around the world.
Analysts and Customers research agencies Our Human Rights policy aims to ensure that wherever we work, we do so to the same Government authorities and consistently high standards.
The policy satisfies, and in some areas exceeds, the key regulators International Labour Organisation conventions and the UN Declaration on Human Rights.
We operate a separate bribery code which builds on the Employment and Human Rights CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK policy to include the recommendations of the OECD convention on combating bribery in Board of Directors international business.
Audit Executive Remuneration Nomination Health & Safety Committee Committee Committee Committee The Board of Kidde is committed to improving standards of health and safety across the Sponsorship & Group, ensuring our employees and others who may be affected by our activities are Strategic Risk CSR Steering Donations Review Committee protected from risk to their health and safety.
Committee CSR Procurement Committee Divisional CSR Champions This year we began comprehensive, regular and formal reporting on health and safety to the Board, Executive Committee and Strategic Risk Review Committee.
Health and safety Environment, Health & Safety Advisors | Purchasing Managers Internal Audit | Employees | Research & Development is managed at operating company level and reports into the Divisional Presidents and Human Resources | Acquisitions & Projects then, through the Chief Executive, to the Board.
18 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 FIG 1: KIDDE GROUP WORK-RELATED Better reporting in 2003 has distorted our figures in some areas.
In addition, the 2002 INJURY FREQUENCY PER 100,000 figures have been restated.
There were no work-related fatalities in 2003 2002 nil and HOURS WORKED the number of injuries and rate of absenteeism have decreased.
A total of 197 work related injuries were reported during the year, the injury frequency has decreased from 03 0.95 1.03 to 0.95 injuries per 100,000 hours worked and the average rate of absenteeism has 1.03 02 decreased from 15.69 to 14.69 days per 100,000 hours worked.
Whilst the injury and absenteeism frequencies are low, we do regard any accident as unacceptable, both for the employee and for the Company.
During the year, we launched FIG 2: KIDDE GROUP WORK-RELATED a project to analyse illness and injury trends and learn from best practice within the ABSENTEEISM FREQUENCY PER 100,000 different subsidiaries undertaking similar processes.
Our objective is to achieve consistency HOURS WORKED DAYS in reporting during 2004.
Once we have accomplished this, we will be able to set targets.
03 14.69 15.69 02 Environment We seek to minimise our environmental impact, both in our operations and with our products.
Our environmental policy is set out in full on our website.
By its very nature, our business protecting people and property from the risk of fire is consistent with broad FIG 3: KIDDE GROUP ENERGY USAGE CSR objectives.
For example, our Dascem halon gas destruction operation uses a process KWH M SALES with a fraction of the global warming potential associated with other methods of destroying gas, such as incineration.
03 161.6 169.08 02 This year, as with last, we aimed to encourage greater use of more environmentally acceptable energy sources.
Currently, within the Group there is a dependence on electricity from national grids although there is an encouraging use of natural gas.
Figure 3 shows the total energy use for 2002 and 2003 in kilowatt hours per m of sales.
FIG 4: KIDDE GROUP CO EQUIVALENT 2 This shows a reduction in energy use year on year.
Figure 4 shows a reduction in annual EMISSIONS TONNES M SALES CO equivalent emissions from national grid and natural gas in tonnes per m of sales 2 03 65.74 between 2002 and 2003.
02 70.79 Due to the successful water minimisation programmes around the Group, in particular in Badger Fire Protection and Kidde Safety in the US, water usage, annualised by 100,000 hours worked, has reduced by 16% see Figure 5, which has also resulted in significant FIG 5: KIDDE GROUP WATER USAGE financial savings around the Group.
There were three breaches of water discharge PER 100,000 HOURS WORKED consents in 2003.
This compares with five in 2002.
CUBIC METRES Community 03 2,337 We recognise the responsibilities we have to the communities in which we operate, 2,711 02 and wherever we work, each business is encouraged to take an active interest in its 2002 figures restated local community.
Our Community policy is set out in full on our website.
One of our objectives last year was to better coordinate local community initiatives, and we now manage sponsorship and donations centrally.
There have been particular successes in the US with an employee matching programme with the United Way.
In the UK, the Group supported the development of a teaching resource for the national school curriculum in partnership with the Royal Berkshire Fire and Rescue Service, and this has made good progress.
The Future We have done much work, but plenty still remains to be done.
Our key priorities for the year ahead include extending our programme of communicating with suppliers: achieving consistent health and safety reporting and extending best practice around the Group: and continuing to minimise our environmental impact.
19 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Board of directors 1.
Norman Askew Company Limited by Guarantee, which will became Group Finance Director of Kidde Non-executive Chairman, aged 61 act as the vehicle for the merger of the at demerger, having been appointed a Norman Askew joined the Board in University of Manchester and Manchester director in September 2000.
A graduate of Durham University of Science & Technology UMIST of the Chartered Association of Certified University, Aston University and the which will be completed in September Accountants and holds an MBA from London School of Business, he began his 2004 when he will become Chairman Kingston University.
Previous experience career at the global engineering company, of the new university.
includes 10 years at Fisons plc as Financial TI Group, joining in 1965 and was Controller of the Scientific Equipment appointed President and Managing 2.
He is also a director of Tintas Director of TIs Aerospace business in the Chief Executive, aged 59 Robbialac.
Four years later he joined East Michael Harper, a Mechanical Engineering Midlands Electricity as Managing Director, graduate from Kings College, London with 4.
John Gummer becoming Chief Executive in 1993.
He was an MSc in Business Management from Non-executive director, aged 64 appointed Chief Executive of US-based Imperial College, joined the Kidde Group John Gummer joined the Board in Virginia Power in 1997 following its in 1984 as Managing Director of Graviner November 2000 and is the Senior acquisition of East Midlands Electricity and Limited, following a career with Vickers Independent Director.
He has been a led the company through the process of plc.
He became Chief Executive of Kidde Member of Parliament since 1970.
During fide-regulation in the US.
He was Chief at demerger, having been appointed a his time in Government he has been Executive of British Nuclear Fuels plc from director in September 2000.
Prior to this, Minister of State for the Department of March 2000 until July 2003.
He was nonhe was Divisional Managing Director of Employment with responsibility for Health executive Chairman of Henlys Group plc Kidde International.
He is also a nonand Safety, Paymaster General, Minister from 1997 to 2002 and was appointed executive director of UMECO plc and of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, and non-executive Chairman of Taylor Ricardo plc and remains a director of Baxi Secretary of State for the Environment.
Mr Askews Group Limited until its sale in March 2004.
He founded Sancroft International in 1997, other current appointments are as which is active in environmental, ethical Chairman of Derby Cityscape, an urban 3.
John Nicholas and health and safety issues and numbers regeneration company set up in 2003 to Group Finance Director, aged 47 among its clients some of the worlds act as a catalyst to bring new investment John Nicholas joined the Kidde Group in largest companies.
to the city, and as Chairman of the 1992 as Divisional Finance Director and 6 35 24 20 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 5.
Mr Kirkwood serves on the Oxford University, with an MBA from IMD, Non-executive director, aged 61 Advisory Boards of the Association of Lausanne, he qualified as a solicitor in a John Poulter joined the Board in November Corporate Treasurers and the UK Career major City practice before joining 2000.
A natural sciences graduate from Academy Foundation.
He is a Fellow and Kleinwort Benson, where he became a Oxford, he joined Spectris plc in 1988 President of the Institute of Financial director in Corporate Finance.
He then after an earlier career with Cambridge Services, Chairman of the Association of moved to BZW and became joint head Instruments Group and responsibility for Foreign Banks and serves on the CBI of BZW Global Corporate Finance before a group of UK and US manufacturing Financial Services Council as well as the moving to CSFB where he was ultimately businesses within BTR plc.
He became Council of the British Bankers Association.
promoted to Chairman of European Chief Executive of Spectris in 1992 and Additionally, he is Chairman of Habitat for Investment Banking and a member of non-executive Chairman in 2001.
He has Humanity GB and a Trustee of The Stone the board of Global Investment Banking.
been a director of a number of other Foundation.
In 2003, he became the founding Chief public companies and is currently a nonExecutive of the Shareholder Executive of executive director of RAC plc, Smaller 7.
Diane Quinlan the Cabinet Office.
He is a non-executive Companies Value Trust plc, Macquarie Company Secretary, aged 38 director of Faber Music Holdings Limited, European Infrastructure plc, The London Diane Quinlan, a graduate of the University Faber Music Limited, where he is also Metal Exchange and a number of private of London with an MBA from Edinburgh Chairman, and Rights Worldwide Limited, companies.
Business School, joined the Kidde Group as and serves on the Advisory Board of Company Secretary in September 2000.
Michael Kirkwood CMG She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Non-executive director, aged 56 Secretaries and Administrators, a member 8 Michael Kirkwood joined the Board in of the Investor Relations Society and an January 2001.
He is a graduate of Stanford Associate of the Institute of Occupational University in California and is the United Safety & Health.
She is responsible for legal Kingdom Corporate Officer for Citigroup and secretarial matters, risk management, Inc.
He began his career with HSBC and property and trademarks.
subsequently spent a number of years in Singapore with The Ralli Bowater 8.
He joined Citibank in 1977 Non-executive director, aged 47 and has held management positions in Richard Gillingwater joined the Board in New York, Zurich, Copenhagen and February 2004.
A law graduate from Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee 7 1 Member of the Remuneration Committee 21 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Summary directors report The Summary Directors Report is an extract of information from Charitable and political donations the full Directors Report contained in the Annual Report 2003.
During the year, in addition to its fundraising activities and donations of products, the Group made charitable donations totalling Principal activities 203,000 2002 150,000 principally to charities and organisations The principal activities of the Company are the supply of fire and connected to fire safety.
No political donations were made.
safety products, systems and services.
Our policy is to promote corporate giving through charitable Dividends donations built principally on partnerships with local organisations The directors propose a final dividend for the year of 1.81p per that are relevant to our business.
We work closely with fire share which, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on services around the world to increase awareness and raise money 21 May 2004 to shareholders on the register on 30 April 2004. to support their training and development programmes.
Further Total dividends paid and proposed in the year under review information about the Groups community involvement initiatives amount to 22.6m, representing 2.7p 2002 2.55p per share.
is set out in a separate Corporate Social Responsibility CSR The retained profit for the year of 36.8m has been transferred Report which is available on request and at www.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors Directors The Group has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers.
The names of the directors are set out below.
Biographies of the Payment terms are agreed at the commencement of business with directors, including details of membership of Board Committees each supplier and it is the policy of the Group that payment is and their main commitments outside the Company, are set out on made in accordance with those terms.
The Company has no trade pages 20 and 21. creditors in its balance sheet.
N B M Askew, non-executive Chairman, AGM appointed 10 February 2003 The fourth AGM of the Company will be held on Wednesday, R D Gillingwater, non-executive director, 28 April 2004 at 2.30pm at 100 New Bridge Street, London appointed 1 February 2004 EC4V 6JA.
The notice convening the AGM is enclosed with this The Rt Hon.
At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to and Senior Independent Director renew the authority to allot relevant securities and to allot equity J M Harper, Chief Executive securities for cash other than on a pre-emptive basis, to authorise M J Kirkwood, non-executive director the Company to purchase its own shares, as and if appropriate, J E Nicholas, Group Finance Director and to amend the Companys Articles of Association.
J W Poulter, non-executive director Sir Nigel Rudd, retired 31 December 2003 Auditors as non-executive Chairman The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and resolutions relating to their In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, re-appointment and remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Mr Kirkwood and Mr Poulter will retire at the Companys AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Gillingwater Annual report and accounts 2003 will retire and offer himself for election.
Information relating to The Annual Report and Accounts 2003 may be viewed on the the election and re-election of directors to enable shareholders to Companys website www.
com or obtained free of charge take an informed decision is set out on pages 16 and 17 of the by emailing kiddeir@kidde.
com or by writing to: Annual Report.
The Company Secretary, Service contracts Kidde plc, The executive directors have service contracts that are terminable Mathisen Way, on 12 months notice by the Company and by the director.
As Colnbrook, non-executive directors, Norman Askew, Richard Gillingwater, Slough, The Rt.
John Gummer, Michael Kirkwood and John Poulter Berkshire SL3 0HB do not have service contracts with the Company.
Shareholders wishing to receive the Annual Report and Accounts Substantial shareholdings as well as the Annual Review in future years should write to the At the date of this Report, the Company has received notifications Company Secretary.
of the following interests in 3% or more of its issued ordinary The summary financial statement on pages 26 and 27 and this Summary Directors share capital: Report are a summary of information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2003.
The summary financial statement does not contain sufficient information to allow a full No.
of % understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company and Shares Notified the Group.
Franklin Resources, Inc 117,533,830 14.03 The Directors Report, the accounts and Independent Auditors Report on those accounts, Standard Life Investments 42,516,517 5.12 which is unqualified, are contained in a separate publication entitled Annual Report and Legal & General Group Plc 25,153,170 3.00 Accounts 2003.
22 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Summary corporate governance statement The summary Corporate Governance Report is an extract of The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
information from the full Corporate Governance Report contained Their respective responsibilities are set out in written terms of in the Annual Report 2003. reference.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the direction and management of the Company.
It discharges those Combined Code compliance responsibilities through defined structures set out in a Throughout the year, Kidde has complied with the Combined written Code of Boardroom Practice and Board Authorities.
Kidde has reviewed the implications of the revised Combined Code and the related guidance and good Accountability and audit practice suggestions including those contained in the Turnbull, Both the Audit Committee and the auditors themselves have Smith and Higgs Reports and can confirm compliance with the safeguards in place to avoid the possibility of the auditors vast majority of the principles.
There are three areas where the objectivity and independence being compromised.
The Audit Company may be considered not to comply and these relate to Committee monitors and reviews the relationship with the the following code provisions: external auditors: their independence, objectivity and effectiveness, including the consideration of audit fees, their engagement A.
2.1 The generally accepted interpretation of these to supply non-audit services and related fees, taking into provisions of the Code is that a Chairman ceases to be independent consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements on appointment.
Mr Askew became a non-executive director and the audit firms own guidance.
in February 2003 and was appointed Chairman of Kidde on 31 December 2003.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Code, The Audit Committee sets the policy for awarding non-audit work the Board considers Mr Askew to be independent in character and to the auditors and reviews the nature and extent of such work judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances and related fees to ensure that independence is maintained.
The that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his judgement Company maintains working relationships with major accounting going forward.
Mr Askew remains a member of the Remuneration firms and engages advice from the firm most qualified to provide Committee.
All awards of non-audit work to  are approved by the Audit Committee in accordance with the B.
1.1 Schedule A of the Code Provisions on the design of Companys policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services performance related remuneration states that in general only basic by the auditor.
All assignments, including those awarded to other salary should be pensionable paragraph 6.
Bonuses payable to all accountants or auditors, are notified to the Committee.
Where fide members of the Kidde UK defined benefit pension plan, including minimis issues or extremely urgent needs arise, an appointment the directors, are pensionable.
This plan is now closed to new may be approved by the Group Finance Director in consultation members.
The Remuneration Committees policy is that any future with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
executive directors, who are not existing members of the Kidde UK defined benefit pension plan, will not have pensionable bonuses.
Internal controls Further details are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal controls to safeguard shareholders investment and B.
2.2 The Remuneration Committee does not have responsibility the Companys assets.
In order to discharge that responsibility for setting the Chairmans remuneration.
The Board determines effectively, the Board has established clear operating procedures, the remuneration of the non-executive directors as required by lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
2.3 and does not consider it appropriate that the Board should delegate responsibility for setting the Chairmans The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal remuneration to the Remuneration Committee.
control in operation during the period by means of the process outlined above and in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
Board It must be recognised that any system of internal control is The Board consists of five independent non-executive directors designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to and two executive directors.
The following were directors of the achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and Company during the year.
not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
In that context, the review has revealed nothing which, in the opinion of the Board, indicates that the system is inappropriate Name Position or unsatisfactory.
Norman Askew Non-executive Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Joined the Board as Deputy Chairman on 10 February 2003 and was appointed Chairman on Going concern 31 December 2003 The Board has reviewed and approved the Groups budget for Richard Gillingwater Independent non-executive director.
Joined the Board on 2004 and the three-year corporate plan, which includes a cash 1 February 2004 flow forecast.
It has a reasonable expectation that the Company John Gummer Senior independent non-executive director Michael Harper Chief Executive and the Group will have adequate resources for the foreseeable Michael Kirkwood Independent non-executive director, Chairman of the future and, accordingly, the directors consider that the Company Audit Committee and the Group is a going concern.
John Nicholas Group Finance Director John Poulter Independent non-executive director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Sir Nigel Rudd Former non-executive Chairman, retired as Chairman and a director on 31 December 2003 23 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Summary directors remuneration report The Summary Directors Remuneration Report is an extract of Share incentives information from the full Directors Remuneration Report contained For both the Performance Share Plan and the Executive Share in the Annual Report 2003 and also set out in full in the notice of Option Scheme, the Performance Period is the three financial the AGM.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM on years of the Company starting with the financial year in which 28 April 2004 inviting them to consider and approve the report.
the option or award is granted.
The percentage increase in the Earnings Per Share is measured by comparing the Earnings Per Remuneration policy for executive directors Share EPS of the financial year of the Company immediately The objective of the Committee is to ensure that members of preceding the start of the Performance Period with the EPS for executive management are provided with appropriate incentives to the last financial year of the Company in the Performance Period.
encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible The Companys auditors certify performance against the target.
manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the No re-testing of share awards or options is permitted.
Share ownership is encouraged together with equity-linked incentives that help to align the Performance Share Plan interests of directors and executive management with that of the The Plan allows the Company to grant participating individuals, shareholders.
The policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate including executive directors, awards over shares of up to 100% individuals of the quality required, taking account of industry, of annual base salary in any year 200% of annual base salary in market and country benchmarks and the Companys position exceptional circumstances.
Awards are subject to achievement of relative to other companies.
The Committee also takes into the required performance target and will vest on the achievement consideration the levels of remuneration elsewhere within the of the required performance criteria and expire ten years from the Company.
The Committees aim is to provide a balanced package, with both Executive Share Option Scheme fixed and variable elements, to ensure that an appropriate proportion The Company operates both an Inland Revenue Approved share of executive directors remuneration is performance related.
option scheme and an Unapproved scheme on a global basis, under which selected employees, including executive directors, The short-term and long-term incentive awards received by the are eligible to receive options over the Companys shares at the executives are made relative to base salary and have been provided market price at the time of grant.
Grants of options are normally under plans which are outlined below.
In order to have due regard made annually and the maximum grant permitted to a participant to the interests of shareholders, the use of share incentives is in any 12-month period is restricted to no more than two times considered to be an important part of the executive remuneration annual base salary.
Options are normally exercisable between package and aligns the interests of the executives with those of three and ten years from the date of grant, subject to the shareholders.
achievement of a performance condition which is set by the Committee prior to the grant.
Salary and benefits Base salaries for executive directors are reviewed annually by It is the policy of the Committee not to make grants of awards the Committee and are determined by reference to individual or options to the same individuals under the Performance Share responsibilities, skills and experience, performance, salary levels in Plan and the Executive Share Option Scheme in the same year.
the Group and external market data.
Salary levels are set within a Accordingly, there have been no grants to the executive directors range around the market median for similar roles in a selection of under the Executive Share Option Scheme in the year to comparator companies.
Benefits include the provision of a car, 31 December 2003. fuel, medical and permanent health insurance and life assurance.
Retirement benefits Annual bonus J M Harper and J E Nicholas are members of the Kidde UK Pension A discretionary annual cash bonus opportunity of up to 50% of Plan.
The Pension Plan is a funded, Inland Revenue approved, base salary is available to the executive directors.
Performance defined benefit occupational pension scheme.
Pensionable targets are determined at the beginning of each financial year earnings under the Pension Plan include base salary at 1 April plus and are aimed at motivating participants to achieve key business the annual average pensionable bonus over the rolling three-year objectives.
For 2003, targets included profitability, sales and other period to that date.
The Plans main features applicable to the qualitative objectives.
executive directors are: Under the Bonus Investment Plan, participants, including executive a normal pension age of 60 directors, may elect to invest 50% of their bonus after deduction life assurance cover of four times base salary of income tax to purchase Company shares, known as Deferred final pensionable salary is pensionable earnings in the Shares.
The shares purchased are then matched with a number of 12 months prior to retirement shares equal to the gross bonus invested, known as Matching pensions payable in the event of ill health Shares.
The shares are held in trust for a period of three years spouses and dependants pensions on death from the date of award and will vest provided that the participant membership is non-contributory remains in a participating companys employment at the end of a pension of 2 3rds of final pensionable salary at age 60 the three-year retention period.
or pro rated for an earlier retirement.
24 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Members may also convert part of their pension into a lump sum Kidde TSR comparative performance since 14 Nov 2000 cash payment.
The pension of J E Nicholas includes an unfunded 200 benefit promise from the Company by reference to his salary in excess of the Inland Revenues earnings cap.
180 160 Performance graph The graph opposite shows Kiddes total shareholder return 140 between listing on the London Stock Exchange on 14 November 120 2000 and 31 December 2003 relative to those companies in the FTSE 250 Index for the same period.
This index has been chosen 100 because the Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index and 80 uses companies from this index for other benchmarking purposes.
60 Audited information 40 The following information has been audited by the Companys 20 auditors,  LLP, as required by Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
0 Individual directors remuneration The remuneration of the directors of Kidde plc for the year ended Kidde TSR FTSE 250 Index TSR 31 December 2003 is set out below.
2 Benefits comprise all tax assessable benefits arising from employment by the Company.
These include a non-contributory pension, fully expensed company car, medical and permanent health insurance and life assurance.
Benefits included use of a company car, fuel and medical insurance.
5 Mr Kirkwoods fees are paid to the Charities Aid Foundation.
No sums were paid in respect of compensation for loss of office.
No director waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 December 2003.
Directors pension entitlements Increase in Transfer value Accrued pension, 000 Transfer value, 000 accrued of increase in Age pension in accrued pension 1 1 at At Increase in At At Increase in At year in year 31.12.03 31.12.02 year 31.12.03 31.12.02 year 31.12.03, 000, 000 J M Harper 58 301 49 350 4,617 1,248 5,865 41 685 J E Nicholas 47 82 18 100 488 202 690 16 107 These figures have been restated.
Due to an actuarial error, the 2002 figures in last years remuneration report were understated.
None of the other directors are eligible for pension benefits.
1 The increase in the additional pension earned during the year is reported excluding inflation.
The directors did not make any personal contributions to the scheme.
The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that would be paid each year on retirement at 60 based on service to 31 December 2003.
Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with the Institute of Actuaries Guidance Note GN11 Retirement Benefit Schemes Transfer Values and by reference to market conditions at the date of valuation.
Transfer values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the directors pension benefits.
They do not represent sums payable to individual directors.
25 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 11 00 01 01 03 01 05 01 07 01 09 01 11 01 01 02 03 02 05 02 07 02 09 02 11 02 01 03 03 03 05 03 07 03 09 03 11 03 11 03 12 03 Summary consolidated profit and loss account For the year ended 31 December 2003 2003 2002 51101000011 051001001 Excluding Excluding Baxi Baxi Total Baxi Baxi Total m m m m m m Turnover Before acquisitions 915.3 915.3 879.7 879.7 Acquisitions 22.8 22.8 938.1 938.1 879.7 879.7 Divisional profit 107.6 107.6 105.2 105.2 Operating exceptional items 14.4 14.4 Acquisition reorganisation costs 4.3 4.3 0.6 0.6 Goodwill amortisation 10.6 10.6 9.1 9.1 Operating profit 92.7 92.7 81.1 81.1 Before acquisitions 92.2 92.2 81.1 81.1 Acquisitions 0.5 0.5 Operating profit 92.7 92.7 81.1 81.1 Share of operating profit of associated companies 1.4 20.1 21.5 1.6 15.9 17.5 Profit loss on disposal of fixed assets 1.6 1.6 Profit on disposal of operations 0.8 0.8 Profit before interest and tax 92.5 21.7 114.2 82.7 16.7 99.4 Interest payable less receivable 21.2 6.5 27.7 22.5 8.5 31.0 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 71.3 15.2 86.5 60.2 8.2 68.4 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 23.7 3.4 27.1 21.1 1.0 22.1 Profit on ordinary activities after tax 47.6 11.8 59.4 39.1 7.2 46.3 Equity minority interest 0.2 0.2 Profit for the financial year 47.6 11.8 59.4 39.3 7.2 46.5 Dividends 22.6 22.6 21.2 21.2 Retained profit 25.0 11.8 36.8 18.1 7.2 25.3 Earnings Per Share p Basic 7.1 5.6 Adjusted 8.8 7.8 Diluted 7.1 5.6 26 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Summary consolidated balance sheet At 31 December 2003 2003 2002 Total Total m m Fixed assets 280.4 263.1 Current assets 405.1 396.5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 309.0 279.4 Net current assets 96.1 117.1 Total assets less current liabilities 376.5 380.2 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 259.2 290.4 Provisions for liabilities and charges 49.1 51.7 Net assets 68.2 38.1 Share capital 83.8 83.1 Share premium 4.9 1.0 Profit and loss account 20.5 46.0 Total equity shareholders funds 68.2 38.1 The summary financial statement was approved by the Board of directors on 3 March 2004 and signed on its behalf by: J E Nicholas Group Finance Director Independent auditors statement to the members of Kidde plc Basis of opinion We have examined the summary financial statement of Kidde plc.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to Opinion you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with statement within the Annual Review with the annual financial the Annual Financial Statements, the directors report and the statements, the directors report and the directors remuneration directors remuneration report of Kidde plc for the year ended report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of 31 December 2003 and complies with the applicable requirements Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information made thereunder.
contained in the Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members in accordance with Section  LLP 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for London any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is 3 March 2004 shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
27 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Shareholder information www.
com Shareholder enquiries Share dealing service Any shareholders with enquiries relating to their shareholding Share dealing facilities for the purchase and sale of shares in Kidde should, in the first instance, contact Capita Registrars at the plc are available from Cazenove & Co and Barclays Stockbrokers, address below: whose details are as follows: Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Cazenove & Co postal service Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 OLA 20 Moorgate London EC2R 6DA.
com Barclays Stockbrokers telephone service Telephone 0845 777 7200 general Electronic communications Telephone 0845 777 7400 ISAs A number of our shareholders have already taken advantage of changes in legislation that allow the Company to communicate Capital gains tax with its investors in electronic, rather than in paper form.
If you The base cost of Kidde plc and Chubb plc shares calculated in would prefer to receive automatic notification by e-mail each accordance with the provisions of Section 272 of the Taxation of time the Company posts documents to its shareholders, you Chargeable Gains Act 1992 at 14 November 2000, the date of may register your request by visiting the Registrars website at demerger, were: Kidde plc 68.625p 21.172% and Chubb plc www.
com, and selecting the Shareholders page 255.5p 78.828%.
Please note that these figures supersede those then choosing the View holding option from the drop down published in the Kidde plc Annual Review 2000.
Shareholders who menu and typing in the company name Kidde plc.
You will need are in any doubt as to their tax position should consult their own to have your investor code available when you first log in, which professional advisor.
may be found on the enclosed proxy card.
Share price information Alternatively, you may also register for this service by visiting the The latest information on the Kidde share price is available on Companys own website, www.
com and also on the FT Cityline Service.
There is no fee for using this service and you will 0906 003 5617 or 0906 843 5617 calls are charged at 60p per automatically receive confirmation that your request has been minute at all times.
ADR depositary Any shareholder who wishes to change his her mind or request a Kidde has established a Level I ADR programme, which means paper version of shareholder documents at any time in the future, that the ADRs are not listed on any exchange but are traded on may do so by contacting the registrar by e-mail or by post.
the Over-The-Counter OTC market, under the symbol KIDPY.
Bid and ask prices are published and distributed by Pink Analysis of ordinary shareholders Sheets LLC: www.
ADRs can be bought or sold at 31 December 2003 by contacting any major US broker.
com Registered number 4039127 28 Kidde plc Annual Review 2003 Financial calendar Financial calendar 2004 Results announced 4 March Annual general meeting 28 April Ex-dividend date for final dividend 28 April Record date for final dividend 30 April Final dividend payable 21 May Interim results announced 9 September Interim dividend payable 22 October Financial year end 31 December It is our policy to produce the documents constituting our Annual and Interim Reports with a minimum impact on the environment.
com Photograph of the A380 Airbus on page 10 supplied courtesy of Airbus.
Kidde plc Mathisen Way, Colnbrook Telephone 44 0 1753 689848 Slough, Berkshire SL3 0HB Fax 44 0 1753 682572 United Kingdom www.
