4480 Review 04-25 FINAL 17-04 28 04 03 5:46 PM Page 6 Chairmans statement strategy creates two focused businesses completed through a demerger on the London Stock Exchange Overall, it has been a by the end of July 2003. busy year at Group Electrical & Furniture is a good business with a strong cash level during which the flow.
Its new name will be KESA Electricals plc.
David Newlands, management team currently Chairman of Tomkins plc, has been appointed has delivered its Chairman.
He joins Chief Executive Jean-Nol Labroue and objectives.
We plan Finance Director Martin Reavley, and will play a leading role in that this year will be appointing the non-executive directors.
We expect that KESA similarly productive, Electricals will be demerged with around 400 million of debt, both strategically and subject to working capital movements and finalisation of terms operationally with lending banks.
Im confident the new business will enjoy a successful independent future.
We took an important step towards the demerger in January 2003 with the sale of German brand ProMarkt.
In the process we secured the immediate future of the brand and its 3,500 people while minimising the cash cost to Kingfisher of Francis Mackay, Chairman withdrawing from the business.
First, unify the management of Another important strategic step towards our transformation that this year will be similarly productive, both strategically and I believe the past year can be characterised as perhaps the Kingfishers Home Improvement business to unlock significant was the 693 million sale of Chartwell Lands UK retail park operationally.
We're building from a strong platform by far the most significant period of strategic transformation in Kingfishers benefits for the business, its shareholders, employees and portfolio, the proceeds of which will be used to reduce leader in European home improvement with a clear growth 20-year history.
We unified the Groups Home Improvement business and, at the time of writing, were working towards customers not least the opportunity to realise the potential Kingfishers debt.
strategy to build on our strengths.
The past year was also notable for the successful completion Looking ahead, a key objective for the management team completing the separation of our Electrical & Furniture sector by Second, separate our Electrical & Furniture business to of e-Kingfishers three-year plan to develop multi-channel retail will be to improve return on capital.
The opportunity to improve the end of our second quarter in the current financial year.
ensure clear management focus and a priority of resources operations for the Group.
Most of our main brands now have the performance of Castorama France is a key ingredient, We also maintained our focus on the customer and in both people and capital.
multi-channel operations including transactional websites and along with increasing the returns from our successful delivered a strong set of operational results.
Retail sales were up by nearly 11% to just under 10.7 billion.
Pre-tax profit The separation creates two independent and focused call centres.
As planned, these operations have been integrated international businesses.
businesses in the European home improvement and electricals into their parent brands.
Today, Kingfisher is well positioned with strong momentum before exceptionals and goodwill grew faster than sales up markets with leading positions, excellent growth potential and The appointment of Gerry Murphy as Chief Executive Officer and experienced operational management teams throughout 17% to more than 655 million.
was one of the years significant events.
Hes a talented and the business.
With a sole focus on home improvement retailing, This performance underlines the quality of our retail brands, We gained full management control of Castorama in capable successor to Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy and I have every we can concentrate on growing the business and delivering real particularly B&Q, Castorama, Brico Dpt, Darty, Comet and BUT, and is a tribute to the hard work and professionalism of September 2002.
The old co-control structure was removed confidence that he and Kingfishers strong management team will value for our shareholders.
Our top priorities are to keep and replaced by a unified Board focused on delivering further continue to deliver the challenging objectives weve set ourselves.
improving our customer offer, grow market share, continue to Kingfisher people throughout the business.
On behalf of the growth and improved performance.
B&Q, Castorama France, Sir Geoffrey retired from the Kingfisher Board at the drive profitability and improve shareholder returns.
While the Board, I would like to take this opportunity to thank them all Brico Dpt and the international businesses are all beginning of December 2002.
He is an outstanding figure current environment is uncertain, we remain cautiously for their efforts during the year.
in British business whose vision was critical to Kingfisher's optimistic for the year ahead.
Our plan is for Kingfisher to become an integrated, international, dedicated home improvement retailer with leading During the year we also increased our economic interest success from the outset.
He led the Group for almost exactly in Hornbach, the leading DIY warehouse retailer in Germany, 20 years following its inception as Paternoster in the early brands in attractive growth markets.
We will offer customers the to more than 21%.
This reflects the encouraging progress made 1980s, during which time he steered the business to its best possible price, service and choice in their local markets in developing the relationship between Kingfisher and Hornbach present position as a leading force in British and international Francis Mackay and deliver superior shareholder returns by driving further and our belief in its excellent prospects in Germany and other retailing.
On behalf of the Board, Kingfisher's shareholders and Chairman benefits from our considerable scale.
In May 2002 we initiated the final phase in Kingfishers European markets.
everyone in the business, I would like to thank him for his The thrust of our transformation process has subsequently leadership and dedication over the past two decades.
We announced our intention to buy the minority moved to the separation of Electrical & Furniture.
Subject to Overall, it has been a busy year at Group level during which shareholding in Castorama and, at the same time, to seperate receiving the necessary shareholder approval, this should be the management team has achieved its objectives.
6 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 7 4480 Review 04-25 FINAL 17-04 28 04 03 5:46 PM Page 8 Chief Executive Officers review Kingfisher is well placed to create value in the long term.
With scale and diversity from leading brands, formats and channels in Europe and Asia, we have substantial scale and diversity organic growth potential represent a huge opportunity Kingfisher is one of Europes great retailers and I am privileged to have been chosen as its Chief Executive Officer, a role I assumed just after the end of the year under review.
During that year, Kingfisher made significant strides in its transformation into a dedicated home improvement business and, at the same time, delivered a strong set of financial results.
Total sales increased by nearly 11%, with 17% growth in pre-tax profit before exceptionals and goodwill and a reduction in underlying net debt of 0.2 billion.
Growing profit ahead of sales was a notable achievement in the face of ongoing global uncertainty and falling consumer confidence in our core markets.
Kingfishers demonstrated ability to improve margin and manage costs has served it well and will continue to be important in unpredictable markets.
The operational review contains a detailed report on the businesses.
Here, I would like to concentrate on key aspects of International our operational and strategic agenda.
opportunities With the Far East Operational progress among Kingfishers Our first priority is to maintain the current momentum in our targets for international Home Improvement business.
Gaining full management control expansion, B&Q of Castorama in September 2002 allowed Kingfisher to launch almost doubled its the integration process with a simple three-point plan for growth: selling space in China backing the fast-growing businesses B&Q and Screwfix during the year.
B&Q Direct in the UK, Brico Dpt in France, Castorama Poland is already established and Italy and B&Q China and Taiwan: as the leading home revitalising Castorama France: improvement retailer focusing international resources where returns will be greatest.
in Taiwan Last year saw overall sales growth in all key home and international markets.
All brands contributed to total and like-forlike sales growth, although progress at Castorama France was relatively modest.
Our main businesses have ambitious plans to increase selling space in the current year.
The exception is Castorama Gerry Murphy, Chief Executive Officer France, where the focus is on driving improved performance from the existing chain.
This revitalisation will require progress in sales and costs and some management renewal.
The French home improvement market is large around 80% of the size of the UK and has averaged growth of around 4% over the past five years.
It is stable, not least because of planning restrictions which limit the opening of new large format stores particularly those of 6,000 square metres or more.
8 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 9 4480 Review 04-25 FINAL 17-04 28 04 03 5:47 PM Page 10 Chief Executive Officers review continued Castorama is the joint market leader with an outstanding brand.
At the point of demerger Kingfisher will be, for the first time, Like B&Q in the UK, Castorama is synonymous with home a single sector business the worlds most international home improvement in France.
Its nationwide network of 105 large improvement retailer, the largest outside the USA and number stores is a particularly valuable asset within the strict French three overall.
Yet it will still be a complex organisation multi-brand, Nonetheless, Castoramas average growth of around 2% multi-format, multi-channel and multi-market and with a very over the past five years is less than half that of the market.
Kingfisher has been working with Castorama to introduce some Kingfishers combination of scale and diversity represents a quick wins across the network, centrally-driven initiatives such huge opportunity.
We have diverse customers in a number of as till and aisle-end promotions and cross-merchandising.
different markets who, nonetheless, have many shared needs These measures have made an immediate and positive impact that can be satisfied by similar products potentially sourced from on sales.
Castorama is also working on format development.
To exploit this opportunity we will continue to build a world In mid-March 2003, the Hellemmes store near Lille re-opened class supply base that will give commonality at the product, following a tactical revamp.
The approach is similar to the component or formulation level.
In a retail sector that is A challenging highly successful Project Wheel, which invigorated the B&Q characterised by low consumer awareness of manufacturer year for Ellen Supercentre chain in the mid-1990s.
Once proven, the brands, this will also facilitate the development of exclusive It was another exciting Hellemmes revamp will be rolled out across the own brand ranges such as Performance Power tools and year for Kingfisher Castorama network.
yachtswoman Ellen More fundamentally, the opening of three new stores in the Our objective is cheaper, better products for our customers, MacArthur.
First place in current year will test more radical, strategic concepts steps more business for our key suppliers and more value for our the transatlantic Route on the road to a major renaissance of the Castorama brand.
Kingfishers role is to create shareholder value du Rhum in 2002 was B&Qs successful Cost Price Reduction Programme CPR from our unique combination of scale and diversity.
We are followed by a brave was introduced into Castorama towards the end of 2002 and addressing this challenge in four distinct ways.
attempt at the Jules will underpin the delivery of this years integration targets, as will First, we will define the customer proposition and economic Verne round-the-world the now-completed combination of the London and Lille model for each brand and each format in each market.
Second, record early in 2003. corporate head offices.
we will organise our sourcing, supply chain, systems, people Kingfishers Philippe Tible, a highly experienced French home and property so that we exploit our scale effectively and provide announcement of a improvement retailer, has been appointed Chief Executive of the best possible support to our brands and formats.
Third, we new 75ft trimaran for A renaissance for Castorama France and will play a pivotal role in revitalising the will measure growth and returns rigorously so that we can Ellen promises more Castorama France business and its management.
prioritise our investment and align our remuneration systems.
excitement in the year A tactical revamp of Following a review of Kingfishers Home Improvement Finally, we will communicate our intent and our progress to our ahead.
Follow her the Hellemmes store businesses outside the home markets of the UK and France, key stakeholders in simple and unambiguous terms.
progress on near Lille points the the Board has decided to focus international development on I do not expect a radical shift in Kingfishers emphasis www.
com way forward for Europe and the Far East, specifically those countries where we because I believe that the Group is, fundamentally, heading in Castorama.
Once are already well established with growing and successful the right direction.
I am, however, convinced we can do a lot proven, the revamp businesses Poland, Italy, Taiwan and China.
more to make our business more effective and more efficient.
will be rolled out On a much smaller scale, opportunities will be explored Kingfisher is well placed to create value in the long term.
across the French in other European and Far Eastern countries that meet our With scale and diversity from leading brands, formats and network.
In addition, criteria sizable markets where it is possible to achieve channels in Europe and Asia, we have substantial organic new store openings in market leadership organically.
These are Turkey, Spain and growth potential.
the current year will South Korea.
In contrast, we have decided to exit from With a clear focus on value for customers and returns for trial more radical, current positions in Canada, Brazil, Belgium and Castorama shareholders, I have every confidence that the excellent people strategic concepts Germany.
in this business can, and will, deliver.
Overall, the integration programme announced last year remains on track and we expect to deliver our targets for the current year.
Strategic progress At the time of writing April 2003, Kingfishers management team is working towards completion of the demerger of Gerry Murphy Electrical & Furniture by the end of our second quarter.
Chief Executive Officer I believe that both businesses will benefit enormously from separation and the resulting clarity of purpose and transparency of performance.
10 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 11 4480 Review 04-25 FINAL 17-04 28 04 03 5:47 PM Page 12 Operational review Home Improvement Kingfisher is Europes leading home improvement retailer innovation and determination to drive down the cost of home Spreading the cost B&Qs UK RMI UK home improvement and the worlds most international, with more than 600 stores improvement for customers across the UK.
The company grew market share % market bn for customers in 12 countries.
The Group enjoys market leading positions in sales by nearly 16%, up 3.8% on a like-for-like basis.
B&Q launched two the UK, France, Poland and Taiwan, and is the largest home During the year, B&Q opened 14 new B&Q Warehouse new store cards improvement business anywhere outside the USA.
stores and four new B&Q Supercentres.
It was a particularly during the year Home Improvement was the driving force behind Kingfishers exciting year for the B&Q Supercentre chain, with the four new overall sales and profit growth, with total sector sales for the stores launching the new mini-Warehouse format.
year up nearly 16% to more than 6.7 billion, a 4.3% like-for-like The mini-Warehouse vision is a complete store for home increase.
Retail profit grew faster than sales, up 24% to improvement, DIY project completion and trade basics.
format shares brand values with B&Q Warehouse, an alignment 3.6 4.1 A new store to drive UK sales rose by nearly 17% to more than 3.7 billion, just that is supported by common marketing, ranging, pricing and growth over 5% on a like-for-like basis, with retail profit climbing by in-store layout.
Hardware 5.0 B&Qs new mininearly 20% to just over 360 million.
The objective is to provide a platform for long term growth Building 8.3 Warehouse format The UKs repair, maintenance and improvement RMI market in markets that are too small to sustain a B&Q Warehouse, Gardening shares key brand 98 99 00 01 02 grew by 4% during the year, with B&Q continuing to outperform and provide shoppers with access to the full B&Q range by 4.6 values with B&Q the competition and increasing market share from 12.3% to combining products on shelves with special order facilities and Warehouse and offers 13.5% a result of its aggressive expansion programme, range multi-channel services, including the internet and home delivery.
a platform for long term growth in markets too small to sustain a B&Q Warehouse New dimensions to growth 12 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Mini-Warehouse Around 5,000 sq m and 22,000 products s lines B&Q Warehouse Around 14,000sqm and 35,000 productlines 9.0 10.1 11.2 12.3 13.5 4480 Review 04-25 FINAL 17-04 28 04 03 5:47 PM Page 14 Operational review Home Improvement continued As well as the four new stores, four revamps converted existing Kingfishers share of the market and achieved sales growth of continuing expansion had a positive impact on operating margin.
Total sales up 34.8% B&Q Supercentres to the format.
All stores are trading ahead of 11.5% to just over 2 billion, up 2.4% on a like-for-like basis.
Outside the UK and France, almost all Kingfishers expectation, and B&Q plans to open another three new miniCastoramas total sales grew by 2.7%, a like-for-like rise of international Home Improvement businesses grew operating Warehouses in the coming year.
Sales of paint, kitchens, flooring, lighting, bathrooms and profit, with particularly strong performances from Castorama B&Q achieved growth across all categories, and continued in the garden and plants category were particularly strong, Poland, Rno-Dpt in Canada and Castorama Italy.
to stimulate market demand through the introduction of quality benefiting from Castoramas ongoing focus on range Low consumer confidence and high unemployment Like-for-like sales new ranges at every day low prices.
Sales of it kitchens, improvements.
Sales were also supported by increased characterised the Polish market, yet Castorama Poland grew up 8% Performance Power tools, new laminate flooring and kitchen spending on advertising.
total sales by nearly 38%, like-for-like sales by just over 11% and appliances were particularly strong.
During the year, two new stores were opened, four were profit by more than 40%.
The opening of four new warehouse The Price Reverse campaign continued to lower the cost relocated and two transferred to Brico Dpt.
Total selling space stores took the total to 16, while the careful management of of home improvement for customers, with the price of many grew by almost 4% to more than 977,000 square metres.
store and central costs improved operating margin.
products today at the same level they were in the early 1990s.
An improved product mix and the benefits of central In an increasingly competitive market, Rno-Dpt achieved Stores numbers up In addition, the introduction of two new store cards Homeplan distribution and buying improved gross margin.
However, with like-for-like sales growth of 1.7% and reported substantially and You Can Do It helped customers spread the cost of their costs growing more quickly due to significant investment in the improved profit, with benefits from higher buying margin, to 56 purchases.
Since its launch in December 2002, more than existing store network, pre-opening costs, staff costs and a focus on store costs and a reduction in the marketing 30% of showroom purchases have been made using the advertising costs, operating margin declined.
expenditure that was associated with last years launch of Homeplan card.
Since October 2002, Kingfisher and B&Q have been working The Building Box in Ontario.
B&Qs Cost Price Reduction Programme CPR is now in with Castorama on the introduction across all stores of a Total sales at Castorama Italy were up 19.2%, an increase its third year and continues to yield significant benefits.
The number of quick win initiatives to drive like-for-like sales.
These of 8% on a like-for-like basis.
programme has enabled B&Q to improve prices for customers, include till and end-aisle promotions and cross-merchandising Two new warehouse store openings took the total in Italy to 14. introduce new and exclusive product ranges and invest in store such as clip-strips of paint brushes alongside paint displays.
B&Q Taiwan opened two new stores during the year and service and efficiency initiatives.
CPR, combined with the In addition, CPR was introduced into France with a increased total sales by 26.8% in local currency, a like-for-like introduction of more aspirational product ranges, helped lift conference for the top 200 suppliers and new incentive rise of just over 9%.
Profit was flat, the result of a difficult gross margin during the year.
The programme will underpin consumer climate.
Screwfix Direct, Kingfishers specialist catalogue and the delivery of the current years integration targets.
B&Q China continued its expansion programme with the internet Home Improvement brand, grew sales by 31% during Brico Dpt enjoyed another strong years trading with opening of three new stores almost doubling the existing selling the year.
The internet now represents 18% of total sales and total sales ahead 34.8% in local currency, up nearly 8% on space.
Overall sales grew by more than 142%, up by nearly screwfix.
com now receives more than 100,000 unique visitors a like-for-like basis.
The brands performance was helped by 19% on a like-for-like basis.
The business has established a every week.
range improvements during the year, with particular success market leading position in Shanghai and, before pre-opening Against a background of declining consumer confidence, the in building materials.
French home improvement market grew by 4.6% in 2002 03.
During the year, 13 new stores were opened, bringing the The combined Castorama and Brico Dpt chains increased total to 56.
The scale benefits associated with Brico Dpts Closer links revitalise our chain Driving sales at Castorama France Kingfisher and B&Q have been working with Castorama on in-store initiatives to drive like-for-like sales growth as well as the introduction of CPR Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 15 4480 Review 04-25 FINAL 17-04 28 04 03 5:47 PM Page 16 Darty French market electricals share % market Cbn Brown goods 5.0 newpower White 98 99 00 01 02 goods 6.3 in European Operational review electricals Electrical & Furniture The demerger of Kingfishers Electrical & Furniture sector creates KESA Electricals plc, a new power in European electricals retailing.
The business is number three in Europe with 652 stores in seven countries.
The sectors total sales for the year grew by 3% to more than 3.8 billion, a like-for-like decline of 1.2%.
Excluding ProMarkt, the German business sold at the beginning of February 2003, total sales grew by 6.4%.
Retail profit fell by 12.8% to just over 160 million, reflecting a tough trading environment across continental Europe.
In France, consumer confidence continued to weaken throughout 2002 03.
For the year to January 2003, the white goods market a key product area for Kingfisher declined by 1.6%, while the market for brown and grey goods grew by 2.4%.
Against this difficult background, French market leader Darty saw total sales decline by 0.6% to just over 1.3 billion, with like-for-like sales down 2.8%.
Nonetheless, Darty held market share and achieved 2.5% growth in brown and grey products such as home cinema Leading in French electricals systems, large screen TVs, DVD players, laptop computers In a tough trading and digital cameras.
Sales of white goods declined in line environment, market with the market.
leader Darty held share and Gross margin fell, reflecting a shift in the sales mix towards remains highly profitable.
new technology products and lower mobile phone commissions.
Growth in electricals and A reduction in costs was insufficient to offset the decline in both furniture chain BUT was sales and margin and, as a result, profit for the year was down driven by new space 19% at 99.5 million.
However, Darty remains a highly profitable business electricals retailing is traditionally low margin and there are few other businesses in the world which achieve a Trading in both electricals and furniture was challenging during profit margin above 6%.
the year and sales growth was driven by the addition of new Darty opened six new stores during the year, refurbished space, with the acquisition of 12 franchise stores taking the seven and relocated a further three.
Selling space increased by owned total to 101.
BUT also continued its refurbishment just over 6% and, in the coming year, Darty plans to continue its programme which aims to have all owned and franchise recent trend of adding new space by opening six new stores stores in the same format by the end of 2003. and refurbishing another six.
In furniture, sales of sofas and kitchens performed French electricals and furniture retailer BUT also felt the well.
In electricals, sales of brown goods such as large impact of depressed consumer confidence.
Total sales grew screen TVs were also relatively good.
The benefit of central by just over 15% in local currency, but like-for-like sales fell by sourcing and distribution including the opening of a new 2.4%.
BUTs total sales were just under 480 million with retail distribution centre in Dijon was reflected in an improved profit of 53.6 million.
Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 17 13.7 13.6 13.8 13.9 13.8 4480 Review 04-25 FINAL 17-04 28 04 03 5:47 PM Page 18 Operational review Electrical & Furniture continued In the UK, Comets core market grew by just over 6% in the period February 2002 to January 2003.
Brown goods were responsible for a significant proportion of market growth due, in no small part, to a consumer demand fuelled by the 2002 World Cup.
Comet grew total sales by 5.3% to more than 1.3 billion, up 1.6% on a like-for-like basis, with a strong 9.6% growth in profit to nearly 48 million.
Comet continued to pursue its strategy of developing a more specialist, value-added customer offer with the result that it grew share within the electricals specialist sector but gave up share to the mass merchants at the lower value end of the market, particularly small domestic appliances such as kettles and toasters.
During the year, Comets overall market share dropped 0.3% to just over 13%.
The introduction of wider ranges, better in-store service and improved product information encouraged customers to trade up to higher specification products, which increased both average selling price and product margin.
Sales were particularly strong in categories such as large screen TVs, DVD players, home cinema systems, games and laptop computers.
Improved product margin combined with strong cost control specifically within after-sales service, home delivery and central costs to deliver the overall improvement in operating margin.
During the year, 12 new interactive destination stores were opened, taking the total to 43.
In addition, following trials at the beginning of 2002, 47 core stores were relaid to increase the space allocated to faster selling products such as multimedia.
Away from the UK and France, Kingfishers international Electrical & Furniture brands include Vanden Borre in Belgium, BCC in the Netherlands and Datart in the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
Vanden Borre continued the integration of the Hugo Van Praag business and, with like-for-like growth of 19.3%, significantly outperformed the market.
Strong sales and cost management improved overall operating margin.
BCC continued to modernise its store format and added 28.5% new space during the year, but faced tough trading conditions in a very price competitive market.
Despite aggressive competition, however, sourcing benefits helped BCC improve product margin and reduce operating losses.
Better for customers Comet In January 2003, Kingfisher announced the sale of German UK Comets introduction market electricals electricals business ProMarkt.
The deal secured the immediate of wider ranges, better share % market future of the company and its 3,500 people while minimising the In-store enhancements in-store service and bn cash cost to Kingfisher of withdrawing from the business.
Since improved product its acquisition in 1998, and despite the implementation of a information encouraged turnaround plan in 2001, a significant downturn in the German customers to trade up electricals market and intense competitive activity contributed to deliver smiles all round to higher specification ProMarkts poor performance.
Losses for the year under review products, which were around 35 million.
increased both average selling price and Brown goods 4.5 product margin White 98 99 00 01 02 goods 4.6 Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 19 18 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com 12.1 12.9 13.3 13.5 13.1 4480 Review 04-25 FINAL 17-04 28 04 03 5:48 PM Page 20 Operational review Operational review Property e-Kingfisher Chartwell Land, Kingfishers specialist retail property company, continued to provide new retail space for the Groups UK businesses throughout the year.
Four new stores, including three B&Q Warehouses at Sutton, Grimsby and Culverhouse Cross, were opened.
The Sutton store the UKs first two-storey B&Q Warehouse won The Most Innovative Out-of-Town Retail Store or Supermarket Design at the 2002 Property Week Retail Property Awards.
In line with the Groups future focus on home improvement, and taking advantage of market demand for quality retail property, Chartwell Land disposed of a number of properties during the year.
impr oving The most significant transaction came in January 2003, when the 693 million sale of 15 retail parks and five retail development sites to a property development consortium was announced.
Total exceptional profit for the year, most of which was the brand experience generated by the retail park sale, was 143 million.
Operating profit was 58.5 million, an increase of just over 29% on last By the end of the year, e-Kingfisher had achieved its three-year UK internet UK internet Two storey glory!
mission to develop multi-channel retailing across the Group and year.
Total returns operating profit, profit on investment users shoppers B&Q Warehouse reintegrate Kingfishers e-businesses into their parent brands.
property and the portfolio revaluation surplus increased from millions growth Sutton the UKs first The challenge for e-Kingfisher was to develop new, small and 70 million to 241 million.
two-storey B&Q millions The significant increase in total returns was driven by the different businesses that maintain the power of the Groups retail Warehouse won The profit on investment sales as well as the increased operating brands and exploit a rapidly growing new channel to customers.
Most Innovative OutThis challenge has been met successfully.
Kingfishers profit and a higher revaluation surplus, up 11.4 million to of-Town Retail Store or e-businesses are now integrated with their retail brands and 39.3 million.
Supermarket Design contributing notably to their growth.
At the year end, Kingfisher retained 2.0 billion of freehold at the 2002 Property property.
In commercial terms, the year saw strong growth.
Overall Week Retail Awards e-Kingfisher sales, including Screwfix Direct, grew by 52%, with pure internet sales across the division up by 117%.
Screwfix finished the year with 18% of total sales achieved success through the internet.
NOP surveys show that there are now nearly 24 million level of internet users in the UK a figure growing by around 5,000 every day more than 40% of whom are shopping online.
a new 98 99 00 01 02 98 99 00 01 02 Statistics from Nielson Net Ratings reveal that the number of December figures December figures from people in France with access to the internet increased by 24% from NOP World NOP World during the year to February 2003.
In this dynamic environment, it is clear that the opportunity remains for many more years of good growth.
Competitively, Kingfishers e-businesses performed well in terms of traffic and sales they are all clear leaders in their specialist areas.
It is increasingly clear that customers are using a variety of channels to interact with Kingfisher brands, often researching products online before visiting stores to make a purchase.
It is also clear that new channels can meet certain customer needs more effectively than stores, and can therefore improve the brand experience for customers.
Comet is Kingfishers best example of a truly multi-channel retailer using an integrated combination of stores, call centre and the internet.
Not only was Comets website comet.
co. uk the UKs fourth most visited retail site during the year, an online survey carried out by the brand showed that 30% of visitors to the site subsequently intended visiting a store.
In a similar way the B&Q site diy.
com which was only launched in 2001, is already used by more than 10% of B&Q Warehouse shoppers well over a million people every month.
20 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com 10.7 14.2 19.1 21.7 23.6 1.0 3.1 5.2 5.8 9.0 4480 Review 04-25 FINAL 17-04 28 04 03 5:48 PM Page 22 Operational review Corporate social responsibility Strategy The twelve trends Ladders Kingfishers influence extends well beyond the geographic There are many social and environmental issues that Kingfisher For each trend, Kingfisher has developed a ladder to help spread of its stores, touching the lives of thousands of people needs to address.
To make them easier for operating companies operating companies identify both commercial risks and every day.
These people are not just customers, employees and and suppliers to manage, Kingfisher has grouped the issues into potential commercial opportunities.
This allows Group brands shareholders, but those living near stores or working in product 12 broad environmental and social trends: to develop action plans appropriate to their own markets.
Every product has a story to tell we need to ensure that the The ladders have four rungs: The Groups approach to social responsibility starts with the story is good.
leadership actively influencing government and industry policy issues associated with the products it sells.
A typical kitchen We will be judged by the way the people who make our creating opportunity driving sales, cost savings and good cabinet, for example, will make a long journey from forest, to products are treated.
publicity as a result of a high level of engagement factory, to customers home.
When it needs replacing, it goes Our suppliers need to be cleaner and greener too.
managing the issue plans cover all potential consequences into landfill or to a recycling centre.
There is an impact to both Were selling more wood, but its becoming harder to find.
in both operational and product terms people and the environment in every stage of this journey.
Chemicals are causing increasing concern and controversy.
managing the risk commercial risks have been eliminated In February 2003, Kingfisher published How green is my Climate change equals changes to homes appliances will During the year, Kingfisher helped its operating companies kitchen?, its second review of environmental and social action change too.
define the actions that are appropriate to each rung of each and the follow up to Kingfishers plan for corporate social Packaging waste will become a bigger financial waste.
B&Q in the UK, Comet, Chartwell Land and Kingfisher responsibility, which was published in 2001.
The new We need to plan what happens when our customers want to Asia Ltd developed detailed ladders for their operations, which publication outlines the Groups approach to sustainable dispose of the products they bought from us.
other operating companies are using as the basis for their own.
development and the progress being made across its The way we treat all our people is becoming more important This has given Kingfisher a clear picture of where the Group An ethical approach international operations.
stands as a whole on each trend, and is the basis of the to global trading Communities will reject businesses who are not good strategy going forward.
Most operating companies have been assessed against the South Africa, where When we throw away rubbish, it takes our profit with it.
Full performance league tables, showing the position B&Q is working with Moving more stock is good more traffic congestion is bad.
of every Group brand on each ladder for all 12 trends, can be suppliers to manage found in How green is my kitchen?
the implications of HIV The review also contains considerable detail about the and Aids within the specific and varied activity being undertaken at operating workforce.
Bottom, company level, including B&Qs work with South African a group of senior suppliers to manage the implications of HIV and Aids among Kingfisher managers the workforce, the support of both B&Q and Castorama for tour a factory in buying certified wood, and the systems Kingfisher has put in southern China.
place to tackle issues such as factory working conditions and How green is my child labour.
is available on request by writing to: Next steps Kingfisher plc, The past year has seen the business put the commitments 3 Sheldon Square, outlined in Kingfishers plan for corporate social responsibility Paddington, into action, understanding the issues that affect the Group in London W2 6PX.
each of its markets and identifying the areas where attention Alternatively, telephone needs to be concentrated.
the corporate social Looking ahead, the time has come to focus on finding responsibility team solutions to the social and environmental issues faced by the on 44 0 20 7372 business, build on the strong foundations already laid 8008.
The review is by developing a more robust management system and also available as a introduce elements of auditing and verification.
downloadable file on Activity will include monitoring political and business trends, the Groups website using the ladders as an audit protocol to develop a Group-wide www.
com draft management system for corporate social responsibility, strengthening policy through consultation with the operating companies, and supporting Kingfishers global buying strategy.
Promoting awareness of the commercial relevance of social and environmental issues among senior management is also a key target.
This work has already started a Group of senior managers, including main Board director and Chairman of the Social Responsibility Committee Margaret Salmon, attended a Kingfisher Asia Ltd event in Hong Kong that included a tour of a factory in southern China.
In addition, Kingfisher will maintain its process of selfassessment to ensure progress is being made, and will also continue to communicate and report that progress.
22 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 23 4480 Review 04-25 FINAL 17-04 28 04 03 5:48 PM Page 24 Executive Non-Executive Directors As at 1 February 2003 Directors Directors 3,4, 5 Gerry Murphy Chief Executive Officer Appointed Chief Executive Officer Group plc.
Earlier in his career, he 4 held various senior positions with and a director of the Company on Helen Weir 2,5 2,3, 5 1 3 February 2003.
Previously he was food and drink group Grand John Nelson Hartmut Krmer Margaret Salmon Phillip Bentley Finance Director Chief Executive Officer of media Metropolitan plc in Ireland, the UK Appointed 8 November 2002.
He is a non-executive Appointed to the Kingfisher group Carlton Communications plc, He has many years of experience Chairman of the Social He is Chairman of the Audit Board as Group Finance Director global logistics firm Exel plc and director of Novar plc and Chairman Deputy Chairman since January of European retailing, having Responsibility Committee.
He is also Group 2002 and Senior Independent in October 2000.
Previously food manufacturer Greencore of its Audit Committee.
Age 47. been Chief Executive of the retail also Chair of the Sector Skills Finance Director of Centrica plc.
He is Finance Director at B&Q since clothing group Peek & Development Agency, Director of He was formerly Finance Director August 1997.
Before joining B&Q Chairman of the Remuneration Cloppenburg and subsequently Manchester Airport plc, Director of UDV-Guinness.
He is also a in 1995, she held a senior of Groupe Redcats, the home of the University for Industry and non-executive director of BT position at McKinsey & Co. She shopping division of Pinaultthe University for Industry began her career with Unilever Group plc.
Chairman of Credit Suisse First plc.
She is also a non-executive Boston Europe in 2002 and was director of The City of London Investment Trust and is on the formerly Vice Chairman of Lazard Brothers and non-executive Supervisory Board of Hornbach Holding AG.
Age 40. director of Woolwich plc.
Changes to the Board Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy resigned as Chief Executive on 1 November 2002 and tendered his resignation from the Board on 5 December 2002.
Jean Hugues Loyez resigned as executive director on 17 May 2002.
Peter Hardy retired as non-executive director on 7 June 2002.
Anthony Percival, executive director, retired from the Board on 31 October 2002.
John Bullock, non-executive director and Chairman of the Kingfisher Audit Committee, retired on 3,4 1 1,2 31 December 2002.
Ian Cheshire Bernard Thiolon Michael Hepher Appointed Non-Executive Appointed September 1997.
Appointed Executive Director in The Board considers that all the Director in June 1993 following Non-executive director of June 2000 and Chief Executive, non-executive directors fulfil the the Darty merger.
Member of Canada Life UK Limited and International & Development from requirements for independent the Conseil fide Surveillance Canada Life Financial 6 September 2002.
He was directors as presently defined and Chairman of the Audit Corporation, and Chairman of appointed Chief Executive of by the Combined Code.
Committee of Castorama Dubois TeleCity plc.
Former Chairman e-Kingfisher in May 2000.
Formerly and Chief Executive of Previously Group Director Prsident of Banque Colbert Charterhouse plc and nonof Strategy & Development.
Board committees 3 3 and Adviser to the Chairman and executive director of Diageo plc Before joining Kingfisher he William Whiting Jean-Nol Labroue 1 Audit Committee Honorary General Manager of and Lloyds Bank plc.
Age 59. worked for Boston Consulting Appointed Director in October Appointed October 2000.
Chief 2 Remuneration Committee Crdit Lyonnais Group.
Age 74, Group, Guinness plc and a Executive of KESA.
William is the Chief 3 Social Responsibility he will be retiring from the number of retail businesses Executive of Darty and Chairman Executive of B&Q plc and was Committee Board at the end of the including Sears plc where he previously Managing Director of of the Darty Board from 1994 to 4 Finance Committee Annual General Meeting.
He joined Darty in 1979, B&Q International.
He joined B&Q 5 Nomination Committee Age 43. prior to which he was in 1982 and has held various positions including Marketing Commercial Director of Information on the attendance Intertechnique from 1972 to Director and Warehouse Store record of individual directors at Director.
Board and Committee meetings with Granada Group.
Age 55. for the year ended 1 February 1,2, 4,5 2003 is disclosed on page 28.
Francis Mackay The Board Committee memberships disclosed on this Chairman and the facing page are as at Became Chairman of Kingfisher management team that led the 18 March 2003. plc in December 2001 following buyout of Compass Group plc his appointment to the Board a from Grand Metropolitan in 1987 month earlier, and is Chairman and its successful flotation in of the Nomination Committee.
He became Chief He is also Chairman of Compass Executive of Compass Group plc Group plc, which he joined in in 1991 and Executive Chairman 1986 initially as Finance Director.
He was a key member of the 24 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 25 4480 Review 26-52 FINAL17-04 28 04 03 4:23 PM Page 26 Directors report For the financial year ended 1 February 2003 The directors are pleased to present their report for the financial year ended 1 February 2003.
Gerry Murphy, Phillip Bentley and Hartmut Krmer hold office only until the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 June 2003 and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
Ian Cheshire, William Whiting and Helen Weir retire by rotation and are offering themselves for re-election.
Principal activities Bernard Thiolon, who joined the Board as a non-executive director in June 1993, has announced that he will retire at the end of the The Group trades principally as Home Improvement and Electrical & Furniture retailers with stores in the UK, continental Europe and the Annual General Meeting on 4 June 2003. rest of the world.
In addition, the Group has property interests which are managed in the UK through Chartwell Land.
Neither Phillip Bentley nor Hartmut Krmer have service contracts with the Company.
Review of activities and future performance For Kingfisher, 2002 was a year of transformation.
On 15 May 2002, the Board announced its intention to acquire the outstanding Directors interests minority interests in Castorama Dubois Investissements S. C. A. Castorama and a proposed 2 billion rights issue, to fund partially the The directors interests in shares of the Company are shown within the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 43.
No director has any proposed offer.
The Board also announced its intention to separate the Home Improvement and Electricals businesses.
On 7 June 2002, interest in any shares or loan stock of any other Group company other than a small number of shares held by certain directors in French shareholders approved the proposed offer and rights issue at an Extraordinary General Meeting.
French regulatory clearance to make the subsidiaries of the Company as a result of the French company law requirement that directors hold qualifying shares.
offer to the other Castorama shareholders was received on 28 August, enabling the Company finally to establish a unified management structure at Castorama.
The offer to Castorama shareholders resulted in Kingfisher increasing its interest in the issued share capital of Combined Code statement Castorama by 44% to more than 99%.
Kingfisher recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
The principles of good governance adopted by the Group have been applied in the following way: During the year, Kingfisher purchased a further holding in Hornbach Holding AG, increasing its economic interest in Germanys leading DIY warehouse retailer to 21.2%.
It also disposed of ProMarkt, its loss-making German Electricals retail business and sold a number of Main Board its UK retail parks for a cash consideration of 693 million.
The Kingfisher Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Deputy Chairman, five other non-executive directors and The separation of the Electricals business is expected to take the form of a demerger, with the new company being listed on the London four other executive directors.
This will enable Kingfisher to further its vision to create an integrated pan-European Home Improvement business that Their biographies illustrate the directors range of experience, which ensures an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
All directors combines global scale with local marketing skills.
have access to the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
Non-executive directors In the opinion of the directors, the market value of the Groups properties is not materially different from their net book value.
are appointed for an initial term of three years and each director receives appropriate training as necessary.
Since April 2002, the Company has complied with the Combined Code requirement to have an identified Senior Independent Director, namely John Nelson.
Non-adjusting post balance sheet events During the year ended 1 February 2003, the Board met on 24 occasions.
12 of these meetings were held principally to deal with regular On 27 February 2003, the Group received 648.6 million in relation to the proceeds from the sale by Chartwell Land of its third party business and the remaining 12 meetings were convened either to approve the periodic trading statements or in connection with the property portfolio.
This has been used to reduce Group borrowings.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision and is primarily responsible for the During 2002 the Group committed to a separation of its electricals business.
The Group entered into certain forward currency exchange strategic direction of the Group.
All directors have full and timely access to information.
The Board has successfully completed a further contracts to protect the sterling value of its expected euro receipts from the sale or IPO of the business.
On 19 March, the Company independent evaluation of its performance through the service provided by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
announced the expected demerger of its electricals business in the form of a UK listed company.
Consequently, the Company has These evaluations, the first of which was undertaken in 2001, examine the operation of the Board in practice including its corporate closed that proportion of its forward currency exchange contracts that it no longer requires at a pre-tax cost of 78.8 million.
governance and the operation and content of its meetings.
The Board has established six standing committees with defined terms of reference as follows: Rights issue On 11 July 2002 the Company launched a one-for-one rights issue of 1,293.6 million new Kingfisher shares at 155 pence per share The Audit Committee is chaired by Phillip Bentley, and includes three other independent non-executive directors.
This Committee is in connection with the offer for Castorama, as approved by the shareholders on 7 June 2002.
Total proceeds, net of issue costs, responsible for providing an independent oversight of the Groups systems of internal control and financial reporting processes.
our major operating businesses has its own audit committee, meetings of which are attended by both Kingfishers Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors: Results and dividends The Nomination Committee is chaired by Francis Mackay and includes two other independent non-executive directors and the Chief The profit on ordinary activities of the Group before taxation amounted to 494.1 million 2002: 28.0 million and a profit after taxation Executive.
The Committee is responsible for the consideration and recommendation of the appointment of new directors.
It met on one of 270.8 million 2002: 128.0 million loss.
occasion during 2002 to consider the selection of the new Chief Executive and the two new non-executive directors.
Specialist The directors recommend the payment on 13 June 2003 of a final dividend of 6.05p 2002: 5.78p per ordinary share amounting recruitment consultants were engaged to assist with this process: to 158.1 million 2002: 98.9 million which, together with the interim dividend of 3.45p 2002: 3.28p per ordinary share amounting The Remuneration Committee is chaired by John Nelson and includes three other independent non-executive directors.
The Committee to 89.4 million 2002: 55.6 million paid on 22 November 2002, makes a total for the year of 9.5p 2002: 9.06p per ordinary share is responsible for advising the Board on the Companys executive remuneration policy and its costs, and for the application of this policy amounting to 247.5 million 2002: 154.5 million.
The dividend pence per share figures for 2002 have been adjusted to reflect the to the remuneration and benefits of executive directors and certain senior executives.
The Remuneration Report contains a more detailed bonus element of the rights issue.
After eliminating dividends payable to the Groups Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust ESOP, the description of the Groups policy and procedures in relation to directors and officers remuneration: ordinary dividend on equity shares charged to the profit and loss account is 244.0 million 2002: 152.3 million.
A scrip dividend alternative was offered to shareholders in respect of the interim dividend and will also be offered in respect of the final dividend.
The The Social Responsibility Committee is chaired by Margaret Salmon and includes the Chief Executive, three other executive directors directors propose to transfer the retained loss of 74.3 million 2002: 856.3 million loss from reserves.
and representatives of the operating companies.
This Committee is responsible for discussing and developing a general policy relating to environmental, community and equal opportunities matters.
The main Board director with overall responsibility for environmental matters Directors is Gerry Murphy: Details of the directors of the Company are shown on pages 24 and 25.
The Board welcomes Gerry Murphy who took up the position The Finance Committee comprises the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and two executive directors.
The Committee is of Chief Executive on 3 February 2003.
Two new non-executive directors, Phillip Bentley and Hartmut Krmer were also appointed during responsible for the approval and authorisation of financing documents within its terms of reference and the authority limits laid down the year.
As Finance Director of Centrica plc, Phillip Bentley brings to the Board considerable financial, treasury and commercial expertise by the Board.
On behalf of the Board, it reviews borrowing arrangements and other financial transactions, and makes appropriate and replaces John Bullock as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Hartmut Krmer has extensive experience of European retailing and his recommendations.
It also allots new shares in the Company to Group employees following the exercise of share options: appointment continues Kingfishers tradition of having a Board with a strong international composition.
The Share Option Committee comprises any two directors or any one director and the Company Secretary.
Its role is to consider the Five directors left the Board during the past year.
Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy stepped down as Chief Executive on 1 November 2002 and left Groups share funding policy in respect of share incentive awards and to decide upon the level of contributions to the ESOP and QUEST the Board on 5 December 2002.
He had been a member of the team that led the original acquisition of F W Woolworth in 1982 and in respect of the dilution cost when new shares are issued.
This Committee also considers the making of loans to the ESOP in respect joined the Board in January 1983.
His vision and grasp of strategic opportunities were critical to Kingfishers remarkable success story of grants that are hedged with existing shares.
It has no authority in respect of the making of awards which is a matter reserved to the since that date.
Other directors who left during the year were Jean-Hugues Loyez, Peter Hardy, John Bullock and Anthony Percival.
26 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 27 4480 Review 26-52 FINAL17-04 28 04 03 4:23 PM Page 28 Directors report continued Attendance at meetings Accountability, risk management and audit The following table identifies the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the past year and the attendance record of Going concern individual directors.
A statement in accordance with the going concern principle is included in the financial review on page 46.
Board meetings Committee meetings Internal control Monthly Ad hoc Audit Remuneration Nomination Social Finance Share The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness throughout the Kingfisher Group.
responsibility options However such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide No.
of meetings in year 12 12 681241 only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the internal control system is also Francis Mackay 12 11 5 8 1 2 reviewed by the Group Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
John Nelson 10 6 7 The Board considers risk assessment and control to be fundamental to achieving its corporate objectives within an acceptable 1 Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy 911 1 3 risk reward profile, and confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group 2 Phillip Bentley 322 and the effectiveness of related controls.
As well as being reviewed by the Audit Committee this process is regularly reviewed by the 3 John Bullock 11 2571 Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance on internal control.
The key elements of this process, which have been in place Ian Cheshire 12 10 4 1 throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report, are: 4 Peter Hardy 6132 Michael Hepher 11 1 3 7 The Board, which: 5 Hartmut Krmer 3 has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks that is designed to facilitate the operation of effective internal control, which Jean-Nol Labroue 11 1 1 includes the provision of quality internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
This is periodically 6 Jean-Hugues Loyez 2 reviewed and updated: 7 Anthony Percival 92 Margaret Salmon 10 8 1 2 regularly updates the Groups strategy and reviews the strategies of the operating companies business areas: Bernard Thiolon 11 5 reviews and assesses the Groups key risks at least annually: Helen Weir 10 5 3 William Whiting 12 1 2 reviews performance through a comprehensive system of reporting, based on an annual budget with monthly business reviews against actual results, analysis of variances, key performance indicators and regular forecasting: 1 2 3 4 5 resigned on 5 December 2002 appointed 4 October 2002 retired on 31 December 2002 retired on 7 June 2002 appointed 6 7 has well defined policies governing appraisal and approval of capital expenditure, and treasury operations: 8 November 2002 resigned on 17 May 2002 retired on 31 October 2002 seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained through regular reports from the Audit Committee and various independent Company Secretary monitoring functions.
The Company Secretary or Deputy Company Secretary act as secretary to all the above Committees, with the exception of the Remuneration Committee, where the Director of Group Human Resources acts as secretary.
All directors have access to the Company The Audit Committee, which: Secretary for advice on corporate governance, Board procedures and regulatory compliance issues.
The Company Secretary is also has delegated responsibility from the Board to provide an independent oversight on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control responsible for facilitating the induction and professional development of Board members and ensuring good information flows within systems and financial reporting processes, which it reviews on a regular basis: the Board, its Committees and between the non-executive directors and senior management.
supervises the quality, independence and effectiveness of both the internal and external auditors: Re-election of directors reviews the Groups risk assessment procedures and management responses to significant risks: The Articles of Association require one third of the directors who are subject to retirement by rotation to retire and submit themselves for re-election each year and, in any event, at least once every three years.
Names of directors submitting themselves for election or reviews the reports made to it by the internal audit committees of each of the operating companies.
re-election are shown on page 26 and 27.
The business head of each operating business area, who: maintains systems for the continuous identification and evaluation of significant risks resulting from their strategies, and applicable to their Directors remuneration areas of the business: The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, ensures that the directors remuneration is sufficient to attract and retain the directors needed to run the Group successfully.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are shown on pages 36 to 43. reviews and monitors the effectiveness of the system of internal control through an operating company audit committee and the reports he she receives from the Internal and External Audit functions: Relations with shareholders self certifies that he she is clearly accountable for establishing and monitoring internal controls within his her business and that processes Kingfisher maintains an active dialogue with its shareholders through a planned programme of investor relations.
This activity is a key are in place and that they comply with Group policies and reports on any control weaknesses or breakdown considered as material to component of its corporate communications programme and is headed by the Director of Investor Relations.
The programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results, quarterly trading statements on three other occasions during the year and meetings between institutional investors and senior management on a regular basis.
Regular communication with The Business Risk Management function, which: shareholders also takes place through the Annual and Interim Reports and via the Company website www.
works with the businesses to further develop, improve and embed risk management processes and tools in the business operations.
It is responsible for ensuring that business risks are identified, managed and regularly reviewed at all levels of the Group and that the directors The Annual General Meeting is used as an important opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders, including a short presentation on the business and its latest trading position.
Shareholders are encouraged to take this opportunity to are periodically appraised of the key risks in accordance with the Turnbull code.
discuss with the non-executive directors and executive directors any issues they wish to raise concerning the Company and its activities.
The Internal Audit function is responsible for: John Nelson, as the Senior Independent Director, is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through providing the Board with independent and objective assurance on the control environment across the Group: normal channels of communication.
ensuring that the operating companies have appropriate organisation and processes to carry out regular and effective reviews of their internal controls: 28 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 29 4480 Review 26-52 FINAL17-04 28 04 03 4:23 PM Page 30 Directors report continued monitoring adherence to the Groups key policies and principles: Community affairs and environmental issues The Company and its subsidiaries contribute to a large number of community assistance projects in cash, in kind or by donation providing the necessary assurances on the control environment to the Audit Committee.
These processes and organisation enable the directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The value of this years contributions is estimated at 1.3 million 2002: 1.3 million.
This includes payments specifically for charitable purposes of 0.7 million 2002: 0.6 million.
The projects range from community training programmes to tree planting and environmental Compliance with the Combined Code regeneration projects and from supporting handicapped sportspeople to working with disabled and underprivileged children.
Additionally, During the year ended 1 February 2003, the Group complied with the requirements of the Combined Code except as disclosed on a wide range of charitable fund-raising activities were undertaken by employees.
The Group continues to identify the key environmental impacts of the operational element of the businesses and its products.
Progress Annual General Meeting has been made to reduce that impact and the Group is committed to making further improvements.
Further details are given on pages The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Radisson SAS Portman Hotel, 22 Portman Square, London W1H 7BG on Wednesday 22 and 23, and in Kingfishers plan for corporate social responsibility and How green is my kitchen?, copies of which are available on 4 June 2003 at 11.00 a. m. Shareholders will be invited to vote in favour of the following resolutions: request at the address shown on page 22. receive the Annual Review 2003 and Annual Accounts 2003: approve the Remuneration Report as set out on pages 32 to 43: Supplier payment policy approve the Kingfisher Incentive Share Scheme, as described on pages 32 to 34: The Company does not impose standard payment terms on its suppliers but agrees specific terms with each of them.
It is the renew the Kingfisher ShareSave Scheme and International ShareSave Plan: Companys policy to pay its suppliers in accordance with the terms which have been agreed.
The Company is a holding company declare the final dividend of 6.05p per share: and therefore has no trade creditors.
elect Gerry Murphy, Phillip Bentley and Hartmut Krmer as directors: re-elect Ian Cheshire, Helen Weir and William Whiting as directors: Political contributions re-appoint the auditors and authorise the directors to fix their remuneration: This year the Company made no political contributions 2002: nil, in line with the policy adopted since 1997. renew the directors power to allot shares: renew, the limited authority under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 in respect of the Company, B&Q plc and Major shareholders Comet Group plc: As at 15 April 2003, the Company had been notified of the following interests in 3% or more of the Companys shares: renew the directors power to disapply statutory pre-emption rights on issues of new shares e. g. scrip dividends and exercises of Number of ordinary shares % share options : Barclays plc 84,420,485 3.2% renew the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares: and The Capital Group Companies Inc and its subsidiaries 130,740,934 5.0% amend the articles of association to permit the appointment of proxies through the CREST electronic system.
M&G Investment Management Ltd 100,071,347 3.8% Notice of the Annual General Meeting and full explanatory notes on each of the resolutions are set out in a separate circular that has been sent to all shareholders.
Auditors Following the conversion of our auditors  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003, Employee involvement  resigned on 10 January 2003 and the directors appointed its successor,  LLP, as auditors.
The Board continues to place emphasis on high standards of customer care and service by each operating company.
The commitment A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
of every employee to this business requirement is considered to be critical.
Accordingly, operating companies have continued to develop their arrangements for employee information, consultation, communication and involvement, including attitude surveys, briefing groups, internal magazines and newsletters on matters relating to the business performance and objectives, community involvement and other By Order of the Board issues.
Use is also made of Kingfishers intranet system to communicate results announcements to employees throughout the Group Helen Jones and to distribute information about other important business developments.
Company Secretary Training and links with the educational sector reinforce our commitment to employee involvement and development.
Employees are 16 April 2003 represented on the trustee board of the Groups pension arrangements.
The Group has a long-established Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme ShareSave in which all of the Groups UK employees are entitled to participate on an annual basis, regardless of number of hours worked, provided they meet certain service conditions.
In addition, international ShareSave plans operate along similar lines to that offered in the UK, but taking account of different tax and legal requirements.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, HIV status, disability, sexuality, or unrelated criminal convictions and without arbitrary restrictions in respect of age, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justified.
The Group applies employment policies which are fair and equitable and which ensure entry into, and progression within, the Group is determined solely by application of job criteria and personal ability and competency.
The Company is a founder member of the Business in the Community Opportunity Now campaign designed to increase the opportunities available for women in the workplace.
Progress has been made in a number of areas, such as training, parental leave provisions and the employment of mature workers.
The Group will continue to build upon and introduce initiatives in this area.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to the possibility of employing disabled persons wherever suitable opportunities exist.
Employees who become disabled are given every opportunity and assistance to continue in their employment or to be trained for other suitable positions.
30 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 31 4480 Review 26-52 FINAL17-04 28 04 03 4:23 PM Page 32 Remuneration report Remuneration Committee Annual bonus The Remuneration Committee the Committee consists wholly of independent, non-executive directors, and is comprised of John Annual bonus is paid under the Kingfisher Annual Cash Incentive Scheme 2003.
For the achievement of demanding on target financial Nelson Chairman, Michael Hepher, Francis Mackay and Margaret Salmon.
Over the course of the past 12 months Peter Hardy stood performance a cash bonus equal to 60% of base salary will be receivable.
A lower level of bonus will be receivable for achieving a down as the Committees Chairman on 7 June 2002, being replaced by John Nelson, and John Bullock resigned from the Committee threshold level of performance.
This cash bonus will be capped at a maximum of 82.5% of base salary for the executive directors for the on 8 November 2002. achievement of truly stretching performance.
When aggregated with the annual share awards explained below, the on target and maximum bonus figures become 120% and 165% of base salary respectively, subject to additional multiplier awards vesting.
Lower limits The Committees aim is to ensure that the executive directors are rewarded for their contribution to the Group, and are motivated to enhance will apply to senior executives below executive director level.
While a key aspect of the new scheme is to provide transparency to returns to shareholders.
The Committee is responsible for advising the Board on the remuneration policy for executive directors and then executives and shareholders alike, the Committee has retained, by exception, the discretion to adjust bonuses up or down where it responsible for applying the policy in relation to the remuneration of individual executive directors, once formally endorsed by the full Board.
concludes that a particular individuals contribution warrants a different level of bonus but subject to the overriding cap, currently 82.5%.
Overseeing the management and administration of the Groups share schemes for employees is also the responsibility of the Committee.
Performance targets to determine the annual bonus will be set by the Committee at the beginning of each year and will be appropriately The Committee is advised internally by the Group Director of Human Resources and the Director of Group Reward.
External advice is demanding and will comprise objective financial performance targets.
In setting targets for the revised annual bonus arrangements, the sought from a range of consultants on specific issues, but principally from Towers Perrin, New Bridge Street Consultants and Mayer first year will be one of transition, since it is planned to undertake the demerger of Kingfishers Electricals division during the course of the Brown Rowe and Maw, all of which have been appointed by the Committee.
New Bridge Street Consultants provide advice to the financial year.
In anticipation of the demerger taking place in July 2003, the targets will relate to Kingfisher as if the demerger had been Company on the on-going operation of employee and executive share plans.
Towers Perrin periodically provide the Company with advice effected at the beginning of the financial year with the capital structure that will apply following demerger.
For the current financial year, on remuneration positioning for executives and non-executive director fee levels, both in the UK and overseas.
Mayer Brown Rowe and the Committee has concluded that the key performance targets for executives should focus on: Group profit before tax and earnings: Maw provide on-going advice on contracts for executive directors and senior executives.
operating company profit adjusted for cost of capital: return on capital: and cash flow.
These will be the sole criteria for executive directors with Group-wide responsibilities.
Executive directors with divisional responsibilities will have not less than 25% of their bonus Remuneration policy opportunity determined by reference to these measures with the balance determined by reference to similar divisional measures.
The Committee intends that executive director remuneration, both in terms of base salary and total remuneration, is positioned competitively This weighting will remain under review by the Committee.
by reference to the individual experience of the executive concerned, the role fulfilled and the markets in which the Company competes.
During the course of this financial year, the Committee will be developing a more comprehensive set of targets for application during the This is designed to enable business success through the recruitment, retention and motivation of the highest quality executives.
following financial year 2004 2005 against the background that this will be the first full financial year of Kingfisher in its new form.
The policy is consistently applied across the Group for the remuneration of the executive directors and senior managers.
Going forward, a general description of the nature of the targets being set for each year will be disclosed in the following years Directors The existing Executive Share Option Scheme expires in June 2003 and needs to be replaced in any event.
Accordingly, the Committee Remuneration Report.
has undertaken a comprehensive review of the Companys executive remuneration arrangements and has concluded that the current arrangements are overly complex, do not link Company performance and incentives closely enough and do not sufficiently align the Subject to shareholder consent for the new arrangements at this years AGM, a cash bonus will be paid immediately following the interests of the executives with those of the shareholders.
The Committee has therefore concluded that it is in the best interests of approval of the audited financial statements for the relevant financial year.
In addition to the cash bonus, designated executives will shareholders to replace the current incentive schemes with simpler arrangements which are clearer and more transparent both to receive an award of shares under the proposed new Kingfisher Incentive Share Scheme 2003. shareholders and executives, align the interests of executives with those of the shareholders through pure equity participation rather The new share award will have an initial value equal to the cash bonus and must be held for three years before it vests.
Even though than share options and encourage a long term view of performance.
the cash bonus will have been determined and earned in respect of financial performance over the preceding year, these shares will The new arrangements will involve the executive receiving 50% of earned annual bonus in cash with the other 50% being delivered nevertheless be at risk should the executive leave the Group during the three year deferral period as a result of voluntary resignation through a share award over Kingfisher shares of an equal value, the share award being capable of enhancement as described below.
Under this new policy, the Companys standard remuneration package for executive directors will remain weighted towards variable, This new arrangement will entirely replace Executive Share Options.
The Committee considers that, while the annual bonus performance performance-related rather than fixed remuneration.
Approximately 55% of annual remuneration will be determined by reference to criteria should remain primarily based on achieving appropriately demanding annual performance targets, the share-related element of the stretching performance criteria in an on-target financial performance year where the new cash bonus and share award incentives would new arrangements should incorporate an external stock market-related performance condition.
With this in mind, the number of shares represent 120% of base salary.
This excludes the value of pensions as the value differs considerably between executive directors due to awarded may be increased, pursuant to a multiplier award, by up to 40%, dependent on the relative Total Shareholder Return TSR of differences in age and date of joining the pension scheme.
More detailed disclosure of the pension arrangements is set out on page 38. the Company against the constituents of the FTSE 100 over a fixed 3 year period ending on the last day of the third financial year following the financial year in which the bonus was earned.
The starting and ending TSR figures will be derived by using the average This new approach is considered appropriate for Kingfisher given that it is a rapidly changing international retailer.
Kingfisher needs to TSR of each company over the 3 months prior to the start and end of the performance period.
The multiplier award will only commence apply a remuneration strategy across a number of countries with different cultures and market practices.
Against this backdrop, it is vesting for achievement of performance above the median with a 10% uplift arising for achieving the 51st percentile, rising on a straight considered appropriate to incentivise executives to focus on maintaining and enhancing profit levels within the new Group.
The line basis to a 40% uplift for achieving the 76th percentile.
Additionally, for each award to vest, the Committee must be satisfied that arrangements have been discussed with the Companys key institutional shareholders and have received the support of an overwhelming there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company.
The Companys Executive Share Option Scheme expires at the 2003 AGM.
The final tranche of options will be granted in April 2003 The purpose of this review of incentive arrangements has not been to increase the overall quantum of remuneration for executives.
under the Companys Executive Share Option Scheme.
To avoid duplication of remuneration arrangements, any executive participating in The value of the awards under both the current and proposed structures has been designed to be broadly similar taking into account the final tranche of options granted in April 2003 will not receive the multiplier award, which would otherwise have applied in respect of the Black Scholes methodology for the valuation of options as explained on page 40.
The multiplier award will only apply from the 2004 2005 financial year for any executive receiving a normal option The Committee has been advised that this remuneration structure is competitive but not excessive when compared with relevant grant in April 2003.
Conversely, any executive not receiving a normal six monthly award in the April 2003 option grant under the Executive external benchmarks.
Share Option Scheme will be eligible to receive a multiplier award in respect of the 2003 2004 financial year.
TSR was selected as the most appropriate performance measure for the multiplier award as it is robust, aligns executives interests with Components of remuneration those of shareholders and is favoured by the Companys leading UK institutional shareholders.
New Bridge Street Consultants will carry Salaries and benefits out the relevant TSR calculations for the Committee.
Salaries are reviewed annually in August, following a comprehensive review of market practice, in the context of market conditions affecting executive remuneration, affordability, the level of increases awarded to staff throughout the business, and the need to reflect In the event that a maximum bonus is earned, an amount equivalent to 82.5% of base salary will be invested in shares.
In this instance, the individuals contribution.
In addition, the Company provides a range of competitive benefits.
the long term TSR incentive element would therefore be an amount equivalent to 33% of base salary i. e. 40% of 82.5% of base salary.
Current salaries, following the most recent review in August 2002 and for Gerry Murphy from 3 February 2003 are: Executive directors will be prohibited from selling any Kingfisher vested shares under this scheme except to meet their tax obligations Ian Cheshire 320,000, Jean-Nol Labroue 339,000 converted to sterling at an exchange rate of a1.583 to 1, Gerry Murphy until such time as they hold shares worth at least 1 times base salary and in the case of the Chief Executive 2 times base salary within a 800,000, Helen Weir 340,000 and William Whiting 390,000.
No other executives have base salaries or incentive opportunities higher five year period.
Shares acquired from other sources eg purchased by the individual in the market will be permitted to count towards than those of the current executive directors.
Shares held subject to the new share scheme or otherwise not fully vested will not count towards these 32 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 33 4480 Review 26-52 FINAL17-04 28 04 03 4:23 PM Page 34 Remuneration report continued limits.
Accordingly, if the target level of performance is consistently achieved, the executive directors will hold a direct interest in shares Pensions worth at least 2.8 times salary i. e. 1 times salary under the share ownership guidelines plus at least 1.8 times salary of unvested shares UK executive directors who joined the Company before 1994 are members of funded pension arrangements providing a pension on under the new share scheme whilst the Chief Executive will hold at least 3.8 times salary, before adjusting for the effect of any salary retirement at age 60 of up to two thirds of base salary only except for Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy where his pension was based on 107% increases.
These guidelines will be periodically reviewed by the Committee.
of base salary, subject to a minimum of 20 years service with the Group.
In the event of death during employment, dependants would receive a pension and a lump sum.
Share options Ian Cheshire and Helen Weir joined the Company after 1994 and are members of the main funded arrangements available to all UK The existing Executive Share Option Scheme expires at the 2003 AGM and the Remuneration Committee will make a final option grant in employees, the Kingfisher Pension Scheme, which provide a pension on retirement at age 60 of 1 60th of base salary limited by the April 2003.
However, given the impending demerger of the Electricals businesses, employees within those businesses will not participate Earnings Cap for each year of service together with life assurance and dependants benefits payable on the members death.
supplement is paid in addition on salary in excess of the Earnings Cap 10% for Ian Cheshire and 6% for Helen Weir which depends upon The maximum grant level for this final grant will be 1 times salary, with options usually only becoming exercisable if the Groups earnings age at joining.
Gerry Murphys pension arrangements include membership of Kingfisher Pension Scheme and contributions to a FURBS per share EPS grows by at least RPI 6% over a 3 year period, as provide under the rules of the Scheme.
equal to 40% of his salary above the Earnings Cap.
There were no Company arrangements for Anthony Percival.
A UK Savings-Related Share Option Scheme ShareSave will continue to be open to all eligible employees, including executive directors, Service contracts in the UK.
International ShareSave plans operate in Ireland, France, Belgium and Hong Kong along similar lines to the UK Scheme and UK executive directors with the exception of the Chief Executive, have service contracts which are terminable by the Company with plans are being formulated to extend participation further across the Groups international operations.
Approval is being sought for between 18 and 24 months notice.
In the event of early termination, provision is made for payment of between 14 and 18 months renewal of the ShareSave plans at this years Annual General Meeting.
liquidated damages if the director has not reached the age of 50, or between 16 and 21 months liquidated damages if the director is aged 50 or over.
A similar liquidated damages payment would be made if the director left within three months of a change of control In addition, a Phantom Share Option Scheme, which in all respects operates as other share option plans but is cash, rather than share of the Company, as defined in their service contracts.
based, is used where the share option plans are inappropriate, for example, given the different tax regimes in certain overseas countries.
No further awards will be made under this arrangement after the final option grant in April 2003.
The notice period in the service contract for Jean-Nol Labroue is six months from the Company, but includes termination provisions in accordance with French law which could require payment of up to 12 months remuneration if all provisions have been met.
The Committee Arrangements for the Chief Executive recognises that three executive directors have service contracts which are terminable by the Group with notice periods of between 18 Pursuant to arrangements negotiated prior to Gerry Murphy commencing employment with the Company, he is due to receive shortly and 24 months.
As such, this does not comply with one of the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Committee believes that it is not share-based awards as described below.
The Committee considers that these arrangements were necessary, bearing in mind his in the best interests of the Company to renegotiate employment contracts freely entered into in the recent past.
It is, however, the Committees forfeiture of outstanding share incentives and other benefits provided by his previous employer.
The arrangements therefore rely intention to ensure that executive directors appointed to the Board in future do not have notice periods exceeding 12 months in accordance on the exemption in paragraph 13.13A of the UK Listing Authority UKLA s Listing Rules, which permits bespoke awards to be made with current corporate governance best practice unless there is a clear and unambiguous case for an arrangement above this level.
They will involve an initial award of 187,013 Kingfisher shares the investment shares.
This number of shares The Chief Executives contract was entered into on 30 October 2002 ahead of his effective commencement of employment on is based on an award to the value of 360,000, with the share price being based on an opening price of 192.5 pence on 3 February 3 February 2003.
His contract is terminable on 12 months notice by either side.
During any such notice period he will be entitled to 2003 being the date on which the Chief Executives employment commenced.
A grant of additional shares the matching shares will salary and other benefits, pension entitlements and insurance benefits life assurance, medical insurance, permanent disability insurance.
The investment shares will vest on the earlier of the third anniversary of the commencement of the current financial year or termination of the Chief Executives employment as explained below.
The matching shares will vest at the same time as the investment If the Chief Executives contract is terminated in certain circumstances following a change of control, as defined in his service contract, shares, but will be subject to satisfaction of performance conditions requiring achievement of Total Shareholder Return TSR targets he will be entitled to a payment of liquidated damages equivalent to the benefits described above on the basis of one years notice plus against the constituents of the FTSE 100 as at the date of award.
The maximum number of matching shares is 3 times the number a payment in lieu of lost bonus opportunity.
Additionally, in these circumstances, under the terms of the share arrangements established of investment shares and is available only for upper quartile TSR performance: median TSR performance will result in a 1 matching ratio in connection with his joining the Company as described above, he will be entitled to receive the investment shares held on his behalf with straight-line vesting between these two points.
No matching shares will vest for below median performance.
and any matching shares that are treated as having vested at that time.
Two further awards will be offered to the new Chief Executive, but they will only take effect at the commencement of the 2004 2005 and 2005 2006 financial years respectively, and only if the Chief Executive chooses to invest his own funds in further investment shares at Date of last contract Notice period those times.
Any such investment will be limited to one third of his base salary in each financial year.
Contractual termination payments 1 Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy 22 11 2001 6 months n a The maximum matching share ratio that can apply to invested shares in these later years is 3 times the number of investment shares Gerry Murphy 30 10 2002 12 months 12 months acquired.
All other terms of vesting will be consistent with the matching award made in 2003 2004 and, subject to meeting the same 2 Ian Cheshire 25 04 2000 18 months 14 16 months performance conditions but with the three year performance periods commencing with the year of their respective grants, they will 3 Jean-Nol Labroue 08 11 2000 6 months 6 months normally vest on the third anniversary of the commencement of the relevant financial years.
4 Anthony Percival 02 05 2002 n a n a 2 If the Chief Executive ceases to be employed by Kingfisher, he will be entitled to retain his investment shares and any already vested Helen Weir 19 09 2000 18 months 14 16 months matching shares.
Any matching shares not yet vested will be retained if he leaves other than through voluntary resignation or dismissal for William Whiting 29 09 2000 24 months 21 months cause to the extent that these can be treated as vested taking into account performance to that time, with vesting on a pro-rata basis to 1 Sir Geoffrey Mulcahys most recent service contract with the Company was dated 22 November 2001 and provided for a notice period of 6 months to the time elapsed in the performance period.
If he resigns or is dismissed for cause, he will retain only investment shares and any vested expire on or after 1 March 2003. matching shares: unvested matching shares will be forfeited unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
2 The lower amount relates to under 50 and higher amount relates to over 50 years of age.
3 The notice period in the service contract for Jean-Nol Labroue is six months from the Company, but includes termination provisions in accordance with TSR was selected as the most appropriate performance measure for the Chief Executives share plan as it is robust, aligns his interests French law which could require payments of up to 12 months remuneration if all provisions have been met.
with those of shareholders and is favoured by the Companys leading UK institutional shareholders.
New Bridge Street Consultants will 4 Anthony Percivals most recent service contract with the Company was dated 2 May 2002 and was for a fixed term up to 31 October 2002.
He resigned carry out the relevant TSR calculations for the Company.
from the Company on 31 October 2002.
The shares for the awards to the new Chief Executive will be supplied by the Kingfisher Employee Benefit Trust.
No benefits under the arrangements will be pensionable.
In addition, as part of the arrangements negotiated on his recruitment, the Chief Executive will as soon as practical be granted share options under the Companys Executive Share Option Scheme over such shares as have a value equal to four times his base salary, with the same conditions as the normal six monthly option grant explained above.
With the exception of the April 2003 normal six monthly grant of options under the existing share option scheme, the Chief Executive will also be eligible to participate in the proposed incentive arrangements for executive directors detailed above.
34 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 35 4480 Review 26-52 FINAL17-04 28 04 03 4:23 PM Page 36 Remuneration report continued Jean-Hugues Loyez did not have a written service contract with the Company, but was entitled under French law to 3 months notice Directors remuneration for the financial year continued Total remuneration from the Company and payment of up to 12 months remuneration.
He resigned from the Company on 17 May 2002.
2003 2002 thousands Fees note 2 Termination pay Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy resigned as a director of the Company on 5 December 2002.
As part of his contractual terms, he remains Non-executive 8 an employee of the Company until 30 April 2003, during which notice period he will continue to be paid normal salary and benefits.
Francis Mackay 300 300 48 He will not receive any bonus entitlements for 2002 2003 and will receive no pension enhancements as a result of ceasing to be Chief John Nelson 46 46 2 Executive.
All outstanding share and share option awards held by Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy will be treated in accordance with the rules of Sir John Banham 255 5 the Companys share and share option plans.
Phillip Bentley 15 15 6, 9 John Bullock 47 47 35 Jean-Hugues Loyez ceased to be an executive director on 17 May 2002.
He received a payment of 778,000 converted to sterling at 6 Peter Hardy 16 16 32 an exchange rate of a1.583 to 1 as termination pay in respect of his position as chief executive of Castorama Dubois Investissements.
Michael Hepher 38 38 32 5 Hartmut Krmer 9 9 External appointments Margaret Salmon 41 41 32 Kingfisher recognises that executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that such 9 Bernard Thiolon 41 41 35 appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Group.
Provided there is no conflict of interest, Total 553 553 471 executive directors may hold a maximum of two non-executive directorships and fees are normally retained by the individual director.
1 Benefits incorporate all taxable benefits arising from employment which relate mainly to the provision of a company car and salary supplements where Non-executive directors pensionable salary is limited by the earnings cap, but also include the cost of medical insurance.
For Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy, benefits also include personal Non-executive directors remuneration is determined by the Board and consists of an annual fee for their services as members of the tax and legal advice and for Helen Weir include 334,607 in respect of a relocation allowance.
At his request, Francis Mackay has his net salary paid quarterly directly to a broker who purchases Kingfisher shares on his behalf.
Totals for 2002 include amounts deferred into the Kingfisher Incentive Plan KIP by Ian Cheshire 78,000 and William Whiting 99,000.
The 2002 totals also include termination payments to Philip Rowley 481,000 and Sir John Banham 84,000.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts, but, instead, have letters of engagement.
The Chairmans letter of engagement 3 Converted to sterling at an exchange rate of a1.583 to 1 2002: a1.614 to 1. allows for six months notice up to the age of 65 when the appointment ends without the need for notice.
Other non-executive directors 4 The salary for Jean-Nol Labroue includes a travel allowance of 78,000 converted to sterling at an exchange rate of a1.583 to 1.
5 are appointed for an initial period of 3 years.
Following this, their position can be revoked at any time at the discretion of the Company The 2003 remuneration covers the period since appointment, being 4 October 2002 for Phillip Bentley and 8 November 2002 for Hartmut Krmer.
All directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at least every 3 years.
The 2003 remuneration covers the period until resignation being 17 May 2002 for Jean-Hugues Loyez, 7 June 2002 for Peter Hardy, 31 October 2002 for Anthony Percival, and 31 December 2002 for John Bullock.
Since 1 February 1999, Michael Hephers services to the Board have been provided by Maple Leaf Global Limited under a consultancy 7 Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy resigned as a director on 5 December 2002.
He remains an employee of the Company until 30 April 2003, during which notice agreement.
This agreement may be terminated at any time without notice or compensation.
The table below includes all non-executive period he will continue to be paid normal salary and benefits.
The amounts disclosed above as compensation for loss of office are his normal salary, directors who served for any period during the year.
benefits and employers pension contributions for the period 5 December 2002 to 30 April 2003.
8 Date of letter of engagement The Company also pays 25,000 per annum for office accommodation and services provided by Francis Mackay.
9 The remuneration for John Bullock and Bernard Thiolon include the fees paid for their membership of the Conseil fide Surveillance of Castorama Dubois Francis Mackay 02 11 2001 Investissements S. C. A.
2,716 converted to sterling at an exchange rate of a1.583 to 1 in each case.
John Nelson 11 01 2002 10 Helen Weirs base salary included an amount of maternity pay 31,679.
Ian Cheshires salary included an acting-up allowance 17,502 for assuming Phillip Bentley 04 10 2002 extra responsibilities during Helen Weirs maternity leave period.
John Bullock 12 03 1993 Peter Hardy 15 04 1992 Gerry Murphy, who was appointed a director on 3 February 2003, received no emoluments as an employee or director in the financial year.
Michael Hepher 01 02 1999 The annual bonus figures in the table above represent the total amount receivable for performance in the 2002 2003 financial year.
Hartmut Kramer 08 11 2002 Executives had the option to defer some or all of this bonus into the Kingfisher Incentive Plan KIP in order to receive an additional Margaret Salmon 01 09 1997 matching award.
Details of the matching awards along with detail on the KIP are contained below.
Bernard Thiolon 24 06 1993 Non-executive directors fees were renewed and adjusted on 1 February 2002.
The basic fee is 38,000 per annum.
In addition, the Kingfisher Incentive Plan KIP Chairman of the Audit Committee Phillip Bentley is paid a fee of 10,000, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee John Nelson The KIP will be superseded by the proposed incentive arrangements subject to shareholder approval at the 2003 AGM.
The KIP is an receives 6,000 and the Chairman of the Social Responsibility Committee Margaret Salmon receives 3,000.
John Nelson also receives annual bonus scheme under which the director may earn annually 45% of base salary for achieving specified financial targets.
Payment is an additional 12,000 per annum in his capacity as Deputy Chairman of the Board.
capped at 100% of base salary for exceptional performance.
Under the KIP executives are allowed to voluntarily defer all or part of their annual bonus for a period of three years.
The deferred bonus is then matched by Kingfisher shares, to the value of 50% of the bonus Directors remuneration for the financial year deferred, which are awarded at the end of the three years subject to the executive remaining at Kingfisher throughout the period.
If the Base Total Annual bonus Compensation Total remuneration salary benefits Paid as Deferred for loss 2003 2002 proposed incentive arrangements detailed above are accepted by shareholders, the 2002 2003 bonus will be the final opportunity for thousands note 1 cash into KIP of office note 2 executives to participate in the KIP and the last payments under it will consequently be made in 2006.
Executive 7 Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy 832 61 502 1,395 1,051 1 Number of matching share awards held by Market price on 3 2 10 I. Cheshire J-N. Labroue H. Weir W. Whiting date of award Awards receivable Ian Cheshire 310 44 238 592 484 3, 4 KIP 2000 01 12,779 17,486 334.5p March 2004 Jean-Nol Labroue 326 3 49 378 372 3, 6 KIP 2001 02 13,434 17,070 290.0p March 2005 Jean-Hugues Loyez 134 2 96 778 1,010 462 6 Subject to remaining in employment at Kingfisher until the date the awards become receivable.
Anthony Percival 34 8 42 88 Philip Rowley 552 1 Following the one-for-one rights issue of 1,293,642,792 new Kingfisher shares at 155 pence per share in connection with the offer for Castorama Dubois 10 Helen Weir 299 376 39 196 910 472 Investissements S. C. A. the number of shares subject to matching awards have been adjusted to maintain the participants interests.
2 William Whiting 360 23 257 640 482 These shares were originally allocated at a market price of 443p and 384p.
The price shown in the table has been adjusted following the one-for-one rights issue.
Total 2,295 517 679 196 1,280 4,967 3,963 3 Shares to the value of 196,000 will be purchased on behalf of Helen Weir and held in the Employee Benefit Trust for three years, as a result of her deferral of her annual bonus earned under the KIP 2002 2003.
36 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 37 4480 Review 26-52 FINAL17-04 28 04 03 4:23 PM Page 38 Remuneration report continued As an incentive to encourage deferral and to smooth out transition from the previous plans, any bonus deferred under the 2002 2003 Directors share interests KIP is matched 20% in cash, payable immediately.
Executive Share Options Number of Options Black Black No awards vested in the year to 1 February 2003.
Scholes Scholes Granted Rights issue Exercised Lapsed Option Date from value value 3 At start during share during during At end price which 000 000 Directors pensions 3 1 of year year adjustments year year of year pence exercisable Lapse date Feb 2003 Feb 2002 The table below shows details required both under Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 Companies Act and the UK Listing Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy Authoritys Listing Rules Listing Rules.
2 444,748 144,209 588,957 173.11 15 10 1995 02 10 2002 708 In respect of the Companies Act, details of the accrued pensions shown are normal leaving service benefits at the relevant dates 40,030 12,979 53,009 211.44 26 04 1996 26 04 2003 1 46 payable from age 60, which, in respect of Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy, represent immediate pension options based on his 20 years service 252,292 81,805 334,097 217.85 29 04 1997 29 04 2004 23 283 and the fact that his pension service commenced before the introduction of the so-called earnings cap, the increase in the amount of 22,164 7,186 29,350 305.83 23 10 2000 24 04 2005 2 16 accrued pension during this year and the transfer value amounts at 2 February 2002 and 1 February 2003, in accordance with the 287,534 93,233 380,767 414.95 01 05 2003 24 04 2005 5 105 transfer basis under the Kingfisher Pension Scheme, and their differences, net of member contributions paid.
297,339 96,412 393,751 482.53 01 05 2003 24 04 2005 5 90 1,344,107 435,824 588,957 1,190,974 36 1,248 In respect of the Listing Rules, the increases in accrued pension shown are net of increases that would have applied to members Ian Cheshire pensions had they left service at the beginning of the year and relate to figures at the end of the year, with the exception of those relating 34,351 11,138 45,489 395.69 26 10 2004 26 10 2008 1 15 to Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy, where the effective date is 5 December 2002, when he ceased to be an executive director.
The pension cost is 23,047 7,473 30,520 589.76 01 04 2004 01 04 2009 3 the transfer value of this increase, net of member contributions paid.
56,142 18,204 74,346 393.43 17 04 2004 17 04 2010 3 29 Selected senior executives in France, including Jean-Nol Labroue, are members of defined benefit arrangements providing a target 52,854 17,137 69,991 357.18 25 09 2004 25 09 2010 4 34 pension upon retirement of between 53% and 60% of remuneration less existing compulsory and statutory provision.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 39 4480 Review 26-52 FINAL17-04 28 04 03 4:23 PM Page 40 Remuneration report continued 1 The exercise date in relation to Executive Share Options is dependent on the performance condition set at the time of grant being achieved.
The options ShareSave options Number of Options become exercisable when the Groups EPS has grown by at least RPI 6% over a three year period.
Where the performance conditions have not been met or cannot be met by the original date from which the options were exercisable, the earliest date for exercise is extended by one year.
The options will Granted Rights Issue Exercised Lapsed Option Date from 1 lapse unexercised if the performance conditions are not met by the fixed lapse date.
At start during share during during At end price which 1 of year year adjustments year year of year pence exercisable Lapse date 2 Exercised on 2 October 2002 when market price was 201.75 pence.
3 Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy Following the one-for-one rights issue of 1,293,642,792 new Kingfisher shares at 155 pence per share in connection with the offer for Castorama Dubois 2 3,390 1,099 4,489 199.73 01 08 2002 14 01 2003 Investissements S. C. A. the exercise price and the number of shares under option have been adjusted to maintain the option holders interests.
3,390 1,099 4,489 Aggregate gains made by directors on exercise of share options were 168,801 2002: 505,303.
Options are awarded at no cost to Ian Cheshire the employee.
6,019 6,019 157.00 01 12 2005 01 06 2006 Although not a participant under the share option arrangement, Anthony Percival has a long term bonus arrangement based on the 6,019 6,019 increase in the Kingfisher share price.
This option is exercisable unconditionally.
Helen Weir 4,194 1,359 5,553 171.04 01 12 2004 01 06 2005 Number of Options Black Black 4,194 1,359 5,553 Rights Scholes Scholes Granted Exercised Lapsed issue Option Date from value value William Whiting 1 At start during during during share At end price which 000 000 1 549 178 727 532.37 01 08 2002 01 02 2003 of year year year year adjustment of year pence exercisable Lapse date Feb 2003 Feb 2002 1,061 344 1,405 275.62 01 12 2003 01 06 2004 Anthony Percival 205,830 66,740 272,570 220.12 31 05 1998 30 04 2003 1 201 838 271 1,109 171.04 01 12 2004 01 06 2005 1 Following the one-for-one rights issue of 1,293,642,792 new Kingfisher shares at 155 pence per share in connection with the offer for Castorama Dubois 4,184 4,184 157.00 01 12 2007 01 06 2008 Investissements S. C. A. the exercise price and number of shares under option have been adjusted to maintain the option holders interests.
2,448 4,184 793 727 6,698 Under the Rules of the Kingfisher Share Option Schemes, the options held by the directors cannot be sold or assigned prior to their Jean-Nol Labroue exercise.
The Black-Scholes values shown above are calculated using a mathematical approach which estimates a theoretical value 3,852 1,331 5,183 231.51 01 12 2005 01 06 2006 at which the options might be traded on the stock market, assuming a ready supply of willing buyers and sellers.
3,852 1,331 5,183 The Black-Scholes methodology takes into account, amongst other things: 1 Following the one-for-one rights issue of 1,293,642,792 new Kingfisher shares at 155 pence per share in connection with the offer for Castorama Dubois the dividend yield on the shares Investissements S. C. A. the exercise price and the number of shares under option have been adjusted to maintain the option holders interests.
the shares volatility a measure of the extent to which the share price tends to vary 2 Exercised on 14 January 2003 when market price was 202.5p.
the period for which the option is exercisable the option exercise price No performance conditions apply to ShareSave options.
This plan is offered on similar terms to all eligible UK and international employees.
the market value of the shares projected total return on the shares.
The market price of the shares on 1 February 2003 was 192.50p and the range during the year was 165.00p to 306.97p.
The value is derived by looking at the statistical likelihood of various possible share price outcomes at the end of the option term and On 9 April 2002, Phantom Options were granted to executive directors.
Following the rights issue, their holdings are 91,350 shares for discounting the value back to the valuation date.
Ian Cheshire, 102,685 shares for Jean-Nol Labroue, 103,416 shares for Helen Weir and 113,757 shares for William Whiting.
The options become exercisable when the Groups underlying EPS has grown by at least RPI 6% over a 3 year period.
No account is taken of the fact that options might lapse if the option holder leaves.
The option exercise price in respect of these Phantom Options is 290.08 pence post rights issue and they can first be exercised from The Black-Scholes methodology was used on a basis consistent with that applied in the 2001 2002 financial statements.
Phantom Options were granted in April 2002 as sufficient executive share options could not be granted at this time due to a basis consistent with the proposed IASB methodology will be applied when those proposals are finalised.
The Phantom Option grant was made following consultations with the UKLA.
The Phantom Options will lapse The Black-Scholes figures were supplied by New Bridge Street Consultants.
unexercised if the performance conditions are not met by 9 April 2012.
By making the grant in April 2002, the Company maintained its policy of making regular 6 monthly incentive grants to executives.
Closed plans No future awards will be made under any of these plans.
However, there are prior year awards outstanding under all of the plans as set out below.
Value Enhancement Plan VEP The VEP is a long term incentive plan for executive directors which was replaced by the KIP in 2001.
There are, however, performance cycles which continue to run and the last payments under the VEP will be made in 2005.
The VEP is an incentive plan linked to total shareholder return relative to a peer group of companies.
Each year, a three year performance cycle commenced from 1 February.
For each three year plan period, the Companys total shareholder return share price growth plus reinvested dividend is compared against the total shareholder returns of a basket of comparable retailers selected by the Committee, which currently comprises 15 UK and European retailers.
The returns of the companies within the comparator group are calculated on the same basis as that of Kingfisher.
Providing the Company performs in the top half of the peer group, the reward would range from 30% to a maximum of 70% of base salary.
One third of the bonus award would be paid in cash with the remainder used to purchase shares which are released from the Kingfisher Employee Benefit Trust over a further two years.
Kingfisher was ranked 16th against its comparator group for the period 2000 2003, and, therefore, nothing will be paid in respect of this plan cycle.
The companies in the comparator group were Ahold, Allders, Boots, Carrefour, Debenhams, Dixons, GUS, House of Fraser, J Menzies, Marks & Spencer, Matalan, Sainsbury, Tesco, WH Smith and Wickes.
40 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 41 4480 Review 26-52 FINAL17-04 28 04 03 4:23 PM Page 42 Remuneration report continued Incentive Growth Plan IGP By virtue of being potential beneficiaries of the Kingfisher Employee Benefit Trust, all the executive directors were technically interested in The IGP is a long term incentive plan designed to reward senior managers at operating company level.
On 15 April 2003, the number of shares in which the directors were technically interested under this trust was 37,142,902.
The IGP rewarded growth in value as measured by economic profit operating profit less tax less interest charge with payments deferred for three years then paid in three cash instalments over a further two years.
Since this plan operates over a three year cycle, final Performance graph payments will not be made until March 2005.
The only potential payments to executive directors under the IGP will be to William Whiting New legislation introduced this year requires this report to include a graph illustrating the performance of Kingfisher and a broad equity and Helen Weir.
These payments were allocated before their appointment to the Board.
market index over the past five years.
As Kingfisher plc has been a constituent of the FTSE 100 index throughout this five year period, The table below summarises the payments made in March 2003 and payments outstanding for executive directors under the VEP and that index is considered the most appropriate form of index against which the Groups performance should be measured.
as required by the legislation, is measured by Total Shareholder Return share price growth plus dividends paid.
1 Plan Paid in March 2003 Payable in future Market price on date of award Total shareholders return 2 Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy Source: Datastream VEP 1998 01 52,164 shares 345.5p 140 Helen Weir 120 Further 50% of base salary to be paid in March 2004 100 IGP 297,500 Further 25% of base salary to be paid in March 2005 n a 80 William Whiting 60 Further 50% of base salary to be paid in March 2004 40 IGP 390,000 Further 25% of base salary to be paid in March 2005 n a 20 Total value of awards paid in March 2003 under closed plans 687,500 and 52,164 shares.
March 2002: 461,400 and 74,973 shares 0 01 Feb 98 01 Feb 99 01 Feb 00 01 Feb 01 01 Feb 02 01 Feb 03 1 Following the one-for-one rights issue of 1,293,642,792 new Kingfisher shares at 155 pence per share in connection with the offer for Castorama Dubois Kingfisher Investissements S. C. A. the number of matching share awards have been adjusted to maintain the shareholders interests.
2 FTSE 100 Index The award vested on 19 March 2003 at a market price of 237 pence.
The shares were transferred to Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy on the same date.
The shares to satisfy the award to Sir Geoffrey Mulcahy were allocated by the Kingfisher Employee Benefit Trust on 14 March 2001 when the market value The above graph looks at the value, by the end of the 2002 03 financial year, of 100 invested in Kingfisher on 1 February 1998 was 457.5 pence per share.
The number of shares allocated at this time was 39,392.
The number and value of matching share awards has been compared with 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at interim financial year ends.
adjusted to maintain the shareholders interests subsequent to this date.
The following sections, on pages 36 to 42, of the Directors Remuneration Report are auditable: Directors remuneration for the financial Directors interests in shares year: Kingfisher Incentive Plan KIP : Directors pensions: Directors share interests: Value Enhancement Plan VEP : and Incentive The directors who held office at 1 February 2003 had the following interests, all of which were beneficial, in the shares of the Company: Growth Plan IGP.
Ordinary shares 2003 Ordinary shares 2002 By order of the Board Phillip Bentley 20,000 Helen Jones Ian Cheshire 3,692 1,846 Company Secretary Michael Hepher 1,828 914 Hartmut Krmer 16 April 2003 Jean-Nol Labroue 731,727 672,727 Francis Mackay 82,466 6,702 John Nelson 50,000 Margaret Salmon 4,362 2,181 Bernard Thiolon 16,022 14,550 Helen Weir 2,286 William Whiting 9,928 4,740 Prior to Gerry Murphy joining the Company on 3 February 2003, he had acquired 100,000 Kingfisher shares on 8 January 2003 at a price of 200.5p.
There has been no change in the directors interests in shares as at 10 April 2003.
42 For more information on Kingfisher visit www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Review 2003 43 Value
