shareholder information Financial calendar 2003 profit and recommended 2003 final dividend of 5.52p per share announced 26 February 2004 Record date for the 2003 final dividend 5 March 2004 Annual general meeting 21 May 2004 Payment date for the 2003 final dividend 1 June 2004 Half year results and 2004 interim dividend to be announced 26 August 2004 www.
com UK Tax on Capital Gains Unsolicited Mail You can obtain a range of information A leaflet for UK capital gains tax purposes, As the Companys share register is open to on the Company and check your which includes details of rights and public inspection, shareholders may receive shareholding by visiting our website at capitalisation issues which have occurred unsolicited mail from organisations which www.
To access your since 31 March 1982, is available on use it as a mailing list.
If you wish to limit personal information you will need the request from the Secretary whose address the receipt of such mail, please write to Shareholder Reference Number shown is given overleaf.
the Mailing Preference Service, MPS, on your share certificate and dividend Freepost 22, London W1E 7EZ.
Shareholder Enquiries however, still continue to receive mail from All administrative enquiries relating organisations which do not subscribe to e-communications to shareholdings, such as queries this service.
com concerning dividend payments, to receive certain communications notification of change of address or e. g. the Annual Review and Summary the loss of a share certificate, should Financial Statement electronically.
be made to the Companys registrar, Hilton Group encourages the use of whose contact details are given overleaf.
e-communications as it saves printing and postage costs, is a more convenient Dividend Reinvestment Plan and timely way of communicating with A dividend reinvestment plan, which was shareholders and reduces demand on introduced in 2003, enables shareholders natural resources.
to apply their cash dividends to buy additional shares in the Company at Share Price Information competitive dealing rates.
To obtain more Hilton Groups share price is broadcast on information on joining the plan, contact the BBC 1 Ceefax, page 226, BBC 2 Ceefax, Companys registrar whose contact details page 222, Sky News, page 145 and on are given overleaf.
It also appears in the financial columns of the American Depositary Receipts ADRs national press.
The Company has a sponsored level 1 ADR programme for which The Bank of Share Dealing Service New York acts as depositary.
The ADRs A dealing service for Hilton Group shares are traded on the over-the-counter market is available through The Share Centre Ltd, under the symbol HLTGY, where one a member of the London Stock ADR is equal to two ordinary shares.
For further details please For further details please contact: contact: The Share Centre Ltd, Hilton The Bank of New York, Shareholder Group Share Dealing Enquiries, PO Box Relations, PO Box 11258, Church Street 2000, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8ZB.
com 56 Hilton Group plc Annual Report 2003
