44 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC Accounting policies Basis of preparation and consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of The Laird Group PLC and its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries, all of which have been prepared up to 31 December under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of freehold properties and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included for the effective period of ownership.
Intra-Group profits are eliminated on consolidation.
The Group has adopted UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts and the related amendments to UITF 17 Employee Share Schemes for 2003.
This change has resulted in a prior year adjustment to reduce shareholders funds of the Company and Group by 2.9m.
Certain comparative figures have been restated to conform with the 2003 presentation.
Turnover Turnover represents the sales value invoiced.
Taxes on sales and intra-Group sales are excluded.
Depreciation Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation of fixed assets, other than freehold land, evenly over their expected useful lives, principally as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years or less Leasehold land and buildings 50 years or the lease term if less Computer equipment 5 years or less Motor vehicles 4 years Other plant and machinery 13 years or less A proportion of one years depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
Pensions Under the transitional arrangements of FRS 17, the Group has accounted for pensions in accordance with SSAP 24.
The regular cost of providing pensions of the defined benefit type is charged to the profit and loss account and is based on a level percentage of earnings of employees covered under the schemes.
Variations from regular cost, arising from periodic actuarial valuations, are amortised over the average expected remaining working lives of current employees in the schemes.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as they become payable in accordance with the scheme rules.
Research and development Revenue expenditure on research and development is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but which have not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more or a right to pay less or to receive more, tax subject to the following: a Deferred tax is not recognised on the revaluation of non-monetary assets such as property unless a binding sale agreement exists at the balance sheet date.
Where rollover relief is available on an asset then deferred tax is in any case not recognised.
b Deferred tax is not recognised on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries unless dividends have been accrued as receivable or there is a binding agreement to distribute past earnings at the balance sheet date.
c Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Assets are regarded as recoverable when it is regarded as more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses prior to 1 January 1998 and subsequent adjustments to fair value have been set off against reserves.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses since 1 January 1998 is capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account over the lesser of useful economic life or 20 years.
Fixed assets The Groups policy is not to revalue its freehold property annually.
The valuations of freehold property adopted at 31 December 1999 have been retained.
Finance and operating leases Where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Other leases are treated as operating leases.
Future instalments payable under finance leases, net of finance charges, are included in borrowings with the corresponding asset values recorded in tangible fixed assets.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the asset or lease term if shorter.
Operating lease payments are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 45 Stocks and work in progress Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Foreign currencies In the Group accounts the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into Sterling using weighted average rates of exchange for the period.
Net investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising from retranslating opening net investments and the retained profits for the period of overseas subsidiaries, less exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings raised to finance or provide a hedge against overseas investments, are shown as movements on reserves.
All other exchange differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account for the period.
In the balance sheet of The Laird Group PLC, the investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the relevant transaction.
Financial instruments Forward contracts are used to hedge foreign currency exposures arising on committed future transactions in foreign currencies.
The rates under such contracts are used to record the hedged item.
Interest differentials on interest rate swaps are recognised by adjusting net interest payable.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value prior to maturity.
