2 Ashanti is consolidated as a fixed asset investment from 2000 onwards and as an associate in previous years.
64 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 Important Note This document contains detailed financial and statutory information for the Lonmin Group for the year ended 30 September 2003.
It should, however, be read in conjunction with a separate document entitled Lonmin Plc Contents Annual Review 2003.
29 Statement of Total 01 Business Profile Consolidated Recognised and Financial Highlights Designed by SAS.
Gains and Losses 02 Financial Review Photography by Andreas Vlachakis and Graeme Williams.
29 Consolidated Historical 05 Directors Report Cost Profits and Losses Printed on Consort Royal  paper using water-based inks 10 Corporate Governance by Pillans and Waddies, who are accredited under ISO 14001.
29 Reconciliation of Movement 14 Directors Report on in Equity Interests Remuneration 30 Lonmin Plc Company 25 Independent Auditors Balance Sheet Report to the Members 31 Statement on Accounting of Lonmin Plc Policies 26 Consolidated Profit and 35 Notes to the Accounts Loss Account 63 Principal Group Companies 27 Consolidated Balance Sheet 64 Five Year Financial Record 28 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7YL LONMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7YL LONMIN PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 OUR STAKEHOLDERS ASK HOW WE MANAGE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AS A CORPORATE CITIZEN.
THIS REPORT TELLS YOU HOW.
Important Note This Annual Review, which is sent to all shareholders, contains Contents a Summary Financial Statement and the Summary Remuneration Report rather 01 Business Profile 24 Lonmins Empowerment Vision than the full Financial Statements and Remuneration Report.
Accordingly, it does and Financial Highlights 25 Review of Business Development not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Lonmin Group as can be obtained by reading 02 Chairmans Statement 26 Board of Directors this Annual Review in conjunction with a separate document entitled Lonmin Plc 05 Chief Executives Statement 28 Summary Directors Report Annual Report 2003, which may be obtained free of charge, from the Companys Registrars listed on page 40.
The Annual Review and the Annual Report together 08 Review of Operations 30 Summary Directors Remuneration Report comprise the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Shareholders wishing to receive 12 Review of Markets 36 Auditors Statement the full Annual Report and Accounts for all future years should inform the 14 BEE People 37 Summary Financial Statement relevant Registrar in writing at the address listed.
Information about Lonmin is available on the Groups website www.
com, where this and other Lonmin 16 BEE Community 40 Corporate Information publications may be downloaded in their entirety.
A webcast of the 2003 results 18 BEE Health 42 Platinum Operating Statistics Five Year Review is also available.
20 BEE Culture 43 Five Year Financial Record Lonmin Plc is grateful to Johnson Matthey for statistical information 22 BEE Environment 44 Glossary of Terms for the Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003.
Photography by Andreas Vlachakis and Graeme Williams.
Printed on Consort Royal  paper using water-based inks by Pillans and Waddies, who are accredited under ISO 14001. BUSINESS PROFILE FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS LONMIN PLC IS THE THIRD LARGEST PRIMARY PLATINUM PRODUCER IN THE WORLD AND THE LARGEST PGM PRODUCER WITH A PRIMARY LISTING ON THE LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE.
Our Mines and Refineries are located in South Africa.
Exploration extends to North America, Australia and Southern Africa.
We are working towards the principles and aims of the South African Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act 28 of 2002, the Economic Empowerment Charter.
This report shows these principles and aims in action.
Financial highlights EBITDA $ million PBT $ million 2003 2002 Continuing operations 2002 2002 Profits 2003 2003 332 1 372 $344m $372m EBITDA 344 291 $297m $331m Total operating profit $291m $332m Profit before taxation 52.5 121.5 Earnings per share 2 87.2 98.5 Underlying earnings per share 4 72.0 72.0 Dividends per share Trading cash flow Underlying EPS cents Cash flow per share cents 161.0 Trading cash flow per share 118.9 2002 48.2 Free cash flow per share 4.6 2003 2003 98.5 87.2 161.0 Balance sheet 2002 $648m $675m Equity interests 118.9 $197m $155m Net borrowings 3 23% 18% Gearing 1EBITDA is Group operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
2 Underlying earnings per share are calculated on attributable profit excluding exceptional items and exchange adjustments on tax.
3 Gearing is calculated on the equity and minority interests of the Group.
4 The Board recommends a final dividend of 42.0 cents per share payable on 16 February 2004 to shareholders on the registers on 23 January 2004.
01 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Early in the year we announced the sale of IT HAS BEEN A YEAR OF Independence Mining, our gold mining business OPERATIONAL CHALLENGE in Zimbabwe.
This had been part of the Group for many years but had become increasingly irrelevant AND ACHIEVEMENT strategically as we moved to concentrate on Platinum Group Metals.
Operating conditions and COUPLED WITH financial management of the business became PROGRESS ON A VARIETY ever more difficult as a direct result of political conditions in Zimbabwe.
We were pleased to OF STRATEGIC FRONTS.
dispose of our interests in Zimbabwe without significant financial cost.
I would like to take this I am pleased to present the opportunity to thank our management and staff Report and Accounts for the who did an outstanding job in protecting our year ended 30 September 2003. interests in exceptionally difficult conditions in the years before our withdrawal and to wish them Results have been adversely all good fortune in the future.
affected throughout the South African mining Since the year end AngloGold has announced the industry by the sustained outcome of its offer for Ashanti.
This offer has been strength of the Rand against other currencies.
Our accepted by the Board of Ashanti and will be results have been particularly impacted because recommended unanimously to its shareholders.
we account and report in US dollars.
Both major shareholders, the Government of Ghana with its shareholding of 17% and ourselves In his report Edward Haslam, the Chief Executive, with 27.5% have undertaken irrevocably to sets out a comprehensive review of the years support the proposals and we hope that it will operations.
Therefore I will restrict my comment proceed smoothly to completion during the first on operational matters to the smelter explosion quarter of the New Year.
This had the potential to disrupt the Companys business in a very We have been shareholders in Ashanti for a very major way.
It is a tribute to our management long time indeed it was originally acquired for and all staff involved that not only did we deal 16 million by Lonrho as the company was then with the disruption but that we managed named in 1969.
We have supported Ashanti and significantly to increase production of refined its management in a variety of ways over the metals to a new record for the Company.
I must years, most recently by injecting $75 million of however strike a note of caution by pointing new capital when the company was struggling out that the smelter has not yet been reto overcome the financial difficulties stemming commissioned: this is intended to take place from its hedging programme in 1999.
We did this towards the end of the calendar year.
because we believed rightly as it turns out that 02 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT the terms on which Ashantis Bondholders were to meet certain criteria in order to qualify for a being invited to subscribe for new shares would new order mining licence.
One of these is that at result in excessive dilution for the rest of the least 15% of the share capital should be in the shareholders including ourselves.
Furthermore we hands of Historically Disadvantaged South Africans wished to retain a sufficient shareholding to HDSAs within five years of the legislation protect our position in the negotiations about the becoming effective.
ultimate ownership of Ashanti which we were confident would eventually come to pass.
We hope Shortly before the year end we announced that we that our shareholders now accept the wisdom and had signed a non-legally binding Memorandum of foresight of this step.
Understanding with Impala under which: We are pleased to have played a role in the Impala will sell its 27.1% shareholding development of this important African company in Lonplats, over many years and will follow keenly its further of this, 18% will be taken up by a new company, development.
Should this transaction be Incwala Resources Pty Limited Incwala, completed we will receive 10.4 million shares of formed for this purpose and initially owned in AngloGold.
No decision has yet been taken in equal shares jointly by Impala and ourselves, respect of any future stake we may hold in the at the cost of $531 million, and merged entity.
Lonmin will acquire the remaining 9.1% of Lonplats for an estimated net $242 million, Our principal operating company is Lonplats in taking its interest in Lonplats to 82%.
South Africa where we mine, smelt and refine platinum group metals, with our primary product It is the stated intention of Impala and ourselves being platinum.
Since 1990 when we acquired the progressively to reduce our shareholdings in Karee mine, our competitor, Impala Platinum, has Incwala to the point where we are no longer in owned a 27% interest in Lonplats.
The associated joint control by introducing a broad base of contractual arrangements including joint board qualified HDSA shareholders.
Ultimately it is our representation and constraints on the change of intention that Incwala which will retain an 18% control of Lonmin have restricted our freedom to shareholding as our partner in Lonplats will develop and implement an independent strategy be developed as an independent, commodity for Lonmin, notwithstanding the fact that our diversified mining company to act as a relationship with Impala has always been open flagship BEE company in the South African mining and constructive and that they have been a industry.
We plan to introduce appropriate HDSA good partner.
management at the earliest opportunity and then to list the shares on the Johannesburg In mid 2002 the South African Minister of Minerals Stock Exchange with a broad distribution to and Energy announced a new Act setting out the retail investors thus making a significant Mining Charter under which companies will have contribution to broader share ownership and 03 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT the development of deeper and more efficient Finance Director of Rexam Plc.
Michael has taken capital markets in South Africa.
We are committed over from Sir Alastair Morton as Chairman of the to Incwalas success, as can be seen from the Audit Committee where he is already making a composition of the initial Board comprising most useful contribution.
Impalas Peter Joubert and Keith Rumble, and myself as non-executive directors.
The nonFinally I should like to thank the management, executive chairman will be Brian Gilbertson and staff and employees for their contribution to Ian Farmer will take the role of Chief Executive.
results which in all the circumstances are very David Brown of Impala will become Incwalas satisfactory.
This is a fine company in an exciting Finance Director.
sector of the natural resource industry.
It is well run by a highly experienced management and Assuming we are able to bring these initiatives to I hope we as a Board have also demonstrated a a successful conclusion we will have removed the willingness to tackle energetically the strategic constraints on our corporate strategic development issues with which we are confronted.
and more than satisfied the HDSA ownership criteria to ensure that we will qualify on this count for a new order mining licence.
The Group will continue to explore the best ways of delivering additional shareholder value in the years ahead.
We were pleased to welcome Michael Hartnall to the Board during the year.
He has behind him a long and distinguished career most recently as Sir John Craven, Chairman 04 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT 87.2 per share a decrease of only 11% over the CONTRAST, CHANGE previous year.
AND CHALLENGE, Free cash flow per share rose from a negative 4.6 CHARACTERISED THE per share last year to a positive 48.2 per share.
These solid underlying financial results were the A 29% increase in the price consequence of a strong production performance for refined platinum at our Platinum mines.
contrasted sharply with a 40% drop in the price of Tonnes milled at 14.2 million, were up 26% year palladium and a 38% drop on year.
Production of refined platinum was in the price of rhodium.
oz, which comfortably signing of a non-binding exceeded our published expansion target.
Memorandum of In December 2002, a serious explosion occurred Understanding opened the way to a fundamental in the No.
1 furnace some nine months after its change in our contractual relationship with Impala commissioning.
The most likely cause was and a December explosion in the new No.
1 furnace, refractory displacement which allowed water from presented us with a serious challenge to maintain the copper cooling system to come into contact our published expansion profile.
with the furnace bath and the resulting explosion put the furnace out of operation for the rest of Against this background, I am delighted to be able to the year.
Repairs and necessary modifications report that whilst containing the year on year Rand have now been completed and re-commissioning per pgm ounce cost increase to 12%, in line with is expected over the coming calendar year end.
South African inflation as it affects the mines, we were able to break all previous production records.
Contingency plans were in place for such an eventuality including the re-commissioning of the Turnover increased by 12% to $779 million.
This was Merensky and Pyromet furnaces and the sending the result of increased pgm prices and additional of concentrate to Impala for toll smelting.
This production off-set by a reduction of $55 million resulted in an addition to our smelting costs of which was last years turnover from the some $8 million for the former and $26 million Zimbabwean gold mines sold at the beginning of for the latter.
Earnings per share, however, fell by 57% largely due to the effects on the tax charge of Record breaking, however, was not limited to a 26% appreciation of the Rand against the U. S. production and again I am delighted to report that dollar.
Underlying earnings per share, which all three mines improved considerably on last excludes the effect of exceptional items and the years disappointing safety record.
Two of the three exchange adjustments in the tax charge, were mines achieved the rare two million fatality free 05 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT shift status, one mine achieved the one million us that our objectives could be met and we thus fatality free status twice during the year and the did not proceed with either, although, the Panton Western Platinum mine for the first time ever Sill project did provide us with valuable process wasfatality free for the whole year.
Both data which has the potential to improve management and miners are to be commended efficiencies in our South African mines.
Hard rock underground mining however, remains inherently The Memorandum of Understanding signed with dangerous and, although they did not all occur Impala has the potential to greatly simplify our underground, unfortunately there were six fatal corporate structure whilst at the same time accidents during the year.
Our sympathies and opening up a clear path to conforming with equity material help have been extended to the families requirements of the South African Governments concerned.
The pgm markets are dealt with in some detail Equity transfer is however, only one of the further on in this report, but it is worth requirements and I am pleased to be able to report highlighting that the realised value of the basket that the most recent independent audits of our of metals rose by 7% year on year and the price of progress in employment equity: social and platinum, our principal product, rose to a 23 year corporate investment and procurement, show that high towards the end of the period.
Demand was significant progress has been made in all these buoyed by increased automobile consumption of areas and we remain confident that we will catalytic converters required to clean up exhaust achieve timely compliance with the requirements emissions as the world strives for ever cleaner air for the granting of a new order mining licence.
and heavy duty diesel engines are included for the first time in this initiative.
We expect the The HIV AIDS pandemic remains of great concern Platinum supply and demand balance to remain to us and for some years now we have had influenced by a potential, if not actual, deficit for programmes in place which were aimed at curbing some time to come.
the spread of the disease.
From 1 December 2003, which is World Aids Day, we will extend our Our overall production expansion target of interventions by providing anti-retroviral drugs 1 million ounces of annual Platinum production by ART to employees through our overall health-care 2008 remains firmly on track.
The Karee 4 and the arrangements.
The combined effect is expected Hossy and Saffy vertical shafts are either on or to improve productivity, reduce absenteeism and ahead of budget both in timing and cost.
Whilst extend the working life of Aids sufferers.
our South African expansion programme remains our core business we will continue to pursue our During the year a fully tested financial model objective to economically produce some pgms prepared by the Actuarial Society of South Africa outside this traditional area.
In this context the was used to project the total additional future two ventures in Western Australia did not convince costs of HIV AIDS including the provision of ART.
06 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT This model shows that the total additional cost During the coming year we remain confident will peak in 2006 and will represent approximately that the Platinum supply and demand balance $6 per pgm ounce of production.
will continue to provide attractive prices.
This years Platinum production included some Having previously taken the decision to transform 30,000 tr.
of non-repeatable production so Lonmin into a pure Platinum producer, we set a more representative production figure for the ourselves in 2000 three strategic objectives.
They year would have been around 900,000 tr.
were to remove the Impala change of control We expect to marginally improve on this figure clause, to maximise the value of our shares in during the coming year.
Ashanti and Indepgold and to expand our South African operations to an annual Platinum Finally, I would like to add to the sentiments production level of 1 million tr.
by 2008. expressed by the Chairman my own very sincere Afourth objective was added in 2002 which thanks and appreciation to all my colleagues, wastocomply with the Governments proposed at all levels, for a very solid years performance.
Each of these objectives has either been achieved or is the subject of a clearly established course leading to its achievement.
A further objective to competitively produce a quantity of pgms outside South Africa after 2008 is in hand.
Edward Haslam, Chief Executive 07 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS ANOTHER EXCEPTIONAL OPERATING YEAR TOTAL PGM PRODUCTION INCREASED BY 20% TO 1.76 MILLION OUNCES.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Key operational events Mining Lonplats again had an exceptional operating year, systems, the refractory lining, the copper waffle cooling breaking all previous production records and increasing system, and the tap blocks.
These design improvements, which milled tons by 26% over the previous year, while maintaining together with the re-build costs will total some $20 million, stockpiles of over one million tons of ore.
Underground should significantly reduce the risk of a similar incident.
production increased by 280,000 tons, and the new opencast An aggressive re-training programme has been launched in section contributed an additional 2.7 million tons to give conjunction with the changes mentioned above and it is a total of 14.2 million tons mined and milled.
Concentrator expected that commissioning of the repaired furnace will recoveries on the opencast section, while lower than for commence during late December 2003 with the first matte underground ore, exceeded expectations.
Regretfully, although the number of fatal accidents decreased Contingency plans were put in place soon after the explosion from 11 in 2002, there were six fatal accidents during the year, and included the recommissioning of the Merensky and five mining and one at the smelter.
However, the resulting Pyromet furnaces, and the signing of an agreement with 2003 fatality rate of 0.092 fatal accidents per million Impala Platinum to toll treat a portion of our concentrates.
man-hours worked compares favourably with similar operations around the world: for example the 10 year average The additional costs incurred amounted to some $34 million, for the Australian mining industry is 0.1.
All three mines but these plans, together with a sterling performance achieved millionaire status one million fatality free shifts from our refineries, resulted in the bulk of the mines record worked with both Western and Eastern Platinum achieving output being converted into refined metal.
Refined platinum double millionaire status, and Karee Mine achieving production increased by 23% to a record 933,000 ounces, millionaire status twice.
Western Platinum Mine also became whilst total PGM production, including gold, increased 20% the first of our mines to complete a financial year without a to 1.758 million ounces, with Impala treating some 330,000 fatality and shortly after year end recorded 3 million fatality of these ounces.
Some 30,000 platinum ounces were realised free man shifts.
from the draw-down of historical stocks at our precious metals refinery, and are therefore, non-repeatable.
Smelting and Refining On 26 December 2002 an explosion Unit costs occurred on the south matte tap hole of the No.
1 Furnace at the metallurgical services operations resulting in a shut down Processing and toll treatment costs increased substantially of the smelter.
A team consisting of Metallurgical Services and due to the smelter incident, and yield into matte decreased Hatch the consultants used during the design and mainly as a result of the increased opencast throughput.
1 Furnace launched an extensive The satisfactory increase in production, however, partially investigation into the cause of the failure.
The conclusion negated the knock-on effects of the latter and the cash costs reached was that hot matte had come into contact with the per PGM oz excluding royalties rose 12.1% to R 1,996. deep matte waffle cooler resulting in a release of water into This was a satisfactory result given the poor start to the the furnace and a subsequent explosion, which destroyed the year occasioned by the smelter explosion.
The marked deep matte waffle.
A review of the original design strengthening of the Rand $ exchange rate by an average indicated that improvements could be made to the 26% during the year has, however, resulted in an increase monitoring and process control systems, feed blending of 51% in the $ cash cost per PGM ounce excluding royalties from $168 to $254.
09 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Progress towards production Capital expenditure target of 1 million oz Capital expenditure for the year was in line with our forecasts Pandora Mine is still awaiting a Section 9 mining at $161 million.
During the course of the year a detailed review authorisation permit from the South African Department of of capital expenditure was undertaken by Lonplats for the Minerals and Energy.
Our inability to proceed with this 11 year period 2000 to 2010.
This was considered necessary planned expansion has had an effect on our medium to long given the strength of the Rand: expansion projects will not term production planning.
be affected, but lower priority capex will be slowed.
We have now planned our capital expenditure profile for the next The Saffy Shaft at Eastern Platinum made very good progress fewyears as shown in the table below.
during the year and we now expect production to commence from this shaft some 18 months earlier than planned in circa The total of $1,073.6 million equates to circa R 9.7 billion July 2005. assuming the following exchange rates: average to 2003 R8.41: forecast 2004 R 8.19: forecast 2005 to 2010 R 10.12.
The Karee 4 Shaft project has, likewise, enjoyed accelerated Mineral resources progress during the year, and production from this shaft complex is now expected in the first quarter of calendar The total proven and probable reserves of PGMs and gold at 2007, some 15 months earlier than planned.
30 September 2003 were 75.8 million troy ounces compared to 76.8 million at 30 September 2002.
The Hossy Shaft complex remains on schedule for Research projects first production in the first quarter of calendar 2005.
A major research effort has been underway at Lonplats for We remain confident in our ability to achieve our long some years aimed at reducing the number of people exposed term production target of 1 million oz Pt by 2008. at the rock face and to reduce the potential impact of HIV AIDS.
com for a more detailed analysis of mineral reserves In our progress towards full cycle mechanisation and New Era Loco This project which has successfully completed automation M&A we measure our progress by the tons and the initial trials provides locomotive controls at both ends of metres of ore removed by methods other than hand held the conveyance thus eliminating the restricted vision dangers equipment.
We aim to have only 30% of development metres inherent in the traditional push pull system.
The roll-out and developed by hand held equipment by 2008.
The M&A technology transfer of this equipment has started and will be strategy is anticipated to mature in 2010, at which time phased in on all Lonplats operations over the next 5 years.
the aim is to have only 50% of reef tons removed by hand held equipment.
Drill-Loco Development Rig This simple yet innovative project has successfully completed exhaustive production trials.
This Narrow Reef Miner ARM Trials at Rowland Shaft continued machine provides a practical method in totally removing any to make good progress.
The prototype rock cutting machine arduous hand-held drilling operations within the development successfully completed the first two phases of the project.
process, thus providing a safer working environment for During these two phases over 250 linear meters 900 cubic operators with more skills and better rewards.
metres of UG2 ore were excavated.
The third phase of this project will introduce the second generation production ARM Fuel Cell Technology Lonplats is the only platinum producer machine towards the end of 2003. actively pursuing the application of this technology in its operations.
Plans are well advanced for the introduction of Ultra Low Profile Machines ULP This project set out to prove the first underground fuel cell powered ULP load-haul-dump the innovative ultra low profile set of equipment face drill, machine LHD in the near future.
This project successfully demonstrated the equipment functionality, equipment performance and People People are the foundation of the Lonmin M&A system interface.
This project now enters the final phase programme.
The skills required for our re-engineered and will prove that machine and people can successfully be processes are vastly different to those needed in the past.
integrated in a mining system within the narrow tabular We are actively developing 21st century skill matrices and platinum ore bodies safely and productively.
nurturing internal talent, which is fundamental to ensuring the sustainability of the re-engineering process.
11 11 L Lonmin Plc Annual R onmin Plc Annual Re eview 2003 view 2003 REVIEW OF THE MARKETS DESPITE RECENT SHORT-TERM PRICE VOLATILITY, LONG-TERM DEMAND FUNDAMENTALS FOR PLATINUM REMAIN STRONG.
REVIEW OF THE MARKETS The year just ended saw the market price for platinum, underpinned by a general tightening of pollutant emissions increase by 29%, as fundamental economic influences were legislation across the G7 countries, broader application of compounded by global socio-political uncertainty and standards in the developing world and the rapid expansion sustained speculative activity.
During this period we worked of diesel vehicle markets.
We estimate that diesel accounts with our traditional customers and markets to offer forover 40% of current Western European light vehicle sales reassurance and support for a long-term growth strategy for as consumers continue to be attracted by the dual benefits PGMs to ensure long-term sustainable markets would not of cheaper fuel and improved fuel efficiency.
be compromised by short-term price volatility.
The total sales achieved in the year to 30 September 2003 were 903,000 Palladium Two years ago many of the automobile ounces of platinum and 405,000 ounces of palladium.
manufacturers initiated development programs to substitute palladium with platinum in gasoline engine catalysts due Price growth Tension and uncertainty in the build up to war to the then prevailing volatility of palladium supply and in Iraq saw a weak dollar and a flight to gold.
This was evident in consumption patterns in the of precious metals as a home for surplus investment funds first half of this year but whilst platinums current premium was not lost on platinum and, whilst rumours abound as to over palladium could reverse this trend, the consequent the viability of some of the South African mine expansions, impact should not be over emphasised.
Palladium prices we witnessed a price spike in the second quarter followed by continued to fall during the year, dropping below $150 oz sustained price growth through to the year end.
Underlying as inventory drawdowns by the automobile manufacturers, these symptomatic price reactions was strong platinum compounded by increased Russian sales, maintained demand from the automobile catalysts and the global significant downward pressure on the market.
was uncovered at these low levels from both investment funds and consumers, strengthening the prices Chinese demand China retains a jewellery-buying public in the second half.
eager to purchase and wear white metal and, whilst SARS had a major effect on sales during the early spring buying Other Platinum Group Metals Performance from period, we have seen subsequent renewed consumer interest the other platinum group metals in Lonmins basket and the introduction of VAT-free platinum trading on the was flat to weak.
Rhodium usage in automobile catalysts Shanghai Gold Exchange.
did increase marginally but was not reflected in the market price due to high inventory levels.
Platinum Guild International We continue to sponsor the Platinum Guild International, who undertook a major jewellery Fuel cell technology Fuel cell market development continues rebranding program during the year, aiming to reinforce the as many automobile companies put demonstration models traditional markets of Japan and the US, maintain the growth into production and other initiatives include a recently momentum in China and expand into India, Korea and Taiwan.
announced prototype of a hydrogen-powered plant for Our aim is to consolidate platinums position in markets where combined home and vehicle usage.
its unique attributes and value are recognised.
In conclusion, we anticipate continued fundamental Autocatalyst demand Automobile catalyst demand was strength in the PGM markets, particularly platinum, and strong during the year and is forecast to continue to grow have developed a marketing strategy enabling Lonmin in the next two to three years.
Platinum demand was to continue to benefit from this trend.
13 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 PEOPLE INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE IN SOUTH AFRICA IS NOT JUST A DEMAND THAT MUST BE MET, ITS A PHILOSOPHY WE BUY INTO.
PEOPLE Staff retention is important Our workforce is predominantly South African.
Local migrant labour originates mostly from the Eastern Cape.
29% of our workforce are migrant workers to Lonmin.
Relationships with our business and nonfrom neighbouring countries.
business partners are crucial We subscribe to the principle of freedom of association.
83% of our employees to operational success.
in South Africa are represented by their choice of labour organisation.
We retain employees by ensuring the workplace is free from any form of discrimination, that there is disciplined behaviour, open communication and fair employment practices.
Remuneration packages are above industry averages.
Education and training Educational development is Employment equity Our employment equity EE targets promoted to all employees.
This year Lonplats assisted comply with the South African Employment Equity Act 49 students with external studies.
This promotes human diversity and seeks to were HDSAs.
Internal training divides into technical increase empowerment and give equal opportunities and non-technical.
Technical training encompasses without discrimination.
Non-technical training comprises: people A formal EE plan is in place and fulfilment of our target development, including Adult Basic Education and will mean we will exceed the required weighted average Training ABET, management and leadership of 50% HDSA management by 2005.
A member of the development, training, scholarships and bursaries.
Employment Equity Committee attends all recruitment This year we obtained ISO 14001 certification for training.
and selection interviews, excluding Board appointments, Across the operations, this year we invested to ensure transparency and fairness.
$8.0 million, the equivalent of 5.8% of the wage bill in education, training and development.
This includes bursaries and scholarships.
The bulk of this expenditure was aimed at HDSAs.
HDSAs and management roles More than 55 HDSA employees have been fast tracked for future middle and senior management positions.
3 of the 14 senior management candidates are women.
Presently, 19% of our 300 senior and middle managers are HDSAs.
Some 47% of junior management are HDSAs.
We target a weighted average of 50.6% HDSA participation across junior, middle and senior management by 2005.
Women Unfortunately the number of women in the South African workplace remains low.
This year we employed 432 females: 2% 61% of the workforce.
This figure represents 11.6% of surface positions.
6% of managerial grade employees are female.
Our challenge is to of students with external studies assisted by Lonplats meet the Mining Charter target of 10% representation of women this year were HDSAs.
We are engaged with empowerment groups to ascertain new ways of female participation in the industry and to create an environment across all our operations conducive to empowerment of women.
15 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 COMMUNITY WE DONT JUST BUILD ACCOMMODATION, WE BUILD HOMES AND INFRASTRUCTURE FOR FAMILIES.
COMMUNITY Lonplats supports initiatives that encourage economic independence within its areas of operation.
The Business Trust The Business Trust is a South African business initiative working with Government to expand job opportunities and develop human capacity.
Over the past five years, Lonplats has made an annual contribution of $164,600.
Vegetable farming The Itireleng farming project is an Furniture making and woodwork Lonplats has donated $25,300 initiative with the Bapo Ba Mogale community.
Lonplats supplies water, seed, farming utensils and contributes to Furntrain.
This is a skills development project in furnituretowards training in agricultural entrepreneurship and financial skills by external experts.
With this farmers making and woodwork in the North West Province.
This centre is a JV develop their own vegetable businesses.
36 people, 20 of them women, are involved in the farming project.
between government, the private sector and foreign investors.
It is one of the fastest-growing training centres in the region.
Furntrain Rural development Lonplats has committed $634, 517 to the socio-economic assists unemployed youth and development of the traditional rural recruiting areas for our operations.
We mine employees who are no longer provide home-based care networks for employees with AIDS and or other fit enough to work underground.
serious disabilities, water and sanitation services and infrastructure investment, and give assistance with agricultural and small business development.
Housing and infrastructure development Lonplats continues to assist with accommodation for its employees and the community.
32% of the workforce $3.3m who qualify for single quarters accommodation have opted for housing allowances to purchase their own property.
This year $3.3 million has been Allocated to housing development within our operational region.
Marikana Housing Development Low-density housing: Mooinooi Mooinooi, one of the Project MHDC The MHDC is a residential towns close to the operations, provides company non-profit company established, housing for many of our skilled employees.
We have and funded, by Lonplats.
Residents constructed 65 modern new houses and developed 200 of Marikana have named the additional residential stands with a view to establishing town Boitumelo, which means a viable property market there.
The MHDC currently owns 1,149 houses in Boitumelo.
We plan to construct 2 000 more Reconstruction and development project RDP houses over the next five years The RDP housing project is building 650 high-density costing some $15 million.
We two-roomed houses by March 2004.
We expect it to budgeted $633,000 for infrastructure change the lives of many families currently living in this year including a JV with the informal settlements around Boitumelo.
Department of Education to build a primary school to accommodate 800 learners.
The school should be completed in 2004.
17 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 HEALTH FUNDING THE LARGEST VOLUNTARY HIV TEST IN SOUTH AFRICA IS A SIGN OF OUR COMMITMENT TO THE HEALTH OF OUR WORKERS.
HEALTH Maintaining the health of our employees is a primary objective.
We have developed programmes to improve workplace conditions and eliminate illness and disability related to the workplace environment.
Occupational health programme The basis of our occupational health programme is continual assessment and management of potential occupational exposure risks to our employees and contractors.
The programme focuses on pre-employment, routine, annual and exit medical screening examinations to certify employees are fit to perform their jobs and to ensure the early detection of any occupational diseases.
In 2003 we spent $212,000 on the occupational health management programme.
HIV prevalence survey The Group is cognisant that HIV and of workshops and information sessions were held to convey AIDS pose a serious threat to society and the economy.
the results of the survey to all employees and to emphasise During 2003 approximately 11,000 employees of Lonmin, the implications of the pandemic.
The size of the sample almost 60% of the workforce, participated in an anonymous meant the results were statistically representative and saliva-based HIV prevalence survey.
The purpose of the study could be used for financial modelling.
The results indicated was to establish the magnitude of the HIV pandemic within that HIV prevalence will peak circa 2006 at 26% and the our operations.
This was one of the largest company surveys prevalence would then be reduced to below 20% again, circa conducted in one operation in South Africa.
2011, as a result of our interventions.
It showed that deaths as a result of AIDS should be expected to peak around 2011.
The survey confirmed that 25% of Lonplats employees The additional cost of HIV AIDS, including the provision of are HIV-positive.
The HIV-positive prevalence ranged between ART, is expected to peak in 2006 at about $6 per PGM oz, 9% at our central operations to 26% at Karee Mine.
A series an overall annual cost of $12 million.
Anti-retroviral drugs ART There are many programmes aimed at curbing the 60% of the workforce, participated diseases spread.
One of these is the in an anonymous saliva-based provision of ART aimed at increasing the HIV prevalence survey.
life expectancy and quality of life of workers with HIV AIDS.
There are many other programmes in place aimed at stopping the spread, providing better nutrition and reducing sexually Home-based care programme Our home-based care transmitted diseases.
focuses on local communities and rural labour recruiting areas.
This enables care for terminally ill patients and support for family members.
Locally, 29 volunteers were trained as caregivers during the reporting period, some based at our hospital, with others deployed to community clinics.
In 2003 expenditure on our HIV AIDS awareness and education initiatives amounted to $253,000.
19 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 CULTURE SUPPORTING THE GROWTH OF LOCAL CULTURE IN REAL TERMS ITS A POLICY THAT IS CENTRAL TO COMMUNITY WELFARE.
CULTURE One of the Groups main focuses is to create and sustain an environment that will instill a culture of lifelong learning.
Adult Basic Education and Training programme training and skills that provide them with The Adult Basic Education and Training information they, and their families, can use for programme ABET is considered to be the the rest of their lives.
Every employee has the foundation for the lifelong learning within opportunity to participate in ABET and become Lonplats.
The ABET expenditure for the year functionally literate.
A strategy has been embarked on that will expand the ABET Highlights of 2003 include ISO 9001 certification, interventions to meet the requirements of the accreditation as a learning provider and the Mining Charter and other relevant national and achievement of an average pass rate of 84% industry challenges.
There is also a focus on for ABET, one of the highest pass rates in the developing and maintaining healthy partnerships industry.
Lonplats is committed to having 50% with Government institutions and our local of its workforce literate by 2007 and will continue communities.
The primary concern is to equip to motivate its workforce on the benefits of employees with the necessary education, further training and self-development.
Community education Lonplats continues to support a number of external educational projects.
Approximately $70,000 was spent during the year $375,000 on educational projects in the communities surrounding the mines.
These projects focused on improving educational conditions through renovation, spent to equip employees with the necessary education, training and skills electrification and upgrading of classroom facilities.
Computer skills training that provide them with information that for selected residents in the Reedville community, adjacent to the Refinery, they and their families can use for was also provided to enhance their employability in the wider job market.
Recreational facilities Community welfare remains a primary objective and to this end Lonplats continues to promote recreational facilities especially in the area of track and field events and football.
Ubunye One of the ways in which employees are included into all areas that affect their lives is through the Ubunye process.
Ubunye, an Nguni word meaning oneness or togetherness, is a process that brings internal stakeholders at Lonplats together so that they work in harmony while still recognising their cultural diversity.
Ubunye ensures equity and stakeholder input in decision-making and corporate governance processes and ensures a collective drive to achieving our vision.
Working groups are established to address specific issues such as new policies, job grading and banding.
21 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 ENVIRONMENT WE REMAIN COMMITTED TO LAND MANAGEMENT THAT RESULTS IN MINIMAL DISTURBANCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT.
ENVIRONMENT We measure our environmental performance in South Africa by natural resource consumption and environmental impact.
Energy The primary source of energy used in mineral Land management and rehabilitation We are committed to compiling land extraction, processing and refining is electricity supplied by Eskom, South Africas national electricity utility.
management plans so we protect, manage and enhance beneficial land Water is used as an industrial solvent and cooling agent in the use.
We are reviewing the amount of processing plants.
The production units have reduced water land currently available for consumption through improved metering, good housekeeping, rehabilitation at the operations and improved process technology and recycling of process water.
Environmental impact assessments are an integral part of new projects.
Emissions management Lonmin supports global initiatives towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions, including the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol.
During 2003, CO2 emissions at the operations increased by 51%.
Approximately two-thirds of this total was a result of indirect emissions from electricity, the balance from on-site diesel, fuel, coal and burning fuel consumption.
We developed several tools over the past year to assist in effective management of air emissions, including air quality management guidelines.
Recycling All Company-operated Land reclamation The Group general landfill sites are now continually aims to minimise land officially licensed.
Significant disturbance and is committed progress has been made in to restoring disturbed land to implementing strategies for general aproductive or usable state.
and hazardous waste management at all the mines.
This year we have made progress towards increasing Water management Surface water Lonmin Platinum Pollution Control recycling at the operations.
Scrap quality monitoring is conducted Trust Fund The Lonmin Platinum metals are recovered for re-use, while monthly including process and Pollution Control Trust Fund paper, plastic and used oil are sold discharge water.
Receiving water addresses the financial burden to recycling dealers.
Unsustainable bodies are monitored for physical to restore the disturbed land and wood harvesting remains a serious and chemical properties to prevent potential pollution occurring environmental issue in Africa.
To help check the impact of the mine.
and is based on estimated future prevent tree felling in our areas Groundwater boreholes are cost and calculated on a discounted of operation, we have given the local monitored quarterly to check the basis.
The fund has a current balance community access to our salvage impact of tailings dam seepage.
of $3.3 million, against a currently yard for wood previously used in estimated liability of $20 million, underground operations for firewood.
representing the maximum tax deductible contributions allowed by the South African Government to the end of 2003.
23 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 LONMINS EMPOWERMENT VISION THE SCORECARD EMPLOYMENT EQUITY HDSA EQUITY AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT SHAREHOLDING Achievements to date Actions Achievements to date Actions All employees provided with The development of career Memorandum of Incwala Resources Pty Understanding signed Limited formed as basis for functional and numeracy paths for HDSA employees, improvement opportunities.
BEE controlled company to own 18% of Lonplats equity.
5.8% of payroll used for The establishment of Discussions ongoing regarding the introduction skills and human resource empowerment group development.
of HDSA shareholders into Incwala Resources Pty More than 19% of HDSA 50% HDSA participation Limited.
employees have already in management by been identified and fast September 2005. tracked in the organisation for middle and senior Plan being implemented management positions.
for 10% of the workforce to be women within five years.
Non-discrimination against CORPORATE SOCIAL foreign migrant labour per government and industry INVESTMENTS agreements.
Achievements to date Lonmin is co-operating 24 sanitation projects at with Government to 15 schools in the Eastern address integrated Cape are currently being development plans.
HDSA Consultation with HIV Anonymous saliva PROCUREMENT POLICIES stakeholders established based prevalence study of measures for improving 11,000 employees confirmed the standard of housing 25% infection rate likely Achievements to date and hostels.
The promotion to peak in 2005 at 26%.
Assisting BEE suppliers Lonplats procurement from of family units and home and service providers on HDSA companies represents ownership.
Actions a sustainable basis and some 19% of its total encouraging existing company spend.
R70 million invested in A further R70 million spend Lonplats suppliers and on housing over the next housing development service providers to adopt Lonplats has joined the projects to date.
and implement their own South African Mining BEE procurement policies.
Preferential Forum to access Rural development Total of R200 million the over 230 accredited budgeted to be spent on initiatives established in HDSA suppliers.
24 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 REVIEW OF BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT The Group has agreements over seven exploration projects The SCJV incorporates 18 properties around the Sudbury Basin.
two projects elsewhere in the Bushveld, and five projects So far the majority of expenditure has been on the Windy beyond South Africa.
Early exploration has discovered minor PGM mineralisation on two offset dyke properties.
Exploration Acquisition opportunities within the PGM industry are limited.
will continue on these three properties next year.
Consequently, our exploration portfolio aims to generate opportunities for geographically diversified growth.
Union Bay, Alaska The JV continues to explore the platinumrich mineralisation of the Union Bay area, South East Alaska.
There is a close association between PGMs and nickel-copper Detailed channel sampling has returned encouraging multisulphide mineralisation: a striking example being the Sudbury gramme platinum grades over one or two metres.
We intend to focus additional efforts in this area.
is complex however, and a full review of the results will be undertaken before we make the decision on the next phase Lonplats has processed a modest amount of autocatalysts of exploration funding.
but given the focus on refurbishing, commissioning and Tanzania operating the new furnace under normal feed conditions, recycling initiatives have been placed on hold.
Mibango and Luwumbu This year air core and diamond drilling were carried out across prospective areas defined Australia by the Mibango JV.
Samples for analysis have been despatched Panton Sill Project Lonmin holds 44.3% of Platinum Australia to Australia.
Limited PLA, after underwriting a rights issue in November 2002, mainly to fund completion of the Full Feasibility Study In June, Lonmin entered into an agreement to explore on the Panton Project.
That study, completed in August 2003, the Luwumbu project, Southern Tanzania.
An airborne concluded the Project was technically sound.
Annual output geophysical survey delineated a layered intrusive complex.
of 80,000 ounces of high grade platinum, palladium and gold Follow up field exploration identified areas of anomalous concentrate, suitable for feed into a precious metals refinery, PGM and nickel values in surface soils.
Results for both of could be produced from a milling rate of 600,000 tonnes these projects will be available before any decision is made ayear.
However these factors were insufficient to overcome on funding next seasons exploration programme.
the palladium prices decline and the strengthening of the South Africa Australian dollar.
Therefore this Project is on hold.
Loskop projects Exploration near the Loskop Dam, Eastern Lonmin and PLA have filed patent applications for their Bushveld comprises JVs on adjacent areas.
These projects intellectual property rights in the Calcine-Leach-Metals have a strike length of over 30km with several PGM Recovery Process.
Munni Munni In March 2003, Lonmin withdrew from Munni Promising targets for PGM mineralisation will be drill tested Munni and sold its 11.8% equity interest in Helix Resources next year.
On the Boynton JV, a detailed helicopter-borne Limited for $0.7 million.
North America Sudbury Camp Joint Venture SCJV An initial $4.5 million expenditure commitment to the SCJV was completed in March 2003.
25 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Edward Haslam Ian Farmer Peter Ledger John Robinson Sir John Craven Executive Directors Edward Haslam 59 Chief Executive Peter Ledger 54 Executive Director Appointed a director in 1999 and chief executive in and Managing Director, Lonplats 2000.
Joined Lonplats in 1987 as marketing director Appointed a director on 21 November 2002. and was appointed its managing director in 1997, A mining engineer, he joined the Lonmin Group he remains the executive chairman of Western in 1988, was appointed operations director of Platinum and Eastern Platinum.
He is a director Lonplats in 1997 and its managing director in 2000. of Furuya Metals Co. Limited, Tokyo.
John Robinson 49 Finance Director Ian Farmer 41 Director, Joined the Company in 1979 as a financial analyst Corporate Development & Marketing and held a subsequent post as a finance executive Appointed a director in 2001 with responsibilities working with the mining operations.
Appointed for marketing, investor relations and corporate finance director in 1999. development.
Joined the Company in 1986 and transferred to a group company in Zambia in 1990.
In 1995 he was appointed finance director of Lonplats in South Africa, which position he relinquished upon his transfer to London in 2001.
He is a director of the International Platinum Association.
26 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Roger Phillimore Sir Alastair Morton Dr Sam Jonah Peter Godsoe Michael Hartnall Non-Executive Directors Sir John Craven 63 Chairman Dr Sam Jonah, KBE 54 Appointed an independent non-executive director A director since 1992, he holds no executive in 1997.
Former member of the board of managing role with the Company.
In 1969 he joined directors of the Deutsche Bank AG and chairman Ashanti Goldfields Company, of which he of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell Group Plc.
He is a director executive director of Reuters Holdings plc and of Commonwealth Africa Investment Fund Chairman of Fleming Family and Partners Limited.
Limited and other non-group companies.
Roger Phillimore 54 Deputy Chairman Peter Godsoe 65 Appointed an independent non-executive Appointed an independent non-executive director in 1997.
Chairman of the nomination director in 2001.
He is a member of the nomination and remuneration committees, and a member committee and the remuneration committee.
Formerly joint managing Chairman and chief executive officer of Bank director of Minorco.
Non-executive director of Nova Scotia, he is a non-executive director of Aber Diamond Corporation.
of Empire Company Limited and IngersollRand Company.
Sir Alastair Morton 65 Senior Independent Director Appointed an independent non-executive director Michael Hartnall 61 in 1998.
A member and to 30 September 2003, Appointed an independent non-executive chairman of the audit committee and a member director on 8 May 2003.
A member and from of the remuneration committee.
Former chairman 1October 2003, chairman of the audit committee of Strategic Rail Authority, he is the Honorary and a member of the remuneration committee.
Chairman and former executive co-chairman A chartered accountant and former finance of Eurotunnel.
director of Rexam Plc, he is also a non-executive director of BAE Systems Plc and Elementis Plc.
27 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT Dividends share capital in favour of the proposed merger between The Board recommends a net final dividend of 42.0 cents AngloGold and Ashanti, which was on the basis of 26 AngloGold per share to be paid, subject to approval by shareholders shares for every 100 Ashanti shares held.
at the annual general meeting, on Monday, 16 February 2004 to shareholders on the registers at the close of business Following a counter-bid from Randgold Resources Limited on Friday, 23 January 2004.
With the net interim dividend Randgold, the merger terms offered by AngloGold were of 30.0 cents paid on 15 August 2003 this would make a total subsequently improved to 29 AngloGold shares for every dividend for the year of 72.0 cents per share 2002 72.0 cents.
On 15 October 2003 the Company gave an irrevocable undertaking to AngloGold not to have Business review and future developments any discussions with Randgold, or to accept or support any This summary directors report should be read in conjunction proposal from Randgold unless that proposal included a with the narrative reports in this Annual Review, which fully underwritten cash alternative and the board of Ashanti together give a review of historic and likely future determined it to be a superior proposal to that of AngloGold.
developments in the business of the Company and the principal trading operations of the Group.
During the year The subsequent revision of its merger terms by Randgold the Company and the Group continued to focus on the did not contain such a cash alternative, and on 27 October mining, refining and sale of platinum group metals.
2003 the board of Ashanti announced that it continued to recommend a merger with AngloGold.
On 28 October 2003, On 18 September 2003, the Company announced that the Government of Ghana announced that it supported the it had signed a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding decision of the Ashanti board and would accept the offer the MoU with Impala Platinum Holdings Limited Impala in respect of its own shareholding in Ashanti amounting relating to the latters holding of 27.1% of the share capitals of to approximately 16.8% of the issued share capital.
Eastern Platinum Limited and Western Platinum Limited, the Independence Gold Mining Pvt Limited Groups principal operating companies.
The MoU contemplates Independence the parties entering into binding arrangements, the effect of which will be that 9.1% of the two operating companies' On 28 October 2002 the Group sold the entire issued share share capital will be purchased by the Company for a net cash capital of Independence, which owns gold mining assets in consideration of approximately $242 million, with the balance Zimbabwe, to Pemberton International Investments Limited of 18.0% acquired by a new company jointly owned by for a cash sum of $15.5 million, paid in full on completion.
the Company and Impala, Incwala Resources Pty Limited Share capital Incwala, for a consideration of $531 million.
The Company is committed to inject $116 million into Incwala by way of During the year, the Company allotted 59,225 ordinary shares an equity contribution, and it is intended that Incwala will of $1 each, for cash, following the exercise of options granted become controlled by Historically Disadvantaged South under the Companys employee share option schemes.
Africans as soon as practicable.
On 30 September 2003, the Company issued approximately Ashanti Goldfields Company Limited Ashanti $215.8 million of unsecured 3.75% Convertible Bonds, due On 4 August 2003 the Company signed an undertaking in favour 30 September 2008.
The conversion price of these bonds of AngloGold Limited AngloGold pursuant to which the will be $20.4023 12.3277 per share, equating to a 30% Company agreed to vote its holding of 36 million Ashanti shares premium to the reference price on the date of issue.
representing approximately 27.5% of that company's issued Full conversion of these bonds would necessitate the issue 28 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT of approximately 10.58 million ordinary shares, equating In July 2003 the Financial Reporting Council published to 7.5% of the current issued share capital.
arevised version of the Combined Code, which will apply to accounting periods of companies commencing on or Resolutions seeking shareholders consent to the limited disafter 1 November 2003.
Whilst the new regulation would application of the statutory pre-emption rights, and to make therefore strictly only apply to the Companys financial market purchases of the Company's shares, will be proposed at year commencing on 1 October 2004, the Board believes it the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Further details are to be advantageous to give due consideration to the new set out in the circular accompanying this Annual Review.
Combined Code at an early date.
The directors are presently assessing how best to give effect to the recommendations Directors contained in the new Combined Code.
The present Board of the Company and biographical Charitable and political donations details are set out on pages 26 and 27.
Peter Ledger was appointed an executive director on 21 November 2002 No political donations were made during the year.
and Michael Hartnall was appointed an independent Charitable donations made by the Group during the year in the non-executive director on 8 May 2003.
Peter Harper retired United Kingdom amounted to 3,112 $4,943 2002 62,105 as a non-executive director on 26 October 2002.
The Group also made contributions to social welfare causes in South Africa during the year amounting to At the forthcoming annual general meeting Ian Farmer, R21.1 million $2.7 million 2002 R29.9 million $2.8 million.
Peter Godsoe and Roger Phillimore retire by rotation and In addition the Company has granted a licence to the African Michael Hartnall retires having been appointed since the last Medical and Research Foundation United Kingdom AMREF UK, annual general meeting.
Being eligible, each offers himself for a registered charity, to occupy temporarily spare offices at the re-election.
As noted in the summary directors remuneration Company's premises in London.
Roger Phillimore is a nonreport on page 31, Mr Farmer has a service contract with the executive member of the Council of Management of AMREF UK.
Company entitling him to 364 days notice of termination.
The Annual General Meeting other three retirees are independent non-executive directors.
As such, they have no service contracts with the Company The 2004 annual general meeting will be held at 11.00 am and are not entitled to any notice period.
on Thursday, 5 February 2004 at The Ballroom, The Park Lane Hotel, Piccadilly, London W1J 7BX.
A separate circular No director had at any time during the year a material interest containing the notice of meeting, together with an in any contract of significance in relation to the Companys explanation of the items of special business, is enclosed business.
The directors interests in the ordinary shares of the with this Annual Review.
Company are set out in the Summary Directors Remuneration Report on page 33.
Corporate governance By order of the Board The Company complies, and has during the year to 25 November 2003 30 September 2003 complied, with all the provisions Rob Bellhouse of the Combined Code affecting companies.
The Annual Company Secretary Report contains a statement giving a full explanation of how the Company applied the principles of the Combined Code during the year.
29 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The report below is a summary of the full report prepared fairly, but responsibly, rewarded for their individual by the remuneration committee and approved by the Board.
The committee also monitors the elements and amounts of remuneration paid by comparable companies The remuneration committee and takes account of relative performance.
The remuneration committee comprises solely independent non-executive directors.
Its principal functions are: Based on advice received from its consultants, the committee to make recommendations to the Board on the believes that the overall values of the remuneration packages Companys framework of executive remuneration: of the executive directors are broadly comparable to those to determine individual remuneration packages within awarded by peer group companies.
However, the analysis that framework for the executive directors and senior produced for the committee demonstrates that, relative to employees: comparable companies, the current pay structures provide to oversee the administration of the Companys share insufficient incentives by way of performance-related option schemes: and remuneration.
The committee firmly believes that for the to review directors expenses executive directors to succeed in delivering value to all of which it carries out on behalf of the Board.
shareholders over the long-term, they need to be given a more material and clearly identifiable incentive element Current remuneration policy and practice within their individual remuneration packages.
Non-executive directors The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board, with the benefit As a first step towards this more performance-related of professional advice.
The non-executive directors play remuneration strategy, the committee introduced the no part in this decision.
During the year the fees of the opportunity for all executive directors, and selected senior non-executive directors were reviewed by the Board with the managers, to earn an annual cash bonus during the year.
benefit of professional advice, provided by Monks Partnership.
Further details of this scheme are set out below.
The annual The catalyst for the review was the increased, and increasing, general meeting of the Company in 2004 will be asked to responsibilities imposed on non-executive directors by the approve a new incentive plan in which the executive directors needs of good corporate governance, the Companys need will be eligible to participate.
Further details of these to ensure that it can continue to attract and retain individuals proposals are set out in the circular containing the notice of of the highest calibre and the demands made on its annual general meeting circulated with this Annual Review.
non-executive directors resulting from the extent of strategic The committee believes that participation in these schemes repositioning.
The conclusion of the review was that fee levels and the annual cash bonus scheme should create a more were no longer adequate and accordingly an adjustment was meaningful performance-related element in each directors made, as reflected in the table of remuneration below.
overall remuneration, and therefore enhance the focus on the creation of shareholder value over the longer term.
Executive directors The remuneration committees objective is to provide the Company with a remuneration framework The committee is alert to the danger of paying more than enabling it to attract, retain and motivate executive directors is necessary, and intends to closely monitor both basic pay of the required quality, but without paying more than is and total remuneration for executive directors and senior necessary for this purpose.
In setting the remuneration of managers in light of individual and corporate performance, individuals within this framework, the committee seeks to to ensure that the Company's reward structures remain give the executive directors every encouragement to enhance appropriate.
the Companys performance whilst ensuring that they are 30 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 500.0 500.0 Lonmin TSR FTSE All Share Index Lonmin TSR FTSE Mining Sector 450.0 450.0 400.0 400.0 350.0 350.0 300.0 300.0 250.0 250.0 200.0 200.0 150.0 150.0 100.0 100.0 50.0 50.0 0.0 0.0 Sep-98 Mar-99 Sep-99 Mar-00 Sep-00 Mar-01 Sep-01 Mar-02 Sep-02 Mar-03 Sep-03 Sep-98 Mar-99 Sep-99 Mar-00 Sep-00 Mar-01 Sep-01 Mar-02 Sep-02 Mar-03 Sep-03 Source: Cazenove Performance graphs Service contracts and letters of appointment The primary role of the directors is to deliver value to The executive directors each have the benefit of a rolling shareholders, and it is against this backdrop that their contract terminable other than for gross misconduct and remuneration must be assessed.
The graphs above show certain other circumstances which may result in summary the value, at 30 September 2003, of 100 invested in Lonmins dismissal on 364 days prior written notice by either the shares five years previously, compared with the current value Company or the individual.
No director is contractually of the same amount invested at the same date in the FTSE entitled to a payment in lieu of notice.
All Share Index and the FTSE Mining Sector.
The Company is aconstituent of both these indices, and the Board believes The non-executive directors are each appointed for that these comparisons most fairly illustrate the Companys a fixed period of three years, subject to the provisions performance in delivering value to shareholders relative of the Companys articles of association for retirement by to both the market as a whole and its peers.
rotation and for earlier cessation for any other reason.
No compensation would be payable to non-executive directors for loss of office, save for any arrears of fees.
31 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Directors remuneration Salary Bonus Benefits Total for Total for 1 and fees in kind year to year to 30.9.
02 Director Executive directors Edward Haslam 451,170 186,018 51,878 689,066 472,029 Ian Farmer 248,745 85,568 36,785 371,098 277,194 2 Peter Ledger 200,002 71,730 26,465 298,197 John Robinson 281,190 96,729 23,057 400,976 295,054 Non-executive directors Sir John Craven 204,529 204,529 120,000 3 Peter Godsoe 60,000 60,000 41,984 4 Peter Harper 6,212 6,212 50,000 5 Michael Hartnall 24,760 24,760 6 Sam Jonah 50,000 50,000 50,000 Sir Alastair Morton 80,000 80,000 45,000 Roger Phillimore 107,442 107,442 60,000 Notes 1 Benefits in kind for the executive directors comprised the provision of a fully- 4 Mr Harper retired on 26 October 2002. expensed car, the provision of annual health checks and private medical insurance 5 Mr Hartnall was appointed a director on 8 May 2003 and his remuneration and, in the case of Mr Haslam and Mr Farmer, a childrens education allowance.
disclosed above relates to the period of approximately five months from Mr Haslam also benefits from life assurance in excess of the Inland Revenue then until the year-end.
earnings cap, the cost of which is taxable as a benefit in kind and which is included 6 The figures set out above for Dr Jonah are for the entire year under review in the table above.
and relate solely to his remuneration as a director of the Company which 2 Mr Ledger was appointed a director on 21 November 2002 and his remuneration wasina non-executive capacity.
disclosed above relates to the period of approximately ten months from then 7 No director received any expense allowances or any compensation for loss until the year-end.
of office during the year.
3Mr Godsoe was appointed a director on 29 November 2001.
The comparator 8 Although the Groups functional currency is US dollars, these figures are stated figure for the year to 30 September 2002 therefore relates to a period of in sterling as the directors emoluments are predominantly paid in this currency.
Annual cash bonuses As part of its initiative to increase the proportion of performancewhich our costs are incurred the South African rand against the related incentive pay, during the year, the remuneration US dollar.
The combined effect of these two variables, over which committee introduced an annual cash bonus scheme for the the Company has no control, is that the profit and earnings per executive directors and key senior executives of the Company and share figures are extremely volatile, and not predictable.
The scheme enables the directors to earn a bonus of up reason, the committee concluded that it did not have a profit to 40% of their basic pay 50% in the case of the chief executive measure available to it that was sufficiently robust or capable of if the targets set within the scheme are met.
Since the purpose of the annual bonus plan is to drive superior management performance over the short-term, The committee examined different methods of evaluating it was decided to base the plan on those key measures that are corporate performance.
The Companys financial results are capable of responding to management influence.
The bonus for heavily affected by the commodity pricing of the metals mined, the executive directors comprises an operational and a strategic refined and sold, and by the exchange rate of the currency in element, weighted 65% 35%.
32 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Directors Shares Share options ordinary 30.9.
03 1.10.02 1.10.02 share and 25.11.03 or later date of and 25.11.03 and 25.11.03 or later date of or later date of interests appointment Weighted appointment appointment average Weighted all interests exercise price average shown are exercise price beneficial Shares of Shares of Shares of Pence Shares of Pence $1 each $1 each $1 each per share $1 each per share 1 Sir John Craven 44,953 42,770 Ian Farmer 2,680 2,680 116,018 847.1190 89,018 818.3407 Peter Godsoe 3,360 3,360 2 Peter Harper 15,597 3 Michael Hartnall Edward Haslam 18,030 18,030 140,018 835.9786 140,018 835.9786 4 Sam Jonah 31,696 16,034 31,324 434.1664 46,986 414.4799 5 Peter Ledger 39,640 39,640 105,170 829.8136 82,170 797.2070 Sir Alastair Morton 1,296 1,296 Roger Phillimore 2,636 2,508 John Robinson 7,722 7,631 121,986 805.9857 94,986 767.3234 Notes 1Sir John Craven held 44,070 shares at 30 September 2003 but as at 25 November The Lonmin Plc Employee Share Trust, as part of the operation of the Lonmin Plc 2003 he held 44,953 shares as a result of the operation of the Companys DRIP.
Subject to Mr Ledger remaining in the employment of the Group, 2 Mr Harper retired as a director on 26 October 2002.
There was no change in 40% and 60% of these will pass into his ultimate ownership on 1 January 2005 his share interests between 30 September 2002 and the date of his retirement.
The trust holds an additional 306,360 shares for 3The opening balance for Mr Hartnall relates to 8 May 2003, the date on which other key managers of Lonplats, and Mr Ledger has a non-beneficial interest in he was appointed a director.
4 On 1 July 2003, Dr Jonah exercised an option over 15,662 shares at a price of 6 On 30 September 2003 options were granted to Mr Farmer, Mr Ledger and 375.1070p per share.
The closing mid-market quote for the Companys shares on the Mr Robinson over 27,000, 23,000 and 27,000 shares respectively at an exercise date of exercise was 802.5p.
Dr Jonahs notional pre-tax gain was therefore 66,938, price of 942p per share.
These options are included in the table.
although he has retained the shares issued to him on exercise of the option.
7Full details of the directors shareholdings and share options are contained 5 The opening balance for Mr Ledger relates to 21 November 2002, the date on which in the Companys register of directors interests.
His share interests include 39,640 shares held by him in Shares and share option schemes The purpose of the schemes is to provide directors and employees The closing middle market quotation for the Companys ordinary with an incentive to deliver value to shareholders and, by exercising shares, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official their options, to benefit directly from their contribution to furthering List, was 933p on 30 September 2003, and the price ranged the interests of the Group.
Since 1994, this has been achieved by between 661.5p and 999.5p during the financial year.
No options making the exercise of options by all participants subject to stretching have been granted to non-executive directors, although Dr Jonah but realistic performance conditions relating to the delivery of value to retains the right to exercise the options granted to him during shareholders, which must be met before the option can be exercised.
his period of executive service.
The directorsinterests in the shares of, and options over the shares of, the Company are as shown in the table above.
33 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Pensions Edward Haslam, Ian Farmer and John Robinson are members of The review identified a number of areas where the Company the Lonmin Superannuation Scheme, a UK contributory final would be unable to compete with its peers when developing salary scheme established as a trust independent of the Company remuneration packages for individual directors.
In addition, which provides benefits for all UK employees of Lonmin Plc.
The it identified that the current packages fail adequately to align Inland Revenue earnings cap, which restricts both pension and life directors interests with those of shareholders over the medium assurance benefits for higher paid employees who became and longer term.
The committee believes that by incentivising the members on or after 1 June 1989 applies to Edward Haslam and as directors more heavily than at present, it will help achieve the a consequence he also benefits from an unfunded retirement stretching goals that the Board has set and therefore deliver value benefit scheme.
It is the committees intention that in future a significant proportion of total reward will be linked to the Peter Ledger is a member of the Sentinel Mining Industry achievement of demanding performance targets directly relating Retirement Fund, an industry-wide defined contribution plan to the delivery of value to shareholders.
The committees policy is built on the following principles: No element of any directors remuneration other than basic salary that base pay should not be excessive, and should therefore is pensionable.
be at around median market levels, but that upper quartile performance should lead to potential upper quartile Future remuneration philosophy, total reward: policy and practice that total reward should be capable of reaching top During the year the remuneration committee has, with the quartile levels, but such that a significant proportion of pay assistance of Monks Partnership, undertaken a full review of the is at risk: make-up of, and balance between elements within, the executive that incentive reward must only be earned through directors remuneration.
It has also assessed the likely needs achievement of demanding performance conditions, set of the Group in future years and identified a peer group against in a manner consistent with shareholders interests over which it may be competing for the recruitment of executive all time periods: directors and senior managers.
The committee believes that that the incentive plans, performance conditions and levels agreater proportion of performance-related remuneration is at which payment is triggered should be structured in a way required in future if its directors are to achieve the levels that can be sustained throughout the economic cycle: of medium and long-term out-performance that the Boards that the design of the incentive plans must not engender strategic vision requires.
management actions that could expose the shareholders to undue risk: and that accountability and transparency can be maintained and demonstrated at all times.
34 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The committee has proposed, and the Board has endorsed, Ultimately, the committee believes that the most powerful way a future remuneration strategy based on a blend of some, of ensuring that the actions of the directors are best aligned with or all, of: shareholders interests is for the directors to build up and retain basic pay: personally significant holdings of the Companys shares.
benefits in kind: As a matter of policy, the Board expects all directors to acquire an opportunity to earn an annual cash bonus: an interest in the Companys shares, over the five years to the award of shares under the Companys executive share 30 September 2008, equal in value to 100% of their basic pay option schemes and or the proposed long-term or, in the case of non-executive directors, fees, and 150% in the incentive plan: case of the chief executive.
In this way, shareholder value participation in a deferred annual bonus plan becomes a paramount principle underlying all Board decisions, comprising part of the proposed incentive plan : and since real personal wealth will be at stake.
Failure to achieve membership of an occupational pension scheme.
these targets may result in exclusion from participation in some or all of the incentive schemes that the Company operates.
The proposed Shareholder Value Incentive Plan comprises new arrangements for the Company.
Full details of this, the This report was approved by the Board on 25 November 2003. adoption of which requires shareholder approval, are set out in the circular to shareholders containing the notice of annual general meeting enclosed with this Annual Review.
The Company has discussed these proposals with its major shareholders, and appropriate institutional bodies such as the Association of British Insurers, and taken note of their Roger Phillimore comments and views wherever possible.
Chairman, remuneration committee 35 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 STATEMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF LONMIN PLC Basis of opinion Pursuant to section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 We have examined the Summary Financial Statement set out on The auditors statement on the summary financial statement pages 38 and 39, comprising the summarised consolidated profit issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United and loss account, balance sheet and cash flow.
Our report on the Groups full Annual Accounts describes the basis of our audit opinion on those Accounts.
This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as Opinion a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent Companys members those matters we are required to state to with the Annual Accounts and Directors Report and the Directors them in such a statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Remuneration Report of Lonmin Plc for the year ended extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 30 September 2003 and complies with the applicable responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 Companys members as a body, for our work for this statement, and the regulations made thereunder.
or for the opinions we have formed.
KPMG Audit Plc Respective responsibilities Chartered Accountants of Directors and Auditors Registered Auditor The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review London in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our 25 November 2003 responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within the Annual Review with the full Annual Accounts and Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
36 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Introduction The financial information presented has been prepared on the same Balance sheet Equity interests were $648 million at 30 September basis and using the same accounting policies as those used to prepare 2003 compared with $675 million at 30 September 2002 reflecting the the 2002 financial statements.
attributable profit of $74 million earned in the year offset by dividends declared of $42 million and $59 million for the interim and final Analysis of results dividends respectively.
Net borrowings amounted to $197 million at Profit and loss account Turnover increased by 12% to $779 million in 30 September 2003 compared with $155 million at 30 September 2002 the year ended 30 September 2003 representing a reduction of and included $215.8 million of US dollar 3.75% convertible bonds due $55 million from the gold mining operations in Zimbabwe which were 2008 raised to refinance existing debt in London and for general sold in October 2002 offset by an increase of $137 million arising from corporate purposes.
Gearing at 30 September 2003 amounted to 30% the platinum operations in South Africa.
The latter arose from a higher on equity interests and 23% on equity and minority interests average price realised for the basket of metals sold of 7% against that 30 September 2002 23% on equity interests and 18% on equity and achieved last year together with a growth in sales of PGMs.
Stock amounted to $100 million at 30 September US dollars were higher than in 2002 due to a combination of the 2003 compared with $41 million at 30 September 2002 as a result of strengthening in the South African rand average exchange rate of 26% increased finished metal and concentrate stocks.
during the year and higher smelting costs following the explosion of the new smelter in December 2002.
The effect on the profit and loss Cash flow Net cash inflow from operating activities was $296 million account has, however, been mitigated by higher levels of closing stocks during 2003, an 18% decrease on last years figure of $359 million.
The at 30 September 2003 as a result of increased production from the reduction arose from the lower profitability achieved during the year opencast operations and higher levels of finished metal and together with an increase in working capital mainly due to the higher concentrate stocks.
EBITDA amounted to $344 million for the year stock levels at 30 September 2003.
After interest and finance costs of 2002 $372 million and profit before tax was $291 million 2002 $12 million and tax payments of $57 million, trading cash flow $332 million.
amounted to $227 million in 2003 against $181 million in 2002, with trading cash flow per share of 161.0 cents in 2003 against 118.9 cents Exceptional items in the year included a profit of $24 million on the in 2002. sale of Brakspruit surface and mineral rights in South Africa which were sold in March 2003 and a loss on the sale of the Zimbabwe gold Capital expenditure of $161 million was incurred during the year and mining operations of $2 million in October 2002. sales of fixed assets represented the sale proceeds of $25 million received on the sale of Brakspruit during March 2003.
After minority The tax charge for 2003 was $183 million compared with $75 million dividends paid of $23 million, free cash flow was $68 million and free in 2002.
$85 million of exchange losses were included in the 2003 tax cash flow per share was 48.2 cents 2002 a negative 4.6 cents.
charge against $48 million of exchange profits in 2002.
The effective Financial investment, acquisitions and disposals mainly represented tax rate, excluding all exchange effects and a tax charge on the the net sale proceeds received on the disposal of the Zimbabwe gold Brakspruit exceptional item of $3 million, was 35% compared with mining operations.
After accounting for equity dividends paid of 37% last year.
$101 million, the cash outflow was $23 million during 2003 and net borrowings amounted to $197 million at 30 September 2003.
Attributable profit fell to $74 million for the 2003 year from $185 million in 2002.
Earnings per share were 52.5 cents based on a Dividends The Board recommends a final dividend of 42.0 cents weighted average number of shares outstanding of 141 million 2002 42.0 cents making total dividends for the year of 72.0 cents compared with 121.5 cents for 2002 based on a weighted average 2002 72.0 cents.
This represents a cover of 0.7 times on earnings number of shares outstanding of 152 million.
On an underlying earnings basis, this represents a exceptional items of $13 million, earnings per share were 43.3 cents.
cover of 1.2 times compared with 1.4 times in 2002.
Underlying earnings per share, which are based on the attributable profit for the year excluding exceptional items and exchange on tax balances, were 87.2 cents compared with 98.5 cents for 2002.
37 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT For the year ended 30 September 2003 2002 $ m $ m Turnover 779 697 2 EBITDA 344 372 Depreciation 46 39 Group operating profit 298 333 Share of associates operating loss 1 2 Total operating profit 297 331 Profit on sale of fixed assets 24 Loss on sale or termination of operations 2 Profit before net interest payable receivable and similar items 319 331 Net interest payable receivable and similar items 28 1 Profit before taxation 291 332 Taxation 183 75 Profit after taxation 108 257 Minority equity interest 34 72 Profit for the year 74 185 Dividends 101 101 Retained loss profit for the year 27 84 Earnings per share 52.5 121.5 Diluted earnings per share 52.3 121.0 Dividends per share 72.0 72.0 Financial ratios 3 Tax rate 35% 37% Net debt to EBITDA 0.6 times 0.4 times Notes 1 The results for both years relate to continuing operations.
2 EBITDA is Group operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
3 The tax rate has been calculated excluding exceptional items and exchange.
The summary financial statement on pages 37 to 39 was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 November 2003 and was signed on its behalf by: Sir John Craven Chairman J N Robinson Finance Director 38 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET As at 30 September 2003 2002 $ m $ m Fixed assets 1,275 1,181 Current assets 328 182 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 249 188 Net current assets liabilities 79 6 Total assets less current liabilities 1,354 1,175 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 215 135 Provisions for liabilities and charges 277 160 862 880 Equity interests 648 675 Minority equity interest 214 205 862 880 Net borrowings 197 155 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW For the year ended 30 September 2003 2002 $ m $ m Net cash inflow from operating activities 296 359 Interest and finance costs 12 3 Tax 57 181 Trading cash flow 227 181 Capital expenditure purchases 161 152 sales 25 Minority dividends 23 36 Free cash flow 68 7 Financial investment, acquisitions and disposals 10 78 Shares issued 3 bought back 128 Capital return 360 Equity dividends paid 101 109 Cash outflow 23 679 Opening net borrowings cash 155 523 Exchange 19 1 Closing net borrowings 197 155 Trading cash flow per share 161.0 118.9 Free cash flow per share 48.2 4.6 39 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 LONMIN PLC CORPORATE INFORMATION Management team Teresa Heritage Registrars Registered office South Africa Assistant Secretary Lloyds TSB Registrars 4 Grosvenor Place Brian Abbott Investor Relations Manager The Causeway London Finance Director Gary Twinn Worthing SW1X 7YL Tony Reilly Group IT Manager West Sussex Registered in England Corporate Affairs BN99 6DA Number: 103002 Stompie Shiels Auditors External England Telephone 020 7201 6000 Mining KPMG Audit Plc Telephone 01903 502541 Fax 020 7201 6100 Geoff Fenner PO Box 695 Fax 01903 833371 Email contact@lonmin.
com Strategic Services 8 Salisbury Square Web www.
com Eddie Facculyn-Goush London Computershare Limited Mining Services EC4Y 8BB 70 Marshall Street South African office Alan Keeley Johannesburg 2001 Lonmin Platinum Smelting and Refining Auditors Internal South Africa Northdowns Albert Jamieson Ernst & Young PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 17 Georgian Crescent Business Development 20th Floor 2107, South Africa Bryanston East 2152 320 West Street Telephone 27 11 370 5000 Johannesburg London Durban 4000 Fax 27 11 370 5271 2 South Africa Rob Bellhouse South Africa PO Box 98811, Sloane Park 2152, Company Secretary Principal group bankers Johannesburg, South Africa Amanda Bradshaw Stockbrokers Lloyds TSB Bank Plc Telephone 27 11 516 1300 Group Financial Controller Cazenove & Co. Ltd Standard Chartered Bank Fax 27 11 516 1310 Chris Davies Standard Bank Group Technical Director Fraser King Divisional Director: Marketing American depositary receipts ADR Analysis of ordinary shareholdings at 21 November 2003 The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for Number of Shares held % of which The Bank of New York acts as a Depositary.
Each ADR holdings total represents one 1 Ordinary share of the Company.
The ADRs shares trade in the over-the-counter OTC market under the symbol Category of shareholder LOMNY.
When dividends are paid to shareholders, the Individuals 19,309 9,403,683 6.66 Depositary makes the equivalent payment in US dollars to Banks, corporate bodies 1,856 131,634,477 93.34 ADR holders.
40 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 LONMIN PLC CORPORATE INFORMATION Currency of Dividends The Companys dividends are declared in shareholders should apportion 13.3355% of the base cost of their US dollars.
The final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2003 original shareholding to the capital reduction and the balance to will be paid in sterling to UK shareholders unless they elect to receive their new holding of ordinary shares of $1 each.
US dollars calculated at the US dollar to sterling exchange rate on Friday, 23 January 2004: in Rand to shareholders on the SA branch The market price of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 was register calculated at the Rand to US dollar exchange rate on Friday, 38.915 pence as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation issues, and 9 January 2004: and in dollars to all other shareholders unless they 155.66 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the Companys shares elect to receive sterling dividends or have mandated their dividend on 24 April 1998 and 125.303 pence as adjusted for the demerger of payments to a UK bank.
Elections to receive an alternative currency Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998. dollars or sterling should comprise a signed request to Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address shown above to be received by 1700 hours Dividend Reinvestment Plan A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP on Friday, 23 January 2004. is available through which eligible shareholders may invest the whole of their cash dividends in additional Lonmin Plc shares.
Eligible Dividend payment by BACS The Company can pay United Kingdom shareholders on the registers on 23 January 2004, being the record date registered shareholders dividends direct to a bank or building for the recommended final dividend, may participate in the plan in society account using the Bankers Automated Clearing Service BACS.
respect of that dividend provided their application forms are received This means that dividends will normally be in shareholders accounts by Monday, 2 February 2004.
Copies of the DRIP brochure and on the same day as the payment is made.
The tax vouchers will be application form have been sent to eligible shareholders on the posted to shareholders registered addresses.
Shareholders wishing registers up to 18 July 2003 and are being sent to those who are newly to adopt this method of payment should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars.
entered on the registers between then and 23 January 2004.
Further copies are available from the Registrars.
Transcontinental Automated Payment System TAPS The Company now offers to non-United Kingdom resident shareholders, Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Carr Sheppards the opportunity to have their dividends paid in a local currency straight Crosthwaite offers the Lonmin Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA from into their local bank account.
This has been made possible due to an which dividend income and capital gains are completely free of UK tax arrangement between the Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB, and the for investment in Lonmin Plc shares.
UK registered shareholders may Bank of Scotland by using the banks TAPS service.
This is an electronic subscribe to the Lonmin Corporate ISA up to a maximum currently facility which enable dividends to be converted into local currency on of 7,000 annually in cash for a maxi ISA or 3,000 for a mini ISA, the first working day after the dividend payment date and for the by direct transfer of eligible employee shares and or by sale and converted amount to be paid into a local bank account within an reinvestment of existing Lonmin Plc shares.
To obtain full details and average of five working days.
There is a nominal charge for the service.
an application form, please contact Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite All eligible shareholders are sent information on the TAPS facility, Limited, Clock House, Dogflud Way, Farnham, Surrey GU9 7UL, alternatively shareholders may contact Lloyds TSB Registrars for Tel 01252 712049, Fax 01252 734628.
Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite more information.
Taxation of Dividends Information on the tax treatment of This is not a recommendation that shareholders should subscribe UK dividends is given on the tax vouchers sent to shareholders.
The advantages of holding shares in an ISA vary according to individual circumstances and shareholders who are in any doubt Capital Gains Tax For capital gains tax purposes, shareholders should consult their financial adviser.
disposing of shares in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7May 1998, who held shares prior to that date, should apportion Shareholder Information There is now a range of shareholder the base cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two information online.
Shareholders on the principal register maintained companies.
Based on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 of Lonmin by Lloyds TSB Registrars can check their shareholdings and find Plc and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would be 80.498% for practical help on transferring shares or updating their details at Lonmin Plc and 19.502% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
Up-to-date information on the Company is contained in the Companys website at www.
The Companys capital reduction was completed on 22 February 2002.
43 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 GLOSSARY OF TERMS BEE MF2 MF3 Mill Float Black Economic Empowerment.
This is a concentrator configuration where there are two or Casualty rate three milling and flotation circuits in series.
Each of the milling The number of fatal and reportable accident cases expressed circuits is followed by a flotation circuit.
as a rate per 1,000 per annum of the average number of Merensky reef MRK underground, surface or total employees at work.
Platiniferous pyroxenite layer, containing economic Centare grades of PGMs.
Noble metals Converter matte Platinum group metals and gold.
The product from the smelter containing noble and base metals, On-mine costs emanating from furnace through converter operations.
Those process costs incurred in the production of realisable Cost per refined ounce of platinum net of by-product revenue metals.
Calculated as on-mine and refining costs less the revenue OPMS earned from all other metals divided by refined production Other precious metals: rhodium, ruthenium and iridium.
This statistic is for benchmarking purposes only Ounce Tr.
oz oz and is not the true cost to the Company of a refined ounce A troy ounce, being 31.104 grams.
PGMs Platinum Group Metals Cash cost per refined oz PGMs Gold Platinum, palladium, rhodium, ruthenium and iridium.
Calculated as the on-mine, refining, services costs and royalty Probable mineral reserve payments, management fees and commissions paid divided by Portion of measured and or indicated resource, as defined, on the total PGMs and gold.
This is a good measure of the which sufficient technical and economic studies have been Companys operating performance.
carried out to demonstrate that it can justify extraction at the Fatality rate time of determination and under specified economic conditions.
The number of fatal accident victims expressed as a rate per Proven mineral reserve 1,000 per annum of the average number of underground, surface Portion of measured mineral resource, as defined, on which or total employees at work.
detailed technical and economic studies have been carried out Grade to demonstrate that it can justify extraction at the time of the The value, expressed in grammes per tonne of reef of the determination and under specified economic conditions.
Stope stoping gt Underground excavations to effect the extraction of reef mineral Grammes per metric tonne.
HDSAs Toll treatment Historically Disadvantaged South Africans.
The processing of ore or concentrates to final saleable metals on kg behalf of a third party or which are purchased from that party for One kilogram, being 32.151 troy ounces.
Lonplats Tonne mt t Lonmin Platinum.
Measured mineral resource Troy ounce That portion of a mineral resource for which tonnage or volume 31.104 grams.
is calculated from dimensions revealed in outcrops, pits, trenches, tpm drill-holes or mine workings, supported where appropriate by Tonnes per month.
The physical character, size, shape, UG2 reef UG2 quality and mineral contents are established with a high degree Upper Group 2 platiniferous chromitite layer, containing of certainty.
44 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2003 Important Note This Annual Review, which is sent to all shareholders, contains Contents a Summary Financial Statement and the Summary Remuneration Report rather 01 Business Profile 24 Lonmins Empowerment Vision than the full Financial Statements and Remuneration Report.
Printed on Consort Royal  paper using water-based inks by Pillans and Waddies, who are accredited under ISO 14001.
Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7YL LONMIN PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 OUR STAKEHOLDERS ASK HOW WE MANAGE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AS A CORPORATE CITIZEN.
