STATEMENT ON ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the acquisition as a matter of accounting policy and, in accordance historical cost convention, modified for the revaluation of with the transitional arrangements of FRS 10, goodwill has not certain assets, and in accordance with applicable United been reinstated on implementation of FRS 10.
No goodwill Kingdom accounting standards.
The following principal arose during 2003. accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously the Groups financial statements.
acquired company or business, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging or crediting the amount The Groups earnings stream is primarily US dollars and of any related goodwill previously charged to reserves or the functional currency is the US dollar.
The reporting currency capitalised and not yet charged to the profit and loss account.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in The Company has taken advantage of the exemption circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be contained in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 recoverable and also at the end of the first complete financial from presenting its own profit and loss account.
year following an acquisition in accordance with FRS 11 Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill.
Turnover Associates Turnover represents sales of goods and services outside the Group net of discounts and allowances and value added Investments in associates are accounted for under the equity tax and includes commissions earned.
Turnover is recorded accounting method.
An associate is a company, other than a when the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to subsidiary, in which the Groups interest is considered to be the purchaser.
long term and is substantial and over which the Group exercises a significant influence.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consist of the results for the The consolidated profit and loss account includes the year ended 30 September 2003 and the assets and liabilities Groups share of the results of associates.
The carrying value of the Company and its subsidiaries as at that date.
The of associates in the Groups balance sheet comprises the results of subsidiaries are included from the date of Groups share of the net assets of associates.
The results of subsidiaries sold are included on acquisition of associates is included within investments up to the date of sale.
in associates and is written off over ten years.
Goodwill Joint arrangements On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values The Group has certain contractual arrangements with other reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed participants to engage in joint activities that do not create an to the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Where the entity carrying on a trade or business of its own.
The Group fair value of the purchase consideration differs from the includes its share of the assets, liabilities and cash flows in aggregate of these fair values, purchased goodwill arises.
such joint arrangements, measured in accordance with the Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1 October 1998 is terms of each arrangement, which is usually pro-rata to the capitalised and amortised over its useful life in accordance Groups interest in the joint arrangement.
with FRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets.
Prior to 1October 1998, goodwill was charged to reserves in the year of 31 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 STATEMENT ON ACCOUNTING POLICIES Other investments Foreign currencies Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions Subsidiaries that keep their accounts in currencies other than their for impairments or at Directors valuations.
The Groups functional currency remeasure them into the functional currency investment in Ashanti is not accounted for as an associate by the temporal method prior to consolidation.
This results in nonbecause the Group considers that it is unable to, and does not, monetary assets and liabilities being recorded at their historical exercise significant influence over Ashantis operating cost expressed in the functional currency whilst monetary assets and financing policies and actions.
Accordingly, the Ashanti and liabilities are stated at the closing exchange rate.
Differences investment is shown as a fixed asset investment.
Only on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
dividends received are treated as part of the continuing operations of the Group.
The investment in Ashanti is stated The principal US dollar exchange rates used in the financial at Directors valuation.
statements, expressed as the foreign currency value of one US dollar, are as follows: 2003 2002 Average exchange rates: Sterling 0.62 0.68 South African rand 7.88 10.65 Zimbabwe dollar 1,000.00 415.97 Closing exchange rates: Sterling 0.60 0.64 South African rand 6.97 10.54 Zimbabwe dollar 1,000.00 640.00 Note The Zimbabwe dollar exchange rate for 2003 is applicable for the month of October 2002 only up to the date of disposal of the gold mining interests.
Exploration costs b Expansion and new opportunities exploration Exploration expenditure is analysed between its three Within or adjacent to a producing unit: constituent parts and accounted for as follows: These costs are expensed until a probable reserve has been defined and confirmed by a Competent Person.
At that point a Replacement exploration further costs are capitalised and the asset amortised over the This is defined as expenditure necessary to delineate and estimated life of mine.
quantify the reserves and resources required to replace those extracted in any one accounting period, and as such is an Greenfields or Brownfields: operating cost which is expensed as incurred.
These costs are expensed until an indicated resource has been defined and confirmed by a Competent Person.
At that point further costs are capitalised.
Amortisation commences in the first year of production after which amortisation is provided over the estimated life of the project.
32 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 STATEMENT ON ACCOUNTING POLICIES Research and development Capitalised interest Research and development costs, separate to exploration Tangible fixed assets include directly attributable finance expenditure, are accounted for in accordance with SSAP 13 costs which are capitalised gross of tax during the period Accounting for research and development, and expenditure is of construction.
written off in the period in which it arises.
Stocks Tangible fixed assets Stocks are stated at the lower of cost which includes the Tangible fixed assets are recorded at cost or valuation, applicable proportion of production overheads and net which are not updated under the transitional arrangements realisable value.
PGMs stock is valued by allocating costs to of FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets, less depreciation.
platinum, palladium and rhodium stock based on the annual Depreciation on fixed assets is provided on a straight cost of production, less revenue from by-products, apportioned line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Assets are according to the quantities of each of the three main depreciated over their estimated useful economic lives, or metals produced.
over the remaining life of the mine, if shorter, to residual Deferred tax value.
The life of a mine is based on proven and probable reserves.
Depreciation rates for the principal assets of the Deferred tax is provided for on timing differences that have Group are as follows: originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date on a non-discounted basis.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only Shafts and underground 2.6% 20% per annum to the extent that it is more likely than not that there will be Metallurgical 2.7% 16.7% per annum suitable taxable profits from which future reversal of the Infrastructure 2.7% 20% per annum underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Other mining assets and Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits equipment, plant and motor vehicles 2.7% 33.3% per annum The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes in accordance with local No depreciation is provided on surface mining land which regulations.
The assets of the schemes are held separately has a continuing value and capital work in progress.
from those of the Group and are administered by trustees.
Independent actuaries prepare valuations of these schemes Tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events at least every three years and in accordance with their or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount recommendations the Group makes contributions which are may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is charged to profits on a systematic basis over the expected conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference remaining working lives of the employees.
Any differences to the net present value of expected future cash flows of the between the actuarial valuation of the obligation and the relevant income generating unit or disposal value if higher value of assets in a scheme are similarly charged or credited in accordance with FRS 11. to profit before taxation over the expected remaining working lives of employees in the scheme.
The cost of defined Leases contribution schemes is charged to the profit and loss Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and the account as incurred.
outstanding future lease obligations are shown in borrowings.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
33 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 STATEMENT ON ACCOUNTING POLICIES Use of estimates Certain Group companies provide post-retirement medical benefits to qualifying pensioners.
The expected costs of these The preparation of financial statements requires management benefits are charged to the profit and loss account over the to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported expected remaining service lives of the relevant employees amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial and are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified statements and the reported amounts of revenues and actuaries.
expenses during the reporting period.
Examples of where such estimates are made include the valuation of pension schemes Under the transitional arrangements of FRS 17 Retirement assets and liabilities where discount, inflation and return rate benefits, additional disclosures are included for pension and assumptions are made and in the calculation of rehabilitation other retirement benefits.
liabilities which involves projecting expected liabilities forward to the end lives of the mines using an assumed Rehabilitation costs inflation rate and discounting these liabilities back to the Group companies are generally required to restore mine and present day using an assumed discount rate.
processing sites at the end of their producing lives to a Dividend reinvestment programme condition acceptable to the relevant authorities.
Such costs are provided for in accordance with FRS 12 Provisions, contingent Under the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan, liabilities and contingent assets, so that rehabilitation costs are shareholders can elect for the whole of their cash dividends provided in full based on the best estimates of the future costs to be reinvested in Lonmin Plc shares which are purchased to be incurred calculated on a discounted basis.
As the provision on their behalf in the market.
All cash dividends are paid to is recognised, it is either capitalised as part of the cost of the the Registrars who use the dividends of participants in the related mine or written off to the profit and loss account.
Where plan to fund these purchases.
Accordingly, no new shares are costs are capitalised the impact of such costs on the profit and issued, dividends are paid and accounted for in the normal loss account is spread over the life of the mine through the way, and there are no special accounting requirements for accretion of the discount of the provision and the depreciation the programme.
of the increased costs of the mining assets.
