Annual report and accounts 2003 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventh Annual General Meeting of Luminar plc will be held at the offices of CMS Cameron McKenna, 160 Aldersgate Street, London, EC1A 4DD on Tuesday 1st July 2003 at 3.30pm for the transaction of the following business: ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To receive the audited accounts for the period ended 2 March 2003 together with the reports of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.
To approve the Directors Report on Remuneration for the year ended 2 March 2003.
To declare a final dividend of 8.06p per ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr A R Burns as a director.
To re-elect Mr K Hamill as a director.
To re-elect Mr M Payne as a director.
To appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: THAT the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,097,940 and that this authority shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution and the date falling 15 months after the passing of this resolution unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 8 above, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of that Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 9 as if sub-section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue in favour of ordinary shareholders on a fixed record date whether by way of a rights issue, open offer or otherwise where the equity securities attributable to such ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective number of ordinary shares held by them on such record date, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 914,691. and shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution and the date falling fifteen months after the passing of this resolution unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or arrangement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to such offer or arrangement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Luminar plc 51 Annual report and accounts 2003 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 10.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: THAT, subject to the Companys Articles of Association from time to time, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of that Act of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors shall determine, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 7,317,528 representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital: b the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing mid market prices for the ordinary shares of the Company derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and the minimum price per ordinary share is the nominal value thereof exclusive of any expenses payable by the Company: and c unless previously renewed, varied or revoked the authority hereby given shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution and the date falling fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may make any purchase of ordinary shares after the expiry of such authority in execution of a contract of purchase that was made under and before the expiry of such authority.
By order of the Board Andrew Burns Company Secretary 19 May 2003 This is an important document.
If there is anything you do not understand, please contact an appropriate professional adviser.
Directors Report and Accounts item 1 on the agenda The Directors are required to present to the meeting the Directors and Auditors reports and the accounts for the year ended 2 March 2003.
Consider and adopt the Report on Remuneration item 2 on the agenda In accordance with the requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Directors are presenting their Report on Remuneration for approval.
The Report is set out on pages 21 to 28.
Declaration of dividend item 3 on the agenda The proposed final dividend of 8.06p per ordinary share will be paid on 4 July 2003 to shareholders who are on the Register of Members as at the close of business on 6 June 2003.
This dividend is in addition to the interim dividend of 2.9p per ordinary share, which was paid on 3 January 2003.
The shares will become ex-dividend on 4 June 2003.
Re-election of Directors items 4, 5 and 6 on the agenda Article 87 of the Companys Articles of Association states that one third of the Directors must retire annually, those doing so being the longest serving since last being re-elected.
Mr K Hamill and Mr M Payne offer themselves for re-election at this meeting under this provision.
Article 87 also provides that any Director who has not been appointed or re-appointed at either of the Companys last two Annual General Meetings should retire.
Mr A R Burns is retiring and offering himself for re-election under this provision.
Full biographical details of all Directors are on page 10 of this report.
52 Luminar plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 5.
Appointment and remuneration of Auditors item 7 on the agenda This resolution proposes the appointment of  LLP as the Companys auditors, and permits the Directors to fix their remuneration.
During the year, the unincorporated partnership of  transferred their business to  LLP, and the Directors recognised this as the successor business.
Renewal of authority to allot shares items 8 and 9 on the agenda The existing authorities given to the Directors at the last Annual General Meeting to allot unissued share capital and to allot shares for cash in limited circumstances expire at this AGM.
It is proposed that further authorities be granted which shall expire on the earlier of the date of the next Annual General Meeting to be held after the passing of the resolution and the date falling fifteen months after the passing of the resolution.
An ordinary resolution item 8 will be proposed to authorise the Directors to allot unissued share capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,097,940 being 24,391,760 ordinary shares of 25p each representing approximately 33% of the share capital currently in issue.
A special resolution item 9 will be proposed authorising the Directors to allot shares in connection with a pre-emptive issue to existing shareholders or for cash up to 914,691 being approximately 5% of the share capital currently in issue.
There are no present plans to issue shares, except as required to satisfy the exercise of options or warrants under the Companys employee share incentive schemes.
Authority to purchase own shares item 10 on the agenda The special resolution proposed at item 12 would authorise the Company to acquire its own shares subject to the constraints set out in the resolution.
The Directors would exercise this power only if satisfied that it was in the interests of the shareholders as a whole to do so and that it was likely to result in an increase in earnings per share.
Any shares purchased in accordance with this authority will subsequently be cancelled.
As at 16 May 2003 being the last practical date before the approval of this report, options and warrants were outstanding to subscribe for a total number of 7,838,500 ordinary shares, or 10.71% of the Companys issued share capital.
If this authority to purchase shares were to be used in full, the proportion of issued share capital represented by this figure would be 11.9%.
Action to be taken Whether or not you intend to attend the Annual General Meeting, you are requested to complete the enclosed form of proxy and return it to the Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland, P O Box 28448, Finance House, Orchard Brae, Edinburgh EH4 1WQ as soon as possible and in any event so as to be received no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the Annual General Meeting.
The completion and submission of a form of proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting in person if you so wish.
Recommendation Your Board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings in the Company.
Attendance and Voting As a shareholder of Luminar plc, you have the right to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Please bring with you the accompanying form of proxy admission Card.
It will authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote and will speed your admission.
Please keep it until the end of the meeting.
The meeting will commence at 3.30pm and refreshments will be available from 3.00pm.
You may also find it helpful to bring your Annual Report with you so that you can refer to it at the meeting.
If you do not wish, or are unable, to attend, you may appoint either the Chairman of the meeting or someone else of your choice to act on your behalf and to vote in the event of a poll.
That person is known as a proxy.
You can use the enclosed form of proxy to appoint a proxy.
A proxy need not be a shareholder and may attend and vote on a poll on behalf of the shareholder who appointed him or her.
At the meeting, the proxy can act for the member he or she represents.
This includes the right to join in or demand a poll, but it does not include the right to vote on a show of hands.
The proxy is valid for any adjournment of the meeting.
Please tick the appropriate box alongside each resolution to indicate whether you wish your votes to be cast for, or against that resolution.
Unless you give specific instructions on how you wish to vote on a particular resolution, your proxy will be able, at his or her discretion, either to vote for or against that resolution or to abstain from voting.
Luminar plc 53 Annual report and accounts 2003 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Before posting the form of proxy to the Registrars, please check that you have signed it.
In the case of joint holders, either of you may sign it.
To be effective the form of proxy must be received by the Companys Registrars at the address shown above by no later than 3.30pm on 30th June 2003.
Any form of proxy received after this time will be declared void.
Any member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a member.
Instruments appointing proxies must be received by the Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours before the time the meeting is to be held.
For the purpose of determining entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting, the name of the member must be entered on the register of members at 5 p. m. on 30th June, 2003.
If you have recently sold or transferred all of your shares in the Company please send this notice and the accompanying form of proxy form to the broker who sold your shares for you.
The broker can then send them to the new owner of the shares.
The following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the Companys registered office and at the offices of CMS Cameron McKenna at 160 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4DD from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting: a The Register of Directors and their families interests in the share capital of the Company.
b Copies of all Directors service contracts for periods in excess of one year with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
c The existing Memorandum and Articles of Association.
54 Luminar plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Shareholder Information Annual General Meeting Company Secretary and Registered Office Harry Willits 1 July 2003 at 3.30pm at the offices of Luminar plc CMS Cameron McKenna, 41 King Street 160 Aldersgate Street, Luton London EC1A 4DD LU1 2DW Telephone 01582 589400 Facsimile 01582 589667 Results For the year to 1 March 2004 Registration Interim Results announced November 2003 Luminar plc is registered in England and Wales, number 3170142.
Interim Statement circulated November 2003 Registrars Preliminary announcement Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland of full year results May 2004 PO Box 28448 Finance House Annual Report circulated June 2004 Orchard Brae Edinburgh EH4 1WQ Dividend payments Telephone 0870 6015366 The proposed final dividend if approved will be paid on 4 July 2003 to Facsimile 0870 9000030 shareholders on the Register on 6 June 2003.
You can check details of your shareholding on Lloyds TSB Registrars website at www.
co. uk The expected dividend payment dates for the year to 1 March 2004 are: Interim Dividend January 2004 Stockbroker Investec Henderson Crosthwaite Institutional Brokers Limited Final Dividend July 2004 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QP Shareholder Services On the Companys behalf, Natwest Stockbrokers Limited operates a low costs share dealing service in Luminar plc shares.
Details are available on Auditors telephone 0870 6002050 or e-mail on Contactees@natwest.
com quoting  LLP reference: Luminar plc.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 1 Embankment Place London Private shareholders EC2V 7QP If you have a query about your holding of Luminar plc shares or need to change your details, for example your address or payment of dividend requirements, please contact the registrars at the address on this page.
Solicitors CMS Cameron McKenna Mitre House Website 160 Aldersgate Street Further details of the Groups activities and products can be seen on its London website at www.
co. uk EC1A 4DD Luminar plc 55 Annual report and accounts 2003 Shareholders Notes 56 Luminar plc Luminar plc Annual Report 2003 Luminar plc, 41 King Street, Luton, Bedfordshire LU1 2DW Annual report and accounts 2003 www.
