Annual report and accounts 2003 Principal accounting policies In accordance with FRS18, the Directors have reviewed the accounting policies of the Group set out below and consider them to be appropriate.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets and the accounting policies are set out below that have remained unchanged from the previous year.
Basis of consolidation The principles of merger accounting have been applied on the original formation of Luminar plc.
All subsequent acquisitions have been accounted for using the principles of acquisition accounting.
The group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and of its subsidiary undertakings see note 10 drawn up to 2 March 2003.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year have been included from the date of acquisition.
Profits or losses on intra-group transactions are eliminated in full.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, all of the subsidiarys assets and liabilities, which exist at the date of acquisition, are recorded at their fair values reflecting their condition at that date.
Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired, is capitalised and is amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life.
The Company was entitled to merger relief offered by section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 in respect of the consideration received in excess of the nominal value of the equity shares issued in connection with the acquisition of Northern Leisure PLC.
Financial instruments The group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily to manage exposures to fluctuations in interest rates.
Discounts and premiums are charged or credited to the profit and loss account over the life of the asset or liability to which they relate.
Discounts or premiums on financial instruments designated as interest rate hedges are reflected as adjustments to interest payable.
Income and expenditure arising on financial instruments is recognised on the accruals basis, and credited or charged to the profit and loss account in the financial period to which it relates.
Interest differentials, under which the amounts and periods for which interest rates on borrowing are varied, are reflected as adjustments to interest payable.
Intangible fixed assets and goodwill Trademarks purchased separately from a business are included at cost and amortised over their useful economic lives.
Purchased goodwill is capitalised and is amortised on a straight line basis over its estimated useful economic life.
Turnover Turnover is the total amount receivable by the Group for goods supplied and services provided, excluding VAT.
Tangible fixed assets and depreciation Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Finance costs on fixed asset additions are capitalised during the period of construction and written off as part of the total cost.
No depreciation is charged during the period of construction.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost or valuation less estimated residual value of all tangible fixed assets by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic lives.
30 Luminar plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Principal accounting policies continued The periods generally applicable are: Freehold and long leasehold land and buildings and related structural fixtures and fittings fifty years Short leasehold land and buildings and related structural fixtures and fittings over the period of the lease Other fixtures and fittings, furniture and equipment between two years and ten years.
Investments Investments are stated at cost less amounts written off.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transactions or events that give the group an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance date.
Leased assets All leases are regarded as operating leases and the payments made under them are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Contributions to pension funds Defined contribution schemes The pension costs charged against profits represent the amount of the contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
