SUMMARY BY BUSINESS SEGMENT Headline earnings loss Operating profit loss US$ million unless otherwise stated 2003 2002 2003 2002 Platinum 205 351 433 802 Platinum 205 351 447 802 Exceptional items 14 Gold 167 205 326 463 Gold 167 205 369 463 Exceptional items 43 Diamonds 386 324 562 541 Coal 232 266 333 427 South Africa 79 133 133 247 Australia 94 98 130 130 South America 59 35 70 50 Base Metals 206 69 78 82 Copper 216 80 269 110 Nickel, Niobium, Mineral Sands 76 54 106 94 Zinc 65 66 62 51 Other 21 1 27 20 Exceptional items 208 51 Industrial Minerals 270 231 325 277 Europe 256 214 290 253 Brazil 14 17 35 24 Paper and Packaging 368 376 656 649 Europe 277 233 471 434 South Africa 91 143 185 215 Ferrous Metals 89 88 156 150 Kumba 18 33 Highveld Steel 5 20 11 38 Scaw Metals 55 41 70 51 Samancor Group 10 19 41 48 Other 1 8 1 13 Industries 18 38 52 114 Boart Longyear 21 26 33 31 Tongaat-Hulett 10 24 10 96 Terra 7 18 14 3 Other 6 5 10 Exploration 83 77 125 93 Exploration 83 77 105 93 Exceptional items 20 Corporate 164 112 190 161 Gold Fields 35 27 28 41 Other 199 139 218 202 1,694 1,759 2,606 3,251 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Summary by business segment 111 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OTHER ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS 2003 Investing in ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ANGLO AMERICAN Annual Review the future 11:00 am on Wednesday, 21 April 2004, at A WORLD OF DIFFERENCE Black Economic The Conference Centre Empowerment Church House Deans Yard London SW1P 3NZ ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 ACROSS SIX CONTINENTS 02 CHINAS CENTURY 06 NEW PRODUCTS AND NEW IDEAS 08 SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT & CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 12 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT 16 OPERATIONS REVIEW 22 THE BOARD 26 BUSINESS UNIT HEADS 28 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30 SHAREHOLDERS DIARY 2004 5 Interim results: August 2004 Interim dividend paid: September 2004 2003 Good Neighbours Financial year end: 31 December 2004 Interim Report Our work with Annual results announcement: February 2005 communities Annual Report: March 2005 Annual General Meeting: April 2005 Final dividend paid: April 2005 ADDING VALUE TO NATURAL RESOURCES ENQUIRIES Queries relating to Anglo American plc should be addressed to the Company Secretary or the Investor and Corporate Affairs Letter to Good Citizenship: ANGLO AMERICAN Department at the following address: Shareholders, Our Business LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS Notice Principles NOTICE OF ANNUAL Registered and Head Office of AGM and GENERAL MEETING Anglo American plc SHAREHOLDER Shareholder INFORMATION 20 Carlton House Terrace Information London SW1Y 5AN, England booklet Telephone 44 0 20 7698 8888 Fax 44 0 20 7698 8500 Registered number 3564138 2003 Report to Optima Website www.
co. uk Society: Working Anglo Americans for Sustainable current affairs If you have any questions about your shareholding Development journal or dividend, please contact the Registrar at the relevant address below: UK Registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH, England Telephone 44 0 870 702 0000 Fax 44 0 870 703 6101 Registrars agent South Africa CHARITABLE PARTNERS Computershare Limited 70 Marshall Street Johannesburg 2001, South Africa PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107 Telephone 27 0 11 370 7700 Fax 27 0 11 688 7721 If you would like to receive copies of Anglo Americans publications Please write to: Investor and Corporate Affairs Department Anglo American plc 20 Carlton House Terrace London SW1Y 5AN, England Alternatively, publications can be ordered online at: http: www.
asp The full Annual Report of Anglo American plc comprises this Annual Report 2003, the Annual Review 2003 and the booklet containing the letter from the chairman of the Remuneration Committee giving details of a proposed Bonus Share Plan, the Notice of AGM and other shareholder information.
Copies of all three documents are available free of charge from the Companys Registrar.
A separate Report to Society 2003 will be available on request.
This is just a selection of the charities with which we worked in 2003.
112 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Shareholder information Designed and produced by Fitch:London.
The paper used in this review is made Printed by CTD Capita.
from virgin wood fibre sourced from fully sustainable forests.
It is an elementally chlorine-free ECF product.
ANGLO AMERICAN PLC 20 Carlton House Terrace London SW1Y 5AN England Telephone 44 0 20 7698 8888 Fax 44 0 20 7698 8500 Registered number 3564138 www.
co. uk HEADLINE EPS AND DPS EBITDA COVER STORY US cents US$ billion Los Bronces, at an altitude of more than 3,000 metres in the Andes, forms the 125 5 major part of a suite of copper operations 125 ANGLO 123 120 4.8 4.8 4.7 in Chile acquired in late 2002.
The mine, 114 4.6 100 4 which produces more than 200,000 tonnes of copper a year, has enormous reserves and resources and considerable growth potential.
co. uk Dividends per share DIFFERENCE 1 GEOGRAPHIC EARNINGS MIX GEOGRAPHIC ASSET MIX % % 5 7 7 26 17 30 16 18 34 40 Europe Rest of Africa Europe Rest of Africa South Africa Australia and Asia South Africa Australia and Asia Americas Americas SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE VS FTSE 100 POSITION IN THE FTSE 100 Indexed May 99 100 FTSE 100 ranking 160 10 140 120 15 100 80 20 60 40 ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 25 20 ACROSS SIX CONTINENTS 02 CHINAS CENTURY 06 0 30 NEW PRODUCTS AND NEW IDEAS 08 SAFETY, 99 00 01 02 03 99 00 01 02 03 HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT & CORPORATE SOCIAL Anglo American FTSE 100 RESPONSIBILITY 12 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT 16 OPERATIONS 1 100 invested in Anglo American at the time of its Represents net attributable operating listing in May 1999 would at the end of 2003 be assets, including investment in associates REVIEW 22 THE BOARD 26 BUSINESS UNIT HEADS 28 worth 153 as compared with 71 if invested and joint ventures.
in the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 30 Excluding dividends HEADLINE EARNINGS NET OPERATING ASSETS CAPITAL EXPENDITURE BY BUSINESS UNIT BY BUSINESS UNIT BY BUSINESS UNIT A SNAPSHOT OF % % % 6 6 12 16 21 22 10 20 33 OUR BUSINESSES 16 11 23 16 11 7 15 11 12 12 14 14 7 Platinum Gold Diamonds Coal Base Metals Industrial Minerals Paper and Packaging Ferrous Metals & Industries OUR BUSINESS PROFILEPRODUCTS AND USES STRATEGY SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING 2003 PLATINUM Anglo Platinum is the world leader in platinum Platinum is mainly used in jewellery and as Anglo Platinum plans to grow market demand for PGMs, expand supply Anglo Platinum has slowed down its expansion programme mainly due Ownership group metals PGMs and the worlds largest a component in autocatalysts.
It is also used into that growth and optimise value in current operations.
Principally to the strong rand dollar exchange rates impact on cash generated 74.1% primary producer of platinum, accounting for in the chemical, electrical, medical, glass and through Johnson Matthey plc, Anglo Platinum has made significant from operations and project returns.
Its long term strategy to expand about 40% of world production.
investments in research and development into new uses for PGMs.
production to meet the growing market for PGMs remains in place.
GOLD AngloGold produces approximately 6 million Gold is used primarily for fabrication and bullion AngloGold plans to secure the worlds best reserves and In August 2003, AngloGold announced a proposed merger with Ashanti Ownership ounces of gold a year.
It has a global presence, investment.
Fabricated gold has a variety of uses, to grow the company into the global gold equity of choice.
Goldfields, bringing together the financial and technical resources 54.5% with 19 operations in eight countries, and plays a most obviously in jewellery but also in electronics, It is a leading exponent in expanding the market for gold.
of AngloGold with the reserve base and growth potential of Ashanti vigorous role in the downstream marketing of gold.
dentistry, medals and official coins.
to create a combination strategically placed for sustained value growth.
DIAMONDS fide Beers accounts for about 45% by value of global The vast majority of natural diamond production fide Beers continues to drive demand for diamonds through its The Supplier of Choice initiative was launched in July 2003 and Ownership rough diamond production.
Through The Diamond by value is gem quality rough that is sold for use in advertising and marketing focus on expanding diamonds share aims to stimulate consumer demand for diamond jewellery at 45% Trading Company, it is the worlds largest supplier jewellery, with some natural stones being used for of the luxury-goods sector.
retail level by addressing the issues that have historically inhibited and marketer of gem diamonds.
industrial purposes e. g. cutting and other applications.
growth in the diamond business.
COAL Anglo Coal is one of the worlds largest private sector About 40% of all electricity generated in the world Anglo Coal plans to maintain and grow a balanced and profitable In May 2003, Anglo American reached agreement with Sasol to Ownership coal producers and exporters, producing thermal is powered by coal.
Coal is a key raw material for mix of metallurgical and thermal coal assets, supplying international develop the Kriel South coal reserves in South Africa.
The coalfield 100% and metallurgical coals.
It has mining operations in 70% of the worlds steel industry and an important markets in the  and Indo-Pacific basins as is expected to yield an estimated 200 million tonnes of thermal coal South Africa, Australia, Colombia and Venezuela.
fuel for other industries such as the cement sector.
well as appropriate local customers.
for supply to Sasol Synfuels over 20 years.
BASE METALS Anglo Base Metals comprises copper, nickel, Copper is used primarily in wire and cable and Anglo Bases strategy is to find, acquire, develop and operate The wholly owned Skorpion zinc mine and refinery in southern Ownership zinc and mineral sands operations and projects in also in brass tubing and pipes.
Zinc is used long life, low cost assets.
It aims to increase capital and operating Namibia was officially opened in September 2003.
The mine will 100% South America, southern Africa, Ireland and Canada.
predominantly in galvanising, and nickel mostly efficiency through continuous improvement and innovation in produce 150,000 tonnes per year of special high grade zinc and in the production of stainless steel.
order to earn superior returns throughout the metal price cycle.
will be one of the lowest cost zinc mines in the world.
INDUSTRIAL Anglo Industrial Minerals is the no.
1 UK producer Tarmac is involved in the production of crushed Tarmacs strategy is to generate superior returns by growing the In 2003, its centenary year, Tarmac made ten acquisitions totalling MINERALS of aggregates and asphalt and a significant producer rock, sand and gravel, asphalt, concrete and mortar, margins in its business.
This will be achieved through increased $100 million in the UK and continental Europe.
The new phosphate Ownership of ready-mixed concrete.
Its interests are principally concrete products, lime and cement.
Copebrs is a focus on customer service, further cost control and productivity plant in Brazil was completed in February 2003 and was officially 100% in the UK, continental Europe and Brazil.
Brazilian producer of phosphate fertilizers.
opened in April 2003 by the Brazilian president Lula da Silva.
PAPER AND Anglo Paper and Packaging, operating under the The operations manufacture pulp, graphic papers, The focus is on converted paper and packaging products for Mondi acquired Bauernfeinds corrugated paper and packaging business PACKAGING Mondi name, is an integrated paper and packaging packaging papers, board and converted packaging, industrial and consumer markets based upon highly efficient and Copamexs industrial sack business the latter subject to competition Ownership group with operations and interests in Europe, as well as solid wood products.
integrated forestry, waste paper recycling and pulp manufacture.
The Richards 100% South Africa, Asia and North America.
Bay expansion modernisation and upgrade at Merebank were announced.
FERROUS METALS Anglo American holds a significant interest Iron ore is the basic raw material used in the Anglo Ferrous intends to expand Kumba through further Anglo American acquired a majority stake in Kumba, which has & INDUSTRIES in Kumba, one of the top five producers of iron ore. production of steel.
Chrome, manganese and development of its iron ore interests.
world class iron ore assets in South Africa and Australia.
Ownership Most of Ferrous Metals & Industries operations vanadium all impart special properties in the 100% are in South Africa, Australia and South America.
Designed and produced by Fitch:London.
It is an Operated by fide Beers, the Companys independently managed associate.
The 2003 Annual Review, the 2003 Annual Report, the Letter from the chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Notice of AGM, together with the shareholder information booklet, are available on the corporate website: www.
co. uk elementally chlorine-free ECF product.
ANGLO AMERICAN ISA WORLD LEADER IN MINING AND NATURAL RESOURCES CONTENTS SUMMARY FINANCIAL ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Across six continents 02 STATEMENT 11:00 am on Wednesday, 21 April 2004, Chinas century 06 Summary directors report at The Conference Centre, Church House, New products and new ideas 08 and independent auditors Deans Yard, London SW1P 3NZ.
Safety, health and statement 29 environment & corporate Consolidated profit and SHAREHOLDERS DIARY 2004 5 social responsibility 12 loss account 30 Interim results: Chairmans statement 14 Summary consolidated August 2004 Chief executives statement 16 balance sheet 31 Interim dividend paid: Operations review 22 Summary consolidated September 2004 The business an overview 25 cash flow statement 31 Financial year end: The Board 26 Summary remuneration report 32 31 December 2004 Business unit heads 28 Annual results announcement: OTHER February 2005 Key financial data 35 Annual Report: Shareholder information 36 March 2005 Annual General Meeting: April 2005 Throughout this Review, $ Final dividend paid: denotes United States dollars.
April 2005 1999, 2000 and 2001 figures have been restated for FRS 19.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 01 FROM THE ARCTIC CIRCLE TO THE CAPE OF GOOD HOPE ANGLO AMERICAN COVERS THE WORLD Platinum Gold Diamonds Coal Base Metals Industrial Minerals Paper and Packaging Ferrous Metals & Industries 02 Across six continents Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 nglo Americans operations span in Brazil with the opening last year of a Anglo Americans product mix is different in the globe, with products ranging $128 million fertilizer plant at Copebrs, and many ways from that of its peers and is A from aluminium to zircon.
Operating a major expansion is under way by Anglo and changing all the time.
In 2003, the Company in 64 countries, through eight product-based its partners at the Cerrejn coal operations took a big stride to enter the iron ore business units, Anglo American together with in Colombia.
Anglo American now has a industry, a long term goal of Anglo American.
its subsidiaries and associates is a world significant presence in Australias coal industry With the acquisition of a significant stake in leader in platinum group metals, gold, and is a leading exporter of coal from three Kumba, Anglo can now look forward to being diamonds and coal and has growing interests continents.
In Asia, China is today the major a partner in unlocking the iron ore potential in base metals, iron ore, ferrous metals, market for platinum jewellery, while business of the Northern Cape in South Africa and industrial minerals, and paper and packaging.
units such as Industrial Minerals, Paper and at Hope Downs in Western Australia.
Packaging and Ferrous Metals & Industries Since the formation of Anglo American plc plan to strengthen their presence in the Anglos expansion has been accompanied by five years ago, there has been a steady country.
In Africa, Anglo Platinum is engaged the development of strong local partnerships diversification of its geographic mix.
In in a major expansion in South Africa to lift and the empowering of local management.
the UK and continental Europe, substantial output.
AngloGold is planning to merge with Experience has shown that these are the investments have been made in the Industrial Ghanaian-based Ashanti Goldfields, which has people who are best able to anticipate, and Minerals and Paper and Packaging sectors.
six operations across the continent, which not merely respond to, changing conditions in In South America, the acquisition of the would make AngloGold world leader in terms the local environment.
Disputada now known as Minera Sur Andes of production and reserves.
In Namibia, Anglo copper operations in Chile in late 2002 has Base Metals recently brought on stream a propelled the Group to coppers top five.
$454 million low cost zinc mine and refinery.
Industrial Minerals has increased its investment Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Across six continents 03 ANGLO AMERICAN COVERS THE WORLD MOVING UP TO COPPERS as cathodes.
It has enormous PREMIER DIVISION reserves and resources, Anglo Base Metals continues which have increased since to reposition its business the acquisition, and exciting by focusing on fewer, larger, growth potential.
lower cost, world class assets.
Consistent with this strategy, In a consolidating copper industry, Anglo acquired the Disputada opportunities to acquire operating copper interests in Chile in late assets with brownfield expansion 2002.
The assets comprised the capability on the scale of Los Bronces open pit mine and Los Bronces are becoming rarer.
concentrator plant, El Soldados The acquisition of Disputada open pit and underground now known as Minera Sur Andes operations and processing plant, at a low point in the price cycle, and the Chagres smelter, which and with a resultant lower converts Los Bronces and entry cost, is creating significant El Soldado flotation concentrates value for the Group as the into anode copper.
With world class assets in Chile, At Collahuasi, in which the Los Bronces was the major Below: Jorge Betzhold using his the Group is now the fifth largest Group has a 44% share, the element of the $1.3 billion GPS Global Positioning System copper producer in the world.
$654 million Rosario project to acquisition.
It produces around at Los Bronces, in the Andes, expand concentrator throughput 208,000 tonnes of copper a more than 3,000 metres above The synergies targeted from the from 60,000 to 110,000 tonnes year 180,000 tonnes of copper sea level.
cluster of five operations in Chile per day and transfer mining concentrate and 28,000 tonnes after the acquisition of Disputada activity from the Ujina open have already begun to be pit to Rosario to offset falling realised.
While continuing to look ore grades will be completed for growth through exploration in the second quarter of 2004. and development of greenfield projects, and remaining open With this, Anglo is well placed to opportunities for further to benefit from the upturn in acquisitions, the immediate focus the copper price as the global is on unlocking further value at economy recovers.
existing operations and moving forward on a number of exciting brownfield projects already identified at Los Bronces, El Soldado and Chagres.
PROFILE in 12 countries altogether in AT ATTR TRIBU UT TA AB BLE COPPE LE COPPER, N R, NICK CKE EL L JORGE BETZHOLD, South America and Africa.
AN AND Z D ZINC PR C PROD ODUCTI TION ON CHILE This work experience has been 000 tonnes When he left the Universidad fide complemented by studies in 700 Chile in late 1981 armed with a Geostatistics to MSc level Geology degree, Jorge Betzhold at the School of Mines of Paris 600 deliberately targeted Anglo and he has been through the American in his sights because Management Development big, international companies Programme at Stellenbosch 500 were likely to provide greater University in South Africa.
opportunities for my 400 professional development.
Now back in his native Chile, Jorge is looking forward to 300 This certainly has turned out playing his part in growing to be the case for Jorge, who Anglo Base Metals: We are 200 has progressed from being an now a major player in copper exploration geologist to his and, personally, I would like to 100 present position as vice president see us become bigger in nickel mineral resources for Anglo and niobium, too, with good Base Metals South America and mineral deposits managed 0 a member of the Management with a culture of operating 98 99 00 01 02 03 Committee of Anglo Chile.
excellence, accountability, Jorge has been involved transparency, continuous Copper in projects and operations improvement and innovation.
Zinc Nickel KCM disposal 04 Across six continents Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 TARMAC TAKES THE Another unusual component HIGH ROAD of the M6 toll road has been Tarmac has played a major part in the new equipment designed the construction of the UKs first to construct a water channel toll motorway, the Birmingham between carriageways.
The road needed to be swift so that has been designed to relieve installation of the street lighting one of Britains worst motoring and central reservations could headaches: negotiating the M6 immediately follow.
The new around the north of Birmingham.
machinery enabled the job to be done in around a third of Tarmac has supplied and laid the time it would have taken all surfacing materials over with traditional equipment.
500,000 tonnes of asphalt for two sections of the motorway.
The motorway opened in December 2003, ahead of Drivers on the new M6 toll road schedule.
PROFILE The performance targets set by may never know that beneath GALINA SAUTKINA, Neusiedler have seen increased their tyres lie deceptions, Left: Tarmacs Masterpave being RUSSIA responsibilities for Galina, romance, handsome heroes and laid on the recently opened Galina Sautkina, 29, grew up whose departments reports heroines in distress!
Defective Birmingham Northern Relief Road, in Syktyvkar, 1,200 kilometres are routinely requested by the copies of Mills & Boon novels are Britains first toll motorway.
Galina says, This processed before finding their graduating from Syktyvkar appreciation of what my strong way into Tarmacs Masterpave Right: Galina Sautkina about University, she completed a two team does and the dynamic mixture.
Using paper fibre to set off at minus 14C year course in Economics at the spirit of the company makes improves bitumen absorption, for the plant at Neusiedler University of Maine in the USA.
Syktyvkar a great place to resulting in a stronger, longer Syktyvkar in northern Russia.
Galina started her career at the work and gives me a lot of lasting surface.
mill in 1997 as an assistant confidence in the future.
to the directors and now heads the International Reporting and Controlling Department.
SYKTYVKAR fide BEERS CREATES ONE OF RUSSIAS BEST A GLITTERING Neusiedler Syktyvkars mill is CONSUMER BRAND based near the city of Syktyvkar The name fide Beers has been in the Komi Republic.
The mill synonymous with diamonds for opened in the Brezhnev era more than a century but it is in 1969 and began to earn a only recently that a customer reputation as one of the besthas been able to buy jewellery managed domestic companies from an outlet bearing this in its industry, which was to name.
With the formation of the lead to further investment by fide Beers-Louis Vuitton Met the Soviet authorities.
Hennessy LVMH joint venture in 2001, a retail business A substantial capital investment under the management of programme has continued LVMH was born.
under Neusiedler, focusing on modernising and increasing The first fide Beers LV store capacity in such relatively opened in Londons West End high margin areas as office in December 2002.
This was communication papers followed in September 2003 360,000 tonnes per annum by the establishment of of mainly A3 and A4 fide Beers LV outlets in three papers, kraft liner board major stores in Japans capital, 190,000 tonnes and Tokyo.
fide Beers LV plans to open newsprint 180,000 tonnes.
the doors of its flagship store, on New Yorks 5th Avenue, Syktyvkar is now Russias no.
2 in the second half of this year.
in office paper and exports about half its range.
Its top liner board Bottom left: One of fide Beers LVs used in corrugated packaging Tokyo outlets which opened in enjoys a 55% market share, September 2003. its kraft liner has a 20% share, while it holds about 12% of the domestic market for newsprint.
Top left: Syktyvkar was rated as one of Russias best companies in 2003.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Across six continents 05 CHINAS CENTURY ANGLO AMERICANS SALES OF PLATINUM AND GOLD AND fide BEERS SALES OF DIAMONDS INTO CHINAS BOOMING ECONOMY ARE CURRENTLY VALUED AT AROUND $1 BILLION 06 Chinas century Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 hina, by almost any measure, continues to show a clean set of C heels to the rest of the worlds major economies.
Real GDP growth in 2003 was 9.1% and according to latest consensus forecasts is likely to slow only moderately to 8.3% in 2004 and 7.7% in 2005.
In 2003, its industrial production growth leapt 17%, while the western world merely stuttered along at 1.5%.
This nation of 1.3 billion people attracted $53 billion in foreign direct investment in 2003.
It also increased automobile production by a third to 4.5 million vehicles.
Intel, the worlds biggest computer chip maker, expects China to surpass the United States as the top consumer of PCs by 2010.
Anglo American is a key supplier of products to help satisfy Chinas seemingly inexhaustible appetite for commodities.
Platinum group metals PGMs are the Groups major export to the country and are used mainly in jewellery manufacture and autocatalysts.
In the case of platinum itself, Anglo Platinum supplies nearly 40% of world total supply of just over 6 million ounces and, despite Chinese platinum jewellery demand dropping by 13% in 2003, this sector accounted for around 1.2 million ounces, still the world leader, after overtaking Japan in 2000.
Elsewhere in the jewellery sector, Chinese market share of gold and diamonds is set to increase as the countrys middle class continues to grow and the government relaxes its regulatory grip on the market.
Anglo American is well positioned to supply other commodities, such as base metals and packaging, to the Asian giant.
In copper, for example, Anglo has now attained the critical mass to take advantage of a situation which, in two to three years time, is likely to see 25% of world copper production making its way to China.
In addition, Tarmac is developing a quarry to supply asphalting materials to Shanghais burgeoning construction industry, and Anglos wholly owned mining and drillingservices supplier Boart Longyear already has a plant in the country.
Anglo is also looking to become a major supplier of iron ore to an economy that has doubled steel output in the past five years and to which, in 2003, exports of iron ore outstripped shipments to Japan for the first time.
Left: The place where fashions start: Shanghai is Chinas commercial capital and reflects the latest in style.
Top right: In Guangdong province, Shi Jing is a major customer of Anglos Paper and Packaging subsidiary Frantschach, which plans to produce around 60 million industrial sacks for south east Chinas booming construction industry in 2004.
Bottom right: A prospective buyer admires the platinum jewellery displays in a downtown Shanghai department store.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Chinas century 07 NEXT BIG THINKING INNOVATION IS ONE OF ANGLO AMERICANS MOST PRECIOUS NATURAL RESOURCES 08 New products and new ideas Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 ne of Anglo Americans strengths is its ideas to help manage tasks more effectively.
At the business unit level, noteworthy exceptional technical knowledge base, Sharing information between operations, initiatives include: Mondis Strategic Owith leading-edge expertise across business units and the centre breaking Innovation Programme.
This web-based eight product-based business units spanning down the silos has been instrumental in programme aims to foster a culture of more than 60 countries and underpinned, finding new ways to do things better.
innovation, gain competitive advantage and at the centre, by formidable in-house develop ideas into concrete business cases technological capacity.
This resource has been Following on a Group-wide knowledge that can be taken forward to the investment further leveraged through enduring business sharing seminar in May 2003, a Knowledge stage.
Tarmac has held the first of what partnerships and joint ventures, a deliberate Sharing Forum was established with will be regular innovation workshops and policy of fostering the empowerment of local representatives from the business units dedicated teams are in place to progress a managements, and through moving people and the corporate offices.
The dissemination number of ideas coming out of this.
Anglo across both divisions and geographies.
of information across the Group will be Base Metals is giving tangible recognition further enhanced when the Enterprise to the value of innovation by presenting an The mining and natural resource industry is an Information Portal, an IT platform that annual Innovation Award, now in its third extraordinarily competitive one and to extract will link the entire Group, is rolled out later year, which aims to promote creativity, full value from all Anglos businesses there this year.
Also at the Group level, the initiative and improvement throughout has to be an improvement in knowledge Technical Directors Office is driving the its operations.
Over the past few years all business Energy Efficiency Project, which aims units have responded to this challenge, to co-ordinate input from all parts of the Below: Chemist Manneka Mosisili carries moving away from the traditional top-down Group with the aim of developing technical out the dilution of a metallurgical solution management approach and encouraging every solutions to increase efficiency and, using a micro-pipette at the Anglo American employee to come forward with their own therefore, competitiveness.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 New products and new ideas 09 NEW ANGLES, FRESH APPROACHES AND MORE CREATIVE WAYS OF WORKING PAST, PRESENT Six DTC clients were objectively AND FUTURE selected to participate in the fide Beers, through its sales and programme, together with their marketing arm The Diamond retailer partners.
The programme Trading Company DTC, is became an overnight success.
constantly seeking new ways Within a few weeks of the to grow consumer demand for launch, sales of Trilogy products diamonds.
In 2000, DTC had reached over $50 million and announced its Supplier of Choice are now estimated at over half a strategy, designed to encourage billion dollars.
efficient and value-adding distribution of diamonds.
Consumer and trade confidence is returning to the Japanese diamond One example of this success story market.
For the first time in over is Japan.
Diamonds had typically a decade, sales outperformed come to be perceived as outward GDP, growing by 6% last year.
symbols of wealth and status, At least part of this growth is which, in the face of economic attributable to the success of recession, had become less the Supplier of Choice philosophy relevant, or justifiable.
which has been embraced by so many within the trade and which DTC, therefore, launched a new has helped turn Japan into a campaign, called Trilogy, to growth market for the future.
demonstrate that diamonds can also reflect a womans radiance Below: The Diamond Trading or Kagayaki.
Trilogy jewellery, Companys recently launched containing three diamonds, range of Trilogy rings is helping celebrates past, present and to increase non-bridal jewellery future in one stunning piece.
sales in Japan, the second biggest diamond jewellery market after the USA.
READY WHEN YOU ARE The meal tastes better As a global provider of packaging as the steam cooking process solutions, Frantschach is a ensures that the taste of all leading player in several the ingredients and seasoning European markets.
The company is sealed in and thus better acquired flexible-packaging plants preserved than in conventional in Austria, Poland and Hungary boiling or roasting.
in 2000, putting Frantschach in a strong position with regard NeoCrisp packaging makes it to stand-up pouches and flexible possible to prepare fast-food packaging solutions based on products such as spring rolls and film paper and laminates.
These pizzas in the microwave without have been supplemented by compromising on crispness.
the acquisitions of Nord-West Verpackung, a major German Right: Mondi is a regional producer of consumer bags: leader in several types of Wheatley Packaging, UK market packaging, with businesses leader in frozen-food packaging: stretching across Europe from and the recent majority stake Ireland to Poland.
Featured in Danish company Neoplex, are deep-frozen products that which is no.
1 in northern make use of Frantschachs Europe in flexible packaging flexible packaging.
NeoSteam is a new flexible solution that makes it possible to steam deep-frozen ready meals, vegetables, pasta, rice and fish directly in the microwave, saving time in preparation and tidying.
10 New products and new ideas Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 ANGLOS INNOVATION At Lisheen Mine, Ireland, SUPERHIGHWAY management has initiated a In its quest to develop breakscheme called Rewarding through innovation and Innovative Ideas.
Employees substantial profit improvements, are able to make suggestions Mondi has implemented its on ways to improve safety, Strategic Innovation Programme productivity, health, cost, SIP to source profitable growth environment and morale.
Each opportunities and drive them suggestion will be considered through to execution.
by a review team and, if implemented, the employee The backbone of the SIP is the will receive a financial reward.
Innovation Zone, a web-based system that allows Mondis One idea that is now in employees from different practical use is the installation countries and operations to share of green fluorescent globes ideas about cost savings and above the eyewash safety new market opportunities.
The green light makes will be evaluated based on their the units stand out from other PROFILE workshops.
Angela is market potential and strategic equipment and is easily identified ANGELA WALKER, challenging front-line employees fit within Mondi.
by a person who may have UK to step into the customers chemicals in his her eyes.
Angela Walker, Tarmacs shoes and identify areas The SIP provides each stakeholder Another is using a supermarket marketing director, believes that in their daily work that could with the opportunity to shape trolley-locking mechanism to a focus on customer care will benefit from improvement.
The smallest idea control the movement of power drive customer loyalty, employee The initiative, which is called could be the spark that leads to tools and ladders.
commitment and, ultimately, Voice of the Customer, the creation of significant value improve shareholder returns.
encourages employees to and even tiny cost savings could recommend and be responsible have a big impact if leveraged The companys ultimate goal for implementing solutions.
across Mondi, says chairman is to be the customers first and CEO David Hathorn.
and only choice and it is This initiative provides an working towards achieving this opportunity for employees to Left: Mondi Europe now has a aim by implementing robust take a lead role in improving web portal that provides the measurements of customer our business, coming up with opportunity for all its employees satisfaction, imposing some practical solutions that they to share ideas about cost savings top-down service targets and can start using immediately, and new market opportunities.
introducing innovative internal explains Angela.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 New products and new ideas 11 ANGLO AMERICANS APPROACH TO ITS WIDER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES SAFETY The benefits are apparent, and LOST TIME INJURY AND F D FATAL INJURY FR Y FREQUENCY RATES ACCIDENTS STILL ON we remain committed to the Per 200,000 manhours A DOWNWARD TREND OTTO programme zero tolerance Safety remains a key focus of towards unsafe working practices LTIFR FIFR risk management efforts across and target zero for work-related 2.5 0.10 the Group.
We still, however, have Review we described our a long way to go.
2.0 0.08 leadership training, active dissemination of information Sadly, in 2003 there were 1.5 0.06 and guidance on safety risk 44 deaths in our managed management, the setting of clear operations.
This represents three 1.0 0.04 high standards and encouraging fewer fatalities than in 2002 safer workplace behaviour.
and a 10% reduction in the fatal 0.02 0.5 injury frequency rate FIFR.
We have reduced our lost time 0.0 0.00 injury frequency rate LTIFR by 00 01 02 03 04 a further 26%, in line with our target.
The trend in reducing LTIFR including restricted work cases injuries is encouraging, in that LTIFR excluding restricted work cases we have achieved a 58% FIFR improvement over the past three years.
LAUNCH OF THE SEAT All new operations or major METHODOLOGY expansions within the Group ANGLO LAUNCHES LEADINGundertake some form of Social EDGE COMMUNITY Impact Assessment.
The SEAT MANAGEMENT APPROACH process is designed to enable Improving the management mature operations to understand of social issues needs new skills.
their social and economic That is why Anglo American has impacts better and, thereby, to unveiled a new toolbox to enable improve their management and operations to meet these new performance.
Called the SEAT 22 tools intended to guide Socio-Economic Assessment operations in how to select Toolbox methodology, it brings and engage with key local together examples of good work stakeholders: identify their positive from within the Group and melds and negative impacts: develop them with international best partnerships for tackling key practice.
It was piloted at three issues: improve their community diverse Anglo operations: Mondi investment programmes: assess PROFILE Performance highlights in 2003 Forests Richmond business unit the state of local skills: use local BEN MAGARA, include ISO 14001 certification, in South Africa: Base Metals procurement creatively: and SOUTH AFRICA a 71% reduction in lost time Catalo niobium mine in Brazil develop a social dimension Anglo Coal South Africas New injuries since 2001, a 60% and Anglo Coal Australias to long term closure planning.
Denmark colliery has achieved productivity improvement with German Creek mine.
a remarkable turnaround in its a corresponding improvement safety record, coal qualities, in coal quality, and return on COR CORP PORA ORATE S TE SO OCIAL I CIAL INVE NVESTM STME EN NT T 2003 2003 productivity, customer relations, capital employed up from 24.7% % 3 4 organisational culture and return in 2001 to 43.2% in 2003.
5 on capital employed through 32 9 a focused strategic process Anglo American chairman involving mine management, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart notes: employees and trade unions.
I have been using New Denmark 22 as an example of how team The energy and enthusiasm effort, creativity and discipline, of general manager Ben Magara which deliver results in safety, 25 and his team have cascaded health and environmental to every level and this revival performance, also deliver results has been personified in two in other areas.
mascots, Smarty Safety Must Always Relate To Yourself Community development Health and Tsoseletso a Sotho word Education and youth Arts, culture and heritage meaning revival.
Other Environment Housing 12 Safety, health and environment Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 & corporate social responsibility GLOBAL COMMUNITY SPEND Engineers Without Borders and In 2003, Anglo American and Bees for Development.
Anglo its subsidiaries contributed some American also supported a major $38.3 million 1.5% of pre-tax exhibition of British archaeology profit to charitable causes and at the British Museum, the Kew to community social investment.
Gardens Millennium Seedbank This marked an increase from project and the refurbishment $28.8 million in 2002.
The project at St Martin in the Fields.
increase was attributable in part to exchange rate factors, Right: In Australia, Anglo Coal especially the strength of the has developed cultural heritage South African rand.
management plans with Aboriginal people.
Here, at Moranbah North, The Anglo American Chairmans a scarred tree a fast-diminishing Fund was voted top in 2003 as aspect of Aboriginal cultural the foremost corporate social heritage is measured as part investment vehicle in a survey of a field survey to determine of South African businesses the location of artefacts in the and NGOs.
At a UK corporate collierys lease area.
level, the Company gave priority to projects designed to support capacity building and sustainable livelihoods in developing countries, including through Sightsavers International, CARE, BookAid, WORKING TOGETHER adherence to drugs is 90% TO COMBAT HIV AIDS higher than in many inner-city Lindsay Knight, a consultant to programmes in the USA.
UNAIDS, is writing a best-practice Patients health is undoubtedly case study on access to treatment improving: across the whole in the workplace.
In the study she programme, 94% of patients says the following: on ART remain in productive full-time employment.
Anglo American was among the first companies in southern Africa Anglo American is also to recognise that the HIV AIDS contributing to the national epidemic could pose a major fight against the epidemic.
Its threat to its operations.
By the collaborators in this initiative late 1980s, the company had include the Global Fund to fight established a formal HIV AIDS AIDS, TB and Malaria: and the workplace policy and programme.
South African government, which has finally agreed to provide In August 2002, Anglos board ART to all who need it.
decided that anti-retroviral therapy ART would be provided free to Such partnerships between the any of the Companys 130,000 private and public sectors are now employees that would benefit seen to be essential in overcoming from the drugs.
the impact of the worlds worst epidemic to date.
Anglos move is recognised as a major step in fighting the epidemic Left: Sister Mamojaki Suping and as setting an example to the plays a key role in Johannesburg whole business sector.
By the in providing HIV counselling end of 2003, just over 1,000 of and testing for members of staff, Anglo Americans HIV positive and in administering ART to employees were receiving ART.
those HIV positive employees who have progressed to AIDS.
Anglo is providing a rigorously managed programme through AngloGolds wholly owned subsidiary, Aurum Health Research.
Patient-reported Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Safety, health and environment 13 & corporate social responsibility A WIDEANGLED VIEW SIR MARK MOODY-STUART JOINED THE ANGLO AMERICAN PLC BOARD IN JULY 2002 AND TOOK OVER THE CHAIRMANSHIP IN DECEMBER 2002.
HERE HE RESPONDS TO QUESTIONS ABOUT HIS FIRST YEARS TENURE.
14 Chairmans statement Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Q: What do you regard as the Companys She brings very pertinent experience of should be a rebalancing of ownership in the most significant achievements of 2003?
Latin America and of the metals sector and economy.
We have been pioneers in black is also the first woman to be elected to the economic empowerment deals and I am A: Overall, Anglos operations did well to Anglo American plc board.
also pleased with the substantial growth, produce a very solid set of results in the face R3.5 billion in 2003, in procurement from of difficult currency movements.
Strategically, Q: What is the new Bonus Share Plan black owned businesses.
Our Zimele small I would suggest securing final approval for that is being proposed?
business development unit is invested the acquisition of a controlling stake in Kumba in 30 growing companies, providing over as the most significant achievement.
This A: The BSP will strengthen the linkage of 2,000 direct jobs.
has been a long term objective.
Iron ore rewards to performance.
The new plan will will strengthen the balance of our portfolio require executive directors to invest a greater I should note too in southern Africa the and our position has been achieved at a proportion of their remuneration in shares up consistent courage and skill of our managers reasonable cost to shareholders.
front, thereby better aligning their interests in Zimbabwe and also the inauguration during with those of shareholders.
Awards under 2003 of our Skorpion zinc mine.
This will In the non-financial arena I would identify the BSP will be made annually and will account for some 4% of Namibias GDP both the provision of anti-retroviral therapy consist of three elements: a cash element, at full production.
to HIV positive staff and the introduction a Bonus Share element and an Enhancement of the Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox Share element.
These bonus awards will Q: But the Extractive Industries Review, SEAT.
As far as I am aware, SEAT is a unique not be pensionable.
A resolution seeking in which you participated, has produced initiative which will enable our operations approval for the BSP and authorising the a negative assessment of the impact of to become more professional and strategic directors to implement it in the UK and other the mining sector.
in their interactions with communities.
countries where we operate will be proposed at the AGM.
A letter from the chairman A: I was disappointed by Dr Salims report.
Q: But clearly there are things with which of the Remuneration Committee explaining It is very much a personal appreciation, but you are not satisfied.
Where will the the terms of the BSP is being sent to I think it suffers from having taken very board be looking for the most significant all shareholders.
little input from governments and relied improvement in performances in 2004?
excessively on the more radical and absolutist Q: Anglo has expanded its interests in end of the NGO movement.
It recommends A: We have made remarkable strides Latin America.
How do you see prospects that the World Bank should remain involved in improving the Groups overall safety in that continent?
But it then adds so many performance over the last five years.
caveats that its recommendations would Nonetheless, the board remains determined A: Over the last two years we have seen reduce the Banks involvement and, thereby, to see further reductions in fatalities.
My work start on expansions at our Cerrejn coal diminish the investment going to some of the colleagues and I visited New Denmark colliery operation in Colombia of which Anglo owns a poorest countries for which the responsible in South Africa in October and there we saw third, Collahuasi in Chile a world class copper exploitation of resources is their best route what can be achieved in embedding a safety operation, of which Anglo owns 44%, our out of poverty.
I do not take lightly the culture through strong and focused leadership.
phosphates operation in Brazil Copebrs, examples of how resource projects have Ben Magara, the colliery manager, has the commissioning of Loma fide Nquel in fed corruption or conflict.
But, properly produced substantial safety advances coupled Venezuela and, above all, the acquisition understood, these are examples of a poor with performance improvements in almost all of the Disputada now known as Minera Sur governance curse rather than a resource areas.
Time and again we see that teamwork, Andes assets in Chile.
Anglo American has been prominent a real sense of shared objectives amongst in supporting the Extractive Industries the workforce, and the operating disciplines I visited almost all of our operations in Transparency Initiative which aims to tackle needed to deliver safe performance, lead Latin America during 2003.
The continent is the misuse of revenues generated by the to overall improvement of performance.
The mining industry, as a long term Our challenge is to ensure that the lessons Chile continues to show the maturity of its investor, has an interest in good governance.
of operations like New Denmark are learned democracy and institutions and I have been We want to see the positive development more widely.
impressed by President Lula da Silvas experiences of Chile, Botswana, South Africa emphasis in Brazil on macro-economic and Oman or indeed, historically, Canada Q: During 2003 there has been a renewed stability and on welcoming foreign direct and Australia shared more widely.
How does investment a point which he particularly Anglo measure against the Higgs Report?
emphasised when he opened Copebrs Q: Finally, how do you rate Anglos expansion project.
A: Markets work most efficiently where there is confidence.
Clearly, events over the Q: Does Anglo have a disproportionate A: We are making good progress.
I note last two years on both sides of the Atlantic exposure to southern Africa?
What about that one of the biggest corporate socially provide examples of how poor governance, continuing investor concern?
responsible investment houses recently or unhealthy dominance of strategy by described us as being a challenger for sector an individual or clique, have resulted in A: We remain committed to South Africa leadership in relation to corporate social shareholders losing a lot of money.
Society and believe that this years celebrations responsibility.
We are doing leading-edge is entitled to see how such outcomes of the transition to democracy will highlight work in relation to HIV AIDS, local business can best be prevented.
In general I think the real achievements of the past decade.
Of course there are problems in the region I have seen very thoughtful initiatives under not least the continuing turmoil in Zimbabwe way in areas like assessing our economic Anglo American has a strong team of nonand HIV AIDS.
But South Africa itself has and developmental impacts, climate change executive directors and we have restructured strong institutions and a vibrant civil society.
Of course, there are still our board committees to meet the Higgs After the strongly negative investor reaction improvements to be made in some areas recommendations.
I am also delighted that to the leaking of an early draft of the Mining such as target setting and in embedding the board has been strengthened by the Empowerment Charter in 2002, the final best practice more widely but Anglo appointment of Dr Maria Silvia Bastos Marques.
requirements which have emerged are is moving strongly in the right direction.
It is in the interests of South Africas long term stability that there Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Chairmans statement 15 GETTING THE BEST OUT OF THIS BUSINESS TONY TRAHAR, CHIEF EXECUTIVE 16 Chief executives statement Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 SINCE 1999 he year 2003 was notable for a high A major milestone was the unwinding of degree of political and economic the fide Beers cross-holding in 2001, which WE HAVE T uncertainty.
The first half of the year unlocked significant value.
Since 1999, when GROWN OUR was impacted by the war in Iraq and political we listed on the London Stock Exchange, BUSINESSES tension in the Middle East, as well as the shareholder value has increased by $20 billion.
significant decline of the US dollar against SIGNIFICANTLY other world currencies.
This weakness in Anglo Americans strategy is to achieve THROUGH the dollar had a significant impact on the steady growth for its shareholders across the $12 BILLION OF Groups results and, in particular, on the cycle by investing in attractive acquisitions as translation of the Groups costs in South well as brownfield and greenfield projects that ACQUISITIONS Africa and Australia.
The second half of the add value to natural resources.
Our policy of AND PROJECTS year saw some recovery in demand for adding value and pursuing growth covers the commodities and significant rises in the dollar following key areas: prices for many of the Groups products, including platinum, gold, coal and base metals.
Acquisitions and organic growth We continue to pursue both acquisition and The Group benefited again from its wide organic-led growth across our business units.
spread of product and geographic diversity Anglo American has one of the strongest which together offer a natural hedge against pipelines of growth projects in the mining economic conditions in any particular sector.
and natural resource industry, spanning all For the first time since our listing in 1999, of our key products, with around $6 billion the biggest contributor to headline earnings of approved project capital expenditure was the Groups interest in fide Beers, which over the next five years.
We successfully reported record results from buoyant demand commissioned a number of projects during and rising prices in the diamond sector.
2003, including the $454 million Skorpion zinc project in Namibia which is currently Although turnover increased by 22% to operating at 75% of design capacity.
The $25 billion, the currency impacts referred timing of this project appears opportune with to above affected operating profits including zinc prices and demand starting to recover the translation of non-cash items such as from recent record lows.
The Ruzomberok goodwill amortisation and depreciation.
paper mill project in Slovakia was also However, it is pleasing that the Group was commissioned successfully, increasing able to report another year of strong cash the Groups paper production by some flow EBITDA, virtually unchanged at 100,000 tonnes.
Both of these projects $4,785 million.
Headline earnings declined 4% should contribute to earnings in 2004. to $1,694 million and earnings per share fell similarly by 5 cents to 120 cents per share.
Our strong track record in terms of acquisitions speaks for itself.
The EBITDA The Group continued to grow on a steady cash flow returns on our key acquisitions basis and during the year benefited from the of Minera Sur Andes, Cerrejn, Shell Coal, acquisition in late 2002 of the Minera Sur Syktyvkar and Tarmac range between Andes formerly Disputada copper operations 16% and 23%.
The acquisition of Minera in Chile, which materially exceeded the Sur Andes late in 2002 has proved acquisition forecast parameters, and the extremely attractive for the Group.
Not only acquisition of 66.6% of South Africas largest were the projected synergies exceeded iron ore producer, Kumba.
but the operations were earnings-accretive in their first year after acquisition at an Against a background of rising commodity average copper price of 81 US cents lb.
prices and an improving outlook for the Additional reserves totalling 368 million Groups products, the board has decided tonnes have also been identified during to increase the final dividend by 3 cents the year, thereby extending the life of this to 39 cents per share, resulting in a total large, low cost producer at a time when dividend of 54 cents per share for 2003, few large, new copper mines are coming up 6%.
STRATEGY Since our London listing in 1999, we Over the past five years we have achieved have achieved significant volume growth: a significant restructuring of Anglo American.
17% for platinum, 40% for diamonds, What was a highly complex group has been 67% for copper, 57% for nickel, 197% for transformed into a world class entity with zinc, 40% for coal, 152% for aggregates, an exceptional portfolio of high quality 166% for uncoated woodfree paper, 158% assets and a balanced geographic exposure.
for packaging papers and 346% for industrial During this period we have grown our sacks.
In terms of geographic exposure, we businesses significantly through $12 billion have made significant progress in transforming of acquisitions and projects and have made Anglo Americans asset base, with 30% of disposals of $7 billion of non-core assets, our assets today in Europe, 40% in South thereby creating a focused business to Africa, 16% in the Americas and the balance deliver improved returns to our shareholders.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Chief executives statement 17 Improving the efficiency of our asset base Platinum PLATINUM We seek continuously to improve the operating Anglo Platinums long term objective is to $ oz 850 efficiency of our existing assets.
Our focus grow the market for platinum group metals on driving returns has produced significant and in tandem to expand output to meet this 800 results from Group-wide cost cutting demand.
In December 2003, the company 750 programmes.
We have consistently exceeded completed a detailed review of its expansion our targets and over the last two years have projects in light of the stronger than 700 achieved total cost savings and efficiency anticipated rand and weaker dollar.
As a result, improvements of just over $600 million.
Anglo Platinum has decided to slow down the 650 Management is very aware of the value development of certain of its projects but will 600 that can be created by optimising existing continue to utilise its outstanding ore reserves operations and is incentivised to achieve this.
in growing production to 2.9 million refined 550 platinum ounces by 2006.
In light of its Innovation funding requirements, on 16 February 2004 500 Jan 03 Jul 03 Dec 03 Improving the culture for innovation and Anglo Platinum announced a R4 billion entrepreneurialism remains a key driver of $570 million convertible preference share growth.
This includes a thoroughgoing review offer.
Anglo American will be subscribing for of employee communication and knowledge its pro rata share of the issue and continues GOLD sharing, enhanced by a strong central to believe in the fundamental long term $ oz 420 technical and research function for our attraction of the platinum business.
Comprehensive 400 programmes of innovation activity are now Gold under way in various business units, including In November, the Ghanaian government gave 380 Base Metals, Paper and Packaging, and its backing for AngloGolds bid to bring about Industrial Minerals.
These programmes seek a merger with Ashanti Goldfields.
The merger, 360 to empower individuals to put forward ideas which is expected to be completed in the first and facilitate their translation into practical half of 2004, will create one of the worlds 340 business improvements.
largest gold mining companies in terms of reserves and gold production.
Ashanti 320 GROWING OUR BUSINESS Goldfields has six operations spread across Finance the African continent, including the long life 300 Jan 03 Jul 03 Dec 03 Significant progress was made during the Obuasi mine, where $1 billion is estimated year in diversifying the Groups debt capability to be spent over its remaining life, including away from pure bank credit by the placement $570 million on the Obuasi Deeps project.
of euro and sterling denominated bonds.
COPPER Simultaneously, the debt-maturity profile In order to address the challenges of margin $ tonne 2,400 was extended materially.
We will continue to squeeze as a function of reducing ore explore opportunities to improve further the grades at some of its mines, declining global 2,200 depth and flexibility of our financing capability.
reserves and the weak dollar, AngloGold continues its focus on operational excellence, 2,000 Diamonds initiatives to increase reserves and The earnings contribution from our 45% downstream efforts to invigorate demand.
1,800 associate fide Beers increased by 19% to $386 million, and cash dividends received Coal 1,600 increased by 124% to $238 million.
In the thermal coal market, Anglo Coal intends to maximise and grow its exports 1,400 fide Beers has successfully implemented its from South Africa, South America and Supplier of Choice business model.
The export metallurgical coal 1,200 Jan 03 Jul 03 Dec 03 obtained approval from the European capability will be further enhanced by Commission in January 2003 for its Supplier pursuing opportunities in Australia as well of Choice customer strategy, the process of as in China and Russia.
reconfiguring its relationship with sightholders CASH FLOWS commenced.
The strategy of stimulating Major expansionary capital in 2004 will interest in diamonds as a luxury-goods include the Kriel South, Greenside and WERE BOOSTED BY category appears to be working well, with a Kleinkopje expansions in South Africa.
In STRONGER METAL number of sightholders and their downstream Australia, a feasibility study is under way PRICES IN THE SECOND trade partners financing advertising regarding the development of the remainder programmes, and diamond jewellery sales of the Dawson complex, which incorporates HALF OF THE YEAR appearing to successfully compete with, Moura and Theodore, while work continues if not outperform, other luxury-goods on several other projects.
Maintenance of this long term Cerrejn is expanding its operations to an strategy is expected to result in a sustainable annual output of 28 million tonnes of coal increase in rough diamond demand.
Although first-half production in Australia will be affected by a longwall fide Beers continues to drive a continuous disruption at Moranbah, Anglo Coal will improvement programme aimed at benefit from the recent strong price rises for optimising all aspects of the business both thermal and coking coal.
from production efficiencies through to marketing, and is focused on optimising availability of rough diamond supply from its own mines in anticipation of further increased demand in 2004.
18 Chief executives statement Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Base Metals Ferrous Metals & Industries DIAMONDS A major turnaround has been achieved Anglo American has for some time sought Million carats 45 in Base Metals.
The integration of Minera entry into the iron ore industry.
A major Sur Andes, which had its first full year development was the approval in September 43.9 of contribution in 2003, has provided critical by South Africas Competition Tribunal for 40 mass to our copper operations in Chile, and the Company to acquire shares in Kumba.
annual cost savings and synergies achieved In October, Anglo Americans shareholding 35 so far amount to $17 million.
Anglo American in Kumba increased to just over 35% and is now among the worlds top five producers as a consequence the company extended 31.45 30 of the metal, with an attributable production a mandatory cash offer to Kumbas of more than 700,000 tonnes a year.
In shareholders, resulting in Anglo Americans 25 September, the Skorpion mine and refinery stake increasing to 66.6%.
Kumba has opened in Namibia.
This is set to become one exciting expansion potential in iron ore 40% of the worlds lowest cost zinc producers through a number of projects in South Africa 20 as it ramps up to full production of 150,000 and Australia.
Having secured control of 99 00 01 02 03 tonnes per annum.
Exploration effort within Kumba, attention is now focused on meeting Base Metals will continue to focus on copper, the black economic empowerment BEE with lower emphasis on nickel and zinc, in requirements in South Africa and growing COAL pursuit of organic growth.
Million tonnes 105 Industrial Minerals In line with the strategy of disposing of Anglo Industrial Minerals continued to deliver non-core assets, the remaining shareholding 85 a strong performance, through a broad in Li & Fung was sold for $269 million.
87 spread of businesses, mainly in the UK and The majority of our remaining stake in continental Europe.
The years highlights FirstRand was sold for $176 million, with the 65 included acquisitions in the UK, France, Spain, small residual amount disposed of in January 62 Germany and the Czech Republic.
Tarmac is 2004. now the largest aggregates producer in the 45 Czech Republic, and is well placed to benefit SAFETY AND HEALTH from the countrys forthcoming entry into the Further progress has been made in improving 40% EU.
In the UK, the $173 million cement plant the safety and health environment for 25 at Buxton is undergoing final commissioning employees, with Anglo Americans lost time 99 00 01 02 03 trials and is expected to be in full production injury frequency rate LTIFR reflecting a 58% in the second quarter of 2004.
In Brazil, the improvement over three years, including a new phosphate fertilizer plant at Gois was 26% improvement in 2003.
I am, however, COPPER completed during the year, $19 million under disappointed by our failure to significantly 000 tonnes 800 its budgeted cost of $147 million, and is reduce fatalities compared with 2002.
We operating at full capacity.
In China, Tarmac continue to stress the paramount importance is developing a quarry 140 kilometres from of safety throughout our operations with 600 Shanghai.
The quarry is the nearest known single-minded determination.
709 reserve of top quality asphalting aggregates to Chinas booming commercial capital.
Good progress has been made in rolling out 400 424 anti-retroviral therapy to employees with Paper and Packaging AIDS.
Over 1,000 employees were receiving Anglo Paper and Packaging continued treatment as of the end of 2003 and the 200 to develop and expand its European and preliminary results are very encouraging.
Mondi Packaging Anglo American has established an ambitious 67% saw significant transaction-led growth partnership with the NGO loveLife: the Global 0 through the acquisition announced in Fund to fight AIDS, TB and Malaria: the Nelson 99 00 01 02 03 December last year of the Austrian Mandela Foundation: and the Henry J. Kaiser KCM disposal Bauernfeind Group, a corrugated paper Foundation to help primary health care clinics and packaging business with extensive build capacity to deliver improved HIV AIDS UNCOATED WOODFREE PAPER European operations.
Frantschach has entered prevention and care services.
This public- 000 tonnes the North American industrial sack market private partnership is the first step in the with the acquisition of the Copamex sack process of building an AIDS treatment 1,600 1,490 business in Mexico subject to competition infrastructure in the communities associated 1,400 approval.
In South Africa, the Richards Bay with our operations.
1,200 pulp mill expansion is on track for 1,000 commissioning its first phase by the end of the first quarter in 2004, with completion 800 scheduled for just over a year later.
The WE HAVE ACHIEVED 600 560 Russian mill, Neusiedler Syktyvkar, is SIGNIFICANT TOPLINE 400 performing well and in line with the VOLUME GROWTH 200 acquisition forecast.
166% 0 99 00 01 02 03 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Chief executives statement 19 THE POSITIVE Above: Lazarus Zim, deputy CEO of Anglo American Corporation OUTLOOK FOR of South Africa, with Tony Trahar.
A NUMBER OF OUR COMMODITIES PROVIDES AN ENCOURAGING PLATFORM FOR THE YEAR AHEAD 20 Chief executives statement Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Encouragingly, there are signs that the US DOLLAR SA RAND Specific programmes to support the historical real decline in metal prices has EXCHANGE RATE 9.5 implementation of Good Citizenship: started to reverse.
Whether this represents Our Business Principles were introduced the start of a new long term cycle is a 9 during the year, with a particular focus on question that will not be answered for a few community issues, employee communication years.
At present, the cycle is not obviously 8.5 and enhancing our whistle-blowing facilities.
different from any other strong upturn 8 Three year rolling Community Engagement over the past 20 years, though much of the Plans are being produced by significant new optimism is based on Chinas current 7.5 operations, to improve interaction between industrial revolution, which in 2003 alone 7 the Company and the communities in which saw industrial production growth of 17%.
These will increasingly be China has become the worlds biggest 6.5 enriched by our new Socio-Economic consumer of iron ore, copper and various Rand 28% stronger Assessment Toolbox SEAT.
For three years running, 6 process will support our local managers in China has also been the primary market for Jan 03 Jul 03 Dec 03 engaging with local stakeholders: improving platinum jewellery, with compound annual Average exchange rate for the year management of any adverse impacts: and growth rates over that period of 35%.
1 US$ R7.55 working to maximise the local benefits of Diamond jewellery demand is also growing their presence in areas like local business strongly.
Moreover, Chinas embrace of the development and training.
A noteworthy free market is now being tracked, albeit event during the year was Anglo Americans at lower rates of growth, by India.
Between US DOLLAR AUSTRALIAN DOLLAR inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability them, the two countries look set to EXCHANGE RATE 2.00 Index for the first time.
provide sustained demand for a number 1.90 of commodities for years to come.
The BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT effect of this, combined with fewer 1.80 The legislative framework governing the discoveries and a more disciplined industry, 1.70 transformation of the South African mining is set to provide a positive backdrop to 1.60 industry is continuing to emerge.
We expect metals markets going forward.
1.50 promulgation of the Minerals and Petroleum 1.40 Resources Development Act later this year, OUTLOOK 1.30 together with the regulations governing its The positive outlook for a number of 1.20 application.
The process of conversion from our commodities provides an encouraging old order to new order mineral rights will then platform for the year ahead.
Improved 1.10 Australian dollar 17% stronger begin.
The South African government has economic growth in the USA and Japan, 1.00 confirmed that, regarding the Royalties Bill, combined with the strong industrial Jan 03 Jul 03 Dec 03 royalties will only become payable in 2009 performance of China, is encouraging.
After Average exchange rate for the year when the conversion process is complete.
two decades of generally flat or declining 1 US$ A$1.53 real prices for metals, despite a background In terms of black economic empowerment of steadily increasing demand, the backdrop BEE, the Group continues to make steady for commodities is now more positive than progress, having now recorded over $2 billion it has been for a number of years.
Although in major transactions and over $1.5 billion the potential for a further weakening of the THE CASH FLOW in procurement and small business promotion dollar remains a cause for concern, this is RETURNS ON OUR spend.
The Group is making good progress likely to be offset by rising dollar prices for KEY ACQUISITIONS towards complying with the Mining Charter our key commodities.
The Group offers a unique mix of geographic 16% AND 23% COMMODITIES and product diversity which insulates it TIME FOR A TURNAROUND?
from the volatility associated with singleThe past 20 years have been a difficult product cycles.
Our gold, platinum, diamond, time in the commodities business.
Steady coal, base and ferrous metals businesses price rises for 40 years since the end of are benefiting from recent price rises and World War II notably on the back of the should continue to enjoy steady growth.
rise of Japan and reconstruction in Germany, In addition, paper and packaging and industrial followed by the emergence of South Korea minerals are generating strong cash flows.
and later Brazil came to an end, and were The Group will also benefit from a number even reversed, from the early 1980s of new projects and recent acquisitions.
In part this was due to the end of On the basis of prevailing commodity prices the post-war reconstruction phase, combined and exchange rates, the Group should with an oversupply of a number of major achieve good growth in 2004. metals.
This resulted in certain commodities, such as copper and zinc, declining to real price levels last seen in the 1930s.
A J Trahar Chief executive Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Chief executives statement 21 PLATINUM GOLD DIAMONDS 15% 13% 19% 12% 10% 23% Contribution to: Contribution to: Contribution to: Operating profit before exceptionals Operating profit before exceptionals Operating profit before exceptionals Headline earnings Headline earnings Headline earnings $ million 2003 2002 $ million 2003 2002 $ million 2003 2002 EBITDA 673 926 EBITDA 642 747 EBITDA 638 594 Operating profit 433 802 Operating profit 326 463 Operating profit 562 541 Operating profit before Operating profit before Operating profit before exceptionals 447 802 exceptionals 369 463 exceptionals 562 541 Headline earnings 205 351 Headline earnings 167 205 Headline earnings 386 324 Anglo Platinums contribution to headline In 2003, a combination of stronger currencies In 2003, Anglo Americans share of fide Beers earnings dipped sharply to 12% from 2002s in most of AngloGolds operating regions, as operating profit was $21 million higher 20%, while operating profit was 46% lower well as inflation and lower ore grades, had at $562 million, while the contribution to at $433 million.
The adverse impact of a significant negative impact on AngloGolds Anglo Americans headline earnings was the firmer South African rand was only partly costs, margins and earnings.
Increased sales at higher prices compensated by improved average dollar partly offset by a 20% increase in the dollar and lower financing costs more than prices for platinum group metals PGMs gold price.
Headline earnings fell by 19% compensated for the negative impact of the and higher sales.
to $167 million, while operating profit was significant appreciation of the rand against 30% lower at $326 million.
Sales by The Diamond Trading The average realised prices of PGMs and declined by 5% to 5.6 million ounces following Company DTC, the marketing arm of nickel in dollars were slightly higher in 2003. the sale of Jerritt Canyon in the USA and lower fide Beers, were 7% higher at $5.52 billion.
Platinum and nickel moved upward, while ore grades at Morila in Mali.
Total cash costs Diamond stocks were reduced further by nearly palladium and rhodium declined.
Platinum, increased from $161 to $229 oz.
$700 million during the year and, for the at $696 oz, gained $152, with nickel moving second year running, operating cash flow upward from $3.03 to $4.07 lb.
Platinums AngloGold has a number of major capital of $1.6 billion was generated.
This enabled sister metals, palladium and rhodium, were projects in South Africa, which will yield some the group to reduce net interest-bearing both down, at $198 oz 2002: $329 oz and 12 million ounces of gold production over debt from $1.72 billion to $906 million and $527 oz 2002: $831 oz, respectively.
their lives, while future capital projects could to reduce net gearing to 15% 2002: 28%.
Potential During 2003, the Polokwane smelter was growth projects elsewhere include the Cuiab Overall, 2003 was a good year for the successfully commissioned, as were the new expansion in Brazil and the Sunrise Dam diamond industry, with further encouraging slag-cleaning furnace and the Anglo Platinum underground project and Boddington mine in growth in retail sales of diamond jewellery, Converting Process plant near Rustenburg.
Australia, which together could add a further up 6% in dollar terms.
There was strong Total platinum received at the smelters, 7 million ounces of gold production.
The growth in sales in the second half as the including platinum purchased from joint venture completion of the AngloGold-Ashanti merger world economy and consumer confidence partners, increased by 8%, while refined would pave the way for the exploitation of rebounded.
The USA, which accounts for over production rose by 2.5% to 2.3 million ounces.
Obuasi Deeps in Ghana, extending Obuasis 50% of world diamond jewellery sales, was life by some 20 years.
particularly strong, as were India, China and The robustness of the rand continues to have the UK.
Encouragingly, Japan also recorded a major impact on operating margins, cash Production in 2004 is expected to decrease growth for the first time in several years.
generation and the future funding of new to some 5.4 million ounces, following the sale projects.
In consequence, the expansion plan of Jerritt Canyon, the closure of Union Reefs The combined total production of fide Beers to raise platinum output from around 2 million in Australia and lower grades at Morila.
and its partners, Debswana and Namdeb, ounces a year to 3.5 million by the end of However, following the expected completion totalled 43.9 million carats 2002: 40.2 2006 has been slowed down, with a new of the Ashanti deal during April, AngloGold million carats.
The Combined Treatment target of 2.9 million ounces.
Notwithstanding is anticipating that production will increase Plant in Kimberley, South Africa, was fully this, the companys long term strategy to to some 6.6 million ounces.
Assuming commissioned during the year.
grow markets for PGMs, to expand production an exchange rate of R7.00 to the dollar, to meet that growing demand and to optimise AngloGold is expecting total unit cash fide Beers had a strong first sight in 2004, value in existing operations remains in place.
costs to rise to $238 oz and capital with rough diamond prices up by 3%.
expenditure to increase to $589 million.
Macro-economic indicators are positive for In 2004, Anglo Platinum plans to raise 2004 and there is growing evidence that platinum output to 2.45 million ounces.
Many of the economic factors which are the transformation of the diamond industry, The platinum price is expected to remain firm, negative for the US currency have been, stimulated by fide Beers Supplier of Choice supported by a continuing supply deficit.
conversely, incentives for investors to buy strategy, is helping to produce the desired The palladium price, despite firming demand, is gold.
It is expected that these factors results.
Greater investment by the trade in largely dependent on Russian supply patterns.
will remain in play in the year ahead, and marketing and branding is driving demand for there is good reason to expect gold price diamond jewellery and helping diamonds to strength to be maintained.
gain a larger share of the luxury-goods sector.
22 Operations review Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 COAL BASE METALS INDUSTRIAL MINERALS 11% 10% 11% 14% 12% 16% Contribution to: Contribution to: Contribution to: Operating profit before exceptionals Operating profit before exceptionals Operating profit before exceptionals Headline earnings Headline earnings Headline earnings $ million 2003 2002 $ million 2003 2002 $ million 2003 2002 EBITDA 505 571 EBITDA 569 330 EBITDA 557 468 Operating profit 333 427 Operating profit 78 82 Operating profit 325 277 Operating profit before Operating profit before Operating profit before exceptionals 333 427 exceptionals 286 133 exceptionals 325 277 Headline earnings 232 266 Headline earnings 206 69 Headline earnings 270 231 Anglo Coals operating profit was 22% down Headline earnings grew strongly to Headline earnings were 17% higher at at $333 million, mainly as a result of the $206 million from $69 million in 2002.
$270 million, with Tarmac contributing appreciation of the rand and Australian dollar, Operating profit before exceptionals $256 million, a rise of 20%.
Operating profit while headline earnings declined by 13% to increased from $133 million to $286 million.
also improved by 17% to $325 million.
Production increased by 8% to 87 million tonnes.
The average copper price increased from During 2003, Tarmac made ten acquisitions, 70.6 US cents lb to 80.7 US cents lb, thereby widening its asphalt and road Operating profit for South African-sourced coal nickel moved from 307 US cents lb to contracting interests in the UK, and bolstering fell by 46% to $133 million.
The effects of the 437 US cents lb, while zinc prices remained its aggregates businesses in France, Spain, rands 28% appreciation were partially offset quite flat at 37.6 US cents lb 2002: Germany and the Czech Republic.
In China, by production and sales increases, as well as 35.3 US cents lb.
Commodity price rises Tarmac is developing a quarry approximately by rigorous cost control.
Major expansionary were offset by dollar weakness against the 140 kilometres from Shanghai.
capital projects, including the Kriel South local currencies of many operations.
project and the Greenside and Kleinkopje In the UK, three new dry silo mortar plants expansions, are progressing to plan.
Attributable copper production rose from were constructed, underpinning Tarmacs 497,700 tonnes to 708,800 tonnes, with leadership position in the mortar market.
The Australian operations maintained operating Minera Sur Andes formerly Disputada The core aggregates businesses in the UK all profit at $130 million.
Collahuasis improved their profitability in a disappointing coal production rose by 4% to 26.1 million $654 million Rosario Project is on budget and market, while the cement business at Buxton tonnes, while attributable sales were 6% lower on schedule to enter production in mid 2004. had a satisfactory year.
Buxtons new plant at 26.4 million tonnes.
The longwall mines at should commence operation in the second Dartbrook and Moranbah had a good first six Attributable nickel output totalled 24,900 quarter of 2004.
In continental Europe, months, with record production, but technical tonnes 2002: 25,600 tonnes.
Codemins operating profit increased by 56%, reflecting problems slowed production in the second half production rose 7%, while Loma fide Nquel continuing strong market conditions in Spain of the year.
Drayton production was steady, attained design capacity, with output rising and a full year contribution from Mavike.
while both Moura and German Creek exceeded to 17,200 tonnes.
The $67 million Codemin II France suffered weak market conditions, previous performances.
Theodore commenced project to treat Barro Alto ore is scheduled while the businesses in eastern Europe moved production in September.
Grasstree remains to enter production in early 2005.
on schedule for start-up of production during production and sales were maintained.
Full production at Kayuga should be Namakwas output of zircon and rutile The Middle Eastern operations strongly reached in 2004.
A fall of ground in January products declined following a fire in October.
increased operating profit owing to buoyant 2004 at Moranbah North will reduce market conditions, while the Far East business production by some 10% compared with 2003, Attributable zinc output rose from 211,500 also had an improved year.
with effect on earnings in the first half of 2004. tonnes to 360,500 tonnes.
Hudson Bays zinc output rose 9% to a record 117,900 tonnes.
Copebrs operating profit increased by Operating profit at the South American Skorpion produced 47,400 tonnes and is 46% owing to continued strong demand for operations rose by 40% to $70 million.
In on target to achieve design throughput by fertilizers and higher prices.
The new plant Colombia, synergies achieved as a result of end 2004.
Lisheen achieved record output of at Gois is already operating at full capacity.
merging Cerrejn Zona Norte and Carbones 169,300 tonnes.
At Hudson Bay, the $276 del Cerrejn exceeded expectations.
The million 777 project was completed ahead of In the UK the challenge will be to improve operation is now being expanded from schedule and within budget.
Black Mountains margins in a highly competitive market while 22 million to 28 million tonnes per annum $110 million Deeps project is on budget and at least maintaining market share.
Carbones del Guasare in Venezuela scheduled to deliver first ore in late 2004. trading conditions are expected to continue in was hit by the national strike at the beginning Germany.
However, EU entry is expected to of 2003 and subsequently by problems in Although Chinese demand will have to lead to an improvement in demand in Poland the administration of the exchange controls remain very firm and OECD demand improve and the Czech Republic.
In Spain, demand imposed at that time.
markedly to sustain prices at their present should remain firm, but France may see some levels, nevertheless the outlook for base further weakening.
Brazilian fertilizer demand In 2004, average coal prices are expected to metals is more encouraging than at any time is expected to remain strong.
be significantly better than those in 2003. in the past five years.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Operations review 23 PAPER AND FERROUS METALS RESEARCH AND PACKAGING & INDUSTRIES EXPLORATION Anglo American invests significant effort 23% 7% and funds to ensure continuous improvement in the efficiency of current operations, and in researching and developing new technologies, 22% 6% to allow previously undeveloped orebodies to be exploited, or create new business opportunities.
These initiatives often involve in-house specialist expertise collaborating with external centres of excellence.
An example Contribution to: Contribution to: is a recent Geoscience development of a solidOperating profit before exceptionals Operating profit before exceptionals state electronics-based electro-magnetic Headline earnings Headline earnings receiver, which may have a significant impact $ million 2003 2002 $ million 2003 2002 on the exploration of massive sulphides.
EBITDA 976 909 EBITDA 441 415 Anglo American Research Laboratories Operating profit 656 649 Operating profit 208 264 have innovated hydrometallurgical recovery Operating profit before Operating profit before of copper from chalcopyrite ores, milling exceptionals 656 649 exceptionals 208 264 techniques to reduce the cost and improve the effectiveness of comminution, the Headline earnings 368 376 Headline earnings 107 126 application of electro-dynamic separation for Headline earnings were $368 million, Headline earnings were $107 million, fine materials, and utilising microwaves to a 2% decrease on 2002, while operating 2002: $126 million.
Operating profit was accelerate chemical reactions.
The Anglo profit of $656 million was marginally higher.
$56 million lower at $208 million, mainly Platinum Research Centre has made significant as a result of sharply reduced earnings from progress utilising advanced instrumentation Operating profit at Mondi Europe increased Tongaat-Hulett in a year when many operations and multi-variable control techniques with by 9% to $471 million in spite of weaker were affected by the strengthening rand.
robotic analysis to improve metal recoveries.
market conditions in both the packaging and office communications sectors.
In Slovakia, the In December, control was acquired of Kumba, Research work on applying paste-based $233 million expansion at the Ruzomberok pulp the worlds fifth largest iron ore producer, tailings disposal has received attention as and paper mill proceeded according to schedule.
with attractive growth prospects in South a water-saving initiative.
A pilot project Annual output will increase by 100,000 tonnes Africa and Australia.
In 2003, Kumba studying energy use across all businesses of paper in 2004 and 105,000 tonnes of pulp contributed $33 million to operating profit.
is under way to improve efficiencies by 2005.
Neusiedler Syktyvkar in Russia and reduce energy consumption, and and the La Rochette corrugated packaging In 2003, Scaws operating profit rose by consequently the impact of CO on the 2 plants in France and the UK have been $19 million to $70 million, which included environment.
fully integrated with the rest of the group.
a $21 million full year contribution from In February 2004, the Bauernfeind corrugated Moly-Cop.
In 2003, total Group cash expenditure on paper and packaging business was acquired, exploration was $105 million including thereby achieving a further step towards Highvelds operating profit was impacted $50 million by Base Metals, $11 million by attaining critical mass in European markets.
by the appreciating rand and fell by Anglo Platinum and $36 million by AngloGold.
Frantschach also acquired subject to $27 million to $11 million.
competition approval the sack business Base Metals exploration efforts focused of Mexican industrial packaging group Samancors contribution to operating profit on brownfields exploration around operations Copamex, providing the opportunity to reduced by $7 million to $41 million.
and high quality greenfield targets.
Drilling expand further into North America.
adjacent to the Chilean copper operations Boart Longyears operating profit was intersected several potential new resources.
In South Africa, in difficult trading conditions, $2 million higher at $33 million.
Copper was also targeted in Brazil, Mexico, operating profits reduced by only 14% to Peru, Philippines and Sweden.
The stronger rand resulted in Tongaat-Huletts operating profit fell to sulphide programme in northern Canada increasing pressure on domestic prices and $10million from $96 million.
This severe had early success, with nickel-copperlower export margins.
However, improved downturn arose from a combination of factors platinum group elements drill intersections operating efficiencies and higher outputs, that included a firming rand, lower world at West Raglan in Quebec.
Zinc exploration as well as initiatives to sustain market share sugar and aluminium prices and substantially continued in India and Australia and and grow volumes, compensated for much higher maize input costs.
around Black Mountain South Africa, of the negative impact of prices.
The Richards Flin Flon Canada, Lisheen Ireland and Bay mill modernisation and expansion is Terra turned an operating loss of $3 million into Skorpion Namibia operations.
progressing well, with completion due in an attributable operating profit of $14 million.
The upgrade of Merebanks Anglo Platinums exploration effort in South PM1 machine is proceeding, with the plan The outlook for 2004 is cautiously optimistic, Africa was directly linked to its commitment to produce 250,000 tonnes per year of with the possibility of higher ferrous metal to increase production.
Internationally, uncoated woodfree papers from late 2005. prices.
Scaw and Highveld are likely to Anglo Platinums partners have progressed benefit from an improved domestic market.
several programmes in Canada and Russia.
Mondi will continue to focus on operating Profitability should be restored to more efficiencies, capitalising on recent expansions normal levels at Tongaat-Hulett through AngloGolds exploration was focused around and extracting synergy benefits from the increasing aluminium volumes and more operations in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, integration of acquisitions.
General economic stable maize-procurement costs.
Attention Tanzania, Mali, Namibia, South Africa and the conditions are expected to remain weak, with is now being focused on reorganising the USA.
In addition, exploration was pursued in the dollars current low levels and a buoyant portfolio to improve shareholder returns.
highly prospective areas in Canada and Peru.
euro creating difficult trading conditions with margins flat at best.
24 Operations review Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 THE BUSINESS AN OVERVIEW EFFECTIVE 14 FEBRUARY 2004 3 PLATINUM GOLD DIAMONDS COAL BASE METALS INDUSTRIAL PAPER AND FERROUS MINERALS PACKAGING METALS & INDUSTRIES ANGLO ANGLOGOLD fide BEERS ANGLO COAL ANGLO BASE ANGLO ANGLO PAPER ANGLO PLATINUM 54.5% 45% 100% METALS INDUSTRIAL AND PACKAGING FERROUS 74.1% 100% MINERALS 100% 100% METALS & INDUSTRIES 100% SOUTH AFRICA SOUTH AFRICA SOUTH AFRICA SOUTH AFRICA COPPER AGGREGATES FIBRE SUPPLY FERROUS Rustenburg Section All 100% owned fide Beers Marine Bank 100% Collahuasi AND BUILDING Forests METALS including UG2 Exploration & Chile 44% MATERIALS South Africa Kumba South Ergo Eyesizwe Coal project Services 100% Tarmac Group UK 100% Africa and 11% Mantos Blancos 100% Great Noligwa 100% Australia 67% Finsch 100% Chile 100% SiyaQhubeka Goedehoop 100% Union Section Kopanang Tarmac France Forests Highveld Steel Koffiefontein Mantoverde 100% Greenside 100% France and South Africa South Africa Moab Khotsong 100% Chile 100% Belgium 100% 65% 80% Amandelbult Kleinkopje 100% Mponeng Kimberley Mines Los Bronces Section 100% Tarmac Central Waste paper Scaw Metals 100% Kriel 100% Chile 100% Savuka Europe Germany, South Africa Worldwide BafokengNamaqualand Landau 100% El Soldado Poland and Czech 100% 100% 1 Rasimone 100% Tau Lekoa Mines 100% Chile 100% Republic 100% New Denmark Woodchips Samancor Potgietersrust TauTona Cullinan formerly 100% Chagres Steetley Iberia South Africa South Africa Platinums 100% Premier 100% Chile 100% Spain 100% 100% 40% EAST AND New Vaal 100% Lebowa Platinum WEST AFRICA The Oaks 100% Palabora Tarmac Australian Mines 100% Richards Bay Coal PULP Geita Tanzania South Africa International Manganese 40% Venetia 100% Terminal 27% Richards Bay Modikwa Platinum 50% 29% Holdings Far East Zimbabwe Alloys South Africa Joint Venture 50% and Middle East Morila Mali 40% Quellaveco 100% BOTSWANA AUSTRALIA 100% 100% Kroondal pooling Peru 80% Debswana 50% Callide 100% Sadiola Mali 38% Columbus Frantschach and sharing Damtshaa, Stainless Steel Dartbrook 78% PHOSPHATE Czech Republic agreement Navachab Jwaneng, Orapa and NICKEL South Africa PRODUCTS 70% 50% Namibia 100% Letlhakane mines Drayton 88% Codemin 14% Copebrs Brazil Brazil 90% Waterval Smelter Yatela Mali 40% German Creek 73% GRAPHIC NAMIBIA including 70% Loma fide Nquel PAPER Namdeb 50% converting process NORTH INDUSTRIES Venezuela 91% Neusiedler Mining Area No.
1 Jellinbah East 23% project AMERICA Boart Longyear Austria, Hungary, Orange River Barro Alto Brazil 100% Cripple Creek Worldwide Moranbah North Slovakia, Russia, Mines, Elizabeth 100% & Victor USA 100% 88% Polokwane Smelter Israel 100% 2 Bay and Marine 67% Project 100% concessions Moura 51% ZINC LEAD Merebank South Tongaat-Hulett Rustenburg Base SOUTH Hudson Bay Africa 100% South Africa fide Beers Marine Theodore 51% Metals Refinery AMERICA Canada 100% 53% Namibia 85% Aylesford 100% Morro Velho COLOMBIA Black Mountain Newsprint UK Terra North Brazil 100% Precious Metals TANZANIA Cerrejn 33% South Africa 50% America and UK Refinery 100% Serra Grande Williamson 100% 49% Europapier Brazil 50% Diamonds 75% VENEZUELA Tailings Lisheen Ireland Europe 70% Hippo Valley Carbones del Treatment Project Cerro Vanguardia 100% Estates CANADA Guasare 25% 100% Argentina 93% Zimbabwe 49% PACKAGING Gamsberg South Snap Lake 100% Frantschach Twickenham Mine Africa 100% Amfarms AUSTRALIA Packaging Project 100% South Africa Sunrise Dam DIAMOND Skorpion Namibia Europe 70% 100% Pandora Joint 100% TRADING AND 100% Frantschach Venture Project MARKETING Union Reefs 100% 1 Swiecie 50% Various companies MINERAL Poland 61% Boddington 33% involved in the SANDS purchasing, selling Namakwa Sands Mondi Packaging 1 Commencement of GOLD OTHER and marketing of South Africa UK, France, the joint venture is Gold Fields 20.1% rough diamonds, 100% Ireland, Poland subject to certain including The 100% outstanding Western Areas Diamond Trading suspensive 18% NIOBIUM Corrugating paper Company 100% conditions.
Catalo Brazil South Africa 100% 100% INDUSTRIAL 2 Although AngloGold DIAMONDS Mondipak South holds a 66.7% interest in Cripple Companies Africa 100% Creek & Victor Gold manufacturing Cartonboard Mining Company synthetic diamonds South Africa Limited, it is and abrasive currently entitled 100% products 50% to receive 100% of the cash flow from the operation until 3 Operated by a loan, extended fide Beers, the to the joint venture Companys by AngloGold North independently America Inc. is paid.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 The business an overview 25 THE BOARD EXECUTIVE DAVID CHALLEN CBE DR MARIA SILVIA BASTOS MARQUES TONY TRAHAR MA, MBA BA, Ph.
D B. Comm, CA SA 60, is chairman of the Audit Committee and 47, is a member of the SHE Committee.
She 54, is chief executive and has been with a member of the Remuneration Committee.
is currently a partner of the corporate finance the Group since 1974.
He is chairman of the He is currently vice chairman of Citigroup consultancy MS & CR2 Finanas Corporativas Executive Committee Exco and a member of European Investment Bank and a nonLtda.
Prior to that she was president of the the Safety, Health and Environment SHE executive director of Amersham plc.
Brazilian Steel Institute from 2001 to 2002 Committee.
Tony Trahars other directorships Previously he was chairman of J. Henry and chief executive of Companhia Siderurgica include AngloGold, Anglo Platinum and Schroder & Co Limited, where he spent most Nacional from 1999 to 2002, where she DB Investments.
He is currently was also head of corporate centre from 1996 a member of the UKs Takeover Panel.
Maria Silvia has held non-executive BARRY DAVISON directorships in Petroleo Brasileiro SA, BA DR CHRIS FAY CBE Companhia Vale do Rio Doce and is currently 58, is a member of Exco, the SHE committee B. Sc, Ph.
D, FREng, FRSE a non-executive director of Companhia Souza and chairman of Anglo Platinum.
In 1986, 58, is a former chairman of Shell UK.
She also chaired he joined the board of Anglo American Chris Fay chairs the SHE Committee and is Galvasud, a joint venture between CSN and Corporation of South Africa Limited AAC.
a member of the Remuneration and Audit Thyssen-Krupp Stahl.
From 1993 to 1996, she He was chief executive of Anglo Platinum from Committees.
He is a non-executive director was secretary of finance for Rio fide Janeiro.
Barry was chairman of South of BAA plc and Stena International b. v. Africas Chamber of Mines in 2003.
He is and non-executive chairman of Expro NICKY OPPENHEIMER chairman of Ferrous Metals & Industries and International Group PLC and Tuscan Energy MA a director of Kumba, Nedcor and Samancor.
He is chairman of the 58, is a member of the Nomination British governments Advisory Committee Committee.
He joined the Group in 1968 TONY LEA on Business and the Environment.
and subsequently became an executive BA Hons director and a deputy chairman of AAC.
55, is finance director and has been with BOBBY GODSELL He became deputy chairman of fide Beers the Group since 1972.
He became a director MA Consolidated in 1985 and has been of Minorco in 1985.
Tony Lea is a member of 51, is a member of the SHE Committee and chairman of fide Beers since 1998.
Exco and chairs the Investment Committee.
has been with the Group since 1974.
He is He is also a director of DB Investments.
chief executive of AngloGold, a position he FRED PHASWANA has held since its formation in 1998.
He is the B. Comm, MA BILL NAIRN past president of South Africas Chamber of 59, is chairman of the Nomination Committee B. Sc Eng Mines and a former director of Standard Bank and a member of the Remuneration and 59, is group technical director and a Investment Corporation.
He is currently BP regional member of Exco and of the Investment and president: Africa and was previously a director SHE Committees.
He was appointed chief GRAN LINDAHL of BP Oil Benelux, an associate president executive and managing director of JCI in M. Sc, D. Sc, Ph.
D of BP Netherlands and chairman and chief 1994.
Bill Nairn joined AAC in 1997 when 58, is a member of the SHE Committee.
executive of BP Southern Africa.
His other he was appointed an executive director and, He is a non-executive director of DuPont, appointments include the South African in January 2000, he was appointed group IKEA and Sony and a co-chairman of Institute of International Affairs and the technical director of AAC.
He is chairman of the Alliance South African National Energy Association.
for Global Sustainability and is a former NON-EXECUTIVE special adviser to the UN Secretary-General.
PROFESSOR KAREL VAN MIERT SIR MARK MOODY-STUART KCMG He was president and chief executive officer Graduate in Diplomatic Sciences Ph.
D, MA, FGS of ABB from 1997 until the end of 2000.
62, is a member of the Audit and Nomination 63, was appointed a non-executive director Committees.
He is currently President of on 17 July 2002 and succeeded Julian Ogilvie ROB MARGETTS CBE Nyrenode University, Netherlands Business Thompson as non-executive chairman BA, FREng School, a member of the supervisory boards on 1 December 2002.
He also sits on the 57, is the senior independent non-executive of German utility RWE, Philips NV, Munich Re SHE and Nomination Committees.
He is a director, chairman of the Remuneration and Wolters-Kluwer.
He is also a member director of The Shell Transport and Trading Committee and a member of the Nomination of the advisory boards of Goldman Sachs, Company plc, HSBC Holdings plc and Committee.
He is the non-executive chairman Eli Lilly and Rabobank.
He was a member of Accenture Ltd. Sir Mark is a member of the of Legal & General Group Plc and BOC Group the European Parliament from 1979 to 1985 UN Secretary-Generals Advisory Council plc and was formerly vice chairman of ICI and a member of the European Commission for the Global Compact.
Rob Margetts is a governor at Imperial from 1989 until 1999.
College of Science, Technology and Medicine, SIR DAVID SCHOLEY CBE is chairman of the UK Natural Environment 68, is a member of the SHE and Nomination Research Council and a member of the Committees.
He is the chairman of Close UK Council for Science and Technology.
Brothers Group, a director of Vodafone Group and Chubb Corporation and an adviser to UBS.
He was formerly a non-executive director of the Bank of England and a governor of the British Broadcasting Corporation.
26 The Board Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Top row left to right Rob Margetts, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Dr Maria Silvia Bastos Marques, David Challen and Professor Karel Van Miert.
Middle row left to right Fred Phaswana, Nicky Oppenheimer, Bill Nairn, Tony Lea, Tony Trahar and Barry Davison.
Bottom row left to right Sir David Scholey, Dr Chris Fay, Gran Lindahl and Bobby Godsell.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 The Board 27 BUSINESS UNIT HEADS Left top to bottom Ralph Havenstein: Platinum Bobby Godsell: Gold Tony Redman: Coal Simon Thompson: Base Metals Right top to bottom Robbie Robertson: Industrial Minerals David Hathorn: Paper and Packaging Philip Baum: Ferrous Metals & Industries 28 Business unit heads Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT Also, with effect from 25 April 2003, F T M Phaswana was appointed FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 chairman of the Nomination Committee in place of Sir Mark MoodyStuart who continues as a member of the Committee.
Professor INTRODUCTION Van Miert became a member of the Nomination Committee with The directors present to shareholders their summary financial statement effect from the same date.
At the same time, in accordance with for the year ended 31 December 2003.
A summary financial statement the Higgs Report, R J Margetts stepped down as chairman of the does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding Audit Committee and D J Challen assumed the chairmanship of that of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company or Committee.
In the interests of continuity, R J Margetts remains a of the Group, and of its policies and arrangements concerning directors member of the Audit Committee.
remuneration, as is provided by the full Annual Report.
Details of the remuneration policy and of the remuneration of the The full financial statements, directors report and report of the auditors directors are given in the remuneration report in the Annual Report and which is unqualified are included in a separate document entitled a summary of this report is set out on pages 32 to 34.
The Company Annual Report 2003, which is available to shareholders free of charge.
values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
For the Shareholders who wish to obtain a copy for this and future years benefit of private investors in particular, Anglo American has produced should contact the Companys Registrar.
The full Annual Report of this short-form Annual Review which contains the information believed Anglo American plc comprises the aforementioned Annual Report 2003, to be of most interest to them.
this Annual Review and the booklet containing the letter from the chairman of the Remuneration Committee giving details of a new 24 February 2004 Bonus Share Plan, Notice of AGM and other shareholder information.
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND DEVELOPMENT Reports by the chairman and the chief executive on the performance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT for the year and the future development of the Groups businesses TO THE MEMBERS OF ANGLO AMERICAN PLC are included at the beginning of this document.
Events announced after the year end are referred to in the Annual Report.
We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises the summary directors report, summary corporate governance report, DIVIDENDS consolidated profit and loss account, summary consolidated balance Anglo American paid an interim dividend of 15 US cents per share sheet and summary remuneration report.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 39 US cents per share.
Subject to approval by members at the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 29 April 2004 to shareholders accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work on the register on 12 March 2004. has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by The AGM will be held at The Conference Centre, Church House, Deans law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Yard, London SW1P 3NZ at 11:00 am on Wednesday, 21 April 2004. the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report on the summary financial As part of the routine AGM business, shareholders will be asked to statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
approve the directors remuneration report and, as special business, to approve a new Bonus Share Plan, to renew the directors existing RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES authorities to allot ordinary shares and to make market purchases OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS of ordinary shares.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility SUMMARY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary Throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 the Company has been financial statement with the full annual accounts, the directors report in compliance with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the Practice of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and Financial Services Authority in June 1998. the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review as described in the contents section, Since its issue in July 2003 the Company has also complied with the and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
are satisfied that there is an ongoing process of internal control for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced BASIS OF OPINION by the Group.
We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement The directors, their responsibilities and the current membership issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
of the principal committees of the board are set out on page 26.
Since the last AGM, Dr M S B Marques has been appointed a OPINION non-executive director.
In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors The board comprises four executive directors and eleven nonremuneration report of Anglo American plc for the year ended executive directors, eight of whom are independent according to the 31 December 2003 and complies with the applicable requirements definition contained in the Higgs Report published in January 2003. of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations The independent directors are Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, D J Challen, made thereunder.
F T M Phaswana, Professor K A L M Van Miert, Dr C E Fay, G Lindahl, R J Margetts and Dr M S B Marques.
The other non-executive Deloitte & Touche LLP directors are Sir David Scholey, R M Godsell and N F Oppenheimer.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London With effect from 25 April 2003, R J Margetts was appointed as the senior independent non-executive director in place of Sir David Scholey.
24 February 2004 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Summary directors report and independent auditors statement 29 CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items items items US$ million 2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002 Group turnover including share of joint ventures and associates 24,909 24,909 20,497 20,497 Less: Share of joint ventures turnover 1,060 1,060 1,066 1,066 Share of associates turnover 5,212 5,212 4,286 4,286 Group turnover subsidiaries 18,637 18,637 15,145 15,145 Operating costs 16,740 286 17,026 12,757 47 12,804 Group operating profit subsidiaries 1,897 286 1,611 2,388 47 2,341 Share of operating profit of joint ventures 247 247 219 34 185 Share of operating profit of associates 748 748 725 725 Total operating profit 2,892 286 2,606 3,332 81 3,251 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 386 386 9898 Loss on termination of operations 34 34 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 2,892 100 2,992 3,332 17 3,315 Investment income 308 308 304 304 Interest payable 614 13 627 483 483 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2,586 87 2,673 3,153 17 3,136 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 749 13 736 1,042 3 1,045 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 1,837 100 1,937 2,111 20 2,091 Equity minority interests 339 6 345 528 528 Profit for the financial year 1,498 94 1,592 1,583 20 1,563 Equity dividends to shareholders 766 766 720 720 Retained profit for the financial year 732 94 826 863 20 843 1 Headline earnings for the financial year 1,694 1,759 Basic earnings per share US$ : Profit for the financial year 1.13 1.11 Headline earnings for the financial year 1.20 1.25 Diluted earnings per share US$ : Profit for the financial year 1.10 1.10 Headline earnings for the financial year 1.17 1.23 Dividend per share US cents 54.0 51.0 2 Basic number of shares outstanding million 1,415 1,411 2 Diluted number of shares outstanding million 1,478 1,426 1 Headline earnings are $1,694 million.
Headline earnings are calculated as follows: profit for the financial year of $1,592 million, adding back operating exceptional losses of $286 million, goodwill amortisation of $203 million and an exceptional finance charge of $13 million less non-operating exceptional profits of $386 million and related tax and minority interests of $14 million.
2 Basic and diluted number of shares outstanding represent the weighted average for the year.
The impact of acquired and discontinued operations on the results for the year is not material.
30 Summary financial statement Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2003 US$ million 2003 2002 Fixed assets Intangible assets 2,267 2,310 Tangible assets 24,379 16,531 Investments in joint ventures and associates 6,434 5,663 Other investments 1,394 1,713 34,474 26,217 Current assets Stocks 2,744 1,814 Debtors 4,383 3,337 Current asset investments and cash at bank and in hand 2,126 2,213 9,253 7,364 Liabilities due within one year Short term borrowings 4,094 1,918 Other current liabilities 5,224 4,329 Net current liabilities assets 65 1,117 Total assets less current liabilities 34,409 27,334 Liabilities due after one year Long term borrowings 6,665 5,873 Provisions for liabilities and charges 3,954 2,896 Equity minority interests 3,396 2,304 Total shareholders funds equity 20,394 16,261 The financial statements, including the summary financial statement, were approved by the board of directors on 24 February 2004 and signed on its behalf by A J Trahar, chief executive, and A W Lea, finance director.
SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 US$ million 2003 2002 Net cash inflow from operating activities 3,184 3,618 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 426 258 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 558 298 Taxation 707 722 Capital expenditure and financial investment 2,337 2,142 Acquisitions and disposals 1,285 3,401 Equity dividends paid to Anglo American shareholders 741 732 Cash outflow before management of liquid resources and financing 2,018 3,419 Management of liquid resources 182 1,021 Financing 1,785 2,458 Decrease increase in cash in the year 51 60 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Summary financial statement 31 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 This is a summary of the full remuneration report contained in the Annual Report, copies of which may be obtained free of charge from the Companys Registrar or may be viewed on, or downloaded from, Anglo Americans website, www.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Anglo American has a Remuneration Committee the Committee consisting of non-executive directors, chaired by R J Margetts, which is responsible for considering and making recommendations to the Board on executive and senior management remuneration policy, specific remuneration packages for executive directors and the operation of the Companys share incentive schemes.
REMUNERATION POLICY Each executive directors total remuneration consists of salary, annual bonus, long term incentives and benefits.
The basic salary of the executive directors is reviewed annually and is targeted at the median of companies of comparable size, market sector, business complexity and international scope.
Company performance, individual performance and changes in responsibilities are also taken into consideration in setting salary levels each year.
An appropriate balance is maintained between fixed and performance-related remuneration, and between elements linked to short term financial performance and those linked to longer term shareholder value creation.
Assuming on-target performance, the Committees policy is that around 50% around 60% for the CEO or more of total executive director remuneration is performance-related.
In 2003, on average, 57% of executive directors actual remuneration was performance-related.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Non-executive director remuneration is set at a level which is sufficient to attract and retain world class non-executive talent and is consistent with recognised best practice standards for non-executive directors remuneration.
Non-executive directors may not participate in the Companys annual bonus plan, share option schemes, long term incentive plan or pension arrangements.
The board reviews non-executive directors fees periodically to ensure they remain market competitive.
DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS In order properly to reflect their spread of responsibilities, all the executive directors, with the exception of A W Lea, who is employed by Anglo American International BVI Limited, have contracts with Anglo American International IOM Limited and with Anglo Operations Limited.
The salaries under these contracts are payable in sterling and or South African rand as appropriate.
The employment contracts of all executive directors are terminable at 12 months notice by either party.
The contracts of executive directors contain a provision that sets out the compensation payable in lieu of notice if the Company terminates the contract other than for cause or the director resigns in circumstances where there has been a material adverse change in role, responsibilities or remuneration.
Compensation is based on the value of 12 months basic salary, target annual bonus for 12 months and the annual value of benefits.
Although the Committee notes that this policy is not in complete compliance with the very latest ABI guidelines, it enables the Company to remain market competitive.
Should market practice move away from the inclusion of liquidated damages in service contracts, the Committee will review this policy in 2004 for new appointments to the board.
All non-executive directors have letters of appointment with Anglo American for an initial period of three years from their date of appointment, subject to re-election at the annual general meeting.
PENSIONS The amounts paid into defined contribution pension schemes by Anglo American in respect of the directors who served during 2003 totalled 479,000 2002: 457,000, excluding supplementary voluntary pension contributions, which are described on page 34.
Two of the executive directors are members of defined benefit pension schemes.
NEW BONUS SHARE PLAN During 2003, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness and overall balance of incentive plans and, subject to shareholder approval, will amend the remuneration arrangements for executive directors and certain other executives from 2004 onwards.
The proposals involve reshaping the existing annual bonus plan to increase the linkage between short and long term performance, and discontinuing future grants under the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, except in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee believes that the proposed amendments will better enable the Company to retain key talent, maintain market competitiveness and create a better linkage between shareholder value creation and executive reward.
Subject to shareholder approval, in 2004 in respect of the 2003 bonus award all executive directors will be eligible to participate in a new annual bonus plan, the Bonus Share Plan BSP, details of which can be found on page 27 of the full report.
The BSP will replace the Deferred Bonus Plan and the ESOS for executive directors.
The new plan will require executives to invest a greater proportion of their remuneration in shares, thereby better aligning their interests with those of shareholders, and will encourage management at all levels to build up a personal stake in the Company.
The value of the annual bonus payable to executive directors will be calculated by reference to achievement against annual performance targets.
Bonus potentials will be set on an individual basis.
For 2004, it is the intention of the Committee that the cash element will not exceed 75% of salary for the CEO and 60% of salary for other executive directors.
The BSP will not be pensionable.
The performance measures for the BSP will include measures of corporate and, where applicable, business unit performance, as well as the achievement of specific individual objectives.
The corporate element is based on stretching Earnings Per Share EPS targets.
The Committee will review measures annually to ensure they remain appropriate given the economic context and performance expectations for the Company and its operating businesses, and are sufficiently stretching.
It is the Committees usual policy to base 70% of each annual bonus award on the corporate or business unit measure, and the remaining 30% on key personal performance measures.
In the case of the directors and top tier of management, half of the bonus will be paid in cash, and half as a conditional award of Bonus Shares.
To encourage retention, these shares will only vest if the participant remains in employment with the Group until the end of a three year holding period.
32 Summary remuneration report Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED An additional performance-related incentive will be provided in the form of an award of conditional Enhancement Shares at the same time as the award of Bonus Shares.
The maximum potential value of these shares is 75% of the face value of the Bonus Shares.
It is the Committees intention to make vesting of these shares conditional on the achievement of real EPS growth of between 9% and 15% over three years.
OTHER LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLANS As outlined above, subject to shareholder approval of the BSP, no further share option grants will be made to executive directors under the ESOS, other than for specific recruitment purposes or in other exceptional circumstances.
The Committee found that the significant impact of both foreign exchange rates and commodity price cycles on the Companys share price resulted in share option payouts that were influenced more by the phasing of the business cycle than by the management performance of option plan participants.
This meant that the ESOS, from time to time, was not always acting as an effective incentive.
In 2004, only executive directors and top management circa 50 individuals, will participate in the BSP.
In 2005, it is intended that participation will be extended to other tiers of management globally circa 1,300 individuals, who will thereafter cease to receive grants under the ESOS.
Under the Committees proposed new incentive arrangements, conditional long term incentive plan LTIP awards will continue to be made annually to executive directors.
These awards are discretionary, and are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Following the review of the Companys incentive plans and in light of the replacement of the ESOS and Deferred Bonus Plan, primarily with the BSP, it is proposed that the value of awards under the LTIP will be increased from 120% to 160% of basic salary for the CEO, and from 100% to 130% of basic salary for the other executive directors.
Vesting of LTIP awards is subject to the achievement of two stretching performance measures, relating to Total Shareholder Return TSR and to an operating measure, Return on Capital Employed ROCE, over a fixed three year period.
For awards made in 2004 and thereafter, half of each award made to an executive director will be subject to a Group TSR measure, and half will be subject to a Group ROCE measure.
The vesting of that part of the LTIP award contingent upon TSR performance varies according to the Companys TSR over the performance period, relative to a weighted basket of international natural resource companies the Index.
For awards made in 2003, the companies constituting the Index were as follows and no material change is envisaged in 2004: Mining Paper and Packaging Industrial Minerals Category weighting 71% 17% 12% Comparator companies BHP Billiton plc M-real Corporation Aggregate Industries plc Companhia Vale do Rio Doce Sappi Limited CRH plc Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc SCA Hanson plc Kumba Resources Limited David S. Smith Holdings plc RMC Group plc Noranda Inc Stora Enso Oyj Rio Tinto plc UPM-Kymmene Group Teck Cominco Limited WMC Resources Limited Xstrata plc The LTIP closely aligns the interests of shareholders and executive directors by rewarding superior shareholder and financial performance and by encouraging executives to build up a shareholding in Anglo American.
Within five years of their appointment, executive directors are expected to acquire a holding of shares with a value of two times basic salary in the case of the chief executive, and one times basic salary in the case of other executive directors.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH 180 The graph shows the Companys TSR performance from the date of listing, against the TSR performance of the FTSE 100 Index, chosen as being a broad equity market index consisting 160 of companies of comparable size and complexity to Anglo American.
This graph has been produced in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
140 120 100 80 60 99 00 01 02 03 Anglo American FTSE 100 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Summary remuneration report 33 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION OUTCOMES DURING 2003 DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS The fees and other emoluments paid to non-executive directors during the year ended 31 December 2003 amounted to 1,355,000 2002: 1,280,000.
Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2003 2002 2003 Interest at 31 December 2003 Basic salary Gains on share sacrificed options into incentives international Allowance 000 Anglo Long term Basic Approved and unless Beneficial American incentive Deferred 2 salary Pension benefits Bonus Total Total otherwise share share plan bonus 3 1 4 5 6 7 Executive directors 000 Scheme 000 000 000 000 stated interests options awards plan A J Trahar chief executive 729 81 51 563 1,424 1,292 R7,058,460 152,094 603,512 258,061 70,688 B E Davison 392 43 24 144 603 579 26,390 239,000 115,341 11,083 A W Lea 475 22 192 689 663 515 84,777 311,608 130,744 32,965 W A Nairn 342 38 31 156 567 537 R1,733,600 35,680 196,029 103,572 16,115 1 In view of A J Trahar, B E Davison and W A Nairn having no provision for past service in respect of their sterling-denominated pension fund, their employing company has contractually agreed that supplementary pension contributions should be made to the Anglo American plc International Approved Pension Scheme in return for these executives giving up their right to part of their future basic salary.
The table above shows these amounts, which are 81,000, 43,000 and 38,000 respectively.
2 Each director receives a car allowance or a fully expensed car and a limited amount of personal tax advice.
All directors, with the exception of W A Nairn, also receive medical insurance and death and disability insurance.
A J Trahar, A W Lea and W A Nairn receive club membership: in addition, A J Trahar receives a housing loan subsidy.
3 Subsequent to their retirement from the board, L Boyd, M W King and J Ogilvie Thompson have provided consultancy services to Anglo American and hold non-executive directorships with certain listed subsidiaries of the Group.
They have received fees of 29,000, 26,000 and 21,000 respectively for the provision of these services in 2003.
4 478,000 options were granted to executive directors during the year, whilst 203,000 options were exercised.
B E Davison also has 38,325 share options in Anglo Platinum.
5 The exercise of the options is subject to Anglo Americans EPS calculated in accordance with FRS 14, based on the Companys headline earnings measure increasing by at least 6% above the UK Retail Price Index over a three year period.
The EPS growth requirement takes account of the cyclical nature of the natural resources business.
6 Conditional awards of 240,639 have been made to executive directors under the LTIP during the year.
7 Conditional awards of 60,718 have been made under the Deferred Bonus Plan during the year.
In addition, 15,344 awards vested to the executive directors during the year.
INDEPENDENT REMUNERATION REPORT REVIEW This letter reports on the results of the review carried out by Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited of the processes followed by the Anglo American Remuneration Committee the Committee that support the Remuneration Report for the financial year 2003.
Mercer undertook the review at the request of the Chairman of the Committee in order to provide shareholders with assurance that the remuneration processes followed are appropriate and that the Committee has complied with the policies set out in the Remuneration Report.
In order to reach our opinion, we reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference and the minutes of its meetings held during the year as well as material presented to the Committee for its review.
We also interviewed the Chairman and Secretary of the Committee.
Our review was not intended to audit the compensation data set forth in the Remuneration Report or to evaluate the merits of Anglo Americans remuneration programme.
Based on our review, Mercer is of the opinion that the process followed by the Committee during 2003 was fully consistent with its Terms of Reference and that the decisions taken by the Committee were in line with the principles set out in the Remuneration Report.
It continues to be our view that the Committee takes a suitably robust approach to its work.
We would note in particular the changes to long term incentive arrangements which have been proposed in response to dialogue held with institutional investors.
The Committee has implemented changes as a result of our 2002 review.
The members of the Remuneration Committee have received training and are regularly updated on executive compensation and corporate governance matters.
Further detail regarding the Mercer review is included in a letter of this date addressed to the Committee Chairman, which we understand will be made available on the Companys website.
2 Operating profit for 2000 has been restated for the reclassification of the loss of $167 million arising on the anticipated disposal of Terra Industries Inc.
The disposal did not proceed and the loss has therefore been reclassified into operating exceptional items as an impairment.
3 2000 and 1999 restated to reflect the three-for-one bonus issue in May 2001.
4 EBITDA is operating profit before exceptional items plus depreciation and amortisation of subsidiaries and share of joint ventures and associates.
5 EBITDA interest cover is EBITDA divided by net interest expense, excluding other net financial income 2003: $72 million and exceptional financing charges 2003: $13 million.
EBITDA interest cover for 2002 is annualised to account for acquisitions during the year.
The actual EBITDA interest cover for 2002 was 25.5 times.
For 2000 and 1999, EBITDA interest cover is not applicable as the Group was a net interest recipient after adjusting for other net financial income.
6 Total capital is the sum of shareholders funds, net debt and minority interests.
7 Return on capital employed is calculated as total operating profit before impairments for the year divided by the average total capital less other investments and adjusted for impairments.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003 Key financial data 35 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OTHER ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS 2003 Investing in ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ANGLO AMERICAN Annual Report the future 11:00 am on Wednesday, 21 April 2004, at A WORLD OF DIFFERENCE Black Economic The Conference Centre Empowerment Church House Deans Yard ANNUAL REPORT 2003 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 01 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 02 London SW1P 3NZ CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT 04 FINANCIAL REVIEW 06 DIRECTORS REPORT 18 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 21 REMUNERATION REPORT 25 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES 40 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 41 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 42 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES 88 PRODUCTION STATISTICS 104 EXCHANGE RATES AND COMMODITY PRICES 109 KEY FINANCIAL DATA 110 SUMMARY BY BUSINESS SEGMENT 111 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 112 SHAREHOLDERS DIARY 2004 5 Interim results: August 2004 Interim dividend paid: September 2004 2003 Good Neighbours Financial year end: 31 December 2004 Interim Report Our work with Annual results announcement: February 2005 communities Annual Report: March 2005 Annual General Meeting: April 2005 Final dividend paid: April 2005 ADDING VALUE TO NATURAL RESOURCES ENQUIRIES Queries relating to Anglo American plc should be addressed to the Company Secretary or the Investor and Corporate Affairs Letter to Good Citizenship: ANGLO AMERICAN Department at the following address: Shareholders, Our Business LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS Notice Principles NOTICE OF ANNUAL Registered and Head Office of AGM and GENERAL MEETING Anglo American plc SHAREHOLDER Shareholder INFORMATION 20 Carlton House Terrace Information London SW1Y 5AN, England booklet Telephone 44 0 20 7698 8888 Fax 44 0 20 7698 8500 Registered number 3564138 2003 Report to Optima Website www.
asp The full 2003 Annual Report, which includes the financial statements, directors report, corporate governance report, remuneration report and report of the auditors which is unqualified, and the booklet containing the letter from the chairman of the Remuneration Committee giving details of a proposed Bonus Share Plan, the Notice of AGM and other shareholder information are available free of charge from the Companys Registrar.
36 Shareholder information Anglo American plc Annual Review 2003
