com 53 Index A Page F Page P Page Accounting policies 29 Financial assets 43 Pensions 9, 37 Assets in the course of construction 40 Financial instruments 46 profit and loss account 26 Audit committee 10 Financial liabilities 44, 45 profit and loss reserve 47 Auditors remuneration 32 Financial record 51 profit share 35 Auditors report 25 Financial review 3 profitability 52 Authorised share capital 47 Financial Services 5 Property valuation 40, 41 Fixed assets 40 Provisions 45 B Fixed charge cover 52 Foreign exchange 50 Q B shares 47, 48 Free cash ow 6 Bad debt 6 Quasi-subsidiary 42 Balance sheets 27 QUEST 41, 47 G Bonus management 4 Borrowing facilities 7, 45 Gearing retail 8, 52 R Geographical analysis 31 Related party transactions 50 C Going concern 9 Remuneration report 13 Goodwill 32, 48 Capital commitments 50 Reserves 47, 48 Gross profit 32 Capital expenditure 40 Retained profit 26 Cash ow statement 28 Return on equity 52 I Chairmans message 1 Risk management 11 Charitable donations 24 Interest 33 Chief Executives review 2 International Retail 5 S Contingent liabilities 50 Investment properties 40 Segmental information 31 Corporate governance 10 Investments 41, 43 Share buy back 22, 47 Cost of sales 32 Issued share capital 47 Share capital 47 Creditors 44 Share Incentive Plan 35 Currency risk 8, 47 J Share issues 22, 47 Customer balances 5, 42 Joint venture 41 Share options 18, 19, 20, 36, 37 Shareholders funds 27, 47, 48 D L Shareholdings 22 Debtors 42 Social security 35 Liquid resources 49 Deferred taxation 45, 46 Stock 27 Depreciation 32, 40 Subsidiary undertakings 42 M Diluted earnings per share 34 Swaps 8, 46 Margin gross and net 32, 52 Directors emoluments 16 Minority interest 26 Directors interests 21 T Directors report 22 Taxation 33 N Directors responsibilities 21 Treasury Management 8 Net debt 28, 49 Dividend cover 52 Turnover 31, 32 Non-equity shareholders funds 27 Dividend per share 21, 34, 52 Notes to the financial statements 29 U E UK Retail 3 O Earnings per share 34, 52 Operating assets 31 Employee emoluments 35 Operating costs 5, 32 Employee numbers 35 Operating leases 32, 50 Equity shareholders funds 27 Operating profit 31, 32 Ordinary shares 47 Occupancy costs 32 Design and production: Paufey Printing: St Ives, Westerham Press Cover printed on Mega Matt, 50% totally chlorine-free pulp from sustainable forests and 50% recycled bre.
Text printed on Sequel Offset paper made from elemental chlorine-free bleached pulp sourced from sustainable managed forests.
Additional copies of this document and the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2003, the CSR Review or an audio tape giving highlights can be THE QUEENS AWARD FOR THE QUEENS AWARD FOR obtained by calling ENTERPRISE INNOVATION ENTERPRISE INNOVATION 0800 591 697 2000 2003 Annual review and summary financial statement 2003 Vision Mission Values The standard against which Making aspirational quality Quality, value, service, all others are measured accessible to all innovation and trust Financial highlights Continuing operations before exceptional items after exceptional items Group operating profit up 21.1% to 761.8m up 14.1% to 717.9m Group profit before tax up 11.5% to 721.3m down 1.3% to 679.0m Earnings per share up 39.6% to 22.2p up 19.0% to 20.7p Final dividend up 12.1% to 6.5 pence per share Group operating cash ow up 0.1bn to 1.2bn Operating highlights Clothing delivered the biggest increase in sales performance, with sales increasing by 10%, outperforming the market signicantly Increased market share in Womenswear, Menswear and Lingerie with strong product appeal and quality Food outperformed the market and delivered strong growth for the second year in succession Opened 13 Simply Food stores where 250,000 customers now shop with us each week Pilot of new credit and loyalty card has been successful and national roll-out will commence in the second half of 2003 04 Contents 1 Chairmans message 2 Chief Executives review 5 The year in review 19 Board members 20 Summary reports 21 Summary profit and loss account 23 Summary balance sheet 24 Summary cash ow statement 25 Five year group financial summary 26 Summary remuneration report 29 Shareholder information www.
com 1 A journey of continuous improvement Luc Vandevelde Chairman Chairmans message One question you may be asking an already powerful team by opening of our first stand-alone store is whether the turnaround at appointing Vittorio Radice to head our next spring and proceeding to the next Marks & Spencer has been completed.
We move ahead with stage of the programme prior to the My response will always be that we a structure and a team that we know national launch of our credit and will never claim to have made it.
is right for the business.
loyalty card in Financial Services.
We are on a journey of continuous These opportunities confirm our Key to regaining market share and to improvement and our aspiration is view that we can widen the increasing profitability has been a always to do better.
Marks & Spencer offering and focus on improving both the appeal create new sources of growth.
Nevertheless, over the last year we and value of our products, thereby have rebuilt the foundations on which making aspirational quality more Every product and service we offer is this Group can continue to grow accessible to our customers.
For testimony to our aim to be a leading and prosper.
Last year I set out the continuing operations, over the socially responsible company, and strategies we intended to pursue to year, Retail sales were up by 6.6%, we were pleased to be ranked among regain our leadership in clothing and Group operating profit before the top 24 companies in Business in special food: to build on our unique exceptional items was up by 21.1% the Communitys first Corporate customer relationships with new and adjusted earnings per share were Responsibility Index.
You can read products and services: to shape our up by 39.6%.
The final dividend about our progress in our first-ever store locations, formats and products payment will be 6.5p per share, up review of corporate social to the needs of our customers: and to 12.1%, giving a full year payment of responsibility now available reassert our position as a leading, 10.5p per share.
It is rewarding to see on our website.
These the contribution of our 67,000 people In summary, we have reached a new remain in place and the story of the towards achieving these results, basis from which we can build our year is one of steady progress on as well as their awareness of the business.
We know the competitive each front.
opportunities for further improvement environment is not going to get any that lie ahead and their willingness to Of course, no strategy can succeed easier, but we can see plenty of tackle them.
without the right structure and the opportunities for further growth.
Having combined the Now that we have restored the Our challenge, quite simply, is to roles of Chairman and Chief Executive fundamentals and won back our keep improving every aspect of our during our turnaround phase, we customers trust, we see opportunities business every day of the year and concluded last year that the time to meet their existing needs in new through every one of our products.
had come to change our leadership ways and also attract new customers.
structure and to split the roles.
We have moved ahead to make I, therefore, reverted to my original more of our products available to role of Chairman while Roger Holmes more customers with the roll-out of stepped into the position of Chief our Simply Food format, the new Executive.
Also this year, we reinforced developments in Home including the Luc Vandevelde Chairman 2 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Further progress in winning back customers and in building a platform for future growth Roger Holmes Chief Executive Chief Executives review In last years review we stated that our markdowns were lower than the customers own styles.
We have built business had turned the corner, with previous year.
on the success of per una and Blue the recovery of our Clothing business.
Harbour, and introduced new areas For the year as a whole, we have This year I am pleased to say that we of segmentation, for example, View achieved a further 1.3 percentage point have made further progress, as well as From performance sportswear, Limited improvement in the Clothing bought-in building a platform for future growth.
Collection, Plus and in Childrenswear, margin, and have continued to realise DB07 David Beckham: Group operating profit from continuing gains from consolidating our supply focus on creating ideas for key operations and before exceptional base and increasing the proportion events, from Valentines Day to items, was 761.8m, an increase of of our clothing produced overseas.
Christmas, using these to maximise 21.1%.
This was mainly due to the Our Food business outperformed opportunities to bring together performance of our core UK retailing the market and has now delivered products from Food, Clothing and business, although profits from strong growth for the second year Home into a single package for Financial Services and International in succession, with our customers customers: and Retail were also ahead of last year.
continuing to rate us highly on quality, extension into new product areas, Overall sales were 8.1bn, up 6.0% innovation and trust.
for example, in Financial Services, on last year.
For UK Retail, the increase piloting a scheme to introduce a in pre-exceptional operating profit Securing growth new credit card, which also acts of 126.7m to 631.9m was due to We continued to concentrate on winning as a loyalty card.
We also launched sales of 7.1bn up 7.5% on last year back our most loyal clothing customers a number of new products such combined with a better buying margin, while at the same time building on the as wedding and travel insurance, offset by a 4.9% increase in underlying continued strength of our food.
We have integrating them into the rest of the operating costs.
done this by further enhancing our business by promoting them within product offer and developing our stores, Clothing sales inc. VAT increased by relevant product areas.
increasing our appeal to customers and 10.0%, helped by a strong performance responding to the way they want to shop.
We have also invested in marketing in the first three quarters.
We gained these improvements in our product market share over the year and held it We have enhanced our product offer offer to our customers.
The Collections in the fourth quarter against strong through: campaign in Womenswear growth last year.
During the year we continued developments in quality, communicated the new style and gained 0.7% market share, taking our style and innovation in our core appeal of our clothing as we presented overall share of the clothing market to product areas such as the with the key looks of the season, from faux just over 11% source: Fashiontrak.
cashmere knitwear range, our fur, suede and knitwear in autumn, Our focus on maintaining improved Perfect cargo pants, and the to new colours in the spring range sales volume throughout the year led to renewal of the Indian and Italian of linens.
We developed our Perfect us marking down more goods for sale ranges in Food: campaign further, featuring key items for than we anticipated.
However, as a further segmentation in our offer each seasons wardrobe such as zipped percentage of overall sales, these to improve choice and match our cardigans or cargo pants.
com 3 have used TV advertising to improvement in the performance review, starting over the page, includes demonstrate what makes our food of our franchise business.
more detail on all of these initiatives.
so special, from soft fruits to our new Building for the future In the coming year we will also focus oriental range.
Next year will be about growing our on ways to run our business more We have developed our store base core business in Clothing and Food, efficiently.
Work continues in the supply through: as well as developing our new paths chain and we are targeting improvement continued renewal of our stores, to growth in Food, Financial Services in the Clothing primary margin of where we have now completed and Home.
We will also focus on 1% per year for the next three years.
over 90% of our existing estate: making our business more efficient In logistics, we will implement our rolling out more Caf Revive in our sourcing, and in all areas of announced plans to reduce our coffee shops and continuing to our operations.
contractors from four to two, delivering invest in new equipment such annual savings of approximately 20m.
We will always aspire to do better and as food fridges and improved we believe we have many opportunities In addition, we are currently working on lighting: and to do so.
We will concentrate on a programme to improve the service in roll-out of stand-alone convenience meeting more of the needs of our our stores by ensuring we are available Food stores, where we are existing customers and encouraging for our customers when they need us committed to making our food offer those who currently shop in only one most and to encourage new ways of more accessible by opening our new or two parts of our store to shop more.
The change Simply Food stores and our larger in culture taking place in the Group is neighbourhood Food stores.
We are In Clothing we will be working on reected in our forthcoming relocation pleased with customer response to three fronts: continuing to drive to a new network of ofces across the these stores and have built up a good improvements in our core categories, country, in particular our move to the pipeline of stores to accelerate the such as womens formalwear: pursuing new head ofce in Londons Paddington expansion of these concepts.
opportunities in categories where we Basin in spring 2004. still have relatively low share such as These improvements are a reection of mens casualwear, sportswear and In conclusion, we are pleased with a the work and capability of our people shoes: and thirdly, through delivering year in which we made further progress and suppliers.
During the year, we have recovery in Childrenswear.
In Food in winning back our customers and in introduced a number of initiatives to we will continue to differentiate our building a platform for future growth.
enhance our capabilities and ways products through our quality and We gained market share, improved our of working.
The introduction of innovation and make them available profitability and demonstrated some of performance management, new store to more people by opening Simply the potential for new areas of our management structures and business Food stores on high streets and business.
But we know we have more involvement groups have all played a railway stations across the country.
to do and further opportunities to attract positive role in business performance As at year end we had opened our customers to shop with us.
With our suppliers, we 18 Simply Food stores and aim know we can create a more efficient have enhanced our listening through to open 150 by 2005 06. business, which will underpin our a host of initiatives, such as: a performance in a more testing market condential questionnaire amongst In Financial Services, we are very as we invest in the future development clothing suppliers: process pleased with the progress of our credit of the Group.
improvements, such as moving quality and loyalty card pilot and have started checking to an even earlier stage in our entering into the commitments clothing supply chain: and introducing necessary to enable a national roll-out new microchip technology in to our in the second half of the year.
In Home food supply chain.
we see potential for growth in the middle market.
We are developing a Roger Holmes Chief Executive In our international business, the new stand-alone Home concept store Republic of Ireland performed better Marks & Spencer Lifestore.
The first than last year and in Hong Kong, will open in spring 2004 at the Metro improved efficiency helped us return Centre in Gateshead.
We have also seen an From summer linens to fresh cherries, from kitchenware to financial products, Marks & Spencer offers customers quality at affordable prices.
always something new in store www.
com 5 The year in review Clothing On the other hand, casualwear start of us segmentating our Focusing on quality and appeal performed particularly well Womenswear offer.
per una has Our Clothing business grew by 10% throughout the year.
Our growth has continued to grow strongly in the last year and we enjoyed significant been driven by strong product in our past year, generating wide appeal, gains in Womenswear, Menswear core ranges and collection-led which was driven by the frequent and Lingerie.
This increased our displays of key fashion looks.
leading UK market share by 0.7% to Key looks and more choice in Our core customers spend 1bn just over 11% source: Fashiontrak.
Womenswear a year on sportswear and to date We were particularly pleased to Womenswear grew the fastest and little of it has been spent with us.
have gained market share among gained the greatest market share of Recognising the opportunity men and women in the over 30 age all our areas of clothing.
This was a presented by this large and growing group source: Fashiontrak.
This reection of the progress made in market, we acquired the View From progress was the result of further offering both the key looks of the performance sports brand from improvement in all aspects of the season and attractive core ranges, former Olympic athlete Brendan quality, appeal and display of and our ability to change and Foster.
In September 2002, we our products.
In introduced it into 120 of our We grew ahead of the market until the last year we introduced one stores, endorsed by well-known the fourth quarter, during which new collection almost every month.
personalities such as Darcey time we performed in line with the At Vogues suggestion, we agreed Bussell, Jason Robinson and Ellen clothing market.
Our fourth quarter to sponsor their special March MacArthur.
At the same time, in 50 was affected by a combination of 2003 supplement, a genuine stores, we launched Plus, for women the relative underperformance of acknowledgement of how far we up to size 28 and will be extending our Greater London stores and our have come in re-establishing our it to 75 stores by the autumn.
We have now developed our the latter point, we are building The launch of per una with George segmentation strategy further.
In this learning into our ranges for Davies in October 2001 was the February 2003, we unveiled Limited the autumn.
great clothes for every occasion With new collections regularly throughout the year in our Womenswear ranges, theres always something for everyone at Marks & Spencer.
Collection, aimed broadly at the developed with an Italian fabric source: Fashiontrak.
Our share of smart-casual market.
Unique and exclusive this market still remains lower than modern essentials that look as to Marks & Spencer, Clean Edge our formalwear share and so we good in the ofce as they do on eliminates the need for stitching on are planning to move to the next an evening out.
We refresh the collars, cuffs and buttonholes.
This autumn, we will launch collection frequently, hence its also developed the Cotton Tech Sp into 200 stores, a new range limited nature.
Currently available shirt, described in more detail in of casualwear that will have a in 50 stores, we aim to extend it to our next section, Menswear.
It is a further 25 in the autumn.
aimed at the dads who are still lads Realising opportunities in at heart and who are looking for a Style through innovation Menswear more urban contemporary range.
Our Clothing business has a proud Blue Harbour has delivered on its history of innovation, and within promise of offering fresh and relaxed Other areas in Menswear that each area we set quality targets to casualwear inspired by the cold achieved particularly good sales achieve at least two fabric and two crisp waters and blue skies of the growth were underwear, accessories garment innovations a year.
More contemporary year we created the machineintroduced last year have kept the and appealing shapes and washable crinkle blouse, which has offer exciting and contributed to a presentation helped underwear, with become a key look for the spring growth of 1.3 percentage points to new ranges such as Urban Survival, season and is easy to wash and dry, 8.5% in our share of the mens while in accessories we increased and our new easy-to-iron 100% casualwear market in the year to our range, and enjoyed improved linen.
The targets also led to March 2003.
Blue Harbour is now sales in the run up to Fathers Day technological innovations such as estimated to be the leading mens and Christmas.
In footwear we Clean Edge technology, which we casual clothing sub-brand in the UK upgraded the quality and style of www.
com 7 our Italian leather shoes, and in hindsight we can attribute to the DB07 David Beckham range, introduced the Airex shoe, with changing too many things at once.
which has exceeded all sales its innovative air system offering With everyone working hard to expectations.
The range plans two enhanced cushioning and comfort.
implement the changes, we lost major and two smaller launches Cotton Tech shirts were another focus on the end result, and each year for three years and is now key innovation unique to consequently product appeal broadening from its original sportsMarks & Spencer.
Developed waned, sales suffered, and we based look to include fashion items.
with our suppliers, they are reduced stock to clear it.
We are Our priority remains to develop 100% cotton shirts that stay smart continuing to develop the best quality clothing designed for kids, all day.
We were delighted that one elements of the ZIP model of intrusted by mums clothing which of our major innovations two years house design and direct sourcing will appeal to children, but at the ago, our machine-washable suit, from key suppliers, but now vary same time embrace the safety and this year won the Queens Award our method of buying whenever style concerns of their parents.
It is one of our best appropriate.
Apart from schoolwear, focus is now back on the design selling suits.
we will not be selling daywear for process and on product quality, the the 13 age group from September Working hard to regain market keys to the recovery of our business.
This will allow us to increase share in Childrenswear our displays and choice for our core Lingerie for all shapes and ages We continued working hard to regain childrens ranges.
Lingerie performed well over the market share in the increasingly year and we can illustrate how we competitive childrenswear market.
We have been focusing on have been winning back market ZIP, our newly-structured business improving the design of our share by looking at the work we for sourcing our Childrenswear, products, with some notable pockets have done on bras.
Having dipped suffered teething problems, which of success, such as schoolwear, and fresh, alive and relaxed Casualwear for weekends, sports clothes for the gym, durable suits for the ofce Marks & Spencer offers men well-made, stylish and comfortable clothing.
8 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. to a market share of 27.3%, we are price levels, aiming to appeal to mens fragrance, we are now now back to having over 30% of everyone.
We now display by launching View From mens the bra market source: Fashiontrak.
shape rather than price, and retain toiletries.
Our major launch for We looked at the balance of our bra our price tiering within the different women this year, in May 2003, is ranges, looking for gaps in what shape displays.
As the lingerie Autograph, a range of sophisticated, we were offering, and created new market generally is becoming more premium cosmetics.
products, sizes and collections, stylish, we are responding, with Last summer, we launched a replacing duplication with choice.
collections like Wild Hearts and successful campaign offering This brought us into some of the Salon Rose, which incorporate samples in store, which over the fastest growing markets such as large fashionable shapes such as the lowyear led to more than four million sizes and smoothline bras.
In spring rise short and exquisite detail such women having the opportunity to try 2003 we also launched the angel as chantilly lace.
We will be using our products before buying.
This led range that offers a complete bra press advertising this year to to a sales uplift for our Formula wardrobe for first-time wearers, which promote our fashionable and skincare range, and the campaign has been endorsed by the childrens desirable lingerie and to increase brought many new customers to charity Kidscape.
We also widened our appeal to younger customers.
Next year our sampling our price band by lowering our Successful initiatives in Beauty campaign will also include opening price in some of our lines Product development was key to cosmetics, toiletries and haircare.
and now offer what we believe to be a successful year in Beauty, and the best value on the high street.
Striving for efficiency in our we are now developing ranges to clothing supply chain We are regaining market share in complement our existing Marks & The supply chain was one of the matching sets and knickers as well.
Following a original strengths of Marks & Spencer We set out to cater for all ages and successful launch of Blue Harbour quality clothing designed for kids, trusted by mums For cool and stylish kids, clothes that deliver great quality and value.
Our DB07 range, designed in collaboration with David Beckham, hits the target.
com 9 and the foundation from which we international supply chain involving Our priority is to maintain the developed our 100% own brand 650 factories worldwide, and quality of our fabrics and clothes policy.
We have been driving multiple routes back to the UK.
By wherever they are manufactured.
efficiency in this area and as its very nature, this chain presents To support this objective, we have reported in previous years, to remain many opportunities for improving established quality audit teams in competitive, we have been working efficiency and we have embarked on Morocco and Sri Lanka, and will with our suppliers to relocate much an end-to-end supply chain review.
introduce them over the coming of our manufacturing abroad and This will streamline our worldwide year in China and Turkey, and all consolidate our supply base.
This logistics operations with a view to our main centres of manufacturing.
work, over time, has enabled us to realising these efficiencies and We now use a combination of offer our customers a combination creating real competitive advantage.
independent and our own audits, of better quality products, delivered As part of the first phase of this to ensure each supplier meets our faster to market, at lower costs, in efficiency drive, in March 2003 we Global Sourcing Principles, which that order of priority.
In the last year, announced we would be reducing require them to comply with all we have further improved the our logistics contractors for UK relevant local and national laws quality, desirability and availability warehousing from four to two.
This regarding pay and employment of our products and at the same time decision incurred an exceptional practices.
These also ensure our achieved a further 1.3 percentage cost of 36.3m in the year 2002 03, suppliers are working towards the point improvement in our Clothing but is expected to generate annual internationally recognised standards bought-in margin.
We are also in promoted by the Ethical Trading However, these initiatives bring new discussions regarding acquiring the Initiative ETI, of which we are challenges as, with our suppliers, warehousing properties, with a view a leading member.
we now manage a complex to providing greater operational exibility.
lingerie heaven From fashionable new ranges to wardrobe basics, our lingerie offers something for every age, price level and occasion.
10 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Food year, and improve 1,000 others.
salads, we continue to grow strongly Continued growth in our Food To give an example of this quality in this area.
We maintain market business and innovation, last October we leadership in tray and bowl salads Our Food business again grew strongly renewed our entire range of Indian through having the largest range on over the year, with sales increasing on foods which enabled us to improve the high street.
We always offer new a like-for-like basis by 3.7% adjusted their sales by 26% in the second half choices for the customer, whether a for the impact of no Easter this of the year, compared with the same simple new side salad, Caesar salad financial year compared to two in the period last year.
Because of the with reduced fat dressing, or a salad previous year, the underlying increase volume of Indian prepared meals we meal such as Tuna Nioise.
Our total sales growth was sell, and the strong relationships we have also launched new ranges of 5.1% in a market that has itself grown have with our suppliers, weve been traditional meals, pies and Italian by around 3%.
able to develop a new large-scale dishes, as well as oriental meals from preparation process that replicates many different regions.
In customers In this review we examine our authentic cooking methods, and minds, these special categories of ambitions to continue this growth.
our suppliers have created a new food set us apart from other retailers.
Given the potential changes in the roasted spice blend, unique to Focusing on their development is how UK grocery environment, its worth Marks & Spencer.
These innovations, we are tempting our customers to visit first examining the key strengths of combined with the recipes of our more often, and pick up more when Marks & Spencer within this market.
award-winning consultant chef, Atul they do, so helping us grow our Food Research shows we are a small but Kochhar, mean we are offering the business and market share.
very important part of our customers most authentic pre-prepared meals food shopping most of our sales Convenient locations currently available.
come from customers who buy more Another component of our Food of their food from other mainstream Whats more, because everything we growth strategy is to make our grocery retailers.
They use sell is our own brand, we can control products available to more customers, Marks & Spencer as well, because all the ingredients and make sure which we plan to achieve by opening they know we offer high quality, they meet our exacting standards.
more of our new Simply Food stores, trustworthy food and plenty of new For example, in our Indian range we and our larger, neighbourhood Food ideas.
As such, we are part of their use chicken breast meat only, fresh stores.
Simply Food stores are smaller shopping repertoire.
Our obsession with high units of between 1,500 and 7,000 sq good reason to keep visiting, we need standards means we are able to offer ft of sales oor, located close to where to be the best by miles at special quality unmatched in the UK.
This our customers live and work.
We have food, and as the chart below shows, was endorsed when we won 11 of opened 12 in the year to March 2003, our customers think we are.
23 awards in the 2002 Quality Food which, together with three of our and Drink Awards, our industrys newly opened larger neighbourhood A passion for quality most prestigious awards, including Food stores and extensions to existing Our customer surveys also continue the Gold Q award for our Chicken food halls, increased our food space to rate us more highly on quality, Achari dish for best overall product.
Since then, innovation and trust than other we have opened an additional five retailers.
To secure this position, we Having nearly twenty years ago stores, giving us a further 25,000 sq ft introduce 1,000 new food lines each established the market for prepared Customer perception of special nature of our food Source: Millward Brown % 100 Marks & Spencer 80 60 Other major food retailers 40 20 0 2001 2002 2003 Summertime, wintertime, anytime customers trust Marks & Spencer to come up with new choices and bright ideas.
Thats why we introduce over 1,000 great tasting new food lines every year available in the Food Hall, at Caf Revive, or from our increasingly popular Simply Food stores.
summertime and anytime reasons to be cheerful When it comes to celebrating, there are lots of reasons to be cheerful at Marks & Spencer.
From Christmas puddings to specially packaged Valentines Day meals we have the right product for every occasion.
Concentrating on Christmas, selection of our foods.
One of the Food stores were in the London and other key events, is a further highlights offered our customers area, but our expansion will also element to our growth strategy.
Our the juiciest and sweetest cherries be regional, and we have now opened market-leading Christmas ordering available.
This is the result of work stores in the Midlands, the North-West, service was well received, customers with our cherry growers on a handling Yorkshire and Scotland.
Beverley, having the opportunity to pre-order and shipping process, which allows us Ripon, Licheld and Londons Green 52 different products.
Sales grew to leave the cherries on the tree until Park have recently opened and are 40% on last year, despite competitors they are perfectly ripe.
We a leading 20.5% share of the UK processed 290,000 orders in the final cherry market.
With New Years We also announced an extension three days of Christmas trading, an resolutions in mind, 1 January 2003 of our franchise agreement with average of nearly 1,000 a store.
For was an appropriate time to announce Compass Group, to place Simply Food next Christmas we are investing in the relaunch of our Count on us stores in railway stations, some of the systems to allow us to grow further, range and again, we used TV busiest locations available in the UK.
whilst addressing the challenges of advertising.
The integrated campaign The agreement is to open up to 40 queuing and availability at the also featured radio promotion, press stores over the next three years, and appointed time.
coverage, plenty of in-store displays by the end of June, we will have and a four for three offer.
In total we plan to As some customers shop with us only a 23% sales increase over the month open 150 Simply Food stores by on certain occasions, we try and make of January, compared with the same the end of financial year 2005 06. the most of their experience with us to period last year.
Whilst operating these smaller ensure they come back to shop for all stores presents new and different their special celebrations.
Valentines Close relationships with food challenges, they currently deliver Day is one such occasion, where suppliers sales in excess of our average return we pulled Food, Home and Beauty Trust is another key point of difference per square foot for Food.
products together within one display between retailers, and our customers to present Marks & Spencer as the also rate us highly on this.
We are Special foods, special occasions place to shop for special occasions.
able to maintain this position through We retail approximately one tenth We also provided a uniquely close and long-term relationships of the number of lines stocked by packaged Valentines evening meal.
We co-ordinate supermarkets, but we hold a leading a number of initiatives to ensure position in the types of foods that Successful TV advertising our suppliers have a voice, and we we offer.
Food designed for special In July 2002, we ran our first major review suppliers views on the way celebrations is one of these, and one Food TV advertising campaign, which we do business through an annual, of the fastest-growing sectors of the was successful in promoting a wide condential survey.
com 13 We buy our produce in a different retailer in terms of not selling sh further, by applying it to individual way to other retailers.
As we are from the worlds 20 most depleted garments in our clothing supply chain.
100% own brand, we can control stocks according to the Marine Refreshing food halls quality, animal welfare and food Conservation Society.
We sell In another investment helping to safety from farm to store.
For as many as we can of the suitable maintain the quality of our food, example, with our processor partner species certied as sustainable by we are two years into our five-year Scotbeef we are committed to the the Marine Stewardship Council.
plan to t 40m worth a year of development of the Scottish beef We were also pleased to have the most up-to-date refrigeration industry, and 1,200 farmers have Friends of the Earth rate our actions equipment, as part of our store invested in their animal husbandry on pesticides as ahead of all other renewal programme.
Our in-store and their staff to ensure sales to UK retailers.
bakeries are another feature of this Marks & Spencer.
Through this Long-standing supplier relationships, renewal programme and, including partnership, we are able to use and being 100% own brand, also those opened at new food only stores, Scottish beef in many prepared enable us to make significant weve opened a further 55 this year.
formats like pies and burgers, and improvements to our distribution This has fuelled customer demand for are the leading seller of Aberdeen chain in relatively short time frames.
fresh baked bread and pastries, while Angus beef in the UK.
For example, this year and next our continually introducing new products We were also pleased this year 3.5 million plastic food delivery has helped us increase market share to succeed in our commitment to crates are being tted with a radioin speciality breads and rolls.
At the sell only free-range eggs, which tagging system to provide us with same time we have removed our includes all those used to make the detailed stock and production butchery counters, as we are able to more than 1,000 prepared foods we information.
This is the worlds offer better quality and value by presell with eggs as ingredients, like largest supply chain application of packing our meats.
Our Caf Revive quiches and cakes.
This was one of this technology, and its use will not coffee shops continue to increase in the factors which led to our award only reduce wastage, but also lead to popularity.
As at March 2003, we had of Compassionate Supermarket of even fresher food in stores.
Following 141 coffee shops in stores, serving the Year 2002 from the Compassion this success the DTI have chosen to an average of 600,000 customers In World Farming organisation.
grant Marks & Spencer funds to a week which makes us one of the In addition, we are a leading food research and develop the technology leaders in the coffee shop market.
passionate about quality A passion for quality and high standards, a determination to deliver authentic prepared meals Marks & Spencer won 11 of 23 awards at the 2002 Quality Food and Drink Awards, including a Gold Q award for our Chicken Achari dish for best overall product.
feel the difference Whether choosing furniture, bed linen or kitchenware, were making it easy to ll your home with stylish products.
Home catalogue and website now combine As a result, we will be testing a new Developing our Home business to account for 16% of Home sales, stand-alone Home concept store Like our Clothing business, Home with more emphasis on larger items.
Marks & Spencer Lifestore in two offers aspirational quality and style Unlike the clothing market, the home locations, the first of which will open at at affordable prices.
Our sales furnishings market is fragmented, the Metro Centre, Gateshead in spring gures of 403.2m inc. VAT, an with many independent operators 2004.
We have appointed the leading increase of 8.0% on last year, show and no one retailer with clear architect John Pawson, to help design our business is already strong in its authority or leadership position.
We this new store which will include a own right.
For the year to March 2003, see the combination of our current full sized house showcasing our new we continued to take the business market share of just under 2% range of products.
At the same time forward with particularly good sales source: Verdict GFK Mintel and we will also be re-launching our in furniture, where we offered a a growing home market as offering Home catalogue.
more co-ordinated look and a large us significant potential for growth.
We recognise that our customers use improvement in sales of kitchenware In March 2003, Vittorio Radice, a mixture of sales channels to arrive where we extended our product range.
who has a successful track record in at their final purchase.
With our Our bedding and bath product ranges retailing and strong background in new larger stand-alone stores, new performed well and we are now a the home furnishing industry, joined catalogue and online shopping, we leading provider of home textiles.
Marks & Spencer to lead this growth feel we have the strategy to ensure We also added to our collections programme.
His team is already that our Home offering is more of seasonal products such as garden working on plans for creating an accessible and attractive to more furniture.
innovative shopping environment, customers, so enabling us to build We increased the Home presence and new product ranges that reect market share.
on the Marks & Spencer website, the lifestyle of the modern consumer adding a full online Gift registry as well as developing new ways service in February 2003.
com 15 Financial Services a reduction in Chargecard use.
This We plan to increase sales in future A credit card and loyalty performance was helped by our simply by keeping interest rates low programme combined determination to become more efficient to attract sales volume, but not at any During the year, we have been and we exceeded our targets, reducing cost.
Our thorough credit scoring repositioning our business and operating costs by nearly 20%.
Bad processes aim to ensure we sell only preparing it for future growth.
Over debts also reduced, reecting tighter to people who can afford to take on 70% of our store card customers are management and last years changes to loans and credit.
In addition, we are in the most active age group for credit our write-off methodology.
a major sponsor of the Money Advice card use, so since September we have Trust, which offers free advice to Financial products that meet our been piloting a new credit and loyalty people facing financial difficulties.
The key measures we assessed It was a busy year for our protection were the take-up of the new card, Stores and People products, with launches of pet, average balances, the number of new Always looking to improve our wedding and travel insurance all well cardholders, propensity to borrow, customers shopping experience received by customers, and a trial of card penetration and incremental Having trialled a new concept for motor insurance due to start in the sales.
On each of these measures, the look of our stores in 2000 01, coming year.
We integrate the the pilot was successful.
Therefore, we started a programme in summer marketing of our insurance with other we are progressing with the necessary 2001 to renew our stores to create parts of the store where appropriate: commitments for a national roll-out a lighter environment for our for example, promoting our policies in the second half of the year.
This programme is now alongside pet foods, holiday luggage over 90% complete, with the balance Improved performance and our wedding Gift Registry service.
This year In what has been a very challenging In a very difficult period for world we have invested 41m in store market environment for financial stockmarkets, our investment products renewal and will now maintain a services providers generally, we have also fared relatively well, with sales, continual programme of improvement.
Operating profit moved especially of our High Income Fund, Our customer research has shown us marginally ahead to 86.4m, after bucking the general downward that the improved layout and look of absorbing 25m of infrastructure and market trend.
the stores enhances our customers development costs in connection with We have increased profits from our shopping experience.
The underlying loans this year by reducing both our operating profit excluding these costs costs and the number of defaulters.
was 20.2m ahead of last year, despite newideas to meet customers needs After a successful pilot scheme to test a credit and loyalty card, we are preparing to extend the programme around the UK, to add to the range of financial products and services we are able to provide our customers.
16 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. We were delighted this year to win affect their working lives.
There is an are able to resolve customers issues Retail Weeks 2003 UK Large Store area and national structure to the BIGs, in an average of three days, a marked Manager of the Year Award, with Stuart with the national forum being chaired improvement on previous years.
Cavallaro from our Bradford store by the Chief Executive.
In an innovation designed to further beating off competition from all major Through recruitment and training we improve customer choice and service, retailers.
We have revised our store have added to our visual merchandising weve been experimenting with selfmanagement structure to the point teams, and these have been emphasising checkout tills SCOTs in the food halls where we have a manager on the the importance that inspirational of three stores.
These tills were the first ground in every store, with clear displays play in improving sales.
Their of their kind in the UK, and allow responsibilities and accountability.
task this year will be to pass on their shoppers to scan their own purchases Each is now supported by a eldskills throughout our store network.
The trials were a based area management team offering Weve also been researching how great success, offering customers more the benefit of both internal and we should invest in improving the choice and allowing staff to deal with external experience.
This brings us in location of our tting rooms and the other service issues around the stores.
line with leading industry standards, customer service within them.
and provides a basis for further In another change related to tills, improving customer service, leadership We spent much of the year planning Marks & Spencer is a leading member and overall store standards.
more efficient ways to improve our of the Chip and PIN programme, customer service, and will be putting which brings together banks, building The Group communicates formally these in place over the coming year.
societies and retailers to tackle the with colleagues through Business Regarding the correspondence we growing problem of credit and debit Involvement Groups BIGs based already receive from customers, there card fraud.
In a trial throughout in every store and business area, in has been a rise in the ratio of general Northampton starting in Summer which representatives, elected by enquiries to complaints.
Also, far 2003, cardholders will authorise their peers, contribute ideas, share more customers now contact us by their purchases with a Personal knowledge and discuss issues that telephone than by writing, and we Identication Number PIN rather always a welcoming environment Creating light, open and inviting stores is just one part of our drive to constantly improve service standards with renewed stores, displays and layouts and trials of new checkout technology underway.
The intention is to moving our administrative ofces to the market at a total cost of 141.7m, introduce the scheme nationally once a network of locations.
This includes at a weighted average price of all the technology has been tested making fuller use of our IT centre 316 pence: and 225,383,628 B shares in use.
at Stockley Park, Middlesex, a new were redeemed at par.
Following this service centre in Salford Quays, redemption, 168,819,801 B shares Our stores also have a special role Manchester and the move of our remain in issue.
to play at Christmas, creating the Baker Street head ofce to a new magical look central to our success Pensions location in Paddington Basin.
This The FRS 17 valuation of the Groups The new building in Paddington Christmas, colleagues modelled our UK dened benefit pension scheme is contemporary, open-plan and latest clothing ranges and offered food at March 2003 revealed a deficit of welcoming, and offers us the exibility tastings with such success that we are 1.2bn last year 0.4bn.
Under to cope with changing business continuing these activities throughout FRS 17, this deficit is disclosed in conditions and practices as well as the year.
We also offered younger a note to the Annual Report and future technological developments.
shoppers the opportunity to meet Financial Statements, although we Santa for free, and enjoy games and are not yet required to account for it International songs with him.
Parents were allowed on the balance sheet.
The pension By working closely with local franchise to look on secretly through mirror scheme has a positive cash ow which partners we maintain a chain of 152 glass, having failed the have you is expected to continue for some time stores in 26 different countries.
test, which, of course, as the Groups contributions to the we are able to tailor our offering to the all children passed with ying colours.
scheme, together with investment needs of different consumer groups, We supported the Christmas in-store income, are greater than the annual with the help of local knowledge.
This displays with another successful payments to pensioners.
year has been a good year for growing Christmas advertising campaign sales and profit, particularly in Cyprus, The Groups actuary last reviewed the featuring stars that shop at Greece and Turkey, helped by stable funding position of the scheme in Marks & Spencer, such as David economic conditions and improved March 2001.
However, in the light Beckham, Denise Van Outen, product availability.
We also maintain of recent falls in the value of equities, Ronnie Barker and Joan Collins.
10 of our own stores in Hong Kong, we have decided to bring forward the We started an outlets business where improved efficiency has helped next formal actuarial valuation of the three years ago to satisfy a growing us return a profit this year.
Sales for pension scheme, which was planned consumer demand for these stores.
these Marks & Spencer branded for March 2004.
This will allow us to It allows us to sell some of the excess international retail operations our make an earlier informed decision as stock we generate by being the UKs stores in the Republic of Ireland to the contribution level and asset mix largest clothing retailer, but in settings and Hong Kong and our franchise going forward.
We recognise that this where we can maintain the qualities operation increased by 7.3% is likely to require increased funding.
We 6.9% at constant exchange rates currently have 13 outlets with a to 391.2m and operating profit Corporate Social Responsibility further seven planned, and in every increased by 14.9m to 35.6m.
Our responsibility to society outlet centre we are the main reason Corporate Social Responsibility CSR This time last year, we were negotiating people visit and the number one is a commonly used expression these the sale of our Kings Supermarkets retailer in gross sales.
days to describe the standards of business.
We terminated negotiations behaviour expected of companies.
At Moving our head ofce with DAgostino Supermarkets in the same time as this Annual Review, The changes in management structures November and since then we have we publish our first CSR Review, and communication with colleagues focused on improving the performance setting out our philosophy, principles, reect a culture change throughout the of the business, which had suffered due progress and aims in this area.
Group, which is aimed at keeping us to the uncertainty around the sale.
at the forefront of our industry.
We We believe our approach to CSR is want to work from ofces that reect Additional financial information fundamental to our business.
It is not, this culture change, and also help us During the financial year, 44,894,601 and never has been, an add-on for move it forward.
In spring 2004, as ordinary shares representing 2.0% of us, but an integral part of the way we reported in previous years, we will be issued share capital were purchased in operate.
Under our philosophy of 18 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. helping others to help themselves, can, but balanced with the social, Principle three: help make our we try to act as enablers whether environmental and animal welfare communities good places in which helping shoppers make informed effects of our activities.
Our review to live and work choices, or building mutually looks at what we are doing in terms As a major retailing presence in the beneficial relationships with suppliers, of product safety, sustainable raw UK and Ireland, Marks & Spencer shareholders and communities.
materials, animal welfare, responsible stores provide employment as well financial services, reducing waste and as a wide range of products and Our principles in action conserving energy and water.
services, and often act as an important We have set out our CSR issues under part of the fabric of many high streets.
We will: Principle two: create great places Retailing depends on economically take care and act responsibly in to work healthy and sustainable communities.
delivering high quality products This year, following a wide range of Our CSR Review outlines our and services: consultation projects, our colleagues community involvement and how we create great places to work: and throughout the business told us what go about being a good neighbour.
help make our communities good a great place to work needs to offer: places in which to live and work.
working as a valued member of a CSR in the future close-knit team, who get results and We like to think that simply by In three sections based on these enjoy each others company: choosing to shop at Marks & Spencer, principles, our CSR Review describes communication and consulting: customers will have the ultimate say the subjects our stakeholders have told reward for superior results, and the in how well we carry out all our us are important to them, and looks at development of skills.
Over the next few years form the basis of the policies we it as part of our job to anticipate we aim to measure our performance in apply across Marks & Spencer.
our stakeholders expectations and, all three areas.
In many cases we are wherever possible, exceed them.
But they are also an aspiration we Publishing our first stand-alone CSR have for suppliers, franchisees and Principle one: take care and act Review is part of this process.
We believe responsibly in delivering high quality this approach creates shared benets To view the CSR Review, please visit products and services for the company, employee and society www.
com thecompany We recognise that when we make a as a whole.
In our CSR Review we profit we also accept a responsibility.
describe how we are working with our Our aim is to achieve the best employees as well as business partners quality and value for money we within the Ethical Trading Initiative.
our responsibility to society We believe our approach to CSR is fundamental to our business and an integral part of the way we operate.
Under our philosophy of helping others to help themselves, we try to act as enablers.
com 19 19 Board members Luc Vandevelde Chairman Brian Baldock CBE Senior Independent Director Appointed in February 2000.
Born in Belgium, Chairman Luc worked for 24 years with Kraft General Foods Appointed in October 1996.
Non-Executive where he became Chief Executive officer of the Chairman of the Company from June 1999 to French and Italian operation.
He joined Promodes in February 2000.
Currently, Chairman of Sygen 1995, as President and Chief Operating officer and International plc.
Other appointments include latterly became Chairman.
He built Promodes into an Chairman of Wellington Pub Company plc and First international retailer with operations across Europe, Artist Corporation plc.
He is Chairman of Mencap, Asia and South America and merged Promodes with a past Chairman of The Lords Taverners, a Fellow Carrefour in 1999.
He is Managing Director of Change of the Royal Society of Arts, a Companion of the Capital Partners, a private equity fund.
British Institute of Management and a Fellow of The Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Roger Holmes Chief Executive Jack Keenan Non-Executive Director Appointed in January 2001.
Roger joined Appointed in September 2001.
Jack, currently the Company as Managing Director and became Chief Executive officer of Grand Cru Consulting Ltd, Chief Executive in September 2002.
He was previously was previously Deputy Chief Executive officer of with Kingsher where he was Chief Executive of the Guinness UDV and a board member of Diageo plc electrical sector and a main board director.
He is also a non-executive director of The became the Finance Director of B&Q and, three years Body Shop International plc, Tomkins plc and General later, he transferred to Woolworths as Managing Mills Inc. Jack is the Patron of the advisory board of Director.
Prior to that, Roger had spent seven years as the Centre for International Business and a strategy consultant for McKinsey and Co. latterly as Management at Cambridge University.
Principal, specialising in retail and consumer goods.
Alison Reed Chief Financial officer Kevin Lomax Non-Executive Director Chairman Appointed in July 2001.
A founding Accountant, Alison joined Marks & Spencer in 1984 member of Misys in 1979, Kevin became Nonfrom Touche Ross & Co. and, following a wide range Executive Chairman from May 1980 until June 1985 of financial and commercial roles, including since when he has been Executive Chairman, leading commercial executive in the Home division and Misys through a period of significant growth.
He divisional director of logistics, she was appointed has wide-ranging experience of the industrial sector, Group Financial Controller in 1996.
Alison is a nonincluding previous executive positions with Hanson plc, executive director of HSBC Bank plc, a position Wellman Incandescent Ltd. the Central Trading she has held since 1996, and a Trustee of Whizz-Kidz.
Group plc and STC, and is also a director of the Royal Opera House.
Chief Executive of Paul Myners Non-Executive Director Marks & Spencer Financial Services Appointed in April 2002.
Paul is Chairman of Appointed in November 2001.
Previously Aspen Insurance Holdings Ltd. and Guardian Media Managing Director at Lloyds TSB which she joined in Group plc and a non-executive director of the Bank 1994 as Group Finance Director for Lloyds Abbey Life of New York and mmO2.
He was previously Chairman rising to Director of Finance and Retail Development of Gartmore Investment Management Ltd. Paul is a within UK Retail Banking.
She began her career with member of the Financial Reporting Council and a McKinsey & Co. moving then to Morgan Stanley Trustee of Glyndebourne and Tate.
Laurel is a non-executive director of the Bank of England.
Justin King Director, Food Dame Stella Rimington DCB Non-Executive Director Appointed in September 2002.
Justin joined Chairman the Company in March 2001 from Asda Walmart Appointed in January 1997.
Dame Stellas where, following roles in Trading and Human career with the Security Service spanned 27 years.
Resources, he became Retail Managing Director of She was the first woman to be appointed Director Asda Hypermarkets.
From 1990 to 1994, he led the UK General of MI5 and the first person in that position launch and development of Hagen Dazs as Managing to have her name made public.
Previously, he worked for Pepsi International director of BG Group plc and has recently been where he was based in the Middle East having moved appointed to the Governments Archives Task Force.
from Mars Confectionery where, between 1983 to 1989, he held positions in Production and Sales.
David Norgrove Director, Clothing, Outlets and Graham Oakley Group Secretary and Head of International Corporate Governance Appointed in September 2000.
David joined Appointed in August 1997.
Graham qualied the Company in 1988 and, following a wide range of as a Solicitor in 1982 and began his career with the commercial and strategic roles, was appointed to Navy Army Air Force Institute NAAFI.
Davids previous appointments include joined Marks & Spencers Legal Department and Private Secretary to PM Margaret Thatcher, Assistant was appointed Head of Legal in 1990 and Company Secretary in HM Treasury and a position at The First Secretary in 1997.
In September 2002, a new National Bank of Chicago.
He is Governor of the Corporate Governance Group, including secretariat, National Institute of Economic and Social Research legal, audit and risk, insurance, pensions, senior Inc. and a non-executive director of the Strategic remuneration and senior succession, was formed.
Vittorio Radice Director, Home Appointed in March 2003.
In March 2003, Vittorio joined the Company from Selfridges where he had been Managing Director and Chief Executive since March 1998.
Prior to joining Selfridges, he was with Habitat, initially as Buying Director of Habitat International and, subsequently, as Managing Director of Habitat UK.
He is a non-executive director of Audit Committee Abbey National plc and Shoppers Stop India.
Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee 20 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Summary reports The Summary Financial Statement on pages 21 to 25, the Summary Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 28 and the Summary Directors Report on this page are summaries of information contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The aim is to provide shareholders with the key financial information in a clear and concise manner.
For this reason, the Summary Financial Statement does not contain all the information to give a full understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company and the Group.
The Directors report, the full accounts and the Auditors report on those accounts, which is unqualied, are contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003.
Copies may be obtained free of charge from the Company as noted on the back cover.
Summary directors report Principal activities The principal activities of the Group are Retailing and Financial Services.
Financial Services includes the operations of the Groups retail financial services companies, which provide account cards, personal loans, unit trust management, life assurance, personal insurance and pensions.
Review of activities and future developments A review of the Groups activities and of the future development of the Group is contained in The Year in Review on pages 5 to 18.
Dividends The directors have declared dividends as follows: m Ordinary shares Interim paid, 4.0p per share last year 3.7p 91.8 Proposed final, 6.5p per share last year 5.8p 147.4 Total ordinary dividends, 10.5p per share last year 9.5p 239.2 The final dividend will be paid on 18 July 2003 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the close of business on 30 May 2003.
Directors Current members of the Board are shown on page 19, with details of membership of principal Board committees.
Justin King and Vittorio Radice were appointed as executive directors of the Company on 1 September 2002 and 3 March 2003 respectively.
Alan McWalter retired from the Board on 10 July 2002.
On 2 April 2002, Paul Myners was appointed nonexecutive director of the Company.
Tony Ball retired from the Board on 4 September 2002.
Summary Corporate Governance The Group is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance and complies with all the provisions of the Combined Code.
A detailed statement of how the Group applies the principles is set out in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 11.00 am on 16 July 2003 at the Royal Festival Hall in London.
The Notice of Meeting together with explanatory notes is given in the booklet which accompanies this report.
Auditors report Auditors report to the members of Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. We have examined the Summary Financial Statement of Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within the Annual Review with the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement, issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. for the year ended 29 March 2003 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London, 19 May 2003 www.
com 21 Summary profit and loss account 52 weeks ended 29 March 2003 52 weeks ended 30 March 2002 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total m m m m m m Turnover 8,077.2 8,077.2 7,619.4 516.0 8,135.4 Operating profit: Before exceptional operating charges 761.8 761.8 629.1 14.7 643.8 Exceptional operating charges 43.9 43.9 Total operating profit 717.9 717.9 629.1 14.7 643.8 profit on sale of property and other xed assets 1.6 1.6 41.2 41.2 Loss on sale termination of operations 1.5 1.5 366.7 366.7 Net interest expense income 40.5 40.5 17.6 17.6 profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation 679.0 1.5 677.5 687.9 352.0 335.9 Analysed between: profit on ordinary activities before taxation and exceptional items 721.3 721.3 646.7 14.7 661.4 Exceptional items 42.3 1.5 43.8 41.2 366.7 325.5 Taxation on ordinary activities 197.4 197.4 195.1 12.6 182.5 profit loss on ordinary activities after taxation 481.6 1.5 480.1 492.8 339.4 153.4 Minority interests all equity 0.4 0.4 1.1 1.5 0.4 profit loss attributable to shareholders 482.0 1.5 480.5 493.9 340.9 153.0 Dividends including dividends in respect of non-equity shares 246.0 246.0 238.9 238.9 Retained profit loss for the period 236.0 1.5 234.5 255.0 340.9 85.9 Earnings per share 20.7p 20.7p 17.4p 5.4p Adjusted earnings per share 22.2p 22.2p 15.9p 16.3p Dividend per share 10.5p 9.5p Notes to the summary profit and loss account 2003 2002 m m Turnover from continuing operations UK Retail 7,066.0 6,575.2 International Retail 681.3 693.4 Financial Services 329.9 350.8 Total 8,077.2 7,619.4 Operating profit from continuing operations UK Retail before exceptional items 631.9 505.2 International Retail 43.5 33.3 Financial Services 86.4 84.2 Excess interest charged within Financial Services 6.4 Total operating profit before exceptional items 761.8 629.1 22 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Commentary The layout of the profit and loss account shows continuing and discontinued operations separately for this year and last year.
The left hand column for each year, which shows the results from continuing operations, gives a clearer understanding of the underlying and future trading performance of the Group.
Turnover UK Retail sales including VAT of 739.0m for the 52 weeks comprise Clothing, footwear and gifts 4.1bn last year 3.8bn : Home 0.4bn last year 0.4bn : and Food 3.3bn last year 3.1bn.
A summary of the sales performance including VAT for the year is given below: 14 weeks to 12 weeks to 15 weeks to 11 weeks to 52 weeks to % increase decrease on last year 6 July 28 Sept 11 Jan 29 March 29 March Clothing, footwear & gifts 14.8 13.8 9.8 0.3 10.0 Home 5.9 15.1 5.0 9.3 8.0 Foods 2.9 7.5 5.7 4.6 5.1 Total 9.1 11.1 8.0 2.4 7.8 Operating profit The increase in UK Retail operating profit before exceptional charges of 25.1% results from a 7.5% increase in sales excluding VAT, an improvement in bought-in margins due to the increase in overseas production and consolidation of our supply base offset, to some extent, by higher markdowns and higher operating costs.
Operating costs rose by 4.9% over the same period last year.
Staffing costs, which represent over half of total operating costs rose by only 1.8%.
Property costs increased by 8.0%, largely as a result of the sale and leaseback transaction that was entered into last year, which added 15m to rental costs.
Other operating costs increased by 11.9%.
This was largely due to increased expenditure on marketing, rising insurance costs and IT expenditure to upgrade our business systems.
Continuing International Retail includes Kings Super Markets as the planned disposal of this business has not taken place to date.
Kings contributed 7.9m to operating profit last year 12.6m.
The performance of Kings has been affected by uncertainty surrounding the sale and a one-off charge of 1.4m in connection with the closure of the two stores.
Excluding Kings, operating profit from the international businesses Republic of Ireland, franchises and Hong Kong increased 72% to 35.6m 39% after adjusting for 5m of abortive sale and restructuring costs in Hong Kong last year.
The Republic of Ireland performed ahead of last year and we have also seen an improvement in the performance and profitability of our franchise business.
In Hong Kong, actions taken last year to decrease footage in selected locations and reduce costs, together with a new pricing strategy, have delivered results.
Financial Services operating profit was 86.4m last year 84.2m.
The chargecard and personal lending products suffered from competitive market forces leading to lower volumes of new business and decreasing customer balances.
The bad debt charge for the year was 20.5m lower than last year, mainly due to declining customer balances and the absence of one-off costs incurred last year.
Coupled with cost reduction measures, the operating profit for existing business increased by 26% and nanced the additional investment during the year of approximately 25m in the credit card and loyalty programme.
Exceptional items 7.6m of revenue costs were incurred in connection with the relocation of the corporate head office, which is planned to take place next year.
Following a review of the general merchandise logistics operation, we recently announced the closure of our Hayes distribution centre and a reduction in the number of warehousing contractors from four to two.
These changes, which are expected to generate annual savings of 20m, have resulted in an exceptional charge of 36.3m in the year.
Asset disposals generated a profit of 1.6m and an additional loss of 1.5m was incurred in connection with the disposal of Brooks Brothers.
Taxation The charge for taxation of 197.4m represents an effective tax rate of 29.1%.
Excluding the effect of exceptional items the tax charge for the year is 206.5m giving an effective tax rate of 28.6% last year 29.6%.
Earnings per share An adjusted earnings per share gure of 22.2p last year 16.3p has also been calculated, which excludes the effect of all exceptional items referred to above.
com 23 Summary balance sheet AT 29 MARCH 2003 2003 2002 m m Fixed assets Tangible assets 3,435.1 3,381.2 Investments 31.5 50.3 3,466.6 3,431.5 Current assets Stocks 361.8 325.3 Debtors 2,455.4 2,619.3 Cash and investments 471.9 816.1 3,289.1 3,760.7 Current liabilities Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,678.9 1,750.8 Net current assets 1,610.2 2,009.9 Total assets less current liabilities 5,076.8 5,441.4 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 1,810.0 2,156.3 Provisions for liabilities and charges 228.4 203.8 Net assets 3,038.4 3,081.3 Shareholders funds including non-equity interests 3,038.4 3,080.9 Minority interests all equity 0.4 Total capital employed 3,038.4 3,081.3 Approved by the Board 19 May 2003 Luc Vandevelde, Chairman Roger Holmes, Chief Executive Alison Reed, Chief Financial Officer Commentary Tangible xed assets relate mainly to our properties and their tting out, and also to equipment and computers.
The increase in net book value of 53.9m since March 2002 reects the following: additions relating to our capital investment programme of 311.0m: depreciation charges for the year of 234.9m: and property and other asset disposals during the year.
Underlying this is a decrease in customer advances within Financial Services of 167.1m.
Cash and investments which have decreased by 344.2m, have been combined with the cash generated during the year and applied in repaying debt and to transactions with shareholders.
Total creditors due within and after more than one year have decreased by 418.2m largely due to a reduction in Medium Term Note liabilities and bank borrowings.
Shareholders funds have decreased by 42.5m.
Retained profits of 234.5m have been more than offset by transactions with shareholders purchase of ordinary shares and redemption of B shares totalling almost 300m.
24 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Summary cash ow statement FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 29 MARCH 2003 2003 2002 m m Operating activities Net cash inow before exceptional items 1,188.0 1,123.7 Exceptional operating cash ows 19.3 30.0 Cash inow from operating activities 1,168.7 1,093.7 Dividend received from joint venture 8.0 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 46.2 36.8 Taxation 216.9 179.4 Capital expenditure and financial investment 295.2 176.0 Acquisitions and disposals 38.8 261.6 Equity dividends paid 225.4 256.7 Cash inow before funding 354.2 1,132.0 Commentary Cash inow from operating activities of 1,168.7m can be split between Retailing cash inows of 848.8m last year 853.5m and Financial Services cash inows of 319.9m last year 240.2m.
Returns on investments and servicing of finance have generated an outow this year an inow last year due to interest paid on higher levels of borrowings.
Taxation is partly paid in arrears and the outow therefore reects the payment of the tax due for the previous year.
Capital expenditure and financial investment generated a cash outow of 295.2m.
This largely reects payments to acquire tangible xed assets of 324.5m, offset by sale proceeds of 25.0m.
The cash outow from acquisitions and disposals of 38.8m includes a repayment to the purchaser of Brooks Brothers for the difference between working capital at the date of the agreement and the date of completion, which was anticipated and provided for last year.
Equity dividends paid of 225.4m represent the previous years final dividend and this years interim dividend.
Cash inow before funding of 354.2m has been used to fund the redemption of B shares, the purchase of own shares and the repayment of debt.
Overall net debt has decreased to 1,831.4m last year 1,907.0m.
This breaks down into net debt within Retailing of 701.5m last year 475.0m and net debt within Financial Services of 1,129.9m last year 1,432.0m.
3 Restated for 2001 and prior years for the change in accounting policy for deferred taxation.
Group financial record Turnover billion Profit before tax and exceptionals million Based on continuing operations Based on continuing operations 8.5 1,200 8.0 900 8.08 721 7.5 600 7.61 658 647 7.53 7.48 574 7.34 495 7.0 300 0.0 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Adjusted earnings per share pence Return on equity % 30 20 25 16.5 15 20 22.2 15 10 11.5 16.3 15.6 13.8 10 7.8 11.2 5 5.7 5 0.1 0 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Historical Peak 26 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Summary remuneration report The full report on directors remuneration complies with The Directors Report Regulations 2002 and is set out on pages 13 to 20 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003.
Copies of these can be obtained, free of charge, from the Company as noted on the back cover.
Strategy The success of Marks & Spencer is dependent upon the skill and experience of motivated employees throughout all levels of the business.
It is part of our strategy to have a range of alternative rewards to attract, motivate and retain high calibre individuals to drive the performance of the business and secure new paths for growth.
The Board considers the principles of good governance when deciding remuneration strategy.
The type and level of remuneration and benets we offer are key to supporting this strategy and maintaining our market position as an employer of choice.
Remuneration Committee The Committee comprises Dame Stella Rimington Chairman, Brian Baldock and Jack Keenan all of whom are independent, non-executive directors.
Tony Ball was also a member of the Committee until he retired from the Board in September 2002.
The Committee recommends to the Board a reward framework to enable the Company to attract and retain its executive directors and senior management, giving due regard to the financial and commercial health of the Company.
The Committees approach reects the Companys overall philosophy that all employees should be appropriately and competitively rewarded, in particular for delivering superior performance which contributes to improved business results.
The Committee keeps itself fully informed of all relevant developments and best practice in the eld of remuneration and seeks advice where appropriate from external advisors.
New Bridge Street Consultants have provided material advice to the Committee on directors remuneration in the past year.
They also provide advice to the Company in respect of share schemes.
The Company Chairman, Chief Executive, Company Secretary and Head of Senior Remuneration also materially assisted the Committee in its deliberations, except in relation to their own remuneration.
Remuneration policy Total remuneration for executive directors comprises xed pay, variable pay and benets.
Fixed pay and benets are set at around median levels when compared with retailers and FTSE 100 companies of similar size.
Variable pay provides the opportunity to earn greater amounts for superior performance.
The performance-related element forms a significant proportion of the total potential package.
There are two components to variable pay: annual bonus and two long-term incentives in the form of share options and participation in the Executive Share Matching Plan.
Approximate expected relative value of future annual remuneration package for full-time executive directors Fixed Performance related Salary On-target annual bonus Long-term incentives 50% 20% 30% The value placed on long-term incentives is an estimate of the expected value of option grants and matching shares awarded under the Executive Share Matching Plan based upon the Black-Scholes methodology.
In addition to salary and performance pay, executive directors receive benets in kind as detailed in the emoluments table, page 28.
Analysis excludes potential benets from pension scheme.
Following the Chairmans change of status from full-time to part-time during the year, his remuneration package consists of salary, annual bonus and benets.
He no longer participates in any share incentive schemes.
The remuneration for the non-executive directors is determined by the Chairman and executive directors and is designed both to recognise the responsibilities of non-executive directors and to attract individuals with the necessary skills and experience to contribute to the future growth of the Company.
The non-executives are paid a basic fee with an additional fee payable to the chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Their fees are neither performance related nor pensionable.
They do not participate in any of the Companys Share Schemes nor the Annual Bonus Scheme.
The next review of fees is due in 2003.
Salaries and benets Salaries and benets for executive directors are reviewed annually.
Salaries are benchmarked against equivalent market salaries for large retailers and for other FTSE 100 companies with a similar turnover and market capitalisation and are currently set around the median point of the comparator groups.
The salaries are set by the Committee after consideration of the Companys performance, market conditions, the level of increase awarded to employees throughout the business and the need to reward individual performance.
Consistent with his part-time status, the Chairmans salary is pro-rated accordingly.
Current salaries for executive directors are set out in the Directors emoluments table on page 28. www.
com 27 Annual Bonus Scheme The Annual Bonus Scheme is designed to reinforce the relationship between individual and corporate performance and reward.
The targets are determined annually by the Committee and incorporate a mixture of financial measures and personal business targets.
The achievement of targets for all executive directors is assessed by the Committee, with the help and advice of the Company Chairman.
The current bonus for executive directors starts at 40% of salary for on-target performance rising to a maximum of 100% for exceeding targets.
Long-term Incentive Schemes The Company has two schemes which ensure that the directors remuneration is closely aligned with shareholders longer term interests.
a Executive Share Option Scheme Executive Share Option Schemes, now open to approximately 400 senior management, have operated for over 20 years.
Under the current scheme, annual awards of up to 150% of basic salary may be offered based on performance and potential and, for exceptional performance and potential, grants of up to 250% of basic salary may be awarded.
Recruitment grants can be made up to 400% of salary.
The performance targets for the current Scheme are adjusted earnings per share growth, as disclosed in the financial statement, measured from the most recent financial year ending prior to grant of at least: ination plus an average of 3% per annum for 50% of each grant: ination plus an average of 4% per annum for the other 50% of each grant.
Performance targets are assessed over an initial three year period from the date of grant.
If not met over the initial period, the targets can be retested on two further occasions over the four and five year periods from the date of grant.
The performance conditions were chosen because they require significant improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance for options to become exercisable.
Since the 1996 Finance Act, grants of Inland Revenue Approved options have been limited to 30,000.
Grants in excess of this limit will be unapproved options, which confer no tax advantage on the participants.
b Executive Share Matching Plan An Executive Share Matching Plan for senior management was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2002 and was introduced for the first time in July 2002.
The Plan currently operates for approximately 25 selected members of senior management.
Participants will be required other than in 2002 when participation was optional to invest one-third, in shares in the Company, of any annual bonus earned.
Any part of the balance of any bonus may be invested voluntarily.
In years where there is no bonus payable there is no investment opportunity.
The pre-tax value of the invested bonus will be matched by an award of shares, with the extent of the match determined by performance conditions.
The current performance conditions are: 50% of the invested bonus receives a matching award based on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR, compared to the constituents of the FTSE 100 at the start of the performance period: and the other 50% of the invested bonus receives a matching award based on the Companys TSR compared to a comparator group of UK retailers at the start of the period.
These performance conditions have been chosen because they are felt most closely to align the interests of senior management with the interests of shareholders, by rewarding management for achieving superior relative total shareholder return performance compared to direct competitors and the FTSE 100 as a whole.
Service Contracts All members of senior management have service contracts which can be terminated with 12 months notice from the Company, with the exception of Vittorio Radice who was initially appointed with a service contract entitling him to two years notice, reducing proportionately during the first year of employment to 12 months notice following the first anniversary of his appointment.
28 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Summary remuneration report Performance graph This graph illustrates the performance of the Company against the FTSE 100 over the past five years.
The FTSE 100 has been chosen as it is a recognised broad equity market index of which the Company has been a member throughout the period.
Performance, as required by the legislation, is measured by Total Shareholder Return share price growth plus dividends paid.
Total shareholder return 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 29 Mar 98 29 Mar 99 29 Mar 00 29 Mar 01 29 Mar 02 29 Mar 03 The above graph looks at the value, at the end of the 2002 03 financial year, of 100 invested in Marks & Spencer shares at the end of the 1997 98 financial year compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
The other points plotted are the values at intermediate financial year-ends.
Marks & Spencer FTSE 100 Index Source: Datastream Directors emoluments Current annual Termination Total Total salary fee Salary fee Benets Bonus payments 2003 2002 4 3 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Luc Vandevelde 420 630 478 617 1,725 2,234 Chief Executive Roger Holmes 600 538 109 491 1,138 914 Executive directors appointed from Justin King 1 September 2002 300 175 35 160 370 n a David Norgrove 330 307 20 268 595 570 Laurel Powers-Freeling 6 November 2001 340 325 71 303 699 333 1 Vittorio Radice 3 March 2003 425 35 875 290 1,200 n a Alison Reed 11 July 2001 350 335 54 306 695 504 Non-executive directors appointed from Brian Baldock 34 34 34 34 Jack Keenan 1 September 2001 34 34 34 20 Kevin Lomax 34 34 34 34 Paul Myners 2 April 2002 34 34 34 n a Dame Stella Rimington 50 50 50 50 Retired directors retirement date 2 Alan McWalter 10 July 2002 100 25 90 451 666 651 Tony Ball 4 September 2002 15 15 34 Former directors n a n a n a n a n a 1,007 Total 2,646 1,667 2,525 451 7,289 6,385 1 Vittorio Radice was recruited and appointed to the Board as an executive director on 3 March 2003.
He received 290,000 as compensation for loss of bonus from his previous employer.
Included under benets is 200,000 in compensation for the loss of pension benets and shares to the value of 665,000 in compensation for the loss of outstanding long term incentive plans with his previous employer.
These shares will be released in three tranches subject to continuing employment, in July 2003, 2004 and 2005.
2 Alan McWalter retired from the Board on 10 July 2002.
His termination payment includes one years salary of 300,000 and 151,000 for loss of benets which includes bonus, car benets, pension supplement and loss of pensionable service.
3 The annual bonus scheme this year has been awarded at a range of 87% to 98% of base salary dependent on the delivery of personal business targets and the financial measure of profit before tax.
The bonus gure in the emoluments table is inclusive of the amounts compulsorily and voluntarily invested in shares for the purposes of the Share Matching Plan.
Luc Vandevelde does not participate in this plan.
4 The benets shown in the emoluments table include the provision of cars, fuel and travel for executive directors.
Pension supplements are paid to Luc Vandevelde, of 16% of salary and Vittorio Radice, of 25% of salary as they do not participate in the Marks & Spencer Pension Scheme.
A 10% supplement, in respect of the difference between the pensions earnings cap and their base salary is paid to Roger Holmes, Justin King, Laurel Powers-Freeling and was paid to Alan McWalter.
In addition, under the terms of Luc Vandeveldes service contract, the Company provides accommodation whilst he is in London on which he is assessed for tax.
Accommodation is also provided for Laurel Powers-Freeling in Chester, to accommodate her working pattern two days in London, three days in Chester the location of our Financial Services operation.
A taxable benefit arises from this which is met by the Company.
Luc Vandevelde, Roger Holmes and Alison Reed received a cash sum in lieu of the dividends waived on shares which vested under the Restricted Share Plan.
com 29 Shareholder information Financial calendar Record date to be eligible for final dividend 30 May 2003 Annual General Meeting Royal Festival Hall, London 11.00 am on 16 July 2003 Final ordinary dividend for the year to 29 March 2003 to be paid 18 July 2003 Redemption date for B shares B share dividend payment date 25 September 2003 Interim results to be announced 4 November 2003 Record date to be eligible for interim dividend 14 November 2003 Interim ordinary dividend to be paid 9 January 2004 Ordinary shares There are 330,094 holders of ordinary shares who receive dividends at rates declared either by the directors or at the Annual General Meeting.
Further information is B shares holding 168,819,801 shares.
Features available by calling 020 7337 0501 or The next occasion when the B shares can of the service are as follows: www.
be redeemed for 70 pence per share is you can check your Marks & Spencer Dividend Reinvestment Plan You can 25 September 2003.
Holders of B shares shareholding elect to receive future dividends as shares will be contacted shortly before this date receive an e-mail telling you about the rather than cash by participating in with further information.
publication of the Marks & Spencer the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Annual Review, Annual Report & Registered Ofce and Head Ofce If you would like to nd out more Accounts and Notice of Annual Michael House, Baker Street, London about the Plan, please either log on to General Meeting on the Marks & W1U 8EP telephone 020 7935 4422 www.
co. uk where there is a Spencer website, instead of getting detailed feature on reinvesting your Registered Number 4256886 these documents through the post dividends and online application or send your AGM proxy voting Group Secretary and Head of telephone Lloyds TSB Registrars.
instructions electronically Corporate Governance Graham Oakley American Depositary Receipts ADRs access information about your dividends Company Website Shareholders are The Company runs an ADR programme value your portfolio by reference to a encouraged to visit our website to enable US investors to purchase recent market price www.
com, which Marks & Spencer Group shares in save your Company printing and has a wealth of information about US Dollars in the over the counter postage costs and help it to conserve the Company.
For further details please contact environmental resources designed specically for investors at JPMorgan Chase Bank, P. O.
Box 43013, Share Dealing A low cost telephone and www.
Providence, RI 02940-3013, USA internet dealing service has been arranged telephone 781 575 4328 www.
com Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars, through Lloyds TSB Registrars which The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex Capital Gains Tax For the purposes of provides a simple way of buying and BN99 6DA telephone 0870 600 3995 Capital Gains Tax the price of ordinary selling Marks & Spencer Group shares.
co. uk shares on 31 March 1982 was 153.5p each, More information is available online or which, when adjusted for the 1 for 1 scrip by telephoning Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Shareview Shareview is an electronic issue in 1984, gives a gure of 76.75p shareholder communications service ShareGift Shareholders with a small each.
Following the capital reorganisation which has been developed for your use number of shares, the value of which in March 2002, the Inland Revenue has by Lloyds TSB Registrars, who maintain makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish confirmed the base cost for CGT purposes the share register on our behalf.
to consider donating them to charity was 372.35p 81.43% for the ordinary Registering for shareview is easy, secure through ShareGift, a registered charity shares and 68.75p 18.57% for the B shares.
co. uk, administered by The Orr Mackintosh Design and production: Paufey Printing: St Ives, Westerham Press Copywriting: Richard Owsley, Graham Jones Printed on Mega Matt, 50% totally chlorine-free pulp from sustainable forests and 50% recycled bre.
Additional copies of this document and the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003, the CSR Review or an audio tape giving highlights can be THE QUEENS AWARD FOR THE QUEENS AWARD FOR obtained by calling ENTERPRISE INNOVATION ENTERPRISE INNOVATION 2000 2003 0800 591 697
