McCarthy & Stone plc Directors Report The Ordinary Share figures as at 31 August 2003 in respect of K Lovelock, M W J Thorne, M J Jennings and H P S Phillips included holdings of 1,107 Ordinary Shares each within the Companys Share Incentive Plan the SIP.
The figure for G N Day includes 580 shares held in the SIP.
The figures also include Ordinary Shares held on trust for the benefit of participants within the companys Deferred Bonus Plan, as to which further details are provided in the Report on Remuneration, set out on pages 30 to 35.
The 8.75% cumulative redeemable preference shares were redeemed on 1 October 2003.
K Lovelock had an interest in 35,000 such shares during the financial year.
Between 1 September 2003 and 5 November 2003 K Lovelock, M W J Thorne, M J Jennings, H P S Phillips and G N Day each acquired 51 Ordinary Shares under the SIP.
There have been no other changes in Directors interests during the period.
Significant shareholders The Directors have been notified of the under-mentioned material interests comprising 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this report.
J S McCarthy 12.91% Standard Life Investments Ltd 5.01% W F Stone 3.58% Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 3.00% No other person has reported a holding of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital.
The Board is aware that an additional 1,500,000 shares are held in a trust, which it believes to be a family trust in which J S McCarthy does not have a beneficial interest.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors will be put to the members at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of Charitable and Political Contributions, the Groups approach to its Employment Responsibilities and the Groups policy with regard to payments to suppliers, subcontractors and consultants are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report found on pages 16 to 21.
By order of the Board 5 November 2003 T L Green LLB Secretary Statement of Directors' Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a responsibilities in respect true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the Group and of the profit or of the accounts loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
