Conditioning Plan for jarosite pond No 3 in accordance with Article 14 of Directive 1999 31 EU on landll, the installation of fabric lters for the zinc melting furnaces and the positive stability assessment of the historical jarosite ponds.
A major environmental issue for the zinc industry relates to the management of the waste product created in the smelting process, which is high in iron reecting the high iron content of raw inputs.
In the smelting process, iron is removed as jarosite, which is classied in both Spanish and European legislation as a dangerous waste product.
Within the industry, jarosite is usually disposed of in specially constructed tailings ponds, which have to be carefully monitored and maintained to ensure ongoing protection of the environment.
At San Juan, by means of patented, leading-edge technology, jarosite is converted into jarox, a solid, stable and inert material, which is used as an inll aggregate.
The process allows Xstrata Zinc to meet the most demanding environmental requirements, extending the operating life of the plant.
In 1998, Xstrata Zincs metallurgical operations implemented an Environmental Management System EMS, and the critical environmental objective in 2003 is the certication of the EMS to ISO 14001 status.
Other important objectives include technical improvements at the jarox disposal site and cost reduction in waste management operations cadmium sponge and waste from the electrolysis installations.
The critical environmental objective at Reocn for 2003 is the successful closure and restoration of the mine site.
This requires final approval of the Closure and Restoration Plan by the Government of Cantabria, and then the successful implementation of the Plan.
Discussions with the regional authorities regarding the mines closure have been constructive and positive, and no major issues are expected to complicate the process.
The final closure of the tailings dam forms the basis for a research project being undertaken by the University of Cantabria.
The project conclusions will be presented to the Government of Cantabria in February 2003.
Management considers that adequate closure provisions have been accrued, and consequently the closure is not expected to impact on 2003 results.
Xstrata plc 49 zinc Developments Approval has been given for a further expansion of nameplate capacity at the San Juan fide Nieva plant from 460,000 tonnes to 485,000 tonnes per annum.
Construction on the project, which has a capital cost of US$6.2 million, started in November 2002, with commissioning expected early in the third quarter of 2003.
As San Juan is currently operating in excess of its current capacity, full year 2003 production is likely to be between 470,000 and 475,000 tonnes.
A new Oleum Plant, with an annual capacity of 52,000 tonnes, is under construction at San Juan.
The US$3.5 million project will provide a more cost efficient solution to disposal of sulphuric acid.
In order to secure San Juans electrical supply, comply with current tariff legal requirements and ensure that the facilities can benefit from alternative power suppliers following market deregulation, it is necessary to change incoming voltage from 132kV to 220kV.
The project, which commenced in 2002 and will complete at the end of this year, requires investment of some US$7 million in 2003.
Xstrata Zinc continues to analyse different investment opportunities, both in mining and smelting, where its technological and operating expertise can be applied.
As part of this strategy it has acquired from Metaleurop the Nordenham zinc smelter for US$100 million, which includes a payment of US$13 million for zinc related inventories.
The Nordenham plant, which is located near Bremerhaven in northern Germany, has an annual production capacity of 133,000 tonnes of electrolytic zinc per year and is one of the worlds most profitable and cost-efficient zinc producers.
In addition to the opportunity to acquire zinc capacity at an entry cost that is lower than that of a browneld expansion, key attractions of the acquisition include the potential for both operational and marketing synergies with San Juan especially to the high-premium German customer base, and a possible expansion at an appropriate time in the future, which could double plant capacity to some 250,000 tonnes per annum.
Following the acquisition, Xstrata Zincs annual production capacity increased to over 600,000 tonnes, accounting for around 20.5% of European zinc metal production and 6.4% of global output.
As discussed at the interim stage, the long planned closure of the Reocn Mine has provided ample time and opportunity for Xstrata Zinc to source replacement concentrates to prevent disruption in supply.
Agreements are in place to cover 80% of concentrate requirements for San Juan in 2003 and 2004, and 100% of Nordenhams requirements for 2003.
Treatment charges in these agreements have been xed at premiums to the current benchmark rates.
50 Xstrata plc other businesses Forestry Forestal Los Lagoss FLL activities comprise the management of a plantation of eucalyptus globulus, and the sale of pulplogs under a tolling and marketing agreement with Forestal del Sur Ltda FDS, which is valid to 2006.
Sales volumes in 2002 were lower than 2001, reecting the disposal by the former Xstrata AG of its forestry trading business to FDS on 1 July 2001.
The disposal also accounts for the lower operating margins and earnings of the forestry business.
Excluding the impact of trading activities, sales volumes at FLL reached 70,437 cubic metres in 2002, compared with 70,949 cubic metres in 2001.
Fibre prices remained depressed in 2002, due to additional supply from Australia and South Africa, coupled with the on-going weak performance of the Japanese economy.
The average price for eucalyptus globulus in 2002 was US$30.92 cbm, compared to US$ 33.26 cbm in 2001.
Prices are expected to fall further in 2003, as a result of continued oversupply, weak demand in Japan and the desperate efforts of pulplog producers to sell down their inventories.
While sales volumes are expected to increase by some 20,000cbm in 2003, operating margins and earnings will be impacted negatively by the lower price environment that is likely to prevail.
FLL obtained Forest Stewardship Council FSC certication in 2002, which is the most thorough and widely-recognised environmental certication in the forestry industry.
Magnesium In 2000, the former Xstrata AG commissioned the plant in Anderson, Indiana, to recycle scrap to produce magnesium alloy for the US automobile industry.
The facility comprises two lines capable of processing 25,000 tonnes of magnesium scrap annually.
Only one line has been commissioned, which operated at 20% of its capacity in 2002, due to severe commissioning problems, contract timing, a lack of critical automotive certication and negative market conditions.
