8 Financial and business operating review Business environment The return on average capital employed ROACE was The trading environment was challenging during 2002, with 13%, compared with 19% in 2001.
On a replacement cost natural gas prices and refining margins significantly weaker before exceptional items basis, the 2002 return was 6% than in the previous year, owing to the global economic 2001 11%, and 8% 2001 9% on a historical cost basis.
Demand improved in most parts of the business During 2002, we achieved $1.2 billion pre-tax underlying after the first half of the year but economic conditions performance improvement through volume growth and cost remained sluggish.
We have taken a cautious view about reductions compared with 2001.
Underlying performance the strength of the recovery through 2003. improvement is an assessment measured after adjusting The adverse business conditions had the greatest impact prices, margins, costs and capacity utilization to levels that on refining and marketing.
Worldwide refining margins were we would expect on average over the long term.
depressed for much of the year, at nearly half the average Net exceptional gains of $1,168 million before tax included level of 2001.
They may remain under pressure, although a profits from disposal of interests in Ruhrgas and Colonial colder winter after the unusually mild 2001-02 season could Pipeline and an electronic payment system, and a gain on help offset the impact of a subdued economic recovery, the redemption of certain preferred limited partnership especially in the key US market.
Margins in chemicals were interests BP retained following the Altura Energy disposal at levels similar to the bottom of previous cycles.
These items were partly offset by provisions for Oil prices were volatile in 2002.
The Brent price ranged losses on the sale of certain upstream interests announced from around $18 per barrel to above $31 per barrel.
The crude since the end of 2002. oil price increased during the second half of the year, partly Interest expense was $1,264 million, compared with reflecting a war premium.
Brent prices averaged $25.03 per $1,608 million in 2001, after adjusting for special charges barrel compared with $24.44 per barrel in 2001. of $15 million 2001 $62 million arising from the early Natural gas prices in the USA were on average lower than redemption of bonds.
The decrease mainly reflects lower in 2001, at around $3.36 per mmBtu compared with $3.96 interest rates.
per mmBtu, owing to a large surplus of gas in storage during Corporate tax expense was $4,342 million 2001 the 2001-02 heating season.
Cold weather and the start of $6,375 million, representing an effective tax rate of a decline in domestic production in the USA brought about a 47% on replacement cost profit before exceptional items.
rise in price to around $5 per mmBtu towards the end of 2002.
The effective tax rate on the pro forma result, adjusted for special items, was 35% in both years.
Results Historical cost profit was $6,845 million, including BPs result for the year was $8,715 million, compared with exceptional net gains after tax of $1,043 million and stock $11,559 million in 2001.
The result per share was 38.90 cents, holding gains of $1,104 million.
The corresponding figures a decrease of 24%.
The replacement cost operating result for 2001 were $6,556 million profit, $165 million net gains was $14,720 million 2001 $19,608 million.
Replacement and $1,900 million losses respectively.
cost profit before exceptional items was $4,698 million 2001 Capital expenditure and acquisitions amounted to $8,291 million.
$19,111 million, including $5,038 million for the acquisition The special items in 2002 and 2001 are shown in the of Veba.
Excluding acquisitions, capital expenditure was table below.
External environment Special items $ million 2002 2001 2002 2001 BP average liquids realizations $ barrel 22.69 22.50 Restructuring, integration and rationalization costs 774 761 Brent oil price $ barrel 25.03 24.44 Impairment charges and asset write-downs 985 175 BP average natural gas realizations $ thousand cubic feet 2.46 3.30 Insurance claim 184 Henry Hub gas price $ thousand cubic feet 3.22 4.26 Vacant space provision 140 Global indicator refining margin $ barrel 2.11 4.06 Pipeline incident 62 a Chemicals indicator margin $ tonne 102 109 Litigation 55 60 a Environmental charges 46 Provisional.
Other 22 1,900 996 Operating statistics Interest bond redemption charges 15 62 2002 2001 Total special items before tax 1,915 1,058 Liquids production thousand b d 2,018 1,931 a Taxation 456 375 Gas production million cf d 8,707 8,632 Minority shareholders interest 16 Total production thousand boe d 3,519 3,419 Gas sales million cf d 21,621 18,794 Total special items after tax 1,443 683 Refinery throughputs thousand b d 3,103 2,929 a Includes an adjustment to the North Sea deferred tax liability for the supplementary Marketing sales thousand b d 4,180 3,797 UK corporation tax as well as tax relief expected on impairments and related Chemicals production thousand tonnes 26,988 22,716 restructuring.
BP 2002 Financial and business operating review 9 Environmental improvement or improved performance?
This project proves you can have both and deliver competitive technological advantage in the process.
BP has been refocusing its strategy for the chemicals business to concentrate on seven core product areas that rely on competitive technological advantage or command significant market positions.
The challenge is to do this while maintaining and beating our target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
MATRO or, to give its full title, Membrane Application to Recover Olefins, a project completed by our Polyethylene Malaysia team, has demonstrated that we can indeed achieve significant environmental improvement while meeting our strategic priorities.
MATRO uses innovative technology and a smart solution originally discussed during a knowledge-sharing meeting attended by users of BPs licensed proprietary Innovene reaction technology.
This should allow the team to reduce by about 30% the carbon dioxide emissions at our Malaysian plant, which produces polyethylene for use in a wide range of applications.
But this is only half the story.
Because hydrocarbons are recycled back into the process, our materials costs are also reduced.
In fact, with estimated cost savings of $500,000 a year, the project should pay for itself within one year of commissioning.
MATRO offers a great example of how BPs technology and the scale of operations are helping to transform our chemicals business and deliver a distinctive portfolio of products.
10 A new oil and gas production unit in the Gulf of Mexico has been completed in record time, setting an operating efficiency benchmark for future projects.
BPs stated intention is to concentrate resources on the best investment opportunities and to focus production expertise where it will produce the very best returns.
Thats just what weve done at Horn Mountain, BPs Gulf of Mexico deepwater production unit.
The production team there has brought the well development into full production only 40 months after the discovery of deepwater reserves about half the time traditionally required to complete a project of this scale.
Horn Mountains 26,000-tonne spar, situated in 5,400 feet of water a record for BP is expected to produce an estimated 65,000 barrels of oil and 68 million cubic feet of gas daily.
This will give BP another key production facility in one of our most important regions, with the prospect of continuing high productivity for many years.
Now, by sharing and applying best-in-class operating practices, the versatile topsides design and streamlined development timeline can be replicated on future projects in the Gulf of Mexico and around the world.
BP 2002 Financial and business operating review 11 Net cash outflow for the year was $344 million, compared with an inflow of $1,002 million in 2001: lower operating cash flow and higher acquisition spending were partly offset by BPs creative lower tax payments and higher disposal proceeds.
Net cash outflow for capital expenditure and acquisitions, net of disposals, was $10,983 million 2001 $11,604 million.
thinking about The groups net debt, that is debt less cash and liquid resources, was $20,273 million at the end of 2002, compared a challenging with $19,609 million at the end of the previous year.
The ratio of net debt to net debt plus equity was 28%, compared with 29% a year ago.
We expect to keep this ratio in the range of technical problem 25-35%.
In order to maintain the substance of our existing financial framework, the target range has been restated following the adoption of FRS 19.
On a reported basis, the has delivered a percentage was 22% 2001 23%.
In addition to reported debt, BP uses conventional off solution that will balance sheet sources of finance such as operating leases and borrowings in associates and joint ventures.
The group has access to significant sources of liquidity in the form of improve the design of future committed facilities and other arrangements.
BP has a financial risk management process that deepwater drilling projects.
addresses the various risk exposures we encounter in the financial markets: these include market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
As part of a drive towards greater efficiency, BP is Critical accounting policies determined to redefine best-in-class in every aspect of The groups accounts are prepared in accordance with UK its operations, including its deepwater fields.
These play Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
This a key role in our agenda for future production growth.
requires the directors to adopt those accounting policies most The potential returns are excellent, although the process appropriate to its particular circumstance for the accounts of drilling and operating deepwater wells challenges our to give a true and fair view.
In preparing the accounts the ingenuity and technology.
directors are required to make estimates and assumptions A particular issue in deepwater wells is the impact of that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, thermal effects in the wellbore.
Historically, there had been assets and liabilities.
Actual outcomes could differ from the little research into such effects, and traditional ways of estimates and assumptions used.
dealing with this issue were technically challenging.
The directors believe that the critical accounting policies A smart solution arrived when, following the failure and areas that require the most significant judgements and of the Marlin well in the Gulf of Mexico, BPs Houston estimates to be used in the preparation of consolidated technology team set out to tackle the problem.
They used accounts are in relation to oil and natural gas reserves: original thinking and innovative technology to create several depreciation and amounts provided: impairment: and ground-breaking well designs that in turn led to new ways provisions for decommissioning, environmental liabilities, of mitigating these effects.
pension obligations and other post-retirement benefits.
The solution is fast becoming best practice across many other deepwater fields.
Once again, BP people have shown their ability to manage technical risks in the most challenging operating environments.
Capital investment $ million 2002 2001 Exploration and Production 9,266 8,627 Gas, Power and Renewables 335 352 Refining and Marketing 2,682 2,386 Chemicals 810 1,446 Other businesses and corporate 228 389 Capital expenditure 13,321 13,200 Acquisitions 5,790 924 19,111 14,124 Disposals 6,782 2,903 Net investment 12,329 11,221 12 Creditor payment policy and practice Business operating results $ million 2002 2001 As a general policy, the group encourages long-term relationships founded on trust and mutual advantage.
Exploration and Production 12,005 14,498 Within this overall policy, individual operating companies Gas, Power and Renewables 384 488 are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for their Refining and Marketing 2,081 4,830 business transactions and ensuring that suppliers are aware Chemicals 765 242 of the terms of payment.
These terms are adhered to when payments are made, subject to terms and conditions being Business performance met by the supplier.
BP p. l. c. is a holding company with no business activity Exploration and Production other than the holding of investments in the group and The result for the year was $12,005 million, compared with therefore had no trade creditors at 31 December 2002.
$14,498 million in 2001, mainly reflecting the fall in the price of natural gas.
We continued to make underlying improvements Dividends through a 2.9% growth in production and a reduction in The total dividends announced for 2002 were $5,375 million, lifting costs.
Dividends per share for 2002 Our strategy is to create a sustainable long-term business, were 24 cents, an increase of 9.1% compared with 2001. delivering superior returns by building a greater share of large, In sterling terms, the increase was 1.3%.
The board sets low-cost oil and gas fields.
We maintain a focused approach the dividend based on a balance of factors.
It considers to choosing the opportunities we want to pursue out of all present earnings, together with long-term growth prospects those available to us.
That focus means we have created five and cash flow.
It also considers the groups competitive new profit centres in which we have a distinctive competitive position and determines the payment, which broadly position: Gulf of Mexico, Trinidad, Azerbaijan, Angola and corresponds to around 60% of sustainable earnings, Asia Pacific.
calculated under standardized assumptions over a run Our aim is to balance growth and returns by allocating of years.
investment to projects with the highest expected returns, BP intends to continue the operation of the Dividend ranked globally: by improving operating efficiency: and by Reinvestment Plan DRIP for shareholders who wish to selling assets that are not strategic to us and have greater receive their dividend in the form of shares rather than cash.
We have already agreed divestments in The BP Direct Access Plan for US and Canadian investors 2003 amounting to approximately $3 billion.
also includes a dividend reinvestment feature.
In 2002, a number of new fields started producing, the most significant of which were King, Kings Peak, Horn Share repurchases Mountain, Aspen and Princess in the deepwater Gulf of As part of giving a return to shareholders, one of the steps Mexico.
In Trinidad, production of gas was increased from we take from time to time is to repurchase our own shares.
the existing fields to supply the second liquefied natural During 2002, a total of 100 million shares were repurchased gas LNG train, which started up in August.
In Azerbaijan, and cancelled at a cost of $750 million.
The repurchased the Chirag field contributed steady production.
In Angola, shares had a nominal value of $25 million and represented production from Girassol built up to its plateau level after 0.5% of ordinary shares in issue at the end of 2001.
At that starting up at the end of 2001.
Production started at the time the company still had shareholder approval, subject Lan Tay field in Vietnam in November.
In our other operations, to conditions, for the repurchase of a further 2.1 billion production from Northstar in Alaska also built up to plateau ordinary shares.
Since the inception of the share repurchase level, and there was strong performance from Australia and programme in 2000, 476 million shares have been repurchased Egypt owing to higher gas sales.
and cancelled at a cost of $4.1 billion.
BPs present intention These production increases in 2002 were partly offset by is to spend $2 billion on further repurchases of its own shares, a number of factors, including lower gas demand resulting subject to market conditions and continuing support at the from warm weather in the UK, OPEC reductions, severe April 2003 annual general meeting.
storm patterns in the Gulf of Mexico, the general strike in Venezuela and operational problems in Alaska and the UK.
Exploration successes in 2002 included discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico, Trinidad, Angola and Egypt.
The Plutao field is the first ultra-deepwater discovery offshore Angola.
We were awarded new licences in the Gulf of Mexico, Norway and Russia.
We have led our major competitors in the number of giant discoveries more than 250 million barrels of oil equivalent during the past five years.
Our reserve replacement ratio in 2002 was 175% a very competitive result that underpins our long-term growth plans.
Reserve replacement has exceeded production for 10 consecutive years.
BP 2002 Financial and business operating review 13 The BTC pipeline project is helping to create a significant new profit centre for BP as well as the potential for lasting BP is managing the construction of the Baku-TbilisiCeyhan BTC pipeline an ambitious project that will transport oil more than 1,760 kilometres from Baku in economic and social benefits Azerbaijan, through Georgia and on to Ceyhan in southeastern Turkey.
The scale and high profile of this project make it one of the most challenging BP has ever undertaken.
A panel of external international experts will publish an independent assessment of how our conduct of the BTC project and our other businesses in the Caspian region matches up to our stated policies and principles.
We have negotiated agreements with the parliaments and governments of all the countries involved.
Ongoing consultation with interested parties at local, national and international level is vital.
This follows a series of formal environmental and social impact assessments we have already carried out.
Throughout the project we will be doing all we can to minimize the social, political and environmental impact of the pipeline, which is designed to carry one million barrels of oil a day.
With our partners we have held discussions with close to 100 stakeholder groups, and run workshops and town hall meetings with local communities along the entire length of the proposed pipeline route.
We believe the pipeline will bring significant benefits both to the region and to BP.
14 We made significant progress in 2002 in building up our Gas, Power and Renewables five new material profit centres.
Late in 2002, development The result for 2002 was $384 million, down from $488 million started at the Atlantis field in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
in 2001, owing to a lower contribution from Ruhrgas as Atlantis joined four other fields Na Kika, Holstein, Mad Dog a result of its sale and a weaker marketing and trading and Thunder Horse that are also being developed in the Gulf.
This was partially offset by a better year-onConstruction of the Mardi Gras pipeline system, to handle year performance in natural gas liquids NGLs and increased the oil and gas production from BPs new fields in the Gulf, gas sales volumes.
continues and is on track.
Gas sales volumes increased 15% in 2002, although We made two major natural gas discoveries off the coast margins in the industry were less favourable than in 2001, of Trinidad in 2002, in Iron Horse and Red Mango #2, taking which had benefited from a period of unusual volatility in the total to four new discoveries in three years.
Margins improved across our NGLs business that our undeveloped gas resources in Trinidad now stand through a combination of operating efficiency, lower costs at 16 trillion cubic feet.
Along with the advantages of scale, and favourable market conditions.
We also achieved more improved liquefaction technology has reduced costs in Trinidad than 20% growth in sales of solar systems and panels, by nearly 30%, compared with LNG plants built elsewhere with an overall improvement in total gross margin against in the 1980s and early 1990s.
Continuing technology increasing competitive pressure.
developments and an increase in plant scale allow us to target We have responded to growing demand for cleaner energy a further 25% cost reduction by the end of the decade.
This by increasing the proportion of gas in our production to 42% should enable us to compete successfully in new LNG markets.
Through the gas, power and renewables In an important step towards making possible the export stream we have established a gas marketing business that of oil from Azerbaijan and the Caspian region to Turkeys is creating and capturing new market opportunities and Mediterranean coast, we announced the formation of the maximizing the value of the groups gas output.
Initial construction We are one of the largest marketers of natural gas contracts have been awarded, and the pipeline is on schedule in North America, with a market share of more than 10%.
This is designed to allow a new source With the completion of a multi-year transportation, supply of cost-effective and reliable crude oil supply, of up to one and storage arrangement with Kinder Morgan, we now million barrels a day by late in the decade, to be brought to have a leading position in Texas, the largest energy market the market.
BP is also a new entrant into several liberalizing In Angola, Kizomba B was sanctioned and approved, European markets.
We have attained a 10% share of the while progress on the development of Kizomba A means gas market in Spain and developed marketing activities in it is expected to start up in 2004.
Germany, Belgium, Italy and France.
In Asia Pacific, we are continuing to move forward with We are becoming a significant supplier to gas markets key natural gas resources, including Tangguh in Indonesia.
in the Asia Pacific region.
Within the last year, we secured Building the five new profit centres requires a high level important new markets ahead of developments in our of capital spending in 2002-04.
We intend to invest around considerable upstream gas resource bank.
These include sales $20 billion in these profit centres during 2003-07. to major Chinese customers for liquefied natural gas LNG Technical innovations continued to make a substantial imports through the Guangdong and Fujian import terminals, contribution to performance, allowing us to enhance the which will have gas supplied from Australias North West Shelf value of our projects.
For example, the use of 4D seismic BP 16.6% and Tangguh, Indonesia BP 37.2%, respectively.
technology improved recovery of reserves to a degree Globally, the volume of BPs gas production sold as LNG impossible just 10 years ago.
Through this technology we grew by 18% in 2002, with a significant increase resulting estimate some 24,000 barrels a day of additional production from the expansion of our Trinidad and Tobago facilities.
This capability will become available.
New deepwater well designs, translated into a 5.6% world share in gas produced and already highly successful in fields such as Thunder Horse, converted into LNG.
We are progressing plans for new LNG Horn Mountain, Marlin, Mad Dog and Atlantis, are improving import facilities in key markets in North America, Europe and safety and efficiency.
In November we launched the British Trader, the first of Our overall safety record improved, with a decline in the three new leased LNG ships, underpinning significant growth number of days away from work case frequency to 0.10 per in our trading, shipping and marketing of LNG volumes.
This was our best ever and also one In NGLs, we maintained our position as North Americas of the best performances in our industry.
It continues the leading marketer, improving our margin per barrel during 2002. improvement we have achieved since 1999.
We do not intend BP holds a 6% share of the global supply of NGLs, with to rest on this performance but will continue to seek further interests in Europe, Asia Pacific and Australia, and also a improvement in our safety record.
number of development opportunities around the world.
In February 2003, we announced an agreement in Customer demand for renewable and alternative energies principle with the Alfa Group and Access-Renova to combine continued to increase rapidly in key markets.
Demand for our our interests in Russia to create that countrys third largest solar products rose significantly, consolidating our position as oil and gas business.
Once completed, the transaction will a leading global photovoltaic supplier.
In manufacturing, we create our sixth new upstream profit centre.
rationalized our range of solar products by discontinuing the BP 2002 Financial and business operating review 15 Frito-Lay, the largest manufacturer and distributor of snack foods in the world, needed an energy services provider BP has built a strong that could deliver a customized solution to the complex energy issues facing its North American operation.
Crucially, it wanted to work with a partner who mirrored partnership with a new its aspirations and values.
Frito-Lay selected BP as an energy supplier, but soon found we could provide a full range of other products customer.
This is adding and services, including energy management, energy procurement, energy strategy and consulting, and value to the natural gas commodity supplies primarily natural gas and electricity.
With retail sales in excess of $15 billion for its North American and international divisions, Frito-Lay is a leader we market while meeting in its industry, with progressive and environmental issues high on its agenda.
This is an approach BP both understands and shares.
the customers broader Marketing gas is a highly competitive business.
But the ability to broaden the services we offer has added energy needs competitively.
value for our customer while meeting our strategic aim of becoming a partner of choice.
16 People around the world recognize and trust our brands.
Very valuable assets, they are a springboard to growth for our downstream businesses.
BPs challenge is to achieve lowest unit costs while simultaneously increasing market share.
Our brands are distinctive and valuable assets that will help us realize these goals.
Amoco, Aral, ARCO, BP and Castrol are all world-class brands, with leading positions in many markets.
They help us win new customers and deepen our relationship with the 13 million people we already serve every day.
By focusing investment on this portfolio of brands, supported by innovative technologies, we are achieving improved sales volumes and better profit margins worldwide.
We negotiated an exclusive two-year deal with footballer David Beckham to promote the motorcycle lubricant Castrol Power 1 in the Asia Pacific region the worlds largest motorcycle engine oil market.
This initiative has consolidated our leading position in the region, with 80% of targeted consumers identifying Beckham as a positive reason to buy Castrol Power 1.
Meanwhile, in the USA, a focused campaign has made more motorists aware that Amoco fuels, and in particular Amoco Ultimate, are available from BP-branded sites.
Sales of this premium fuel continue to outstrip all competitor products.
Similar success has been achieved on the US West Coast, where ARCO am pm has a higher level of brand loyalty than other major oil companies.
Aral is the leading retailer of oil products in Germany.
The Aral brand will be extended across all our retail sites there, offering distinctive products and quality service at more than 2,700 stations.
And BP Connect is focused on quality too providing a superior on-site food service in state-of-the-art convenience stores mainly in the UK and USA.
To date, over 486 sites have been completed, with more to come in 2003.
Our world-class brands are building business for BP.
BP 2002 Financial and business operating review 17 production of thin film modules.
We are starting operations at our Tres Cantos plant in Spain, which is designed to produce very high-efficiency photovoltaic systems using Saturn, our Pursuing an proprietary solar technology.
At the Nerefco oil refinery in the Netherlands, jointly owned with ChevronTexaco BP 69%, our first wind farm was ambitious fivecompleted and started providing electricity to the refinery and the local grid.
It supplies enough clean power for 20,000 homes.
year agenda Refining and Marketing The result for the year was $2,081 million $4,830 million in for exploration 2001.
The acquisition of Veba Oil from E. ON, announced in 2001, was completed in 2002, along with the sale of most and production, BP is of Vebas upstream oil and gas assets.
The trading environment was tough, reflecting a halving of worldwide refining margins, together with a further adverse focusing more than 50% impact from price differentials in BPs crude oil mix, and lower US retail margins.
Against this difficult background, we delivered underlying performance improvements in both of its upstream investment our refining and marketing businesses, thanks to improved plant availability, increased retail store sales and volume and on five material profit margin growth in lubricants, while overall operating unit costs were flat.
Greater operating efficiency was also reflected in a further improvement in our safety record during the year.
Our strategy is to grow through investment focused on key assets and market positions.
In each of our four areas of business refining, retail, lubricants and businessAngola is one of those five.
As one of the largest to-business marketing we continue to aim for greater businesses operating in the country, BP is set to play operational efficiency.
At the same time, we also seek to an important role in delivering the resources that improve the quality of our assets.
This was enhanced in 2002 will support recovery within the new context of thanks to the continuing integration of Vebas marketing and reconstruction and reform after 27 years of civil war.
The countrys enormous potential makes it of key We are one of the leading refiners and marketers of interest to us.
Our Angola team has built a strong gasoline and hydrocarbon products in the USA, where we foundation for growth through both exploration and own and operate five large refineries with extensive clean-fuel development.
Technical skills developed in similar capability.
In Europe we own or participate in 13 refineries, deepwater basins around the world have been used 10 of which are operated by BP, which substantially expand to great effect.
Today, BP is unique in participating in our capacity to market cleaner fuels.
Investment in our the four major deepwater blocks in the country.
refineries is focused on developing the capability to produce 2002 has seen real progress, with Girassol, Angolas cleaner fuels and on enhancing the quality of the products first deepwater project, delivering a full years production.
By the end of 2002, we were marketing Several more projects are under construction, while new cleaner fuels in 119 cities worldwide.
discoveries continue to be made.
In our retail business, competitive pressures intensified All this is proof of our belief that new areas such in some markets, especially the USA.
In order to achieve as Angola will not only renew BP in the medium term, above-average growth and take full advantage of our best but offer further, as yet unrealized, opportunities in the assets, we invested in our new Connect convenience stores, longer term.
expanding our presence mainly in core metropolitan markets.
In 2002, we opened 147 new BP Connect convenience sites, mainly in the USA and UK, and rebranded 4,611 stations worldwide with the BP helios logo and colours.
At the end of 2002, there were about 26,000 BP, Amoco and ARCO branded service stations worldwide and 3,200 Aral branded stations in Europe.
In due course we will rebrand all our stations in Germany as Aral.
Retail sales grew 7% last year in stores that were also operating in 2001, a similar rate to the previous year.
Retail fuel volumes grew by 10%, including the effect of the Veba acquisition.
18 Our leading global position in the lubricants business is based on powerful brands such as Castrol and BP, and continued technological improvements.
We continued to invest BP is in advertising and sales promotion.
This allowed us to achieve volume growth in 2002, despite a decline of 0.5% on average delivering its for the market, with an expanding margin.
In business-tobusiness marketing we offered our customers a range of innovative high-value services and cleaner fuels, and gained commitment a bigger market share for businesses such as Air BP.
A 377 million sale of retail and refinery assets in Germany and central Europe announced in February 2003 will complete to provide a the divestments required by the Veba acquisition regulator.
better environment Chemicals The result was $765 million, an improvement of $523 million compared with 2001.
Despite a similarly adverse trading through technological environment throughout the year, this was an increase of 216% compared with 2001.
This performance was achieved through capacity growth from both capital investment innovation and tailored and acquisitions, and significant reductions in fixed costs.
Underpinning this transformation in performance were offers for customers.
better safety and reliability in all our manufacturing.
For example, at Kln, Germany, our biggest site, our performance in both reliability and utilization was in the top quartile for For all of us, particularly those living or working in major the industry.
The site safety record saw a second year of cities, air quality is a pressing issue.
So an innovative lowsignificant improvement, without a single day away from emissions initiative pioneered by BP that has produced work case during a year in which more than 8.5 million dramatic and immediate reductions in emissions of man-hours were worked.
pollutants is very good news indeed.
During the year we completely reviewed our strategy, System City, launched in December 2001, is aimed and are now focusing on seven core products for which we specifically at commercial fleet operators typically bus have leading technologies and market positions.
We have or road haulage companies.
The initiative encourages opened new world-class plants and shut some inefficient customers to use two new products together: Aspira, ones, for example, switching high-density polyethylene a revolutionary ultra-low sulphur diesel emulsion fuel, production to a world-scale plant in Houston from the older and Vanellus C8 Ultima, an ultra-high performance and smaller Deer Park plant elsewhere in Texas.
enabled us to continue improving the quality of our portfolio.
For customers who have made the switch, including We also made some disposals, including the plastic Arriva buses in London, UK, the results have been fabrications business and one of the Burmah Castrol impressive.
Smoke has been cut by 65%, smog-promoting chemicals businesses.
By early 2003, we had agreed the nitrous oxide by 15%, asthma-aggravating particulate sale of the remaining Burmah Castrol chemicals businesses.
matter by 35% and carbon dioxide by up to 12%.
And We continue to improve the environmental impact of these reductions have been achieved without extra capital our operations as we introduce new capacity.
Old or new, any bus or truck can be switched our Chocolate Bayou olefins complex in Texas we are planning to run on System City with no modifications at all.
to increase ethylene production by 20%.
Yet the use of new technology at the site, where the expanded plant is expected to start operating in late 2005, should reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides from the olefins plants by up to 90%.
In addition to improving the performance of our own operations, we have also worked closely with suppliers to ensure that our products minimize energy use and waste while meeting customers needs, as in the manufacture of speciality acrylic fibres.
A unique partnership between BP, process suppliers, transport providers and key customers in Mexico and Italy has generated new methods of purifying and segregating acrylonitrile, which results in less waste and lower emissions at the point of fibre manufacture.
BP is now the worlds third largest petrochemicals company in terms of capacity, and manufactures and markets more than 26 million tonnes of products each year.
BP 2002 Financial and business operating review 19 In one of the worlds largest and fastest-growing economies, our ability to share experience and expertise across cultural boundaries makes BP a natural business partner.
The Chinese economy, currently worth $1.1 trillion, The Chinese government aims to increase the is growing at 8% a year.
Chinas need for energy is proportion of natural gas in its energy mix from 2% enormous and it is committed to meet this need in to 8% by 2010 an ambitious move that would have an environmentally sustainable way.
BP is playing substantial environmental benefits.
an active role in fuelling this transformation.
A leader in LNG production, BP was delighted to Our chemicals strategy, focusing on seven be chosen as sole foreign partner in the construction core products in markets that offer significant of Chinas first LNG import facility at Guangdong.
market share, is exemplified in our Zhuhai plant.
In addition, BP is involved in the supply of LNG Here innovative thinking and cutting-edge to Chinese customers via Guangdong and Chinas technology will revolutionize production of purified second LNG import terminal at Fujian.
These terephthalic acid PTA, used to make plastic bottles developments support our strategy of maximizing and polyester fibres and yarns.
Working together, the value of our gas.
BP research, development, engineering and design BPs downstream operations in China are thriving.
teams have built a brand-new PTA plant in record We are a major importer and wholesaler of LPG time, achieving a 44% reduction in equipment used in transport, retail, catering and manufacturing requirements and targeting a reduction of 30% into the developing markets of eastern and southern in site waste.
We have built and now manage our own LPG In Shanghai, BP has secured a joint venture import terminal at Ningbo.
Both activities show our with state-owned Sinopec and the Shanghai focus on serving high-value markets.
Petrochemicals Company to build Asias largest Our strategy of investing for growth in new ethylene cracker.
The plant will be sited on partially markets is spearheaded through a joint venture reclaimed land 50 kilometres south of Shanghai, with PetroChina.
Together we are launching 300 one of Chinas fastest-growing cities.
When complete, dual-branded service stations that will strengthen our the $2.7-billion SECCO project should meet rigorous market position in the countrys potentially lucrative environmental standards.
Its output will help satisfy retail sector.
In the long term our intention is to have Chinas growing need for products such as plastics a material share of the Chinese retail market.
for irrigation pipes, fabrics and fibres for clothing Whether in chemicals, gas or retail markets, and other core consumer products.
China offers huge potential for future growth to BP.
