Business and Financial Review 1 The UK and Continental buyout market a reduction in the prices being paid for the smaller A year ago ICG was predicting another strong year companies of lesser quality.
While the year started 2 ICG and the European mezzanine market well, by the summer activity levels were beginning 2001 saw mezzanine being used in 45% of the to reduce as concerns about the economic outlook increased.
The events of September did of course lead European and UK buyouts with a value exceeding to a further significant slowdown.
The principal reasons for this relatively shown clearly from the market statistics which show high usage of mezzanine were that the supply of the total amount of buyouts in the UK and Europe in mezzanine was strong, the high yield bond market was the second half of 2001 amounting to 14bn, a 45% only available for the very large transactions and the reduction on the 25bn of buyouts recorded in the senior lenders were becoming more conservative, corresponding period in 2000.
In times of leaving a gap to be lled by mezzanine.
uncertainty the level of M&A inevitably decreases Last year ICG declined a number of the larger materially because buyers are nervous about mezzanine opportunities because it was not attracted committing to a purchase and sellers are concerned by the nature of the businesses, the financial about accepting too low a price.
This is borne out by structure that was being proposed or the pricing on the M&A statistics for last year which show that the the mezzanine.
In addition, the weakening economic value of deals more than halved.
background was a deterrent to investing in a number Although activity levels were signicantly of other opportunities.
Since September, on account reduced there are still substantial amounts of money of the increased caution of senior bank lenders, there available in the market to finance buyouts.
The began to appear a number of attractive opportunities private equity funds still have many tens of billions particularly for independent providers of mezzanine of pounds available to them and they are continuing such as ICG.
to raise new funds for investment.
These funds are The most active competitors to ICG were again actively pursuing deals where there is some the banks which continued to underwrite mezzanine reasonable visibility of future profitability.
While alongside senior debt as one-stop shops when there there is strong competition for quality deals it is was a good opportunity to syndicate to other financial often the case that transactions take longer to institutions.
Since September their confidence in complete as buyers wish to get a clearer view underwriting has in many cases reduced, making it on current profitability.
more likely that some of them will seek the support To support private equity there are still considerable of ICG to underwrite large amounts of mezzanine.
quantities of debt available to help finance new There remain a small number of banks that are buyouts, particularly for the higher quality companies.
keen to build up their mezzanine portfolios and they However, in the short term at least, most banks appear have continued to be active in the market place.
There to have become more selective in their lending and, has also been some increase in the activity of some except for very high quality companies, less aggressive new independent funds but they are not adopting the in the financial structures which they are prepared pan European approach of ICG.
We also continue to believe that there are good The other development in the debt markets after opportunities for mezzanine in the non-buyout areas September has been the greater reluctance of banks and including recapitalisations and acquisition finance for investment banks to take on large underwriting risks.
In the short term ICG expects levels of buyout 3 The European high yield debt market activity in the UK and continental Europe to be The European high yield bond market had another bad better than the last quarter of 2001 but still relatively subdued whilst uncertainty remains about the year in 2001 with high levels of volatility, high default economic outlook.
However, once confidence rates and low recovery rates.
Despite this poor returns, M&A activity will increase again and the performance the pressing need for higher yielding large amounts of money in the hands of nanciers assets among European investors continues to result in should ensure that buyouts represent a significant increasing cash ows coming into the market.
As a consequence the high yield market is In the current environment high quality companies polarising into two parts: a distressed sector and a are still being acquired on high valuations but there is small but growing group of quality industrial issues.
7 Intermediate Capital Group Business and Financial Review continued In the distressed debt category are telecom and cable New loans and investments The total amount of companies where the market weighting decreased mezzanine loans and investments underwritten or from 61% to 28% due to the combination of lower provided by ICG during the year amounted to 308m new issuance volume, lower secondary trading levels which related to 16 new deals.
ICG held 176m of and defaults.
Nine telecom companies with aggregate this on its Balance Sheet while 51m was passed to its e3.5bn defaulted in 2001. issuance of fund management clients.
The remaining 81m was Overall European high yield issuance fell in 2001 syndicated to third parties.
as a decrease in telecom and cable volume offset the ICG completed eight deals in France, five in the 30% increase in non-telecom volume.
Thirty eight UK and one each in Ireland, Netherlands and Sweden.
deals were priced during the year totalling Eleven of these deals were in respect of buyouts, three Helpfully the increase in non-telecom issuance after to provide support for acquisition finance and two the first quarter of 2001 led to improved diversity renancings.
ICG was the lead mezzanine investor on over prior years.
Also, signicantly the market was 11 of the 16 deals completed in the year.
enlarged by the fall of a number of investment grade Repayments During the year investments amounting corporates into the high yield arena.
The performance of European high yield in 2001 to 81m in 12 companies were fully repaid or was once again very disappointing, mainly due to the prepaid.
The repayments resulted from either a listing problems in the telecom and cable sectors.
on a stock market, a trade sale or the renancing of From ICGs point of view the changing market mezzanine loans with cheaper debt.
On the one hand high yield Provisions It is ICGs policy to make specic issuance now tends to be limited to larger quality e150m industrial credits where the issue size exceeds provisions against loans and investments where, in the which leaves a substantial middle market in which opinion of ICGs management, the value of that loan mezzanine is a primary nancing source.
On the or investment has become impaired.
In the last other hand performance of the high yield market has financial year ICG made 18.2m of provisions which led to significant difficulty in managing the high yield were in respect of loans to four companies.
During portfolios in ICGs CDOs.
the year, a 2m provision that had been made in a prior year has been released as the performance of 4 The portfolio the company has signicantly improved.
As a result, During the year to 31 January 2002, ICGs portfolio the net charge for the year amounted to 16.2m.
of loans and investments increased from 630m to The level of provisioning this year was similar 704m, an increase of 12%.
This is a lower rate of to that in the previous year and related to two new increase than in the previous year but reects both the underperforming investments plus further provisioning high level of new lending activity in the previous year on two investments where a partial provision had and the effects of the economic slowdown during this previously been made.
At the year end, ICGs total year.
The strengthening of sterling against the euro provisions amounted to 42.9m which were in respect during the year resulted in the sterling value of the of seven investments.
This represents 78% of the total euro denominated portfolio decreasing by 18m.
cost of these loans and 6% of the gross loan book.
ICGs portfolio is spread across 11 countries with Shares and warrants As a result of its lending 64% in continental Europe.
The level of activity in France during the year continued to be very strong activity, ICG holds unquoted shares and warrants and it now represents 35% of the portfolios.
While whose value is not included in the balance sheet.
ICG opened its Hong Kong ofce in September At the year end, the directors valuation of these 2001, no investments had been made there by the unquoted shares and warrants amounted to 55m end of the year.
compared to 37m at the beginning of the year.
In addition to diversifying its risk by geographical The increase reects the maturing of our portfolio area, ICG also invests in a wide range of industrial and the lower level of exits achieved during the year.
At the end of the year the portfolio was In addition to its portfolio of unquoted shares and spread across 29 sectors with the largest exposure warrants, ICG holds a portfolio of listed shares in any one sector being 13%.
acquired as a result of earlier exits.
At the year end, Details of the portfolio, including new loans and the excess market value of this portfolio over its repayments, may be found on pages 11 15. cost was 4m.
8 Intermediate Capital Group Business and Financial Review continued badly.
In these circumstances it has been difficult to manage the two existing CDOs, which themselves Value of funds under management m have leveraged structures.
ICG is pleased to report however that each of the CDOs, which invest in high 1200 yield bonds, have signicantly outperformed the market and still remain within their financial 1100 covenants.
Since the year end the volatility of the high 1000 yield bond market has been more acute.
The ongoing 900 performance of the CDOs will depend on the health of the market.
800 While in the near term the growth in ICGs high 700 yield bond fund management is likely to be restricted by the bad performance of the high yield bond market 600 and the limited diversity it offers, ICG continues to be 500 optimistic about the prospects of growing its funds under management in leveraged loans.
400 300 6 Borrowing and loan facilities At the end of the financial year, ICGs total 200 borrowings amounted to 524m, an increase of 100 62m over the gure at the beginning of the year.
In the spring of 2001, ICG returned to the private 0 placement market, raising US$110m 77m from Mezzanine Funds CDO and Loan Funds a number of US investors including three new investors and a further 25m from two UK institutional investors.
The maturity on these funds 5 Fund management is between five and ten years.
Subsequent to the year end, ICG increased its During the year, ICG invested a Mezzanine banking facilities by 90m through a new revolving further 51m of mezzanine on behalf of its fund credit facility led by Barclays, HBOS and Lloyds-TSB.
Virtually all of this amount Following this ICGs total borrowing facilities was invested on behalf of the Mezzanine Fund 2000 amounted to 768m.
which was raised in the previous year.
After 66m 7 Shareholders funds of fund management asset repayments, the amount At the end of the year, ICGs shareholders funds invested on behalf of its clients at the end of the year was 250m, compared with 265m at the beginning amounted to 199m, an increase of 13m.
For the second year running ICG movement on shareholders funds is set out in included in its profit carried interest received from Note 19 to the accounts.
Including the full gross some of its more mature fund management clients.
value of quoted shares and unquoted shares and warrants referred to earlier, ICGs equity base has High Yield fund management During the year increased to 258m compared to 244m at the ICG was successful in raising its first leveraged loan beginning of the year.
e450m 280m from UK fund, Promus I, raising 8 Results for the year and European investors.
This fund is focused much ICGs results for the year to 31 January 2002 are more on leverage loans than high yield bonds as ICG believes they offer a more attractive risk return summarised on page 1 to these statements.
It brings to profits amounted to 41.7m compared to 58.0m funds under management in leveraged loans and in the previous year.
This fall in profits was caused high yield bonds.
by the much lower level of capital gains compared Last year ICG voiced its concern that the high to the high levels achieved in the previous year.
yield bond market would be volatile.
This has indeed The pretax return on shareholders funds been the case and the market has performed very amounted to 22%.
9 Intermediate Capital Group 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Business and Financial Review continued profits after tax amounted to 28.9m compared Net capital gains ICG achieved capital gains during with 40.5m for the previous year.
Undiluted the year of 21.1m compared to the record level the earnings per share amounted to 49.3p compared previous year of 56.9m.
After deducting specic to 69.2p last year.
provisions of 16.2m 2001 16.9m and the cost The constituent parts of ICGs profits are: of the related employee incentives, net capital gains amounted to 2.7m compared to 24.5m the Core income Core income, the most important previous year.
Capital gains were realised from element of ICGs profits, which is dened as net eight different companies of which six were trade interest and dividend income plus fee income less sales or renancings with the remainder being from related administrative expenses, increased by 16% to the sale of listed shares.
39.0m compared to 33.5m in the previous year.
The cost of the medium-term incentive scheme including discretionary contributions to the Net interest income Net interest income increased companys Employee benefit Trust decreased from by 21% from 29.8m to 36.0m.
15.5m the previous year down to 2.2m this year This rise was due to a number of factors including as a result of the signicantly lower level of capital the growth in the loan book, the continuing use of gains coupled with a lower percentage payout roll-up interest in the structure of mezzanine according to the rules of the scheme.
transactions and the receipt of non-accrued interest on a previously underperforming loan.
Fee income Fee income increased from 13.3m in the previous year to 14.3m.
ICG earned less arrangement and underwriting fees this year, 4.7m compared to 7.0m last year, the reason for which was the overall lower levels of activity and the lower number of larger deals completed.
Fees from fund management activity increased during the year, both on the mezzanine and nonmezzanine side.
Total fees from this activity increased from 5.6m to 8.8m.
Fees from the management of mezzanine assets amounted to 6.2m, compared with 3.9m last year.
This included the receipt of carried interest fees of 2.0m compared to 0.8m last year.
Fees from the management of the two CDO funds and the new senior loan fund amounted to 2.6m compared to 1.7m for last year.
Recurring fees in the form of monitoring and agency fees increased from 0.7m to 0.8m.
Expenses Administrative and operating expenses increased to 11.3m from 9.6m in the previous year.
The increase arose from a number of factors including increased staff costs, and also a higher than usual amount of professional fees relating to aborted transactions.
The costs for the year also reect five months of costs for our new Hong Kong operation and also a full years charge for the new French premises.
These expenses represent 29% of core income.
