Business Review Consumer Banking Cards is one of our most important Consumer Banking has seen strong businesses, generating high returns.
growth in all its markets outside of It also presents us with a great opportunity Hong Kong.
Business volumes, revenue, for potential growth.
We are the largest pre-provision profit and trading profit cards provider in a number of countries, increased in virtually every market.
which gives us scale and competitive Our focus on costs has also delivered advantage in the marketplace.
In India a significant improvement in the cost we launched a number of co-branded income ratio.
The bankruptcy issue in Hong Kong has Karen Ngui Mortgages and Auto Finance had a significant impact on our profitability.
Global Head, Group Brand Management We are well positioned in this sector, However, we acted decisively by putting and Strategic Marketing and have seen earnings grow and margins in place a number of initiatives to mitigate The new Standard Chartered is an exciting stabilise.
Key markets such as Singapore and dynamic organisation, built on our heritage, the impact.
These initiatives focused and Hong Kong delivered strong growth anchored in our values and positioned for the on strengthening the risk management and outpaced the market.
I believe we have a world-class brand framework, reducing exposure in high grew at 13 per cent and India has almost and the challenge is to stay focused on our goal risk segments, improving our collections doubled its loans outstanding.
Taiwan to be the right partner for our customers, staff process, and driving through cost and the communities in which we operate.
has also shown rapid growth in this sector.
Bankruptcies remain a big issue for the banking industry although The credit quality of our mortgage Facts the impact on our portfolio has declined portfolio remains resilient.
For example, World-wide research during brand in recent months.
our mortgage delinquency rates in Hong development showed that: Over 2,000 consumers signicantly prefer Kong have fallen from 0.77 per cent in Our Qualifying Full Bank status has our new brand identity.
2001 to 0.63 per cent at the end of 2002, enhanced our distribution capability in Over 10,000 consumers and staff endorse which is lower than the market average Singapore.
We launched a shared ATM our brand values.
of 1.06 per cent according to Hong Kong Over 2,000 consumers afrmed that network in conjunction with two banks Monetary Authority gures.
the I Believe campaign created a positive giving customers access to a total of 54 impression and increased their preference locations island-wide.
In addition, we are We launched MortgageOne, an innovative for Standard Chartered.
the only foreign bank admitted into the product which allows customers to offset local NETS direct debit services network, the interest earned on current accounts We must allowing us to offer services to 17,000 against the interest on their mortgage.
Leverage our brand to create further retailers.
Standard Chartered was named The account was initially launched differentiation and enhance our Best Retail Bank in Singapore and Asia in Malaysia and subsequently rolled out business results.
Pacic by Asian Banker magazine.
in Hong Kong, Singapore and India, with Realise our full potential by living our brand values.
It now accounts for more Cards and Personal Loans than 35 per cent of new sales.
As a result We have had very strong growth in we gained strong market shares in our both Credit Cards and Personal Loans.
Growth across India, Middle East, South Asia and Singapore has been in excess Wealth Management of 20 per cent.
significant revenue growth in guaranteed funds, retail, treasury and bancassurance products, has been offset by declining interest margins on deposits.
Revenue by Product $ million 14 Standard Chartered We are a trusted and well-respected provider Commitment to our markets.
of financial products and services.
We have built up an enviable knowledge of local markets in Asia, Africa, the Americas and the Middle East.
We have been in many of our In many cases, we have had a presence markets for several generations for more than a century.
Our first two branches were in Calcutta and Shanghai and we have been operating continuously in China for the last and have become a trusted partner 144 years.
We issue banknotes in Hong Kong.
When the Asian crisis hit in 1997 we continued to businesses and individuals.
to support businesses in the region.
15 Business Review Continued While it has been a difficult market We were able to exploit falling US dollar for equity funds and pensions, our assets interest rates, which generated strong under management grew signicantly revenues, and continue to top the with India, Taiwan and Indonesia Asia league tables in xed income accounting for much of the new growth.
The Asian Fixed In Malaysia our range of unit trusts Income business showed further includes eight Islamic banking funds.
growth and we grew our syndications market share.
Wholesale Banking A wider product range complements Wholesale Banking is moving from our strength in emerging markets Foreign Peter Sullivan a lending oriented and capital intensive Exchange.
This includes Currency Options Chief Executive officer Africa business to one focused on a more and Interest Rate Derivatives, Fixed In 2002, Africa contributed eight per cent balanced product range and on Income, Structured Asset Solutions, of the Groups pre-tax profit.
This is in spite improving returns.
of major challenges in one of our key markets, Loan Syndications, Corporate Advisory Zimbabwe.
The African business, which has We have reshaped the business, trading and Funds Management.
demonstrated strong growth across the region, revenue for lower risk, and strengthened is poised to grow further, with expansion plans our capital market franchise, cross-selling Trade Finance and Lending in Nigeria and South Africa.
The vision for Africa products that provide higher return.
The repositioning of our trade and lending is to be clearly the leading international bank We are also focusing on a smaller number portfolio has had a short-term impact on the African continent.
Our focus is to grow of high value customers, and exiting on revenues.
However, the overall quality our revenue through innovative products customers and segments that of our portfolio has improved as a result.
and a robust sales culture, while continuing do not generate the right return.
We have grown market share for trade to manage risk.
products in key countries, despite exiting We have seen the benets of the Facts some of the lower return segments measures we have taken to control risks.
and were appointed Asian trade These changes, together with historic Biggest bank by trading profit and market finance partner to a number of other share in many African countries.
high levels of provisions, have resulted financial institutions.
Consistently profitable, particularly in local in a lower debt charge for Wholesale currency terms.
Banking and good improvement In November 2002 we launched B2BeX, Leading bank in Trade and Treasury Services.
our leading-edge platform designed to facilitate cross-border trade and supply We must Global Markets chain management.
In December B2BeX Further improve the levels of customer service.
It was an important year for Global won the ifs BT Financial Innovation Expand our business in Nigeria.
We have seen new revenue Awards 2002 in the Most Innovative Continue to build employee engagement growth from a broader and more Business to Business Initiative category.
through our Africa First initiative.
sophisticated product set, including credit derivatives and asset backed Cash Management and Custody securitisation.
We have also launched Cash transaction volumes continue innovative retail bonds for corporations to grow and we maintained our position such as Wharf Holdings, Mass Transit as a leading Asian Cash Management Railway Corporation and Hong Kong provider.
However revenues fell reecting Airport Authority.
These bonds utilise both the low interest rate environment.
our Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking capabilities to deliver effective debt nancing solutions that meet the needs of local retail investors.
Net Revenue % Africa excluding Zimbabwe, as a percentage of the Group 16 Standard Chartered We believe that our international breadth One of the worlds most international is a competitive advantage.
More than 85 per cent of our revenue is generated from outside OECD countries.
We are a major global We are truly a multi-cultural company.
player with a presence in over International diversity is part of our DNA.
We understand the cultures and the aspirations of our customers around the world.
Our people are drawn of our 150th anniversary we will be celebrating our internationalism, encouraging employees from local markets and bring with to embrace each others cultures and traditions.
them a wealth of local knowledge and expertise.
17 Business Review Continued We have strengthened our franchise In addition to processing, the hubs in the Middle East and South Asia, also provide information technology IT, invested in Cash Management capabilities, systems development, human resources delivered new products to market, and and finance services to the Bank.
launched a new internet based platform.
This has all contributed to the aquisition Telecommunications of a number of new customers.
Reliable and economic telecommunications are vital to a bank Investing in our Cash Management with our international scale of operations product capabilities has resulted in and are a key enabler of our centralisation deposit growth of 16 per cent.
In addition Gareth Bullock strategy.
We have installed an Internet we have won a number of significant Director of Standard Chartered Bank Protocol-based global-wide area data regional mandates from some of the Group Head, Technology and Operations network.
A separate but complementary worlds leading multinationals.
In July Group Technology and Operations is Standard satellite network was installed for our Chartereds central nervous system and is vital 2002, we were appointed by the Hong African business.
Additionally, we also to the Groups success.
We cover a broad Kong Monetary Authority as the sole signed a contract for international voice range of services from communications settlement institution for Euro clearing.
telecommunications, which will lead to processing transactions and data.
We are to significant cost reductions.
at the heart of the Banks goals to improve cost, Technology and Operations service quality and exibility.
We will continue In 2002 we brought together the to reshape our infrastructure to standardise, Technology Supporting technology and operations functions centralise and re-engineer our technology and Business Development under one operating model.
This has already led to the creation The major focus of our investment in and Operations is an integrated part of two service centres.
technology is to provide a cost-efficient of the Bank, supporting the development platform that enables improvement Facts and growth of Consumer Banking, in products and customer service.
2,200 staff in two centralised service centres Wholesale Banking and regional in Chennai and Kuala Lumpur.
It also supports our drive Two major initiatives were launched last Wide range of processes migrated to improve cost, service quality year focusing on our Consumer Banking to the service centres banking operations, and exibility through standardisation, networks in Hong Kong and Singapore.
credit cards, systems support, IT, finance centralisation and re-engineering.
We have implemented the first stages and HR.
of the Customer Sales and Service $60 million cost reduction as a result of centralising processes and products Global Hubs project based on a world-class customer in first full year of implementation.
By the end of the year there were over relationship management solution and the 2,200 staff in our centralised hubs in installation of an advanced teller platform.
We must Kuala Lumpur and Chennai, servicing In August we successfully launched a new Continue to focus on providing a wide range of banking products such a cost-efficient platform.
branch banking system in United Arab as trade, credit cards and payments.
Continue to migrate processes and products Emirates, called eBBS, which we aim We expect the number of staff to increase into the centralised service centres.
to roll out in the rest of Middle East and signicantly in 2003 as the size South Asia and range of operations processes migrated increases.
Total Operating Expenses $ million 18 Standard Chartered Our refreshed brand is aligned to the lifestyle Strong, well regarded brand.
and aspirations of our customers.
Customers trust our brand as we strive to become the partner of choice the right partner for providing Customers prefer our refreshed world-class financial products and services.
It is built on our values, which are also rmly brand, which has been introduced embedded in the Groups culture.
Branches around the world, from India globally.
Our brand signies to United Arab Emirates, Singapore to Kenya have a consistently modern and dynamic look.
a shared set of values that help We sponsor a number of marathons around the world including Singapore and Hong Kong, us do the right thing for customers.
