12 Business Review Manufacturing Turnover third party 308.3m 2002 2001 309.9m Operating profit 2002 54.3m 2001 50.3m Excluding goodwill amortisation of 4.7m 2001 4.7m and integration costs of 3.2m 2001 4.1m Another successful year for the Flight Refuelling group of companies and some important programme wins which will consolidate its leading position in the major markets it serves.
Carleton Technologies achieved record revenues and operating margins in 2002 and also advanced key strategic initiatives.
Conax Florida had a good year in 2002 meeting profit expectations and exceeding budgeted order intake.
Westwind Air Bearings experienced difficult trading conditions resulting in a loss for the year.
A repair facility was opened in China to address the emerging market demand.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 13 The Boeing Company Flight Refuelling Following a satisfactory first half of the year, the Flight Refuelling group of companies achieved an excellent result for the year with record sales and record profits.
FR-HiTEMP, which designs and produces high quality components and systems, achieved a satisfactory result, despite the downturn in the commercial aerospace market.
Overall demand for commercial and military spares remained stronger than expected although demand from its largest commercial aircraft customer, Airbus, slowed.
It has recently been awarded a contract worth in excess of 11m for work on the Main Battle Tank MBT Light Anti-armour Weapon LAW missile programme and has gained further work from Airbus on the A380 airliner.
Building on its successful programme with Boeing, supplying low pressure fuel pumps for the B777, FR-HiTEMP will also adapt the B777 fuel pump for use on the B747 aircraft.
It is hoped that the new pump design will find application on other Boeing aircraft including the best selling B737.
Overall, Above: FR-HiTEMP supplies the fin actuation system for the MBT LAW programme.
this presents a significant opportunity for FR-HiTEMP to gain Below: Flight Refuellings latest generation AAR pod additional business from Boeing and establish itself as the dispensing fuel from a KC-130J tanker, on test with a leading supplier of low pressure fuel pumps for aircraft.
CH-53 receiver, both of the US Marine Corps.
Photograph courtesy of Saab Bofors Dynamics.
14 Business Review continued Manufacturing continued Left: Stanley Aviation will benefit from the purchase by the US Air Force of a further 60 Boeing C-17 aircraft.
Far right: Airbus remains an important customer for FR-HiTEMP as well as for the Carleton Drger Aerospace alliance.
Below right: Carleton manufactures the successful pneumatic actuation manifold system used in the Paveway laser guided bomb.
Flight Refuellings military systems division, the leader in German Air Force and the Royal Canadian Defense Force in aerial refuelling technology and weapons carriage and support of their Airbus A310 multi-role tanker transport release systems, performed well.
It has several important air programmes.
Deliveries commenced on the Gripen to air refuelling AAR programmes in progress for the US retractable refuelling probe programme and work continued Marine Corps and the US Air Force Special Operations on the engineering, manufacturing and development phase Command AFSOC.
The division is currently engaged in the of a programme with Boeing to design and qualify a Engineering Manufacturing and Development phase EMD of retractable refuelling probe for the United States Marine the AFSOC programme with flight testing due to commence Corps MV-22 aircraft.
In addition to the divisions AAR in the summer of 2003.
Work also commenced on a contract products, deliveries continued to be made in support of to equip a major overseas air force with its first operational the divisions Eurofighter Typhoon weapons carriage and AAR capability.
This contract is part of a long term release programmes.
At the end of the year deliveries programme to give up to 100 Sukoi 30 multi-role fighters an commenced on a multi-million pound contract for the AAR capability.
In addition to this programme, the division Indian Air Force for practice bomb carriers for its MIG21 fleet has received contracts to supply Mk32B AAR pods to the of aircraft.
The performance in 2002 of Wallop Defence Systems, the defence pyrotechnic business, was adversely affected by a slower than expected rate of order intake for both its During the year FR Countermeasures SuperBarricade and infrared IR flare product lines.
However, signed an agreement under the US orders for the companys IR flares have picked up since the government ARMS programme to set up a turn of the year including increased demand for its new Hot Spot spectral flare.
During the year FR Countermeasures pyrotechnic and IR flare manufacturing signed an agreement under the US government ARMS facility at the US Department of programme to set up a pyrotechnic and IR flare manufacturing facility at the US Department of Defense Defense Army Ammunition Plant in Army Ammunition Plant in Milan, Tennessee.
In addition to a Milan, Tennessee.
significant investment made by the US government, a capital investment of US$15m will be required to establish the COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 15 company which will share in the US market for expendable countermeasures worth US$180m per year and growing.
Cobham sees the establishment of FR Countermeasures as an excellent opportunity tied, as it is, to a secure position in a strong and growing market.
Through the development of spectral flares, the establishment of world class facilities in the UK and the USA and the admission to the US IR flare restricted supply base, Cobham intends to become the leading supplier of expendable IR countermeasures.
Both Sargent Fletcher and Stanley Aviation in the USA performed well.
Although Stanley suffered a downturn in demand for its coupling and tubing products from Embraer and Gulfstream, it received a boost during the year as a result qualification of the system in early 2002.
The technology was of the announcement that the US Air Force would purchase a also selected for application to the Small Diameter Bomb further 60 Boeing C-17 Airlifters, a major programme for development program, both for wing deployment and for Stanley.
In addition to this, Stanley was awarded a contract weapon release on the bomb carrier.
The latter opens up during the year for the design and supply of the wing fuel significant new market opportunities.
Other weapon system delivery system for the Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike revenues resulted from continuing production of cryostats Fighter JSF programme.
This programme will play a key role for ASRAAM and Javelin, as well as pneumatic actuation in the future of Stanley.
Demand for Sargent Fletcher systems for the Longbow Hellfire and VT-1 missiles.
products remained strong throughout the year particularly Despite the continuing downturn in the commercial aviation in respect of AAR product support reflecting increased market, 2002 was marked by major successes for Carleton.
operational requirements in the USA.
In addition to a very The new gaseous oxygen system for the Airbus A340- satisfactory trading performance, the company ended the 500 600 was successfully qualified, and the first production year with a record order book.
The Drger Aerospace Carleton alliance was selected to supply the entire emergency oxygen system for Carleton Technologies Carleton Technologies, the designer and manufacturer of high pressure pneumatic components based in the USA, again achieved record new orders and product shipments during 2002.
This strong performance was underpinned by orders for over 10,000 of the companys pneumatic systems for Paveway laser guided bomb kits.
The conflict in Afghanistan, combined with continued political tension in the Middle East, has generated increased demand for this weapon system.
The precision weapons market also opened up new growth opportunities for Carletons pneumatic actuation technology.
The company received a five year production order for wing and fin deployment actuators for the Joint Air to Surface Standoff Missile following successful 16 Business Review continued Manufacturing continued Left: Flight Refuelling, Carleton and Chelton are involved with the V-22 aircraft.
Far right: Schmoll drilling machine fitted with Westwind 180,000 rpm spindles.
Below right: The next generation water-activated parachute release system AMWARS developed by Conax.
passengers and crew of the new Airbus A380 aircraft.
This is Military aviation continued to provide opportunities for the first occasion that a single source has been awarded the Carleton.
Supplementing legacy production such as the complete oxygen system for a major commercial aircraft, and Nighthawk pod cooling system, the company will supply three underscores the success that the team has had in pneumatic systems for the Comanche helicopter to establishing itself at the forefront of this market.
Military accomplish weapons bay door release and for the vehicle aviation oxygen products continued to provide strong landing system.
The V-22 continues to provide production revenues from projects such as the US Navy CRU-103 chestpotential for emergency landing gear release and for mounted regulator, and from spares and overhaul kits for emergency crew oxygen.
In addition, the companys fielded systems for various military aircraft.
In addition, microclimate cooling system for helicopter crew personal Carleton was selected by the US Navy to develop a prototype environmental control was qualified for the US Army air on board oxygen generating system OBOGS for possible warrior programme.
A proposal was submitted late in the application to a range of aircraft, including the F A-18.
year and a production contract is expected in 2003.
This robust miniature refrigeration technology represents a new market for Carleton, with significant future potential for human cooling.
The companys microclimate cooling Carletons products for life support in space, on land and system for helicopter crew personal underwater continue to provide future potential.
Spares and environmental control was qualified for support for the International Space Station and Shuttle the US Army air warrior programme.
continue to provide revenue opportunities, while Carleton Life Support in Canada has won new orders for its This robust miniature refrigeration underwater rebreather products worldwide.
The Pressure technology represents a new market Technology division in Baltimore had another year of growth, and won orders from new customers for cylinders for firefor Carleton, with significant future fighters breathing equipment.
The division also won a major potential for human cooling.
order for helium storage tanks for the Boeing Delta IV programme which will generate production revenues through 2007.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 17 Conax Conax Florida, the designer and manufacturer of electroexplosive devices and gas storage systems, had a good year in 2002.
New orders in the core water-activated life support product line, water-activated parachute release systems UWARS, SEAWARS, and water-activated life vest inflation systems FLU-8, FLU-9, and Deck Crew have had continued strong demand from the US military.
A Passive AntiSuffocation Device PASD has been submitted to the US Navy for integration approval and is funded for its first procurement in early 2003.
The next generation wateractivated parachute release system AMWARS was introduced to the US government for evaluation and a new recession in the electronics sector.
However, during the year, automatic inflator design was completed for an anticipated there was an increase in spares orders and as the year 2003 market introduction.
Current demand remains The order intake for IR seeker components continued fragile but is being driven from the Far East, most notably strongly in 2002 with full rate production of the Javelin antiKorea and China.
Facilities were opened in Shanghai to armour missile.
Opportunities in the international market for manufacture collets and provide sales support in China.
Several countries have placed small orders for Javelin, and in 2003 Conax was a member of the successful bid team for the UK procurement of Javelin.
The success of Javelin in the international market will extend production requirements for several years.
Activity on other programmes utilising this technology remain at a high level with missile defence programmes such as the theatre high altitude air defence THAAD, exoatmospheric kill vehicle EKV and the lightweight exoatmospheric projectile LEAP.
Conax continues to maintain the major share of the global satellite and launch vehicle marketplace for pyrovalves.
Although this market has been flat with the troubles faced in the telecommunications sector, industry projections suggest that this market will begin to recover in 2004.
Westwind Westwind, the worlds leading supplier of air bearing spindles, started 2002 with sales at depressed levels continuing the trend from the second half of 2001.
This meant that despite the cost reduction measures taken in 2001 it reported a loss in 2002.
The sales of spindles for the semi-conductor, industrial, disk and scanning markets were hit badly by the Photograph courtesy of Schmoll Maschinen GmbH.
18 Business Review continued Avionics Turnover third party 251.5m 2002 2001 224.3m Operating profit 2002 51.9m 2001 47.7m Excluding goodwill amortisation of 6.3m 2001 5.6m Another record year for the Chelton group of companies, which saw several exciting new product initiatives launched.
The group continued to perform very well and generated a high level of new business ending the year with a record order book.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 19 The Chelton group, with businesses specialising in aeronautical communication and navigational equipment, had another record year.
The core Chelton Electrostatics business continued to perform very well with traffic collision avoidance systems TCAS, global positioning systems GPS, Satcom and tactical airborne communications antennas representing the bulk of sales.
The company achieved important new business for antennas and direction finders on Danish and Portuguese versions of the EH101 and for South African and Swedish A109 helicopters as helicopter manufacturers including Bell, Boeing, Eurocopter, Sikorsky and Agusta-Westland continued to generate a high level of sustaining business for Chelton.
Cheltons airline and business aircraft antenna and static discharger business for Airbus, Embraer, Dassault, Cessna and others performed very satisfactorily as the installed base continued to expand generating an increasing product support after-market which offset slightly lower OEM business.
Above: Chelton Electrostatics 19-429 Satcom antenna is installed on several different types of ground and Omnipless shipped initial quantities of its Satcom-On-Theair vehicles.
Move antenna to the US Army and its superior performance Below: A typical Micromill tracking system display.
already indicates substantial new business in 2003.
20 Business Review continued Avionics continued Left: Northern Airborne Technology is the sole provider of audio systems to Robinson Helicopters, one of the most prolific helicopter manufacturers in the world.
Far right: Chelton Flight Systems ground breaking synthetic vision Electronic Flight Information System EFIS.
Below right: Safety equipment such as Siemacs PRO-find 406 Emergency Position Indicating Radio Beacon EPIRB is vital in achieving success in search and rescue operations.
Omnipless is also now close to the production launch of its avionics installer the ability to reduce the number of revolutionary new Aero H satellite communications antenna antennas per aircraft thereby enabling more systems to be which completed all major design milestones during the year.
fitted without increasing the risk of performance degradation This antenna will enable high speed data access such as due to mutual interference.
internet connectivity and packet-data to be provided on The telecoms and wireless infrastructure market remained virtually every airborne platform as a consequence of its low relatively slow during the year which adversely affected size and drag.
European Antennas, although increasing activities in the Cheltons experience in multi-band antenna systems for the non-commercial market showed promise.
Culham military combined with Comants expertise in high volume, Electromagnetics and Lightning had a satisfactory year low cost manufacturing have led to the development of the which included completion of the first stage of a major radio ComDat line of general aviation antennas.
This series of frequency modelling programme using unique internally seventeen antennas gives the aircraft manufacturer and developed software.
Micromill Electronics had an excellent year with record levels of business in its homeland defence market culminating in Chelton achieved important new business the launch at the year end of its new generation surveillance for antennas and direction finders on equipment for UK and overseas customers.
Danish and Portuguese versions of the Cheltons composites companies enjoyed continued growth EH101 and for South African and maintaining excellent revenues for aerospace and rail transportation composite engineering, and made good Swedish A109 helicopters as helicopter progress on important programmes such as the SAMPSON manufacturers including Bell, Boeing, and airborne stand-off radar ASTOR systems.
Radome production for programmes such as Eurofighter Typhoon, Eurocopter, Sikorsky and AgustaApache Longbow and Nimrod continues to grow and first Westland continued to generate a high delivery took place of a new fincap antenna housing for the level of sustaining business.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 21 Wulfsberg Electronics, the FM AM radio communications business, had a record year with continuing deliveries of its Series III radios to the US Air Force T-38C upgrade, T-6A joint primary aircraft training systems JPATS and other civil and military programmes including production for a wide range of Eurocopter helicopters.
The RT5000 Flexcomm radio system, now with added digital technology APCO25, continues to be a best seller in the airborne law enforcement, paramilitary and homeland defence market.
In its first full year as a Chelton company, Chelton Flight Systems CFS has achieved important breakthroughs in both technology and market expansion.
The Federal Aviation Administrations FAA Technical Standards Order certification of the companys revolutionary synthetic vision Electronic Flight Information System EFIS was confirmed in January 2003.
During the course of development the capabilities of the system have grown to include terrain awareness warning Slingsby Aviation completed a very satisfactory year with system TAWS, recently mandated by the FAA delivery of sixteen Firefly aircraft for the Royal Jordanian Air for all turbine-powered aircraft in the US, as Force and receipt of an initial US Air Force contract to well as the worlds first wide area augmentation investigate the return of some or all of its Firefly aircraft to system WAAS global positioning system.
In active service in a training role.
another industry first, the FAA has granted the company blanket approval for installation of Cheltons North American avionics companies showed the system on any general aviation aircraft.
excellent growth with Northern Airborne Technology 2002 brought CFS its first OEM successfully completing on-time delivery of the large German contract a small business Air Force C-160 intercom upgrade programme.
They also turboprop and several more successfully introduced an airborne satellite telephone for are pending.
A select network use with low earth orbit LEO constellations and embarked of 30 dealers throughout upon a major new state-of-the-art tactical radio controller the US has been development programme.
established to support the Cheltons two major search and rescue companies had an increased level of activity excellent year with Artex achieving record sales and profit for in the retrofit market.
its satellite linked emergency locator transmitters ELTs and The company continues ACR completing the development of a patented 406MHz to penetrate new oscillator which will be produced in very large quantities in its markets, both domestic Florida factory for use in all Chelton group COSPAS-SARSAT and foreign, in military and and Rescue Satellite-Aided Tracking emergency transmitters.
special mission applications, Chelton considers the entire search and rescue market, including most recently a including covert combat search and rescue for the military as fleet of US Air Force well as civilian maritime and aircraft safety initiatives, to be a OV-10 Broncos deployed major growth business area for the group.
in anti-drug activities in Central America.
22 Business Review continued Avionics continued Left: Atlantic Microwave is supplying Raytheon with major sub-systems for the ATNAVICS programme.
Far right: Air Prcision continues to supply aircraft clocks to the complete Airbus family of aircraft.
Below right: The new Audio Management Unit AMU manufactured by TEAM.
2003 looks likely to be an excellent year as new products, provide antennas and radomes for the Peace Marble-V including a small multi-function display and an advanced F-16 Programme.
In addition, the company is developing a autopilot, are added to the CFS portfolio and existing radar cross section compact antenna range and a high products benefit from government mandates.
power altitude test facility, which will provide the facilities necessary to support the most advanced military platforms Seimac continued to focus on its core radio business and in the USA.
received its first significant contract related to homeland Atlantic Microwave, which designs and manufactures high security with a programme to develop a shipping container power microwave products and ground and shipboard intrusion and tracking system.
The company expects to see antennas, had a very good year which included establishing more applications in this area in 2003. a microwave products repair facility to support military Cheltons US based microwave companies Nurad, Atlantic customers.
The company won a number of exciting new Microwave, Continental Microwave and Kevlin, now trading programmes including ground antennas for the tactical as Chelton Microwave CMC, had an outstanding 2002. unmanned aerial vehicle TUAV, US Army mobile radar Assisted by the addition of the Airtron product line during ATNAVICS and the next generation receiver transmitter 2001, bookings were up 35% and sales and earnings were NGRT for the Global Broadcasting System GBS.
The latter significantly higher than last year.
CMCs critical technologies is a key tactical data antenna for all US ground forces.
The are supplied to virtually all US and European prime aerospace company also won a contract to supply the combiners for the and defence companies.
CMCs radar, data link, SPY 1 F phased array radar for the Norwegian frigate communication and electronic warfare EW products are programme.
used in airborne, space, ground and sea applications.
CMC is Continental Microwaves sales increased by over 80% as it a key participant in the effort to improve the US militarys absorbed the largest portion of the Airtron Microwave readiness as well as many homeland defence initiatives.
acquisition, which was completed in 2001.
Continental now Nurad had an exceptional year, virtually doubling sales, supplies the US Navy with virtually all of the Aegis Radars earnings and bookings and winning numerous new electronic waveguide products, and has become the worlds leading warfare and communication, navigation and identification supplier of flat plate antennas for tracking, surveillance and antenna contracts.
The company was awarded a contract by weather radars.
The Chelton Control System CCS division Lockheed Martin with whom it won a Star Supplier Award to won a number of key contracts including products for the COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 23 THAAD programme.
CCS will provide critical components to many of the new electronically scanned phased array radars that are under development.
Kevlin also had a successful year and relocated into a new 80,000 sq foot facility which is required to meet increased demand.
The company was awarded an upgrade and redesign contract for the US Air Force AWACS rotary coupler slipring and won a contract for the supply of a TPS-78 tactical ground radar multi-channel rotary joint slipring that will replace the TPS-43 and TPS 70 75.
In France, Air Prcision had a record year during which the companys share of the slipring market significantly Air Prcisions maintenance and overhaul operation, increased on the back of major new business for air traffic expanded and achieved record sales despite the general control radars a success shared with Sivers in Sweden which downturn in civil aerospace.
won many new microwave rotary joint contracts, wind turbines and a wide range of industrial applications.
Air In its first full year of Chelton ownership, TEAM completed Prcisions aircraft clocks continue to be fitted on all current certification of the new Audio Management Unit AMU for Airbus models, Bombardier CRJ 200 700 900, Global the A330 A340 aircraft and was selected to supply similar Express and all models of Embraers ERJ family.
Satori, equipment to the A380 programme.
In addition, the Pilatus PC21 trainer aircraft made its first flight in 2002 equipped with TEAMs AMU, which is similar to the design also selected for PC9 and PC7 MK II aircraft.
The European Microwave and Telecoms equipment market, comprising the Hyper group and Salies in France and Credowan in the UK, had an excellent year as regards space waveguide equipment sales, more than offsetting difficulties in terrestrial telecoms.
New travelling wave tube products were introduced to a customer base that includes Astrium, Alcatel and Alenia.
As mentioned earlier, Chelton acquired BAE SYSTEMS LPC business and SAABs Applied Composites business.
The Chelton group enters 2003 with its largest portfolio of new avionic product developments and a record order book that indicates continuing growth in its broad range of business activities.
24 Business Review continued Flight Operations and Services Turnover third party 2002 174.8m 187.6m 2001 Operating profit 2002 19.3m 2001 19.2m Excluding goodwill amortisation of 1.7m 2001 1.6m With its new focus on specialist flight operation services, the FR Aviation group produced satisfactory results across all three of its business segments military training, surveillance survey and outsourced flight operations.
The group achieved a record 120,000 flying hours in the year from its fleet of fixed and rotary wing aircraft.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 25 FR Aviation The FR Aviation group, the turnkey aviation service provider, had a satisfactory year.
Bournemouth Aviation Services Company Limited BASCO, the new venture with Singapore Technologies Aerospace, has been established in 2002 in its marketplace of aircraft maintenance and overhaul work.
By the end of the year it had expanded its capability and approvals to cover Boeing 727 737 and Airbus A300 A320.
During 2003 Boeing 747 and 757 are expected to be added.
Following the transfer of business to BASCO, FR Aviation is now focused on its core service provision of specialist flight operations which are dominated by a number of long term contracts.
During 2002 all UK flight operations continued to perform well, achieving and, in many cases, exceeding the customers contractual requirements.
The 24m Falcon 20 fleet upgrade programme funded by the Ministry of Defence is now well underway, with the first aircraft, containing the full equipment fit, scheduled to commence pre-flight testing in Above: Surveillance Australias Dash 8 aircraft will soon be able to transmit live video while on offshore patrol the first quarter of 2003. utilising an Inmarsat installation.
The year produced a strong trading performance from the Below: FR Aviation has completed major modification programmes on Boeing 727 aircraft, including a VIP businesses in Australia.
upgrade to a national presidential aircraft.
26 26 26 Business Review continued Flight Operations and Services continued Left: FBS secures an expansion of the DHFS contract, whilst FBH develops its helicopter services overseas.
Far right: FR Aviation Services Tank Devils continues to expand, providing specialist fuel tank services to military and civil customers.
Below right: National Jet Systems and National Air Support operate a combined fleet of 43 aircraft for the Australian Customs Service and other civil organisations.
National Air Support NAS which focuses on government National Jet Systems NJS continues to expand the and special mission aviation opportunities in Australia and provision of its services to the buoyant resources sector.
the region, continued to strengthen during 2002 with record During the year NJS entered into a new five year support levels of flying hours achieved.
During the year NAS signed a contract with Santos, Australias largest natural gas producer, three year contract extension with the Australian Customs building on an existing twelve year contractual relationship.
Service for a continuation of this higher level of flying NJS also secured two new contracts, with Newcrest and through to 2005.
NAS ended the year with a further contract Rio Tinto.
The company is providing aviation services to install an Inmarsat system into the fleet of five Dash 8 during the two year construction phase of the giant Newcrest aircraft.
These will be the first civil maritime surveillance and Telfer Gold Mine in Western Australia, thus placing it in a border protection aircraft to field such a system and will allow strong position to secure the long term contract in support of the transmission of real time video, still images, radar, voice the production phase of what is expected to become and data from the patrolling Coastwatch aircraft via satellite Australias largest gold mine.
A two year contract has been direct to the Customs National Surveillance Centre.
secured to support the newly opened Rio Tinto West Angelas iron ore mine.
The FR Aviation group had a satisfactory NJS continues to maintain an excellent relationship with Australian Air Express in cargo operations on the back of an year as it transitioned out of aircraft acknowledged exemplary operational performance, maintenance and overhaul, and focused providing a sound basis for current discussions regarding a possible extension to 2010 of the existing five year contract on its core service provision of specialist for the provision of three BAe 146 freighters.
New hangar facilities were opened at both Adelaide and Brisbane during 2002 and the year was concluded with the winning of South Australias Employer of the Year Award.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 27 FR Aviations joint venture with Bristow Helicopters, FBS, has successfully completed its fifth year of a fifteen year support contract to the UK Defence Helicopter Flying School DHFS at RAF Shawbury, RAF Valley, and the School of Army Aviation at Middle Wallop.
It continues to provide exceptional levels of aircraft availability with its fleet of thirty-eight AS 350 Squirrel and nine Bell 412 Griffin aircraft.
An expansion of this contract will see a further two Bell 412 Griffin helicopters enter service in 2003.
2003 will also see an expansion of another joint venture with Bristow Helicopters, FBH, following the award of two contracts during the year for the provision of helicopter support to the British Army in Belize utilising three Bell 212 helicopters and British Forces in Cyprus, utilising four Bell 412 helicopters.
Both of these contracts commence on 1 April 2003 and run for three and five years respectively.
Flight Precision had another successful year which included the introduction of a third new Beech King Air 200 flight inspection aircraft into service in the UK in support of its ten AVdef, our French based joint venture, had a very successful year Ministry of Defence contract.
They also renewed many year.
Its order book has grown significantly with extensions existing contracts, including a five year contract with to existing contracts through to 2006 and the addition of a National Air Traffic Services to inspect the UKs en route new three year contract for the supply, operation and navigation aids and landing systems at BAA airports.
maintenance of drone targets for the French test ranges During the year, FR Aviation Services FRAS concluded a worth m5.4m.
Further growth is anticipated in 2003 as six year contract with BAE SYSTEMS for the maintenance of a result of the current trend towards contractorisation the existing Nimrod aircraft at RAF Kinloss.
involved with supporting the Nimrod fleet since 1995 and currently employs in excess of 100 engineers in the various forms of maintenance work undertaken on the Nimrod.
The companys fuel tank repair capability, which operates mainly in the UK and mainland Europe, providing specialist fuel tank services to both military and civil customers, continues to expand, and ended the year positively by securing a major contract with FedEx on their A310 fleet.
28 28 28 Business Review continued Technology and Product Development Research and development expenditure 2002 31.6m 2001 28.2m 21.6m 2000 1999 20.1m 1998 16.5m Throughout the history of the group, there has been a strong commitment to technology and product development which annually amounts to approximately 6% of Manufacturing Avionics sales.
This level of investment has resulted in a comprehensive range of innovative products and services which have significantly advanced knowledge in the Aerospace and Defence industry.
In Avionics, the research and development activities can be divided into two specific areas.
The first is the continued development of new products to enable entry into new market areas and the second being the further development of existing products.
New product development includes digital radios for law enforcement applications, integrated homing and direction finding systems for Search and Rescue applications, multiband antennas for Communications, Navigation and Identification CNI applications and the Chelton Flight Systems synthetic vision EFIS.
Flight Refuelling group is actively involved with the UK Department of Trade & Industry in a number of research programmes.
These include the work on More Electric Aircraft MEA which aims to optimise hydraulic and electrical power systems on a wide range of commercial and military aircraft, Distributed Electrically Actuated Wing System DEAWS which involves a number of other aerospace companies and research into power by light of fuel system components for use in intelligent fuel management systems.
A small group working with the Shell Exploration Company has developed technology which enables the retrieval of data, and control of pipeline equipment by using the pipeline itself as the medium for data transmission.
In the USA, Carleton Technologies is developing advanced technology in the further application of pneumatics to actuation systems, typically serviced by either electrical or pyrotechnic technologies, and the application of gas generation and storage technology to inert aircraft fuel tanks.
C COBHAM OBHAM PL PLC C ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T & & A AC CC COUNT OUNTS S 2 20 00 02 2 29 29 Our People 2002 has been a successful, exciting, yet challenging year for Cobham and its group companies.
It is against this background that our people development strategy during this year has been centred throughout the group.
There are many examples of development programmes aimed at young people.
This is a deliberate policy, its purpose is simple to develop potential and talent for the future.
This policy has been implemented in many guises, including a growing Advanced Modern Apprenticeship programme at Flight Refuelling which has a strong link with the Royal Naval Engineering Training Centre Flagship at Portsmouth.
Westwind Air Bearings has continued to develop its apprentice programme, which now includes a fully accredited training centre which has led to recognition of a National Training Award.
In Chelton, Johanna Norcott was awarded an Engineering Award for Women by the Institution of Incorporated Engineers.
Links with schools, colleges and universities continues to grow within the Cobham group across the world, from Conax and Carleton in the USA, NJS in Australia, Omnipless in South Africa and to all the UK based companies.
The Young Enterprise initiative figures highly in our priorities, Cobham being the main sponsor in Dorset for this exciting programme designed to bring business focus to the classroom.
At Cobham, we recognise that strong leadership, integrity and openness is an integral part of the organisations well being.
Leadership is the ability to motivate, to do the right thing, to create the right environment for people to want to follow and promote business improvement.
It is this vision and these values that has led to the implementation of the Cobham, Managing for Excellence Programme which reinforces our commitment to our employees through development and training.
Cobhams people contribute to the organisations success and growth through continual improvement activities, such as Investors In People, the EFQM business model which supports the Cobham Five Year Planning Process and workplace representative groups which support employee relations.
