Operational review Technology in action: Marine The future of support Prediction Babcock is harnessing the power The predictive of innovative technology to advance analysis of equipment through-life support opportunities, is a game-changer improving platform availability in informing future and readiness.
service and TM The use of iFrigate architecture is maintenance heralding a new world of optimised requirements engineering support.
The introduction of a suite of technology, equipment and system sensors into build projects means that a wide range of operational data can be fused, modelled, transformed and visualised, improving proactive maintenance decision support and optimising planning.
An on-board analytics suite allows informed risk-based maintenance decisions to be made and aids defect diagnosis, whilst shore-side data analysis helps forward deployed support, optimising the next maintenance period and fide-risking Class support.
This enables our expert engineers to plan, procure for and execute cutting-edge remote and Optimisation shore side capabilities to deliver next The use of digital generation efficiency.
smart technology Babcock thrives in complex environments on naval vessels will which require specialist engineering ensure maintenance expertise.
The future of engineering planning is optimised support is here, and Babcock is shaping against known risks its application.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 30 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Availability Understanding the condition of existing equipment to support Design maintenance decisions Babcocks focus on is a key driver to designing and trialling constantly improve Specialist expertise embedded technology through-life allows engineers to This functionality management and better understand, and empowers the support of customers visualise, platform and maintainer by giving critical assets system performance in access to up-to-thereal time second performance data and maintenance documentation at the right time, allowing them to optimise availability Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 31 Operational review Marine Strategy in action The Marine sector remains focused on providing through-life support of submarines, naval ships and infrastructure, whilst continuing to grow its international naval support business.
With unique owned and managed infrastructure around the world, we also look to apply our technical expertise to adjacent energy and commercial marine markets, using our capabilities in engineering, equipment management, consultancy, information and knowledge management.
2018 Underlying performance highlights 2018 2017 Revenue % m m of Group 33% Revenue total including jvs 1,789 1,902 joint ventures 22 28 Operating 13.1% margin Operating profit total including jvs 235 234 joint ventures 4 7 Revenue -6% growth Operating margin total including jvs 13.1% 12.3% joint ventures 17.0% 24.8% Excluding QEC, 1.1% Key highlights The first of two new Won missile tube assembly Our Australian NSM JV aircraft carriers, HMS Queen work for UK Dreadnought extended its contract to Elizabeth, entered service and US Columbia submarine support the ANZAC fleet in December 2017 programmes for a further five years Successfully completed a Third WHLS contract for UK Royal Navy training record package of work for South Korea contract rated outstanding HMS Albion in all five categories Our Oman JV has by OFSTED Flood-up of fourth Irish OPV successfully completed five in March 2018 packages of work for the Appledore and Rosyth US Navy and US Military awarded the British Safety Sealift Command Council 5 Star award, with Rosyth receiving the Sword of Honour for the 11th time Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 32 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Market overview The Marine sectors core UK naval market has remained stable, with the Ministry of Defence MOD s 10-year Equipment Plan forecasting a planned spend of 20 billion over the next decade on procurement and support for surface ships, including the Queen Elizabeth Class QEC aircraft carriers, and Type 26 and Type 31e frigates: and 44 billion on submarine programmes, including the new Dreadnought Class submarines.
In the UK, we provide 100% of submarine and 75% of surface fleet refits at our own facilities.
Our Terms of Business Agreement with the MOD defines our position as the MODs strategic support partner at both Prince of Wales HMNB Devonport and HMNB Clyde and HMS Prince of Wales, the second of the HMS Prince of Wales will be the eighth enables us to support the transition of Royal Navys two new flagships being ship in the Royal Navy to bear the HMNB Clyde to be the UK submarine built by the Aircraft Carrier Alliance, name, honouring Britains history as a centre of specialisation from 2021. was officially named in September seafaring nation from the Sixth Rate Additionally, our experience of delivering during a ceremony at our Rosyth gun ship in 1693 to the King George V technical training to more than 30,000 facility by the ships new sponsor, Her Class Battleship that fought in World service personnel each year gives us a Royal Highness The Duchess of War II.
With a crew of 679, HMS Prince strong platform to grow our training Rothesay.
The significant milestone of Wales is expected to carry out sea business in the UK and internationally.
came just three weeks after the first trials in 2019 before entering Royal With increasing but ever-present pressure aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth Navy service.
The ship is fitted with a on support budgets, the MOD continues made her first entry into her home unique and innovative Highly to work closely with industry partners to port of Portsmouth as part of her Mechanised Weapon Handling System deliver better military capability and value maiden sea trials programme.
The that allows the automated movement for money in a sustainable and affordable Queen Elizabeth Class Aircraft Carrier and storage of the ships weapon load way.
This includes seeking opportunities project represents one of the largest in a safe manner that significantly for industry to expand its role in the and most complex engineering reduces the ships crew numbers.
delivery of core support capabilities.
projects currently being undertaken in The UKs Modernising Defence the UK and will give the UK a worldProgramme, due later in 2018, should class capability over the next 50 years.
provide a welcome clarification of the wider future naval support programme.
15 new surface combatants and a range provide opportunities within Launched in September 2017, the UK of Coast Guard vessels.
These programmes defence, civil nuclear, decommissioning National Shipbuilding Strategy represents are likely to increase the demand for and commercial marine, including a step change in the Governments technically complex naval support programmes like the UK Dreadnought approach to naval ship procurement, services.
In Oman, the overall market and US Columbia Class submarine build, presenting immediate opportunities for environment remains positive, and we North Sea decommissioning and civil the design and build of five Type 31e expect more contracts over the course of nuclear new build with Cavendish Nuclear.
frigates and up to three Future Solid 2018.
In Europe, we see potential future Support Ships as well as providing a The gas equipment market continues opportunities from a number of submarine platform to develop our position in the to provide a strong pipeline of future programmes which are currently in the growing global light frigate market.
opportunities for our new technologies in early concept phases.
In New Zealand, the Gas Supply Vessels and Liquefied Natural Internationally, the Canadian Government defence force intends to acquire around Gas LNG handling.
We see opportunities has published its revised defence policy NZ$3 billion of marine capability over the in the liquefied gas carrier market driven confirming its commitment to life-extend next 14 years.
by demand from major economies such the existing fleet of four Victoria Class The UK and international specialised as China, South Korea, India and Africa.
submarines and invest in a range of new manufacturing markets continue to build marine requirements, including Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 33 Operational review: Marine Strategy in action, continued unique support capability for both new re-liquefaction, ecoVOCC volatile organic Strategy and existing platforms.
compound capture and recovery for oil Across our naval support business we shuttle tankers and specialist software to remain focused on offering our customers We also see opportunities to provide a optimise the design of gas carrier tanks.
the potential to combine reductions in trusted and secure global support solution the cost of providing complex engineering for international naval customers and Our strong capability in specialised support services with improvements in the operators of worldwide fleets of complex complex manufacturing continues to availability of equipment, platforms and commercial vessels.
With the number of offer opportunities for growth, including infrastructure.
Customer feedback planned new international submarine the Dreadnought and Columbia Class suggests that this mix of cost reduction programmes growing, we see submarine programmes as well as civil and performance improvements remains opportunities for the provision of our nuclear new build and decommissioning vitally important to the delivery of our specialist systems and equipment, building work for Cavendish Nuclear.
on our strong track-record on a number Within the cyber, intelligence and of existing international programmes.
In addition to our core service offering, security market we continue to see Our strategy of pursuing an increased we expect technology to play an growth in the cyber market and demand international presence is being supported increasing role in our strategy.
Our for support in the intelligence and by our naval support JV in Oman and our iSupport embedded system brings security sectors as the international recent decision to establish an in-country together our specialist support security environment becomes less facility in South Korea to build our expertise with targeted data analytics predictable.
In the UK, General Data relationship with both the defence and and information management to Protection Regulation GDPR regulations commercial shipbuilding businesses.
improve the way we design, build and are increasing business awareness of the support naval platforms and shore side In the commercial market we are focused need for cyber security and the rise in UK facilities and will offer improvements in on building our market position in new military spending on Command, Control, availability and reductions in operating technology areas for gas handling and Communications, Computers, Intelligence, costs.
iSupport is capable of being processing for commercial marine Surveillance and Reconnaissance C4ISR bundled with the whole spectrum of platforms.
We continue to build a portfolio continues to present opportunities, with our specialist engineering, support, of technologies including solutions for a number of large-scale programmes equipment management and training LNG and LPG, ethane ethylene cargo currently being monitored.
capabilities to offer our customers a handling systems, ecoSMRT LNG Babcock to develop base in Busan, South Korea Further strengthening our international reach and presence in South Korea, we have opened a facility in Busan.
With a long-standing presence in the country through our Weapons Handling and Launch System WHLS design and manufacture contract for the Jangbogo III submarine programme, and work in the commercial marine market, Babcock is looking to further invest in the country as we drive forward with Jangbogo III submarine programme, third Working from its new Korean base and our global growth ambitions.
The WHLS features an air turbine from its UK facility in Bristol, Babcock is element of Babcocks in-country pump and programmable firing valve well positioned to deliver its long-term investment is to maximise the pool of launch system and is based on the commitments to Jangbogo III by local engineering talent to champion principles used in the WHLS supplied by utilising a global supply chain network Babcocks marine capability and to Babcock for other international navies.
that spans from leading South Korean grow our Korean portfolio.
companies such as Hyundai Heavy With procurement and manufacture In late 2017 we secured a seven-year Industries HHI, to suppliers in the UK, already underway, boat one is due to be contract with Daewoo Shipbuilding and Spain and Germany.
handed over to the Republic of Korea Marine Engineering to continue the Navy ROK at the end of 2020, and boat manufacture and delivery of WHLS two at the end of 2022. equipment for the South Korean Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 34 Strategic report Governance statement Financials including a major work package for the We have extended our Royal Navy training Financial review contract to 2020, worth c60 million, first of the seven Astute Class submarines, Marine revenues excluding the QEC HMS Astute.
and have successfully completed the Aircraft Carriers grew by 1% in the year delivery of a new suite of training tools with UK and international naval marine At our unique Devonport Dockyard facility, to enable the Royal Navy to train the next growing well and the Technology we are continuing to progress the first life generation of naval engineers.
We have business gaining orders towards the extension package for the Vanguard Class also augmented our Future Training Unit, year end which provide a good start ballistic missile submarines whilst, at increasing our support offering for the to 2018 19.
Including QEC revenues, Rosyth, the first submarine dismantling aircraft carriers.
Marine underlying revenue decreased project is now underway.
5.9% to 1,788.9 million 2017: We are leading Team 31 a group of International naval marine 1,901.6 million.
industry leaders, including Thales, with the In Canada, our Victoria In-Service Support In the UK, Technology equipment orders capability to deliver a competitive design Contract continues to meet expectations, delayed in financial year 2017 18 are and build solution for the MODs new Type and we are providing support to all Royal now forthcoming, and there is increasing 31e general purpose frigate, destined for Canadian Navy submarines, in particular demand for our complex technology both UK and export markets.
The project HMCS Corner Brook, which is currently applications such as ecoSMRT.
The is expected to be awarded in 2019. in refit, to be followed by HMCS Victoria.
large, one-off, QEC build and assembly Additionally, we are examining the As a leading member of the Aircraft programme is on schedule for completion potential to offer a similar complex Carrier Alliance, we were delighted in FY20.
During the year major support capability to other Canadian to see the first of these iconic vessels, programme milestones were passed: federal vessels Navy and Coast Guard.
HMS Queen Elizabeth, enter service HMS Queen Elizabeth was handed over with the Royal Navy in December 2017.
In Australia, while Government studies to the Royal Navy for sea trials and HMS The second vessel, HMS Prince of Wales, begin on potential life extension of the Prince of Wales was undocked: as such was named at our Rosyth facility in Collins Class submarines, our sustainment QEC revenue declined 45% to 163 September 2017 and is now afloat contract with the Australian Submarine million 2017: 294 million.
QEC step while we complete the vessel and begin Corporation was renewed with a five-year down in 2018 19 is expected to be systems testing.
At our Appledore facility, programme.
Our capability in submarine around 90 million as the further the fourth Offshore Patrol Vessel for the life extension should create further milestones are passed.
International Naval Irish Naval Service was floated out in opportunities on the Collins Class saw good growth in the year with progress March 2018, with commissioning programme whilst we continue to work across contracts in Australia, New Zealand, expected in summer 2018. with both Naval Group and Lockheed South Korea and Canada.
Martin in equipment supply and As part of our contracted commitments Efficiency and contract performance, sustainment options for the Australian under MSDF, and recognising that the combined with a change of mix with the SEA1000 Future Submarine programme.
QEC project is nearing completion, we reduction in QEC volumes, allowed Technical support capabilities are critical are undertaking a headcount reduction margins to improve to 13.1% 2017: selection criteria and will demand the programme across the business aimed at 12.3% despite an increased pension cost.
transfer of know-how to Babcock Australia, ensuring that we are ready to respond to Margins excluding the QEC effect were flat which will increasingly become the focus the growth challenge whilst meeting our year on year with profit flat overall.
for delivery of all contracted solutions.
customer commitments and supporting our financial forecasts.
A total of 1,100 Our NSM JV extended its contract to Operational review redundancies have been announced provide support to the Royal Australian across the business with the vast majority UK naval marine Navys ANZAC Class frigates for a further of the reductions likely to be achieved Babcock is successfully operating 23 naval five years.
Within the wider Warship Asset through voluntary means.
support projects for the UK Royal Navy and Management Agreement, the programme we are on track to deliver the cost and is designed to ensure the frigates stay in We are approaching completion of the performance requirements at HMNBs service until 2031. first block of missile launch tube Clyde and Devonport through our assemblies for the UK Dreadnought and In Oman, we have undertaken deployed five-and-a-half year Maritime Support US Columbia submarine programmes, support periods for Royal Navy vessels as Delivery Framework MSDF agreement.
and have already started work on the well as a number of vessels for the US We have also achieved significant second.
We have prequalified to bid for Navy and US Military Sealift Command.
milestones on the Type 23 Frigate Life assemblies for the US Virginia Class The unique strategic location of the Extension programme having completed submarine programme.
Duqm facility will provide a number of the first three of the planned 13 vessel opportunities to build our relationship programme.
We have also completed with the US and other international navies.
work on a range of in-service submarines Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Operational review: Marine Strategy in action, continued In South Korea, we secured a contract to deliver Weapons Handling and Launch The future is ecoSMRT with Babcock Systems for the third Jangbogo III submarine and have opened a facility in Busan to support ongoing projects and future growth.
Technology We have mobilised to provide both an equipment support capability and a technical authority service for the platform systems fitted to the Type 45 Destroyer and QEC aircraft carriers.
We have also delivered significant improvements in performance from our Equipment Management Operations Centre EMOC across a range of equipment support contracts with the UK MOD.
Within our analytics business, we have been successful in providing secure collaboration and information management capability to the UKs Naval Marine enterprise.
We have helped Network Rail transform their management of asset-related data.
We continue to push our technical capabilities into new sectors, including helping United Utilities develop their asset management strategy by embedding predictive analytics into Babcock has been contracted to supply way in meeting and exceeding global their decision-making process.
its ground-breaking ecoSMRT LNG environmental legislation requirements Additionally, we have had a record level within the industry.
reliquefaction technology to four of demand for our cyber products and recently ordered LNG carriers being incident response services and supported A specialist technology provider within built at Hyundai Heavy Industries Ulsan our financial services customers through the marine and onshore liquefied gas and Samho shipyards in South Korea.
the establishment of offices in New York markets, Babcock LGE is celebrating and Frankfurt.
Offering unparalleled efficiency, 50 years of providing unrivalled cost and footprint savings, ecoSMRT engineering, procurement and In our Energy and Marine business we innovative technology enables operational support services to the have maintained market share of around LNG carriers to operate at the liquefied gas and petrochemical 50% in the LPG sector and have secured cutting edge of efficiency with greater industries across a significant stream our first orders for our proprietary system reliquefaction capacity and significantly of business activities.
Our After reduced power consumption Market Operational Support Services for Since 1967, the business has at a lower cost than competing ship owners, which includes plant been developing strategic global mixed refrigerant or nitrogen performance monitoring and analysis, relationships, especially in Asia, from expansion systems.
control system upgrades and the mid-eighties, and business has obsolescence control, is progressing Requiring only one compressor, been thriving.
Highlights include the successful ecoSMRT has included several ground-breaking benefits from a significantly delivery of 22 LPG ships, including our lower power consumption, meaning patented technologies and first LPG projects in China and successful enhancements for gas carriers and reduced maintenance requirements patents for our VentGasCooler technology and lower operating costs OPEX.
crude oil shuttle tankers, bolstering in South Korea, China, Japan, Vietnam Babcocks proven capability within the The technology also minimises and USA.
emissions, and ecoSMRT, the result global marine transportation industry.
of a joint-development project between HHI and Babcock, leads the Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 36 Strategic report Governance statement Financials The last 12 months have also seen At HMNB Clyde we have invested in Outlook Babcock deliver on the E-On Rampion campaigns to support and understand the Through our ToBA and strong relationship and rsted Hornsea 1 offshore renewable local environment in which we operate.
with the MOD, we continue to have contracts from our Rosyth base, with one We have developed species awareness excellent visibility of the UK future naval element of the Siemens Beatrice contract booklets in support of World Environment support programme of work.
We are complete and the second element to be Day highlighted environmental concerns continuing to apply new and innovative delivered shortly.
There are no current including ecological protection, technologies, thereby increasing the scale energy conservation and spill mitigation plans to pursue further opportunities in and scope of engineering support that we this market.
through annual events with over 400 are able to deliver, not just from the UK, attendees across the base.
Devonport but as a global support provider.
Sustainability supports environmental sustainability Outside our core defence business we and, along with customer and trade Marine works within highly regulated continue to see opportunities to apply union partners, has signed up to an and tightly governed environments, our expertise in complex and critical annual charter to reduce emissions, supporting some of the UKs most critical engineering in adjacent commercial minimise consumption and manage risk.
We demand marine and energy markets, both in the the highest levels of security and We have an extremely active STEM UK and internationally.
We believe the compliance and safety is paramount outreach programme which promotes outlook for the Marine sector is positive, across all of our operations.
initiatives with local community groups.
with a strong bidding and tracking The Future Brunels programme is run During the period, we reduced our pipeline of growth opportunities in the by first year graduates in our Defence total accident and over three day UK and our established international Systems Technology business in injury rates by 20% and 19% respectively markets, complemented by our association with SS Great Britain.
HMNB on already low levels.
Across the sector, continually increasing intellectual Clyde has supported 25 STEM and careers reporting of injuries, diseases and property and internal capability.
events reaching more than 150 school dangerous occurrences regulations We expect a c90 million step down in pupils and hundreds of older students riddor rates of note are Sea Training QEC revenue in 2018 19, and overall we interested in a career in engineering.
expect low to mid single digit underlying Devonport has held educational days on We continue to develop numerous revenue growth with stable margins.
board HMS Bulwark while Rosyth has initiatives to support our health, safety hosted vessel build and design activities.
and environmental directives through Our Diversity and Inclusion programme our Visible Leadership programme, has recorded an award-winning Safety Lens and SHE passport, which performance this year with many have all been designed with our employee individuals and teams recognised for their and site welfare at the core.
Our Rosyth impressive technical and innovative skills.
team recently celebrated its eleventh Our Pride in Babcock network was consecutive Sword of Honour from the awarded Best LGBT Employee Network British Safety Council for the exemplary at the Bristol Pride awards, and is now management of health and safety risks working with OUTstanding to further on site.
Our Appledore site achieved BS develop our LGBT inclusion work.
OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 and was awarded a prestigious five star rating by All of our networks Pride in Babcock, the British Safety Council.
Babcock Womens Network and the good allies programme are led by underZero Waste to Landfill remains a key represented groups.
With a combined priority with ongoing mandatory training membership of over 1,000, the groups and awareness sessions across sites to are working collaboratively with the support our target of diverting all suitable business to develop, share and promote landfill waste to alternative legitimate best practice across the sector.
Our Rosyth site this, we continually work with external has successfully achieved ZWTL for the last stakeholders, including WISE and the two quarters consecutively.
Association of BAME Engineers, to solidify our brand as an employer of choice.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 37
