Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Operating review 28 North America 30 C ontinental Europe 32 UK & Ireland 34 Rest of the World Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 27 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Operating review North America Highlights Revenue increase driven by strong organic Revenue Adjusted operating profit Operating margin growth and impact of acquisitions.
Reduction in margin from significant 5,277.8m 317.1m 6.0% business previously won in grocery and 2017: 5,061.1m 2017: 318.3m 2017: 6.3% operating cost pressures.
More focused and streamlined organisation Employees structure implemented in grocery and 8% 3% redistribution.
Market sectors DDS successfully integrated with synergies 6,531 achieved.
Locations Strong growth in safety from improving market conditions, boosted by acquisition of Revco.
Growth in agriculture supported by acquisition 202 A t constant exchange rates.
Alternative performance measure see Note 3 on page 114.
In North America, revenue increased labour productivity and capacity, to help by our digital and e-commerce capabilities, by 8% to 5,277.8 million due to strong offset operating cost inflation and to ensure provide our customers category expertise as organic growth of more than 4% as appropriate cost levels.
Our national well as end user pull through.
Our continued well as the impact of recent acquisitions, distribution footprint and owned fleet are investment in the jan-san category is also with operating profit increasing by 3% particularly well suited to support the driving new organic growth via expansion to 317.1 million.
continuing outsourcing trend and provide with our existing foodservice distributor our customers with the most cost-effective customers as well as expanding our Organic revenue growth was achieved solution for managing their spend on goods presence with jan-san distributors.
across all businesses with the largest not for resale.
contribution from the significant additional The rebound of both the oil & gas and grocery business won, albeit at a below Our retail supplies business has benefited industrial sectors drove strong growth average operating margin, towards the end from the acquisition of DDS in May 2017 across our safety business, augmented by of 2016.
This new business commenced in which has now been successfully integrated contributions from ML Kishigo and Revco the first half of 2017 and was fully absorbed into our existing business and which has which were acquired in March 2017 and during the second quarter of 2018.
Strong significantly increased the size of our January 2018 respectively.
In particular, organic sales growth was also delivered by operations in this sector.
Although revenue Revco has further strengthened our offering our businesses serving the redistribution, growth was modest, the integration of DDS to welding and industrial distributors and safety and processor sectors.
As anticipated, and Schwarz provided both sourcing and has extended our product offering with the additional grocery business, combined operational synergies in line with our access to another quality, own label range with inflationary pressures on our operating expectations, thereby enhancing our of hand protection products.
We have costs across all sectors, particularly operating margins.
Our retail customers continued to focus on innovating and against the backdrop of historically low are already benefiting from the scale, developing our own brands of personal unemployment rates, contributed to a service excellence and sector expertise protection equipment, which contribute reduction in the operating margin which of our integrated retail teams.
higher margins, while offering a broadening declined 30 basis points to 6.0%.
During the range of safety equipment to our customers.
second half of the year we implemented a Our redistribution business, serving the more focused and streamlined organisation foodservice and janitorial and sanitation We expanded our presence in the agricultural structure across our two largest businesses, jan-san sectors, grew well as we continued sector with the acquisition in March of Monte grocery and redistribution, in order to to drive growth from our category Package Company, a regional supplier of enhance our customer proposition and management programme for our larger packaging to growers in the central and improve our operational efficiency.
As a south east of the US, which has enhanced category manager for packaging and not only the geographies we serve, but also In our largest business serving the grocery supplies, we are able to provide category the range of fruit and vegetable packaging sector, as expected the underlying revenue assortment, sourcing and digital tools which we provide.
Our footprint continues to growth returned to more normal levels help our redistribution customers manage evolve providing us with the infrastructure during the second half of the year as the their supply chain, extend their product and needed to support our customers moves to additional business previously won was category offerings and reduce their inventory growing their produce in new geographies, fully absorbed.
We continue to focus on investment in high volume, low value particularly Mexico.
improving operating efficiencies, particularly products.
Our sales professionals, aided 28 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our deep understanding of the fragmented markets in which we operate and our ability to offer total supply solutions that provide quantifiable benefits to our customers have once again contributed to our success.
Jim McCool Chief Executive Officer, North America Our businesses serving the processor The growth of our business in Canada sector once again experienced good growth, moderated compared to recent years, although ongoing customer consolidation principally due to a broad restructuring continued to put margins under pressure.
and cost savings programme at our largest A focus on own label and import item customer.
We continued to invest in the alternatives allows our processor teams safety and cleaning & hygiene sectors, to offer our customers high quality, costbuilding a national platform capable of effective solutions to manage their serving customers locally, regionally and packaging and facility management nationally in a cost-effective and consistent programmes effectively.
Our industrial packaging accounts continue to drive significant sales business also continued its strong growth.
volume, our growing e-commerce platform The rationalisation and integration of provides an enhanced interactive customer a number of IT systems for the many experience for our local and regional acquisitions made over the last few years, customer bases.
Our value lies in offering which will drive sourcing and operational a single source solution providing both synergies as well as enhanced service branded and own brand packaging, MRO, platforms for our customers, remains a safety and jan-san product categories.
key focus for the coming year.
Our convenience store business continued its recent history of strong growth through its wholesaler partners, deploying a sales force focused on generating additional sales with end user convenience store customers.
Revenue growth also came from expanding our distribution offering to new product categories, particularly those for certain nationally branded grocery items.
Our value added management of our customers categories and inventories enables them to provide their customers with an industry leading range while minimising their investment in doing so.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 29 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Operating review continued Continental Europe Highlights Substantial increases in revenue and profit Revenue Adjusted operating profit Operating margin with operating margin up.
Significant growth in France due to integration 1,797.5m 176.8m 9.8% of Hedis and strong performances in safety and 2017: 1,610.4m 2017: 151.1m 2017: 9.4% foodservice, partly offset by weaker performance in cleaning & hygiene and disposal of OPM.
Employees Good performance in the Netherlands from 12% 18% new customer wins and acquisition of QS.
Market sectors Expansion in Scandinavia with entry into 5,007 Norway through acquisition of Enor and purchase of CM Supply in Denmark.
Locations Strong performances in Spain and Turkey with increased levels of profitability.
Continental Europe continued to perform were also ahead of last year.
We won various In Germany, sales were slightly lower strongly with revenue rising by 12% to contracts with the governments central with an increase in the horeca sector, due 1,797.5 million and operating profit up purchasing agency towards the end of 2017 to winning new business with a chain of 18% to 176.8 million.
Organic revenue and have therefore seen strong growth with petrol stations, offset by declines in safety growth remained high at more than 4% public sector customers.
We have managed clothing and incontinence products due to and was complemented by the full year to improve margins with a number of key competitive pressure in these two specific impact of the five acquisitions made in accounts and operating profit grew strongly.
In Switzerland, we have seen 2017 and the part year contribution of Our foodservice businesses have also further growth in the medical, retail and the three acquisitions completed in 2018, enjoyed good sales and operating profit industrial sectors although new business partly offset by the disposal of OPM in growth as additional investment in headcount won is at lower than average margins.
The impact of and IT has borne fruit.
In February 2018 we We continue to see pressure in the horeca higher margin acquisitions helped drive disposed of OPM, a non-core business which sector where numerous customers are an increase in the operating margin was involved in the sale of SodaStream reducing their spend.
In Austria, our which was up 50 basis points at constant products to retailers in France.
business enjoyed good sales and operating exchange rates to 9.8%.
In the Netherlands, sales grew in all areas of Overall in France, our business grew activity with particularly strong performance In Denmark, revenue increased with significantly.
The Hedis cleaning & hygiene in the healthcare sector following a major particularly strong performances in the business that was acquired in November customer win in mid 2017.
In light of the safety, food processor and horeca sectors.
2017 has integrated well and the growth in healthcare, we will relocate three We have won additional business with a combination with our original cleaning & warehouses into one modern site in 2019 to major Danish foodservice wholesaler and hygiene business has led to significant gain efficiencies and provide an enhanced continue to grow with a major chain of juice synergy benefits.
Revenue at our original service to our customers.
Sales in the bars as they expand internationally.
A new cleaning & hygiene business increased as a non-food retail sector increased significantly area of growth has come from supplying significant customer win in the contract due to growth of packaging sales for goods to gyms and to third party transport catering sector more than offset the impact of e-commerce customers and the roll-out of companies.
In December we acquired CM two larger account losses at the end of 2017. our full outsourcing concept for high street Supply which specialises in own brand Sales progressed in the hotel, restaurant and retailers, including several sports clothing and customised foodservice products and catering horeca, industrial and food chains.
QS Nederland, a provider of hygiene packaging for the horeca sector.
In July processing sectors, offsetting more difficult solution services primarily for washrooms, we acquired our first business in Norway, trading conditions in the contract cleaning, was acquired in March and is trading ahead Enor, which sells light catering equipment healthcare and public sectors as the of expectations.
In Belgium, revenue was to the horeca sector.
Both businesses are government continued to push for further ahead of the previous year as we continued integrating well into the Group.
national consolidation of purchasing to grow in the cleaning & hygiene sector, decisions in order to benefit from its buying particularly with the larger accounts.
However, with a lower overall gross Our grocery and food processor business, margin, operating profit declined.
Our safety however, saw a decline in sales, despite business continued to grow well, particularly some recent customer gains, as its main with national accounts, and export sales customers continue to seek cost reductions.
30 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Sales have grown strongly in Spain.
The cleaning & hygiene business has seen strong increases in revenue, in particular with contract cleaners and in the horeca sector, and has recorded higher sales with One of our key objectives is to improve the efficiency of most of its larger accounts.
In the safety our customers operations by offering them greater choice, sector, all businesses have seen sales competitively priced products and excellent service increases as our customers benefit from the continued strength of the local economy.
throughout the supply chain from the initial order to the Our medical business recorded another final delivery.
year of above average growth due to new product launches and the enhanced use Alberto Grau of e-marketing to increase online sales.
Managing Director, Continental Europe Tecnopacking, which is engaged in the distribution of industrial and disposable packaging and was acquired at the end of May 2017, has also performed ahead In central Europe, both Hungary and of expectations.
Operating profit in Spain Romania enjoyed strong sales growth but as a whole was significantly higher than revenue declined in the Czech Republic due last year.
In Italy, our safety business Neri, to lower sales to a major cash & carry chain which was acquired at the end of March not being fully offset by good growth in 2017, has performed well.
While sales have the safety sector.
In Hungary sales grew declined slightly, the business has improved well in the grocery, industrial, horeca, food its margin such that operating profit is processing and contract cleaning sectors ahead of expectations.
although declined in the agriculture sector.
In Romania sales were down in the grocery In Turkey, sales have grown strongly due sector but this was more than compensated to both increased volumes and the positive by gains in the safety and cleaning & impact of price rises following the major hygiene sectors.
Overall the operating devaluation of the Turkish lira.
Volume profit was significantly ahead of last year.
growth has been highest in the healthcare sector, with significant customer gains and the launch of new products.
The overall operating profit increased substantially.
In Israel, sales were slightly lower in both the horeca and bakery sectors but improved margins have however led to an increase in operating profit.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 31 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Operating review continued UK & Ireland Highlights Strong revenue growth but operating margin Revenue Adjusted operating profit Operating margin impacted by challenging market conditions.
Trading in safety affected by difficult market 1,263.6m 86.8m 6.9% but good performance in cleaning & hygiene.
2017: 1,190.8m 2017: 88.5m 2017: 7.4% Strong revenue growth in grocery and retail across all businesses, partly offset by sale of Employees non-core marketing services business.
6% 2% Growth in hospitality from existing customers Market sectors and the acquisition of Aggora.
4,037 Growth in healthcare despite changing market Locations in NHS acute sector.
In UK & Ireland, revenue increased by 6% All of our grocery and retail businesses saw also further developed our comprehensive to 1,263.6 million as a result of organic strong sales growth during the year as a range of sustainable product alternatives to growth of 4% and the impact of recent result of both new customers coming on satisfy the growing need for choice in this acquisitions, partly offset by the disposal board and additional category wins with area while at the same time providing our of our marketing services business in existing customers.
Retail Supplies has customers with much needed expert advice June 2018.
Organic growth slowed continued to invest in both technology and on product selection.
The Aggora business, during the second half of the year as automation to strengthen its goods not for which was acquired in January 2018, some major contract wins in the third resale consolidation service to large retailers has further enhanced our proposition quarter of 2017 were fully absorbed.
while our packaging specialists, Keenpac, by adding a valuable suite of services for Operating profit was down 2% to Woodway and Lightning, have invested in our customers including full servicing of 86.8 million with the operating margin sustainable solutions for customers in both catering equipment and asset tagging declining 50 basis points to 6.9% as traditional high street and e-commerce capabilities that provide them with market conditions in the UK continue channels during the year.
The ability to invaluable management information through to be challenging due to political and provide both in-store and online product a custom-built database.
The business has economic uncertainty.
solutions for retail customers has helped integrated well and a number of cross-selling to secure extra business with existing opportunities, involving the delivery of an Although our safety business secured some customers.
The development of sophisticated attractive bundle of products and services new customers in the second half of the year, digital tools to provide our customers with to existing customers, have been identified many of our construction and manufacturing valuable information concerning usage and with several already actioned.
related customers themselves experienced compliance is further adding to our already a slowdown in growth which in turn strong value proposition.
In June we sold Our healthcare businesses have benefited affected demand for the products that we our marketing services business as the from the introduction of new product ranges, supply, resulting in lower operating profit.
opportunities to expand overseas in the in particular those associated with infection Nevertheless, we continued to invest in short to medium term were limited and, prevention and control solutions.
At the same our core product range availability, vehicle as a result, the business was no longer time, we have continued to grow by gaining telematics and our digital service offering considered to be a good strategic fit.
new customers in the private hospital, together with upgrading the quality and size nursing and care home markets and we have of two facilities during the year.
Our cleaning Despite challenging conditions within the continued to expand our product focused & hygiene business performed well with restaurant sector, our catering supplies business to reach customers outside of the a series of new customer wins within the businesses have grown sales during 2018.
UK market, improving the breadth of product facilities management and government We have continued to invest in innovation offering and increasing our geographical sectors.
Sustained development and in terms of new products to provide more coverage.
Our business serving the acute enhancement of our digital functionality, variety and choice in the preparation sector faces some challenges as the UK together with innovative service solutions and presentation of food.
In addition, government works through its plans to and greater investment in product expertise by providing data driven insights we have reform the current NHS supply chain, which amongst our teams, have provided been able to help our customers with greater is due to go live in April 2019.
Overall, despite improved levels of operational insight for clarity and visibility on consumption, modest sales growth, the healthcare business our customers helping them to run their conformity and control which enables them saw a strong improvement in profitability.
to maximise the use of their assets.
We have 32 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our businesses in Ireland have continued to grow strongly during the year and profitability increased.
We have launched new digital capabilities to provide our customers with more flexible ways to buy our comprehensive range of products and services that we are able to offer.
Further investment in new warehouse management technologies is also creating greater efficiencies and going forward will deliver higher quality services to both our existing and new customers.
In addition, our expanded range of sustainable products has allowed us to satisfy the desire for more eco-friendly options in the foodservice and retail markets.
Given our size, expertise and position in the supply chain, we are well placed to advise our customers on their sustainability strategies while using our strong relationships with our extensive supplier base in order to bring a broad range of innovative, sustainable products to market.
Andrew Tedbury Managing Director, UK & Ireland Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 33 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Operating review continued Rest of the World Highlights Strong overall sales and profit growth with Revenue Adjusted operating profit Operating margin operating margin up.
Strong performance in Latin America.
740.5m 56.4m 7.6% Position in safety in Brazil further strengthened 2017: 718.6m 2017: 53.9m 2017: 7.5% through recent purchase of Volk do Brasil.
Improvement in performance in Australasia.
Employees 12% 15% Market sectors 3,210 Locations 104 A t constant exchange rates.
In Rest of the World, revenue increased revenue and operating profit well ahead of elections, but improved towards the end of 12% to 740.5 million with operating profit expectations.
In contrast, our cleaning & the year.
Our safety business, Solmaq, saw up 15% to 56.4 million as the operating hygiene business experienced difficult strong sales growth and benefited from its margin increased 20 basis points at trading conditions such that sales were restructuring last year.
A new IT system has constant exchange rates to 7.6%.
A new recently been implemented to prepare for Although trading conditions have management team was appointed in the further growth.
Both sales and operating continued to improve as the economic fourth quarter and is implementing a profit increased strongly at Vicsa despite environments in the countries in which we restructuring plan to improve operating some pressure on operating margins.
operate have stabilised, market conditions margins and return the business to growth.
remain variable across the business Our Brazilian healthcare business saw a In our other Vicsa operations we experienced area.
Of the total increase in revenue, mixed performance.
Although the medical very strong sales and operating profit growth 4% was from organic growth with business experienced some sales growth, in Argentina driven by high volume and acquisitions accounting for the balance.
significant margin pressures led to lower inflation driven price increases while in operating profit.
Measures to grow sales Peru sales and operating profit were also Brazils political future became clearer and improve profitability have now been up despite gross margin pressures.
towards the end of the year with the election implemented.
In contrast, our dental of a new president.
While most of the year business grew both sales and operating In Mexico, the market was also affected by was characterised by uncertainty and a profit as a result of improvement measures uncertainty surrounding the presidential sharp currency devaluation, the fourth taken last year.
elections but was boosted by positive quarter saw a return to more stable developments regarding NAFTA.
Despite a year of rising In the rest of Latin America, we have seen business traded well throughout the year unemployment and limited industrial activity, consistently good results across all our and, despite experiencing a softening of our safety businesses saw strong growth businesses despite some political demand in the second half, recorded in revenue and operating profit as we uncertainty in Mexico, Colombia and good sales growth.
More stable currency capitalised on the weakness of several key Argentina.
In Chile, continued growth in the conditions allowed margins to improve competitors and maintained a high service mining sector has generated higher demand such that, with good cost control, operating level to the market.
We also invested in for our safety products such that both our profit grew strongly.
further operational improvements and safety businesses, Vicsa and Tecno Boga, digital channels to prepare ourselves for the grew sales and operating profit.
Growth In Asia Pacific, market conditions varied anticipated increases in industrial demand was particularly strong at Vicsa as operating across the countries and business sectors following the election.
The recent acquisition margins increased significantly while in which we operate.
of Volk do Brasil, which was announced in further progress was achieved in its digital October 2018 and completed in January channels.
Our catering supplies business In Australasia, business confidence 2019, has further extended our safety grew sales well, while also improving continues to improve with demand for business and strengthened our product operating margins.
commodities in the resources sector, growth offering.
A strong performance was also in tourism and government investment in seen in our foodservice business as our In Colombia, trading conditions softened infrastructure projects all helping to drive recent acquisition, Talge, integrated very in the middle of the year, partly due to some the economy.
Our businesses that operate smoothly into the Group and grew both political uncertainty following presidential in these sectors have benefited from these 34 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements We are able to obtain a distinct competitive advantage through collaboration between, and sharing best practice with, other Bunzl businesses and by using our global purchasing scale combined with the QA QC capabilities of our Asia Sourcing Centre.
Kim Hetherington Managing Director, Asia Pacific developments although the results have consolidation of several facilities in 2017 been adversely impacted in part due to but this has now settled down with the increases in the cost of imports following reorganisation delivering the anticipated the weakening of the Australian dollar and savings.
Overall the business continues We are continually looking raw material price increases.
to make improvements by streamlining its operational platform and processes to drive to refine and develop our Our largest business continued to grow productivity, enhance our competitive position processes and procedures in the healthcare, cleaning & hygiene and and improve service levels to our customers.
In particular, the to make our operations more business has developed well in the growing Our speciality healthcare business continued efficient and enhance our aged care market which continues to deliver to perform strongly and delivered good good returns through the supply of medical results.
The business is a leading national service offering for our consumables and the provision of specialist distributor of laboratory and healthcare customers by offering them clinical support.
We have also made related consumables to the pathology, significant progress with our continued medical research and life science markets.
more cost-effective solutions focus on automation and digital trading and ways of doing business.
As a result, our Our business in Singapore, which customers are seeing the benefits of our distributes personal protection equipment Jonathan Taylor improved online capabilities and the ease and services into the oil & gas and Managing Director, Latin America of doing business across the region.
pharmaceutical sectors in the region, has performed well.
The business has Although our food processor business saw successfully leveraged the Groups some sales growth as a result of customer global supply chain to help fast-track the wins, operating profit was down due to a development of new product categories.
combination of below average margins in the This will ensure that we are able to new business and increases in both product consolidate our position within our and operating costs.
We have developed a existing customer base and create new number of specialist products that help to growth opportunities in the region.
deliver improved outcomes for our customers and are continuing to innovate with food Our business in China, which also supplies packaging concepts for the produce sector.
personal protection equipment, has been adversely impacted by lower demand In our safety business, sales growth has for certain product lines.
The business been slower than expected.
However, we is currently developing alternative have been able to offset this with improved revenue streams into the large industrial margins from a better product mix and manufacturing base within China.
by successfully introducing an extended Our export business has developed a range of own brand products.
The business comprehensive own brand glove range experienced some disruption following the which will be launched in 2019.
