18 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Operational Review Cairn in Senegal an Overview Senegal: transforming exploration success into development In 2013 we acquired acreage offshore Senegal to meet our stated aim of holding frontier exploration acreage with transformational potential.
Senegal is located on the Atlantic Margin, an area of geological focus for us.
Three year extension to Evaluation Targeting First oil targeted.
three blocks successful Production Sharing Contract.
report Final offshore exploration submitted Investment Senegal.
wells, and approved Decision on 3 exploration 3 exploration discovering by SNE field and 1 and 2 the SNE field.
Farm-down appraisal appraisal of Senegal.
interest to ConocoDevelopment Joint venture Phillips.
and approved Exploitation development Plan concept for submitted.
Transfer of operatorship to Woodside.
Exploration and Appraisal Development Production Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 Strategic Report one of which was the largest global oil In 2013 Senegal was discovery of 2014, and opened a new underexplored: hydrocarbon hydrocarbon basin, marking the start of significant interest from the global oil industry.
systems had previously been 11 wells Following discovery, Cairn went on to operate demonstrated on the Senegal over 3 years two more drilling programmes and laid shelf, and we believed there the foundation for a multi-phase development plan.
to be extensive source rocks Targeting and cretaceous reservoir After drilling the SNE-1 well in 2014, SNE was estimated to have a gross mean unrisked systems.
We acquired an early prospective resource of 330 million barrels farm-in as operator to three of oil mmbbls.
Today the 2014 SNE 100,000 contiguous blocks offshore discovery has been transformed into the barrels of oil per day bopd SNE field development project which will with a 65% interest, farmingbe developed in a series of phases with plans down to a 40% interest for 500 mmbbls and gross production of 100,000 barrels of oil per day bopd with shortly thereafter.
The first phase is Resources mmbbls targeting capital expenditure of US$3 billion.
Over the next four years we added value to Following the establishment of oil production, our Senegal interest by moving the project commercial gas sales to Senegal are from an exploration to a development 500 expected to commence.
This marks the project and carrying out multiple drilling addition of significant value both for Cairn programmes, drilling a total of 11 wells over 330 and for Senegal.
Just 20 months after farming-in to the acreage we had drilled two successful wells, 2015 2018 Subject to final approval from Government of Senegal
