Operational review The performance of our franchises during 2018 and how their products and services are improving lives.
46 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 How we market and sell our products We market and sell our products in over 110 countries through our four franchises.
Our Infusion Devices franchise, which has a concentrated business-tobusiness customer base, sells its products directly to its customers which are primarily the leading insulin pump manufacturers.
Our other franchises have two main customer groups people with chronic conditions and healthcare professionals.
They sell their products through a range of direct, wholesale and distribution channels.
Further information about our sales channels is contained in the graphic below.
Strong brands and differentiated products Marketed and sold through our four franchises Advanced Ostomy Care Continence & Infusion Devices Wound Care Critical Care AWC, Ostomy Care and CCC products sold through a variety of channels Hospitals Distributors and Specialist  Wound care medical stores consumers focused insulin pump wholesalers clinics Pharmacies service and manufacturers Intensive care Homecare support agencies Product decision We sell our In many markets, In the UK via Providing consumermaker is usually a products to once a patient Amcare, our home focused service and doctor or pharmacies, leaves hospital, delivery company.
bandagists, they obtain In the US via our Call centres Our dedicated hospitals and other medical device Home Distribution sales team acute and post products directly Group, our home provide support, acute healthcare through homecare care company.
advice and service providers agencies, specialist In our own shops training.
through medical stores or in a number of Ostomy distributors or pharmacies and markets including wholesalers.
retail distributors Central and We have a network catering to the Eastern Europe, of external homecare market.
Latin America and Continence distributors who parts of Asia.
manage the entire Through our distribution digital sales process on our platforms behalf, including including ordering, ostomysecrets.
47 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Operational review continued During 2018 our foam and Advanced Wound Care antimicrobial products continued to grow.
However, price pressure on our legacy products, particularly in the UK, and underperformance in the US weighed heavily on our overall franchise growth.
m Advanced Wound Care Growth in AQUACEL surgical cover dressing was significantly Key developments in the year below prior years and this was a material contributing factor to our Launch of AQUACEL Ag Advantage in the US ongoing weak US performance.
Recovery from the supply constraints 510 k approval for Avelle in US of 2017 was much slower than anticipated and the entry of alternative Patented a highly innovative new foam design treatment protocols, such as glues and NPWT, has made the competitive landscape in this segment more challenging.
During the year we rolled-out our wound acceleration plan across Overview the US.
The plan aimed to address performance issues and focused 2018 was a very disappointing year in terms of revenue growth.
on account conversion, re-positioning our foam offering, addressing Our AQUACEL brand remains strong.
We are the leaders in market salesforce effectiveness and expanding our reach into the postshare in a number of categories, including silver, and we continue to acute channel.
Although the plan delivered benefits during the year, build our position and grow our market share in foam.
We also saw overall it was a disappointing outcome, as the nationwide rollout good growth in our emerging markets in APAC and Latin America.
took longer than initially planned.
We expect further benefits in However, in the UK competitive dynamics have increased, impacting 2019, in particular as a result of better targeting and training for 2018 performance, with local competition and pricing pressure.
a specialist salesforce focused around AQUACEL Ag Advantage, We also significantly underperformed in the US due to the recovery Avelle and surgical cover dressing, which should deliver an from supply constraints in 2017 taking much longer than anticipated improved performance.
and our acceleration programme not performing as expected, taking longer to implement and translate into improved financial Our foam range of dressings and AQUACEL anti-biofilm silver performance.
In October we launched AQUACEL Ag Advantage in the US, with an initial positive response in line with 2018 revenue performance our expectations.
In 2018 we remained focused on three priorities to drive our growth in AWC: Avelle, our disposable NPWT product, is now selling in 30 markets Expand our AQUACEL dressings offering through the extension around the world.
Whilst Avelle revenues are currently modest, of AQUACEL Ag dressing with anti-biofilm technology and the they continue to grow and represent an attractive opportunity over expansion of AQUACEL Surgical product portfolio into new the medium to longer-term.
In October we received 510 k approval surgical areas.
While the global rollout of Avelle to date has taken Continue to accelerate growth in the foam market and expand our longer than anticipated and not been as successful as planned, portfolio of dressings, targeting the fast-growing protection and we have refined our take-to-market approach and have now prevention foam segments.
commenced its rollout in the US, the largest market for NPWT.
Build on our initial entry into the fast-growing disposable segment of the NPWT market.
Revenue outlook Addressing the underperformance in the US is a key priority of the Reported revenue of $587.5 million grew 1.7% compared to the prior Board and Executive Committee.
George Poole has recently been year.
On an organic basis revenue grew 0.2%.
appointed President Americas, following his success in APAC, and the US will also be a key focus for myself.
We anticipate an improved The franchises older DuoDERM and base AQUACEL AWC performance in 2019 and a higher level of revenue growth, Hydrofiber products, together with its skin care business, make driven by the US launches of Avelle and AQUACEL Ag up around 40% of AWC revenues and were a significant drag on Advantage, albeit we expect some level of cannibalisation of existing revenue growth in 2018.
DuoDERM made slow progress in silver products by the latter.
We expect an improved surgical cover recovering from the 2017 supply issues and, whilst we saw some dressing performance, as noted above.
However, we also anticipate improvement during the year, in the fourth quarter its performance that the channel inventory movements in the UK, which negatively was still below historic growth rates.
AQUACEL Hydrofiber impacted growth in the fourth quarter, could continue into the was particularly impacted by ongoing and challenging UK market second quarter of 2019. dynamics, including NHS supply chain tendering activity and new market entrants and, although performance did improve in the third quarter following a weak first half, in the fourth quarter negative channel inventory movements along with further pricing pressure impacted growth.
We expect these pressures to remain in 2019.
Skin care performance was adversely impacted by competitor activity in the US, which particularly weighed on franchise performance in the second half, which we anticipate will also continue in 2019.
48 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Improving the lives of people suffering from chronic wounds Chronic non-healing wounds have a significant impact on quality of life and can lead to serious medical events such as limb amputations or premature death.
In the US recently published data showed that 8.2 million seniors had at least one type of wound or wound-related infection, with an estimated annual cost of up to $96.8 billion.
In October we launched our AQUACEL Ag Advantage dressing in the US market.
In clinical studies and global practice this advanced and innovative antimicrobial product has demonstrated substantial wound improvements even in the most hard-to-heal wounds.
Delayed wound healing presents multiple challenges for clinicians, and places a heavy burden on patients, society and our healthcare systems.
Moving these types of recalcitrant wounds from a deteriorating or stagnant state toward improvement requires novel, non-antibiotic strategies.
Im very excited about this new innovative dressing, which has shown significant potential to address this burden while not driving antibiotic resistance.
Randall Wolcott, MD, Medical Director, Southwest Regional Wound Care Centre, Lubbock, Texas.
AQUACEL Ag Advantage Nussbaum SR, Carter, MJ, Fife CE, DaVanzo J, Haugh R, Nusgart, M, In 2018 we launched our AQUACEL Ag Advantage dressing Cartwright, D, 2018.
An Economic Evaluation of the Impact, Cost, and Medicare Policy Implications of Chronic Nonhealing Wounds.
49 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Operational review continued Despite legacy issues Ostomy Care relating to the 2017 supply constraints which impacted our overall performance, our new products continued to perform well and we saw continuing momentum in me enrolments.
m Ostomy Care We worked hard with distributors, hospitals, clinicians and patients Key developments in the year to mitigate the disruption caused by the 2017 supply issues.
Continuing momentum in me enrolments However, the negative impact on 2018 growth of these supply Good traction with new products constraints and associated patient losses was towards the upper end of our expectations.
We also saw underperformance in the US retail channel, due to patient switching, and the trend in our level of new patient capture in the US also saw some weakness, based on most recent data.
To address this, we are implementing changes to Overview our commercial approach, including flattening our organisational Performance was impacted, as expected, by the supply constraints structure to get closer to the customer, improved segmentation and that occurred in the second half of 2017 and resulting lost patients.
Underperformance in the US retail channel also contributed to a disappointing performance in 2018.
Recent trends in the level of We were pleased to agree a two-year extension to the Vizient new patient capture in the US also showed some signs of weakness.
General Purchasing Organisation GPO contract for Ostomy Care in the US in September.
This is the largest GPO contract in the US We saw good performances in Latin America and in certain markets covering around 50% of hospitals and our contract now runs until in Asia Pacific and Europe.
We continue to see good traction with June 2021. our recent product launches such as Esteem Flex Convex.
We saw good performances in Latin America and in certain markets 2018 revenue performance in Asia Pacific and Europe.
Ongoing investment in our me During the year we focused on three priorities to drive our growth: platform is leading to a continued increase in the number of enrolled Continue to strengthen relationships with ostomy nurses in patients and we continue to see good traction with our recent hospitals to increase familiarity with our products and to provide product launches including Esteem Flex Convex, Natura them with the tools to make ostomy care simple, easy and Convex Accordion Flange and Varimate strips.
Expand our me direct-to-consumer programmes to engage Revenue outlook directly and frequently with ostomates to build strong and We continue to focus on delivering year-on-year improvements in long-term customer relationships.
We anticipate an improved performance in Continue to enhance our product portfolio by leveraging our 2019 as we move further away from the 2017 supply issues.
We adhesive technology and investing in consumer-led design and expect continuing momentum in me enrolments, as we continue enhancements.
to invest in our direct-to-consumer platform.
We will focus on driving sales of newer products, such as Esteem Flex Convex, and Revenue of $533.3 million grew 0.8% against the prior year on a implementing the changes to our commercial approach as detailed reported basis, due to favourable foreign exchange rate movements, above.
We will look to further leverage our GPO contracts in the US.
but on an organic basis revenue declined 0.5%.
The Premier GPO contract, covering c. 30% of US hospitals, is up for renewal in December 2019.
50 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Providing enhanced customer support Since its launch in the US in 2015, we have continued to develop and expand our me programme which supports people with ostomies at all stages, including prior to their surgery through to regaining quality of life well beyond surgery.
During 2018 we enhanced the programmes online resources, which initially included helping people identify the right products and providing access to a team of specialised ostomy nurses and support specialists.
In the US we launched a dedicated magazine for ostomates and expanded our online resources to include a me hub www.
In the US we have over 150,000 me members and, following the programmes roll-out in a number of other markets, membership worldwide exceeds 250,000 people.
A gain, you guys have been a rock for me.
Right down to giving me education as a new ostomy wearer, even more so than the social worker at my hospital following my surgery.
Your expert insight and help picking the right product for my needs has been crucial at setting my mind at ease, and feeling that even with this significant life change that its all going to be alright.
To say my regard for your customer service and ConvaTec is stratospheric is an understatement.
Thank you and God bless you all.
me programme participant Esteem Soft Convex Esteem Soft Convex is the latest addition to our one-piece solutions portfolio.
51 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Operational review continued In the US we continued to Continence & Critical Care extend our geographic reach and grew ahead of the US market mainly due to a strong performance by HDG and GentleCath.
m Continence & Critical Care While undertaking scheduled testing of certain hospital care Key developments in the year products in the second quarter we found an issue with some Further expanded our distribution network product packaging.
To uphold our high standards of patient care, CE mark and completion of final trials for next generation we withdrew the affected products and changed the packaging.
female catheter To date 85% of the affected products have been repackaged and Expanded GentleCath Glide range released to market.
We expect the majority of the remaining 15% will be completed in the first quarter of 2019.
The impact on revenue of the packaging recall was c. $4 million.
Overview We delivered another year of good growth, driven by HDG in the US.
Ongoing product rationalisation also impacted revenue in the year However, our overall performance during the year was negatively by c. $2 million.
impacted by a packaging recall, which reduced revenue by c. $4 million.
J&R Medical, which we acquired in March, has performed Revenue outlook well and we are now beginning launch activity for our next generation As highlighted on page 23 we were pleased that the female version catheter in Europe.
of our next generation catheter recently won an iF Design award.
It is already CE marked and launch activity in Europe will be ramped 2018 revenue performance up in the coming months.
This will be our first entry into the Growth was focused on three priorities: c. $800 million European market.
Feedback from patients has been Continue to innovate and expand the GentleCath intermittent strong, and whilst we do not expect material revenues in the first catheter portfolio to cover a wider range of needs together with year, this represents a significant growth opportunity for us over the expanding our me platform for intermittent catheter users.
Leverage the reach of HDG, the largest medical equipment distributor of intermittent catheters in the US.
We anticipate HDG will continue to perform well in the US.
Build on the success of GentleCath through launching in other markets.
On a reported basis revenue of $443.0 million grew 15.7%, primarily as a result of the inclusion of Woodbury Holdings, which was acquired on 1 September 2017, and J&R Medical, which was acquired on 1 March 2018 net of the Symbius Medical respiratory business which the Group divested on 1 March 2018: revenue for this business in 2017 was $5.0 million.
Revenue grew 4.1% year-on-year on an organic basis.
HDG continues to be the principal driver of growth in the franchise.
It aims to deliver better patient experiences by providing direct support and advice and liaison with clinicians, insurance companies and state funded health coverage programmes on reimbursement.
This high-touch patient care model continues to drive organic growth.
We will seek to supplement this organic growth by extending our reach and patient offering through value-adding targeted bolt-on acquisitions like J&R Medical.
52 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 World class customer service drives success Our 180 Medical business is part of our Home Distribution Group.
Each week it delivers products to approximately 18,500 customers across the US.
Delivering exceptional customer service to every customer every day improves lives and drives the business success.
During the year 180 Medical achieved a Net Promoter Score of 85.
This world class score, which measures customers experience of the business products and customer service, is substantially higher than many global consumer brands.
Recent customer feedback has included the comments below.
Without a doubt the most helpful, friendliest people I have ever dealt with.
Always accurate, always on time, always friendly and helpful no matter what problem arises.
I used to manage a huge distribution centre, and always reminded my people of the importance of accuracy, on time shipments and to be helpful, understanding and courteous on the phone.
My people were really good, yours are even better.
A ll of the personnel that I have spoken with at 180 Medical are caring, patient, and kind from ordering, to billing, to support questions.
I still remember the anxiety of my first call.
My voice was shaky, my hands were shaky.
The person from 180 Medical was reassuring, understanding and calmed me, so that I could ask my questions and make decisions about which product to start with.
Ever since that day, it has never been different.
The online re-order system is so easy, convenient, and fast.
I never ever give a second thought to my supply or GentleCath Glide v2.0 running low.
180 Medical makes sure that I always have Our recently launched GentleCath Glide v2.0 catheter product and that my delivery comes with time to spare.
has enhanced our product portfolio providing further ease Integrity and honesty coupled with fantastic service.
of use enhancements based on end-user and healthcare professional feedback.
53 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Operational review continued Whilst 2018 was Infusion Devices significantly impacted by a change in ordering pattern from our biggest customer, the business performed well and we continue to ramp-up our production of MiniMed Mio Advance, our most successful product launch.
m Infusion Devices In the fourth quarter revenue declined by 24.9% on an organic basis, Key developments in the year driven by the reduced orders from our largest customers change Further progress in utilising neria guard for non-insulin therapies in its inventory policy.
The negative impact in the quarter was Entered into new long-term distribution agreements with c. $20 million, around the mid-point of our estimate of $18 million significant players in the diabetes device industry to $24 million.
We expect a more normal ordering pattern going forward, although the exit of Animas from the insulin durable pump market will impact 2019, as outlined below.
Overview Revenue outlook Underlying performance in 2018 was good, driven by the successful Infusion Devices has historically grown around 4%5% per annum, 1 launch of MiniMed Mio Advance with our partner Medtronic and which is in line with the durable insulin pump market.
Due to the exit growth in the durable insulin pump market.
However, an unexpected of Animas, one of our key customers, from the durable pump market change to the ordering patterns of our largest customer late in the and the resulting termination of support for existing Animas year had a material negative impact on revenue growth.
customers in 2019, we expect a lower level of growth in 2019, albeit above the level seen in 2018.
At this stage, it is not possible to 2018 revenue performance quantify the scale of the impact of the Animas withdrawal from the We focused on three priorities to drive our growth: market.
We believe that the change in inventory policy at our biggest Maintain our strong and long-term partnerships with insulin pump customer was a one-off event, with the impact being predominantly manufacturers to secure long-term business.
Continue to develop innovative products for both insulin and other drug delivery.
Leverage our leading industry position to ensure that we are the supplier of choice for new entrants into the insulin market and delivery of other sub-cutaneous drugs.
Revenue of $268.3 million declined 2.4% year-on-year on a reported basis and 3.5% on an organic basis.
The first six months of the year were boosted by tailwinds of positive customer inventory movements and, to a lesser extent, the completion of a customer voluntary product recall for which we supplied replacement product.
This led to growth of 9.2% on an organic basis in the first half of 2018.
However, growth was weaker in the second half due to a strong prior year comparator in the third quarter.
Furthermore, in early October we were advised of a change to the expected ordering patterns of our largest customer, due to a change in its inventory policy, which had a material negative impact on revenue growth in the fourth quarter and for the year overall.
Our MiniMed Mio Advance infusion set, launched by our partner Medtronic, has delivered a very successful first year with positive patient feedback and good levels of demand.
MiniMed Mio Advance trademarks of Medtronic MiniMed, Inc. 54 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Giving people independence and improving their lives To make continuous subcutaneous infusion simpler, comfortable, safe and efficient we developed our neria guard infusion set.
Launched last year, neria guard is a soft cannula infusion set with an integrated insertion device for simple insertions by the touch of a button.
It has easy-to-use features, including a retractable needle which may help prevent accidental needle sticks and increase comfort during insertion.
neria guard is now available in ten markets and feedback continues to be very positive.
I have had Parkinsons disease for over 14 years.
Initially I had an infusion set that required me to press the needle in myself.
In some places it was very painful and I was finding it very hard to insert the needle.
I also started experiencing other problems with the device.
It was failing to administer my medication which was affecting my ability to move.
I started to feel very insecure and I was reluctant to go out on my own.
I then started using neria guard.
I dont have to insert the needle myself by simply pressing a button it is inserted automatically.
The device fixes onto my body very well and is easy to remove because it is wider and has a bigger surface area.
neria guard works, it is secure and I can move around more easily on my own and for me that is the most important thing.
It has made a huge difference.
Berit Oqvist neria guard Our neria guard infusion set can be used to deliver continuous medication to manage a number of chronic diseases.
55 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
