20 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Operational review Deposits We are a full service UK clearing bank offering a wide range of current accounts, savings accounts and term deposit products for personal and business customers.
Our loyal personal current account customer base represents a stable source of funding and sets us apart from most other challenger banks.
Customer deposit growth CYBG adopts a prudent approach to its enabling personal current account balance sheet management, ensuring that customers to connect their current deposits are raised well in advance of accounts held with other banks: 4.2% lending commitments.
The development of our online account opening journeys to 28.9bn our deposit business is a key enabler of our for both Retail and SME have been overall growth strategy and 2018 saw enhanced making it easier for B current accounts another year of strong performance as we customers to find the right account steadily increased the size of our deposit for them and progress their base, while maintaining the quality and application: and 190,000 stability of our funding.
2017: c. 100,000 we have invested in our online At 30 September 2018, the Group had maturity process for fixed term 28.9bn of customer deposits consisting of accounts, making it significantly easier BCA acquisition 14.2bn of current account balances, for customers to reinvest.
8.4bn of savings account balances and 6.2bn of term deposit balances.
Since the launch of the new Cheque c. 30,000 Imaging Clearing scheme in October new accounts opened Progress against strategic priorities 2017, we were the first UK bank to give Drive sustainable customer growth customers the option to deposit BCA accounts originated digitally To support our sustainable growth in cheques using a mobile app reducing lending, deposits grew by 1.2bn 4.2% the cheque clearance time from six to year on year with notable increases in: two business days.
c. 65% total B current account and linked We have made improvements to the in 2018 savings, which grew by 96% to 2.1bn Cash ISA transfer-in customer journey during the year: and with 90% of customers transferring Customer deposit balances bn within seven days compared to the business notice and access accounts, 2018 28.9 industry target of 85%.
which increased to 1.9bn at 2017 27.7 year end, a 6% increase year on year.
Other highlights 2016 27.0 We made improvements to our PCA Since its launch in May 2016, B has proposition during the year, including attracted over 190,000 accounts and enhancements to the digital account deposit balances of c. 2.1bn.
During the opening and maturity processes across year there was growth of 96,000 our deposit range.
These improvements accounts year on year.
mean that over two-thirds of customers We were pleased to be recognised as receive an end-to-end digital account the Best Current Account Provider for opening experience: this helped to the second year running at the 2018 support increased balances.
In SME, our market leading offering of In total, 57% of our balances are now 25 months fee-free for new BCA held in current accounts and linked customers has supported growth in savings accounts, demonstrating the balances.
quality and stability of our deposit business.
Improve efficiency We have a continuous programme of In the Business Developments Research enhancements to our core current Consultants BDRC Moments of Truth account and savings propositions: study published in August, B was ranked 5th out of 32 tested providers for net in May, we launched our first Open promoter score NPS.
Banking feature, Connect accounts, Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 Mortgages We have a strong and growing UK mortgage business.
We offer mortgages through a select broker network with national coverage, while our strong regional branch network supports the natural markets in our heartlands.
We operate a differentiated broker mortgage proposition, which supports a broad range of professional customers including those with complex income, underpinned by our strong underwriting capability.
Customer lending growth The mortgage market in 2018 has seen Our mortgage adviser process has had low growth, with increased remortgage multiple improvements, making it activity, but lower levels of new lending and quicker and easier for customers to get 4.5% the strong competition has continued to the mortgage they want with us.
to 24.5bn exert pressure on front book pricing.
Despite this, our differentiated proposition Capital optimisation Customer retention has delivered another strong performance.
In October 2018 we received IRB accreditation for mortgages from the Progress against strategic priorities PRA, a major achievement for the 84% Drive sustainable customer growth Group.
This resulted in a c. 4.5bn in 2018 The mortgage book increased by 4.5% in reduction in RWAs as at 30 June 2018. the year to 24.5bn, compared with Going forward, IRB accreditation will market growth of 2.5%.
We advanced Market share enable the Group to be more 5.2bn of mortgages in 2018 with competitive across a broader range of c. 80% of this coming through our products and further strengthen our 1.8% broker network with our proprietary risk management approach.
in 2018 Strong customer retention of 84% Other highlights Product transfers supported balance growth, with a 27% Mortgage offering enhancements in increase in the number of product 2018 include the introduction of a new transfers through our broker channel Qualified Professional product, allowing 27% demonstrating the strength of our enhanced income multiples for a increase vs. 2017 proposition and offering.
This reflects targeted, high quality customer our focus on retention balances with segment, while our First Time Buyer Mortgage customer balances bn customers and brokers now able to Products were awarded an outstanding switch to a new rate through an online rating from Moneyfacts.
2018 24.5 portal up to three months before the In autumn 2017, we brought our 2017 23.5 end of a fixed rate term without mortgage processing operation back 2016 incurring an early repayment charge.
21.8 onshore as part of our customer Residential mortgage pricing remains journey improvement initiatives.
The highly competitive, with the home process of embedding the changes led mover market flat and growth stemming to some servicing and fulfilment from first time buyers and remortgaging.
challenges and as a result we slowed The BTL market remains subdued new business volumes to protect following the taxation changes, and is customer service levels.
With base embedded, the onshored operation will rate having increased, the market deliver an enhanced experience for remains a fixed rate market with five customers in future.
year fixed rates growing in popularity.
While the digital mortgage market remains a very small part of the market Improve efficiency overall, we plan to launch our execution New online tools and calculators have only digital remortgage proposition in been launched to make it easier for 2019.
In addition, we are enhancing our brokers to do business with us and proposition through the use of digital reducing their need to contact us.
tools allowing customers to focus on An enhanced online application form whats important to them, including has improved the customer and broker speed of decision and certainty of offer.
22 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Operational review Unsecured personal lending We have a strong unsecured lending proposition and offer a range of competitive personal loans, credit cards and overdraft products.
These are available across our digital, telephone and branch channels to both new and existing customers.
Customer lending growth The UK personal loans and credit card acquisition of good quality business via markets remain extremely competitive and improved conversion across the journey unsecured lending has not been a target due to the enhanced systems and 3.5% growth area for the Group.
to 1.2bn improvement in our personal loans For existing customers we launched capability has supported origination and secure site sales within our mobile app Average loan drawdown time enabled the business to deliver a strong with pre-filled application and or pre- 2018 performance.
assessment, significantly reducing the customer journey and time to apply to 1.4 days Progress against strategic priorities just a few clicks.
2017: 9.7 days Drive sustainable customer growth Unsecured lending growth continued, Capital optimisation with an increase of 3.5% to 1.2bn.
Digital loans approved We continue to proactively manage our Unsecured fixed rate personal loans cards portfolio as part of ongoing balances increased 12.9% primarily prudent risk management and in 209m driven by digital acquisition.
We have anticipation of the greater sensitivity of up 12% invested heavily in providing our new capital weighting to credit risk under and existing customers with a seamless, IRB, which for Retail unsecured Approved loans drawndown paperless and simplified in-app digital products is expected in 2019.
This has journey including pre-assessed and included taking steps to optimise credit pre-filled application forms and same limits and we anticipate broadening this 79% day drawdowns.
Since deploying, 67% of programme as we move towards IRB in 2018 customers using our new app now accreditation.
receive funds on the day they apply.
Unsecured lending balances m Other highlights We have worked closely with third-party We have continued our focus on 2018 1,203 technology providers to improve regulatory changes and being a product visibility and increase applicant 2017 1,162 responsible lender, providing increased quality on unsecured personal loan 2016 transparency and tackling persistent 1,153 acquisition sites, helping drive volume debt for customers facilitated by the within the risk profile.
FCA Credit Card Market Study The focus in our cards business has remedies.
Enhancements implemented been managing value in a highly include payment date changes, competitive market.
For acquisition, we unsolicited credit limit increase opt-out, have focused on features and digital notification of approaching end of functionality rather than solely price, as promotional terms, text alerts for evidenced by the growth in our new B approaching credit limit and additional Credit card with its innovative payment support to manage credit card debt.
Accordingly, we We have rationalised our credit card have held book margins flat with a small issuing schemes by migrating all reduction in balances of 3.7%.
customers to Mastercard and signed a new exclusivity deal with Mastercard Improve efficiency across debit and credit portfolios.
New unsecured personal loan origination system developments Prudent risk management strategies reduced application questions by half and have included strengthening criteria for delivered improved fraud detection tools, personal loans to continue to protect digital signatures and same day funds.
asset quality in light of wider economic The changes will allow increased uncertainty.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 Digital A digital bank with a human touch, providing an intuitive, value add experience for our customers by harnessing our digital capabilities and supporting our colleagues to grow their own digital know-how.
Growth in digitally active We have continued investing to transform Launching innovative technology is also customers our business, with a significant amount helping drive efficiencies focused on enhancing our digital c. 300k customers have opted for digital capabilities for our customers and statements compared with over 18,000 13% colleagues.
This investment has completed in 2017, driven by the ability to turn on the refresh of our mobile and web digital statements via the app.
since 2017 capabilities, covering all segments and We streamlined the personal loans customer groups.
Growth in mobile app users application process allowing customers We have continued to build out our core iB to apply with just a few taps on their platform at pace, extending the power of phone.
32% the platform: launching new mobile banking 2018 saw a 27% year on year increase in applications to all Clydesdale Bank and since 2017 completed mortgage product transfers, Yorkshire Bank customers.
Every customer with 64% of applications being fulfilled in CYBG now has access to our leading Mobile banking logins through our digital channels both direct mobile app and over 300k customers were and broker.
seamlessly migrated from an older legacy 191m mobile app.
Following this we upgraded our We were the first UK bank to offer Internet Banking system and now 1.1m cheque clearing through our mobile app: 2017: 137m customers can transact at a time and a over 60,000 cheques have been cleared place that suits them using iB.
Number of digital payments made New functionality increased usage We have deployed a number of robotics exponentially, for instance, average mobile capabilities within processes to either 61m daily logins increased to c. 520k compared remove repeatable manual effort or to c. 375k last year.
We have also taken the drive straight through processing.
For 2017: 41m iB platform to a position where it supports, example, the Cash ISA transfer in and on average, c. 630k logins per day, which is a transfer out process is now a fully Digital sales 28% increase from 2017. automated end to end service enabled by automation tools.
As the industry continues to evolve we 21% increase have innovated at pace on our iB platform.
We are delivering iB Advisor, which will iB allows us to deliver enhancements to transform colleagues ability to serve vs. 2017 customers faster and more efficiently than customers by bringing a single customer ever before as well as bringing an view of all transactions and servicing opportunity to open up a seam of history across all accounts, through one innovation.
An example of this is our system.
leading position in aggregation, where in April 2018 we became the first challenger Digital inside and out bank to offer an aggregation service We have upgraded our entire network Connect accounts, despite not being a capability, paving the way to deliver a step CMA9 bank.
Now 1.1m of our customers change for our business with new modern have Open Banking functionality which enterprise applications while driving enables them to use their app to connect additional benefits to our colleagues.
The to accounts from other banks.
introduction of Office 365 with a user base now at c. 2,300, virtual desktops and the In addition to this our agile team, launch of Service Now ensure that not only Accelerator, is now utilising new ways of our customers benefit from the working to develop our B store strategy.
transformation, but our colleagues experience working in a modern digital bank.
24 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Operational review SME lending We provide small and medium-sized enterprises SME customers with a complete set of lending products and services comprising term lending, overdrafts, revolving credit facilities, working capital, trade and treasury solutions.
Core SME lending growth Despite persistent concerns around the Other highlights uncertainty of Brexit negotiations Our approach to specialisms continued impacting the confidence of UK companies, to resonate with customers, with strong 5.6% our SME business continued to perform growth experienced across the portfolio to 7.2bn strongly in 2018 with both loan and deposit particularly in acquisition finance for balances growing.
Activity was broadly business services and lending to health SME lending commitment spread across all sectors and loan purposes and real estate, with the latter being 2016-19 but demand for asset finance and driven in part by a strong demand for acquisition finance was particularly strong.
Loan losses are at very low levels reflecting We maintained a robust approach to 6bn not only disciplined loan origination over a credit decisions on new lending in the c. 70% of pledge now met with 4.1bn lent period of years but also a very stable year, reflective of the continued economic environment.
reduction in the impaired asset portfolio Drawdowns to 83m 2017: 126m.
The underlying Progress against strategic priorities credit quality of the portfolio has Drive sustainable customer growth remained broadly stable.
2.0bn 2018 has seen continued momentum in our SME lending business, with a strong in 2018 RBS alternative remedies package pipeline and drawdowns of 2.0bn.
We are committed to supporting the RBS incentivised switching scheme Origination flows remained broadly RBS alternative remedies package readiness investment consistent with a strong prior year and where, given our existing SME banking we remain on track to achieve our 6bn capabilities, we believe we are well lending commitment by 2019. placed to compete for both schemes.
c. 16m Our core SME lending portfolio We intend to fully participate in the in 2018 therefore increased by c. 400m to Incentivised Switching Scheme and offer 7.2bn, up 5.6%, and ahead of system an attractive home to SME customers Core SME lending balances bn growth of 2.1%.
This is due to a leaving RBS.
In advance of this, we have 2018 7.2 consistent and disciplined focus on invested c. 12m in building a bespoke serving the SME market, with our switching and support team in Leeds 2017 6.8 specialist sector offerings resonating and have also recruited a further c. 50 2016 6.4 particularly strongly with customers.
This positions us well to effectively and Capital optimisation efficiently switch RBS customers at Our SME IRB application progressed scale when the scheme begins.
ahead of expectations during the year We will also submit an application to and in October 2018 the Group Pool A of the Capability & Innovation announced that it had received IRB Fund which, if successful, would enable accreditation for its SME portfolio a us to further enhance our competitive year ahead of target.
edge in SME banking and accelerate our The Group has also continued to growth plans.
With a c. 3.5% market enhance its portfolio management share of BCAs today, we believe we are capabilities during 2018 to ensure that it uniquely positioned to break through can target an optimal mix of capital and the Competition and Markets risk return for its SME lending.
Authoritys CMAs 5% market share competition barrier the definition of a credible market competitor to deliver effective competition in the marketplace.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Case study Our commitment to supporting SMEs As part of our commitment to supporting SMEs, we launched our SME Health Check Index an in-depth report designed to take the temperature of SMEs operating within the UK economy.
The study, which is published in Each report is supported by a partnership with The Centre for comprehensive media plan, stakeholder Economics and Business Research engagement activity with key industry Limited Cebr, creates a quarterly contacts and organisations, as well industry report that measures business as national and regional events.
The performance and the macroeconomic Q1 2018 report was launched at the environment affecting SMEs.
The report is also widely shared and used by the Groups The SME Health Check Index combines Relationship Managers through their various statistics and indicators to evaluate own networks.
the health of the UKs SMEs, including business costs, employment, lending, revenue and capacity.
In the fourth quarter of 2017, the Index fell to its lowest level since it began in 2014, driven by declines in business confidence, GDP growth and the rate of business creation.
The index has recovered somewhat in the subsequent two quarters, although it remains well below the levels observed in previous years.
