Strategic report Net debt EBITDA Operating review Definition Net debt calculated at average FX rates for the year, over We are delighted to report another year of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and good growth for DS Smith, delivered through adjusting items for the preceding 12 month period adjusted a combination of acquisitions and organic for acquisitions and disposals made during the financial year.
We have again expanded our Target customer offering during the year both geographically and through our continuous focus on innovative solutions for our customers, 2.0x and we have delivered against all our medium-term Why this is a KPI financial targets.
Net debt EBITDA is a key measure of balance sheet strength and financial stability.
2018 Performance Net debt EBITDA at 30 April 2018 is 2.2 times.
The increase in Group leverage is due principally to acquisitions in the year of 819 million, partially oset by cash flow in the period and Overview proceeds of equity issued of 283 million.
The past year has seen a backdrop of strong economic growth in 2016 2.0x Europe and in particular, growth in e-commerce.
In the financial year 2017 18, DS Smith once again achieved very strong growth 1.8x 2017 driven both organically and through acquisitions and we are 2018 2.2x particularly pleased with our volume growth and gain in market share.
The ongoing recovery of very substantial input cost rises, through pricing, has resulted in a broadly stable margin year-onCash conversion year.
The business took a further major step in August 2017 with Definition the acquisition in north America of Interstate Resources.
We are Free cash flow before tax, net interest, growth capex, pension delighted with the initial performance and integration of what is payments and adjusting items cash flows as a percentage of now our North America Packaging and Paper NAPP business.
The earnings before interest, tax, amortisation and adjusting positive response from customers to this acquisition is reflected items.
Free cash flow is the net movement on debt before in the strong volume growth since ownership.
We made further cash outflow for adjusting items, dividends paid, acquisition investments in our fast growing south eastern Europe region and disposal of subsidiary businesses including borrowings with the acquisition of a Romanian integrated packaging business acquired and proceeds from issue of share capital.
with a newly commissioned light-weight paper mill.
Since the Target financial year-end, we have announced the proposed acquisition of Europac a leading integrated packaging business in western Europe and of Corrugated Container Corporation, a four site 100% box business in north America.
Organic corrugated box volumes have grown strongly throughout Why this is a KPI the year by 5.2 per cent.
As with last year all regions have again We focus on cash conversion as part of our wider focus on reported growth, with particularly strong regional volumes in DCH capital management and maintaining a prudent balance sheet.
and Northern Europe, Central Europe and Italy, and North America.
Working capital is a key focus within the business in order that This rate of box volume growth is ahead of our GDP 1 per cent all capital is employed where it can best deliver returns for target, which equates to 3.5 per cent.
Growth again comes the business.
from our multinational customers, particularly e-commerce and 2018 Performance shelf ready packaging.
Our core strategy has been built around Cash conversion is in line with our target of 100 per cent providing consistent quality and service on a pan-European and or greater.
now also trans-Atlantic basis providing opportunities for our 2016 112% customers to benefit from our investment in innovation and leading solutions.
We fully expect the current trends around 133% 2017 sustainable packaging solutions and rationalising supply chains to 2018 100% continue and we continue to seek to drive our market share gains.
Further information on calculation of financial KPIs and other non-GAAP performance measures is given in note 32 to the financial statements Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 31 Our strategy: To double our size and profitability continued Our long-standing approach of working with customers to and design, allowing our customers to participate in these increase their sales, reduce their costs and manage their risks, benets to drive their businesses.
remains as relevant as ever.
Acquisition of Interstate Resources For the full-year, revenue growth of 17 per cent on a constant In 2017 18, we responded to customer demands and brought our currency basis was broadly equally weighted between the solutions to north America, through the acquisition of Interstate contribution from organic growth and from acquired businesses.
We also added strategically required capacity in the Organic growth was driven principally by volume growth and fast growing south east Europe region through the acquisition increases in sales price, implemented in response to rises in ofthe EcoPack and EcoPaper businesses in Romania underlying paper prices.
The creation of our North America Packaging and Paper NAPP Adjusted operating profit increased by 16 per cent on a constant business has been a success on numerous measures and the currency basis 20 per cent on a reported basis to 530 million acquisition of Interstate Resources has materially outperformed 2016 17: 443 million.
This was driven by the contribution from our initial expectations.
Engagement from new colleagues in volume growth, contributing 13 per cent growth 59 million north America has been excellent, with a huge enthusiasm to compared to the prior year, and from the contribution of deliver our business plans.
The integration of their paper assets businesses acquired, in particular our north America assets.
into our global supply chain has already yielded significant value Input cost increases were driven by a very substantial rise in the and we are progressing extremely well with our multinational cost of paper and other operating costs, which were substantially customers.
The NAPP division is managed by a senior team made passed through to customers, with the usual timing lag, with a up of a mix of those who have worked in that business for many net negative impact on profit of 52 million.
years, and those with a background in DS Smith, with the overall approach being getting the best from both and all parties Adjusted earnings per share increased by 7 per cent on a constant learning from one another.
We are also implementing OWN IT!, currency basis to 35.5 pence 9 per cent on a reported basis our employee engagement programme which helps colleagues 2016 17: 32.5 pence.
This result builds on eight years of around the organisation actively participate in delivering the consistently strong growth, with the eight year compound corporate strategy.
Since the year-end we acquired box plants annual growth rate for adjusted EPS being 26 per cent.
infour new sites in the US.
The Board considers the dividend to be an important component Strategic review of Plastics division of shareholder returns and, as such, has a policy to deliver a progressive dividend, where dividend cover is between 2.0 and 2.5 Consistent with our strategy to be the leading supplier of times, through the cycle.
For the year 2017 18, in accordance with sustainable packaging solutions and increasing focus on the our dividend policy, the Board recommends a final dividend of 9.8 production of high quality, cost eective corrugated packaging, pence per share, which will be paid to all shares on the record date, we have initiated a strategic review of our Plastics business.
including those to be issued in the rights issue.
The 2017 18 interim Proposed acquisition of Europac dividend of 4.9 pence, and prior dividends, will be restated in On 4 June 2018, we announced the proposed acquisition of future accounts to reflect the bonus factor adjustment Papeles y Cartones fide Europe, S. A. known as Europac, a leading resulting from the rights issue.
integrated packaging business in western Europe.
The acquisition Growing the business has a highly compelling strategic rationale and we expect that it DS Smith has grown the business very profitably, organically and will create significant value for customers and consistent and through consolidating acquisitions.
We believe that the success attractive returns for DS Smith shareholders.
of our multinational customer strategy demonstrates that there Delivering on our medium-term targets and key is significant customer demand for high quality packaging and performance indicators consistent service on both a pan-European and now trans-Atlantic We continue to deliver in line with our medium-term targets and basis.
As such we continue to see this demand as a significant key performance indicators.
As set out above, corrugated box growth driver.
Our capital and target acquisition investments volumes grew by 5.2 per cent.
This exceeded our target of GDP are set out each year in our three year corporate plan and agreed 1per cent, with year-on-year GDP growth, weighted by our sales with the Board.
All investments are evaluated to determine that in the markets in which we operate, estimated at 2.5 per cent they full our strict financial criteria of being consistent with our Source: Eurostat resulting in a 170 basis point outperformance financial KPIs, in the medium-term.
Our strategic aim is to become against the target of 3.5 per cent.
All regions have again recorded the leader in sustainable packaging solutions by any measure.
volume growth in the year, with a particularly strong contribution We will continue to build on our strong customer demand for our from DCH and Northern Europe region, Central Europe and Italy, packaging solutions and maintain our investment in innovation and from North America.
Underlying the regional performances 32 Strategic report has been the growth of our pan-European customer base, where The Group has a challenging target for customer service of we continue to make significant gains with existing customers as 97 per cent on-time, in-full deliveries.
In the year we achieved we increase our market share with them, further demonstrating 93per cent, an improvement versus the prior year, but still below the demand for a high quality pan-European supplier of corrugated our target.
Management remains extremely dissatisfied with packaging, operating on a co-ordinated multinational basis.
this outcome and is fully committed to delivering the highest standards of service, quality and innovation to all our customers Adjusted return on sales has remained broadly flat at 9.2 per cent and will continue to challenge ourselves to meet the demanding 2016 17: 9.3 per cent, in the upper half of our target range of standards our customers expect.
8-10 per cent, reflecting the benefit of good drop-through from incremental revenues into profit, oset by substantial input cost One part of the DS Smith strategy is to lead the way in sustainability.
pressure over the period and the recovery of this through selling price.
Corrugated packaging is a key part of the sustainable economy, providing essential protection to products as they are transported Adjusted return on average capital employed ROACE is 14.1 per and, at the end of use, it is fully recyclable.
Corrugated packaging cent 2016 17: 14.9 per cent, continuing near the top of our mediumis also substantially constructed from recycled material, as are term target range of 12-15 per cent and signicantly above our cost many of our plastic packaging products.
Our Recycling business of capital, despite the recent significant acquisition of Interstate works with customers across Europe to improve their recycling Resources in north America, which has a dilutive impact on this ratio.
operations and overall environmental performance.
In calendar The ongoing high ROACE reflects significant focus on an efficient 2017, compared to calendar 2016, on a restated basis to reflect capital base, in addition to profitability.
We have maintained our acquisitions, our CO equivalent emissions, relative to production, 2 continual focus on tight capital allocation and management within have increased by 5 per cent, reflecting an increase in energy the business, including working capital, which has been closely usage relating to increased volume growth, and by the impact managed as shown by a reduction in the ratio of average working of light-weighting our paper and packaging.
ROACE is our primary financial measure of success, and is measured and calculated on a monthly basis.
Outlook The current year has started well, with the volume growth Net debt as at 30 April 2018 was 1,680 million 30 April 2017: momentum seen in 2017 18 continuing into the new financial 1,092 million reflecting the significant acquisitions made in the year and the ongoing recovery of the paper price rises announced period of 819 million including debt assumed of 204 million, earlier this calendar year progressing as expected.
less cash raised from the issue of new equity of 283 million.
Cash generated from operations before adjusting items of 656 The drivers for growth of sustainable packaging in a dynamic million was used to invest in capex of 329 million net and one consumer and retail environment are more relevant than ever.
o adjusting items of 80 million primarily in acquiring and Our dierentiated position with customers, built on our geographic integrating the new businesses.
Net debt EBITDA calculated scale and innovation-led expertise reinforces our confidence in in accordance with our banking covenant requirements is 2.2 the prospects for the business.
This reflects the acquisitions made as Statement of approval well as ongoing tight cash management and control throughout This Strategic Report, including pages 2 to 45, was approved the business.
by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on During the year, the Group generated free cash flow of 204 17June 2018, and signed on its behalf by million 2016 17: 363 million.
Cash conversion, as dened in our financial KPIs page 31, was 100 per cent, in line with our target of being at or above 100 per cent.
DS Smith is committed to providing all employees with a safe and productive working environment.
We have again reported improvements in our safety record, with our accident frequency Miles Roberts rate dened as the number of lost time accidents per million Group Chief Executive hours worked reducing by a further 9 per cent from 3.0 to 2.8, reflecting our ongoing commitment to best practice in health and safety.
We are proud to report that 239 sites achieved our target of zero accidents this year and we continue to strive for zero accidents for the Group as a whole.
com 33 Operating review Unless otherwise stated, any commentary and analysis in the Western Europe operating review is based on constant currency performance.
Year ended Year ended Change 30 April 30 April Change constant Group m 2018 2017 reported currency Revenue 1,450 1,264 15% 10% Year ended Year ended Change m 30 April 2018 30 April 2017 reported 1 Adjusted operating profit 102 104 2% 6% Revenue 5,765 4,781 21% 1 Return on sales % 7.0 8.2 120bps 120bps 1 Adjusted operating profit 530 443 20% Like-for-like corrugated packaging volumes in the region have Operating profit 361 316 14% been strong, with both France and Iberia gaining market share Strong organic volume growth, revenue growth driven by paper with pan-European and e-commerce customers, osetting prices and growth from acquisitions oset by input cost increases continued flat market conditions in Benelux.
Revenues have led to higher revenue and operating profits.
Revenue increased by grown by 10 per cent, principally from good organic growth and 21 per cent to 5,765 million and operating profit by 14 per cent a small contribution from the full year benefit of the acquisitions to 361 million.
The operating review below includes discussion of GoPaca and P&I Display in Iberia in 2016 17. of adjusted operating profit which excludes amortisation and There has been good recovery of paper cost rises to date in the adjusting items.
Note 32 includes discussion on non-GAAP region, with a short-term lag.
Adjusted operating profit fell slightly performance measures.
reflecting input costs not yet fully recovered in absolute terms UK although this is expected to be completed in the new financial year.
Return on sales has fallen by 120 basis points reflecting Year ended Year ended m 30 April 2018 30 April 2017 Change the short-term lag in input cost recovery described above Revenue 1,078 962 12% and are expected to be restored in the new financial year.
1 Adjusted operating profit 109 94 16% Central Europe and Italy 1 Return on sales % 10.1 9.8 30bps Year ended Year ended Change 30 April 30 April Change constant Our UK corrugated packaging business has performed well m 2018 2017 reported currency despite the uncertain economic backdrop.
E-commerce volumes Revenue 1,429 1,239 15% 10% have been particularly good, and we recently launched an online 1 Adjusted operating profit 129 125 3% 2% e-commerce supply platform for small businesses in addition to 1 Return on sales % 9.0 10.1 110bps 110bps our focus on large e-commerce customers.
We have made very good progress on input cost recovery and continue to drive Volumes in this region have again been very good, particularly operational efficiencies.
The UK business is long paper and in Poland and the Baltic region, and also in south eastern Europe.
recycling, which has benefited from the rising paper price Revenue growth of 10 per cent reflects the strong organic volume environment over the past 12 months.
growth, sales price increases implemented to recover input costs, and a modest early contribution from the EcoPack and EcoPaper DCH and Northern Europe business acquired on 6 March 2018.
Year ended Year ended Change 30 April 30 April Change constant Adjusted operating profit is marginally lower, reflecting a small m 2018 2017 reported currency contribution from the acquired businesses and the benefit of Revenue 1,083 989 10% 6% drop-through from volume and sales price increases, oset by the 1 Adjusted operating profit 90 82 10% 6% increases in paper and other input costs, as described earlier.
As a 1 Return on sales % 8.3 8.3 result, return on sales reduced by 110 basis points which as with other regions should be fully restored in the new financial year.
Volumes in this region have continued to be very positive, with very good volume growth in Northern Europe and excellent North America growth in the DCH Germany and Switzerland region.
Revenues Year ended Year ended m 30 April 2018 30 April 2017 grew by 6 per cent, reflecting the benefit of positive corrugated box volumes throughout the region.
Revenue 379 1 Adjusted operating profit m 62 Adjusted operating profit increased by 6 per cent, in line with 1 Return on sales % 16.4 revenue growth, reflecting the benefit of the drop through of profit from volume growth and the benefit of the contribution The performance of the North America packaging and paper from our paper manufacturing operations in the region.
division has been excellent, with corrugated box volume growth Consequently, return on sales was stable at 8.3 per cent.
compared to the comparative period prior to DS Smith ownership ahead of the Group average.
The return for the period, on a 1.
Adjusted to exclude amortisation and adjusting items 34
