Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance continued Board of Directors continued Board diversity Efstathios Stathis Topouzoglou Ohad Marani Robert Peck David Bonanno Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director The mix in our membership Independent Independent Independent Independent Board diversity by age years No Yes Yes No Commencement of Appointment Commencement of Appointment Commencement of Appointment Commencement of Appointment May 2017 July 2017 July 2017 May 2017 Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership X Nomination & Governance X Audit & Risk X Audit & Risk Not applicable 30 - 44 45 - 60 61 - 70 X Remuneration Chair X Remuneration Key Skills & Experience Key Skills & Experience X Health, Safety & Environment X Health, Safety & Environment Chair Board diversity by nationality David Bonanno graduated cum laude from Stathis Topouzoglou holds a BA in Business Harvard University with a BA inPsychology.
Administration and Economics from the Key Skills & Experience Key Skills & Experience University of Athens, Greece.
In 2008, David joined Third Point, where he Ohad Marani holds an MA in Public Former Ambassador Robert Peck holds is managing director, focusing on special He is a founding shareholder of the Group.
a BA in History and Journalism from situation opportunities in the US and Stathis is also co-founder of Prime Marine Healso hold an MBA major in Finance and Concordia University in Montral.
Europe and where he acts as the primary Corporation Prime, a leading worldwide a BA in Economics, both from the Hebrew Robert was Canadas Ambassador to British Greek Israeli American Canadian investment professional responsible for all product tanker company and major global University of Jerusalem.
Greece and High Commissioner to the Third Points Hellenic Recovery Fund L. P. provider of seaborne transportation for refined Board diversity by gender Ohad was Chief Executive Officer of the Republic of Cyprus from 2011 to 2015, Chief activities in Greece.
petroleum products, LPG and ammonia.
Israel Land Development Company Energy of Protocol of Canada from 2007 to 2010, Prior to joining Third Point, David was an Stathis has more than 35 years of experience Ltd from April 2010 to September 2015, and Canadas Ambassador to the Peoples associate in the private equity and distressed in founding and growing companies in the Chairman of the board of Emmanuelle Democratic Republic of Algeria from 2004 investments group at Cerberus Capital energy transportation sector.
Energy from 2010 to 2015, and Chairman to 2007.
Management, L. P from 2006 to 2008. of the board of Israel Natural Gas Lines Ltd He was Senior Advisor in the Human Current External Appointments from 2008 to 2010.
Prior to this, he was an analyst in the Male Female Resources Bureau at Global Affairs Canada, X Chief Executive Officer and Managing restructuring and reorganisation advisory He was the Executive Chairman of the a department of the Government of Canada, Director of PRIME.
group at Rothschild Inc. from 2004 to 2006. board of ORL Ltd from 2004 to 2007. from 2015 to 2017.
Current External Appointments Ohad has also served in the Israeli During a two-year leave of absence from the X Managing Director, Third Point government, including Director General of the Government of Canada, Robert was Director Israeli Finance Ministry from 2001 to 2003, of Corporate Communications and Investor Director General of the Budget Department Relations at CAE Inc. from 2000 to 2002. of the State of Israel from 2000 to 2001, and He was also Counsellor to the Canadian Minister of Economic Affairs at the Israeli Embassy in Greece from 1995 to 1998.
Embassy in Washington from 1995 to 2000.
Current External Appointments Current External Appointments Not Applicable X Board member of Bank Leumi of Israel Ltd. X Member of the Investment Committee of Israels Infrastructure Fund 68Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201869 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance continued Executive Committee Corporate governance report Statement of compliance The Board The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate The Board met on five occasions during the course of 2018 to governance.
Since Admission on 21 March 2018, the Board review trading performance, budgets and funding, to set and hascomplied and will continue to comply with the provisions of monitor strategy, to examine acquisition opportunities and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
In this report, we toreport to shareholders.
describe our corporate governance arrangements and explain how the Group applies the principles of the Code.
The Code isavailable at The Board has a formal schedule of matters that can only www.
The Board has carried out a review of its compliance be decided by the Board, and this schedule is reviewed with the relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year and by the Board each year.
The key matters reserved are the confirmed that it continues to comply with all the provisions.
consideration and approval of: Type and number of meetings held during the year X Business plan andbudgets X The appointment and removal of internal and Matthaios Mathios Rigas Panagiotis Panos Benos Nomination & X Capital expenditure external auditors Board Audit & Risk Governance Remuneration HSE Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer X Group strategy Director 5 3 1 3 2 X Changes in X Board membership Profile see page 66 Profile see page 67 capitalstructure Mathios Rigas 5 X Performance review 1 X Material litigation Simon Heale 5 1 1 X Acquisitions and disposals Andrew Bartlett 5 3 1 2 X Compliance with statutory X Operation as a and regulatory obligations Ohad Marani 5 3 2 2 listedcompany X Internal controls and Robert Peck 5 3 3 2 X Material contracts riskmanagement Efstathios 5 1 X Financial reporting X Significant transactions Topouzoglou andcontrols Panos Benos 5 X Executive remuneration X Material tenders Karen Simon 5 2 X Delegations of authority X Distributions 2 David Bonanno 2 1 anddividends 1.
Became a member of the Committee in September 2018.
Left the Committee in September 2018.
Michelle Churchward Directors Dr. Stephen Moore Iman Hill Group General Counsel Chief Growth Officer Chief Operating Officer &CompanySecretary New Directors were appointed to the Board in 2017 in anticipation of the admission of the Companys ordinary shares to the Profile Profile Profile premium listing segment of the FCA and to trading on the London Dr. Steve Moore is an E&P technical Iman Hill joined Energean as Chief Michelle Churchward joined Energean in Stock Exchanges main market of listed securities.
Following the professional with 28 years experience at Shell, Operating Officer in November 2018.
April 2017 and is responsible for all legal appointment of the Independent Non-Executive Directors in 2017, the Maersk Oil and Mubadala Petroleum.
He Sheis a Petroleum Engineer with 30 and company secretarial matters.
Prior Board believes it has an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
Previously he was years experience in the Oil & Gas industry, to joining Energean, Michelle worked on In respect of at least half the Board, its composition meets code Senior Vice President Technical at Mubadala specialising in Production Operations exploration and development projects in provision B.
1.2, which requires that at least half the Board including Petroleum, where he managed all technical and Fast-tracking of Developments to the Falkland Islands, Morocco and Egypt.
the Chairman comprise Independent Non-Executive Directors.
functions of the company worldwide, Production, across the MENA region, She had previously been Legal Manager at The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and including G&G, reservoir, drilling, facilities, Africa, Latin America and the Far East.
Sterling Energy plc, where she was involved the responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are projects, operations, HSE and technology.
in oil and gas transactions and activities Prior to joining Energean, Iman was the independently defined.
It is the Chairmans responsibility toprovide internationally, including in the Kurdistan Steve has held increasingly significant roles Technical Director for Dana Gas PJSC in the leadership of the Board and set the board agenda as well as to ensure Region of Iraq, West Africa and Madagascar.
across New Business Development, and UAE.
She began her career with BP and went that the Board is provided with accurate, timely and clear information She has also worked for the OMV Group, the Technical, Asset and Company Management, on to work for Shell, for more than a decade, in relation to the Group and its business.
The Chief Executive Officer BG Group and Schlumberger.
expanding from company to global level.
and then BG Group, holding positions such is responsible for setting the overallobjectives and strategic direction He has worked extensively in the FSU, in the as Managing Director of Shell Egypt and Michelle graduated from the University of of the Group as well ashaving day-to-day executive responsibility for Middle East and South East Asia, as well as in Chairwoman of Shell Companies in Egypt and Nottingham with a degree in Law and began the running of the Companys businesses.
The Chairman and Chief the UK North Sea.
Senior Vice President for Developments and her career as a solicitor with Titmuss, Sainer Executive Officer share responsibility for the representation of the Operations with BG Group.
In previous roles she Company to third parties.
Steve holds a BSc Hons in Chemical was based in London, Aberdeen and Paris.
Engineering and a PhD in Chemical Iman has also held positions on a number of Engineering from the University of Boards including as a Non-Executive Director Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
of Outokumpu, Europes largest steel company.
70Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201871 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance continued Corporate governance report continued Non-Executive Directors Board committees Accountability Leadership structure The Non-Executive Directors have a broad range of business The Board has established four committees made up principally This Annual Report includes a number of disclosures which set andcommercial experience.
They provide independent and ofIndependent Non-Executive Directors.
All appointments tothese out the Companys position and prospects.
The Statement of Audit and Risk Nomination and constructive challenge to the Group and monitor the performance committees are for an initial period of up to three years and may be Directors Responsibilities confirms that the Directors believe Committee Governance Committee of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer against extended by no more than two additional threeyear periods.
These those disclosures to be fair, balanced and understandable and the the Groups strategy and key objectives.
committees are: auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has given its opinion that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Groups affairs.
Each appointment is for an unlimited term, subject to being X Audit and Risk Committee pages 74 - 76 Chair Chair re-elected as a director at each annual general meeting.
Andrew Bartlett Simon Heale X Nomination and Governance Committee page 77 The Company has established an Audit & Risk Committee to ANon-Executive Director or the Company may terminate the consider the nature and extent of the principal risks facing the X Health, Safety and Environment Committee page 78 Members Members appointment at any time upon three months written notice.
TheCommittee also considers corporate reporting and Ohad Marani Andrew Bartlett X Remuneration Committee pages 79 - 94 Theseappointments are subject to the provisions of the Articles of manages the relationship with external and internal auditors.
Robert Peck Efstathios Topouzoglou Association, the Code, the Companies Act and relatedlegislation.
Further details of the Committees role and activities are detailed The page numbers above denote the location of each committee onpages 74 to76of this report.
The role of the Senior Independent Director, Andrew Bartlett, report, which describes the composition and focus of each of istoprovide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve asan thecommittees.
The terms of reference of the committees have been Remuneration intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
TheSenior Remuneration Health, Safety and drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Acopy of The Board has established a Remuneration Committee to consider Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have Committee Environment Committee each committees terms of reference is available from theCompany and approve the Executive Directors remuneration arrangements concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Secretary and also can be found at www.
and to ensure those arrangements are designed to promote the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer hasfailed to Board effectiveness long-term success of the Company and that any performanceresolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Chair Chair related elements are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
Evaluation Ohad Marani Robert Peck Independence of Directors Further details of the role and activities of the Remuneration During the year, the Board undertook an internal review of its The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, who was Members Members Committee are found on pages 79 to 94 of this report.
effectiveness facilitated by the Company Secretary.
This was independent on appointment, two Executive Directors and Andrew Bartlett Ohad Marani undertaken by way of a questionnaire and one to one meetings Relationship with shareholders sixNon-Executive Directors.
The Company considers all of the Robert Peck Karen Simon after which an action plan was drawn up and discussed with Simon Heale Non-Executive Directors to be independent within the meaning Engagement with shareholders theChairman.
ofindependent as defined in the Code, other than David Bonanno We are committed to regular dialogue with our shareholders andEfstathios Topouzoglou.
Training and development andthewider investment community and this process commenced Board members are provided with ongoing training and with the IPO preparations.
Ongoing communications are through While each of Mr Bonanno and Mr Topouzoglou are considered development opportunities.
regulatory announcements, regular meetings, presentations, tobe independent in character and judgement, David Bonanno is investor conferences and ad hoc events.
not deemed to be independent by reference to the criteria set out in Development needs are discussed during annual performance the Code as a result of representing Third Point Hellenic Recovery reviews with the Chairman.
During the year, the Board received Shareholders can access details of the Groups results and Lux S.. R. L. which holds approximately 26.7% of the shares of training on the UN Sustainability Goals and the FRCs new othernew releases through the London Stock Exchanges the Company, while Efstathiou Topouzoglou is not deemed to be CorporateGovernance Code.
Regulatory News Service and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange news independent by reference to the criteria set out in the Code as a result service and all news releases are also published onthe Investors Induction of owning in aggregate as an individual and by his indirect holdings and Media sections of the Groups website: www.
On joining the Board all new Directors receive an induction in both Oilco Investments Limited and HIL Hydrocarbon Investments programme that is tailored to their individual requirements.
Annual General Meeting Limited approximately 11.7% of the shares of the Company.
Theinduction schedule is facilitated by the Company Secretary The 2019 AGM will be held on 13 June 2019.
Shareholders willreceive Time Commitment of Directors inconsultation with the Chairman and the new Director.
presentations setting out the key developments in theGroup and will All of the Directors remain committed to their role, and are able have an opportunity to ask questions of the Board.
The objective of each induction programme is to provide an overview to devote sufficient time to the Company to discharge their of the Groups business, strategy, finances, history, culture and values A poll will be used to for all resolutions and the final results will responsibilities effectively.
and to ensure that the new Director gains sufficient knowledge of the beannounced via the London Stock Exchange Regulatory News business to allow them to carry out theirrole effectively.
Service, the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange news service and the Groupswebsite.
72Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201873 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance continued Audit and Risk Committee report The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the Groups capability to In its annual assessment of the effectiveness of Internal Audit, the Assessment of Annual Report identify and manage new types of risk, and keeps under review the Audit and Risk Committee will: A requirement of the Code is that the Annual Report is fair, balanced Groups overall risk assessment processes that inform the Boards and understandable and provides the information necessary for X meet with Internal Audit without the presence of management decision making.
shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, todiscuss the effectiveness of the function: business model and strategy.
This is the Groups second Annual The Audit and Risk Committee considers annually how the X review and re-assess the internal audit work plan: and Report and, in order to support the assessment, the Committee Groups internal audit requirements shall be satisfied and makes X monitor and assess the role and effectiveness of Internal Audit reviewed the principal risks, business model, financial review recommendations to the Board accordingly as well as on any area inthe overall context of the Groups risk management.
and KPIs to ensure these were representative of the business itdeems needs improvement or action.
and consistent throughout the Report and that areas requiring During the year PwC undertook 3 internal audits 2017: nil at a cost Attendance at meetings significantjudgement and explanation have due prominence.
of $62,600 2017: nil The Audit and Risk Committee became effective upon Admission The Committee believes that the disclosures set out in the Annual External auditors in March 2018.
The Committee met three times during the year, and Report provide the information necessary for shareholders to attendance at these meetings is set out below: Ernst & Young LLP EY and the External Auditor were appointed assess the Groups position, performance, business model and as auditors in 2018 and undertook their first audit for the year strategicoutlook.
Member Number of meetings Meetings attended Andrew Bartlett ended 31 December 2017.
Energean Oil & Gas plc became a Public Interest Entity in 2018 on admission to trading on the London Stock Andrew Bartlett 3 3 Internal controls and risk management Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Exchange.
The Company has to comply with the EU Audit Directive Ohad Marani 3 3 The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for the oversight of the 2014 56 EU and Audit Regulation 537 2014 and will be required Groups system of internal controls, including the risk management Robert Peck 3 3 I am pleased to present this Audit and to put the external audit contract out to tender by 2028.
The framework and the work of the internal audit function.
Details Committee confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the Key matters considered in relation to the consolidated RiskCommittee Report for the year ended of the risk management framework are provided within the risk September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order in this management section on pages 56 - 57.
The Groups principal risks financial statements 31December 2018, which sets out the area.
The current lead audit partner is Andrew Smyth, who has been and uncertainties, which provide a framework for the Committees The Audit and Risk Committee focused on a number of key the lead partner since 2018.
The fees paid to EY for their services focus, are discussed on pages 58 - 62.
Management has identified roleof the committee during the year judgements and reporting issues in the preparation of the full are detailed in note 8 to the financial statements.
the key operational and financial processes which exist within the year results and the Annual Report.
In particular, the Committee andkey areas of focus for 2019. business and has developed an internal control framework.
This is The External Auditor attends each meeting of the Audit and Risk considered, discussed and where appropriate challenged: structured around a number of Group policies and procedures and Committee and reports on their audit work and conclusions Membership of the committee X How the Company recognised the additional investment in includes a delegated authority framework.
including the appropriateness of the judgements made by The other members of the Audit and Risk Committee are Ohad Energean Israel Limited.
Following the completion of the IPO, management and their compliance with International Financial Internal auditors Marani and Robert Peck.
the Company had an undertaking to purchase Energean Israel B Reporting Standards.
The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for the review and shares.
The Committee agreed that the Company had used the The Committees members are all Independent Non-Executive approval of the role and mandate of the Internal Audit function, appropriate accounting treatment for the subsequent valuation Directors, and therefore the composition of the Committee complies including the approval of the annual internal audit plan and of the derivative asset and that the consolidation of Energean with the Code.
Members skills and experience are documented on monitoring the effectiveness of the function.
Israels results and balance sheet were appropriate.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee meets the X How the Group assesses the recoverability of oil and gas assets, PwC LLP was appointed in January 2018 for a term of three requirement to have recent and relevant financial experience and that years as the Groups outsourced internal audit function Internal including the estimation of oil and gas reserves.
The Committee as a whole we have sufficient experience of the oil and gas sector.
considered the approach taken by the Company on the Audit following a tender process.
Its key objectives are to provide Any member of the Committee, the Companys external auditor, or its independent and objective assurance on risks and controls, to the impairment indicators and where appropriate, the approach taken internal auditor may however request a meeting if he she considers to calculate the value-in-use for producing oil and gas assets.
Board, the Audit and Risk Committee and senior management, that one is necessary or expedient.
and to assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance The Committee supported the view that there are no indicators The Chairman of the Board, Simon Heale, attends all of the ofimpairment for the Groups oil and gas assets.
The long term Internal Audit plan for 2018, 2019 and meetings of the Committee and the CFO and external audit partner 2020 was approved by the Audit and Risk Committee in April 2018, X Given the importance to the Company, the Committee assessed attend meetings by invitation.
as well as a short term Internal Audit plan for 2018.
Going forward, and challenged the accounting treatment of the Karish Tanin the plans will be reviewed annually.
The Committees Chairman development costs.
The Committee reviewed the capitalisation Role of the committee has established a positive and effective working relationship with of development costs and agreed with the Companys approach The Audit and Risk Committees role is to assist the Board with Internal Audit.
and that appropriate accruals were in place for the year-end to discharging its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, reflect the costs of services provided bycontractors.
including monitoring the integrity of the Groups annual and half X The viability statement in the 2018 Annual Report and the year financial statements, reviewing the Groups accounting going concern basis of accounting including consideration of policies, reviewing the Groups internal financial controls, reviewing evidence of the Groups capital, liquidity and funding position.
and monitoring the scope of the annual audit and the extent of the The Committee considered the assessment of principal risks, non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, advising on the assessed the Groups prospects in light of its current position appointment of external auditors, and reviewing the effectiveness and reviewed the disclosures on behalf of the Board.
The ofthe internal audit, whistleblowing and fraud systems in place Committee supported the viability statement and the Directors within the Group.
74Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201875
