Share registration had a strong year.
It retained all of its clients in the year, with notable renewals including BAE Systems, Carnival, GSK, IHG, Just Eat, EasyJet and QinetiQ Operational review Investment Solutions MARKET PERFORMANCE The number of companies joining or leaving the stock Investment Solutions had a good year, with revenue market are important drivers of net market growth for increasing by 7.7% to 142.5m 2017: 132.3m.
Organic registration and share plan services.
The IPO market growth was 6.9%, primarily driven by a rise in corporate was strong for much of the year, with a wide range of action revenue to 18.8m 2017: 9.4m, along with companies joining the main market.
The level of takeover outstanding client retention and increased market share.
activity was also strong during the year, particularly among Underlying EBITDA increased by 8.7% to 47.3m 2017: FTSE 250 companies, and contributed to substantial 43.5m, representing a margin of 33.2% 2017: 32.9%.
Organic revenue growth, an increase in higher margin Companies served by competitors continued to look for project work and strong growth in employee share plans new registration and share plan providers during 2018, were the main factors of this performance.
creating a number of opportunities for Equiniti.
The desire Share registration had a strong year.
It retained all of to move to a single supplier for these services was often its clients in the year, with notable renewals including a factor, with companies also looking for technology-led BAE Systems, Carnival, EasyJet, GSK, IHG, Just Eat solutions.
Consolidation was a feature of the share plan and QinetiQ.
The division made excellent progress market in 2018, which may have contributed to the number with competitor wins and was appointed as registrar of companies looking to switch.
to clients including Bodycote, Countryside, Deltex, Employee share ownership is increasingly on the political Hiscox, Wm Morrisons and National Grid.
It was agenda, as a way of increasing employee engagement and also highly successful at winning IPO mandates, to enhancing productivity.
Companies are also recognising securing 21 of those coming to market including the potential benefits of employees having a greater stake Aston Martin, Avast and Funding Circle, as well as a in the business, encouraging them to look at giving them range of smaller issuers.
Significant corporate actions free shares, particularly on IPO.
in the year included Old Mutuals spin off of Quilter, Melrose's acquisition of GKN, Tesco's acquisition Retail share dealing volumes were modest during 2018, of Booker and Shire's acquisition of Takeda.
while dealing activity in the share plan market was steady.
In April 2018, Equiniti completed the acquisition of The UK base rate influences the margins we earn on funds Boudicca Proxy Limited.
Boudicca helps Equinitis clients we hold on clients behalf.
The Bank of England raised to maximise their shareholder relationships, gain unique interest rates in August 2018 from 0.5% to 0.75%.
insight into their shareholder base and secure support at key events and in unforeseen situations.
The acquisition has been fully integrated and cross-sold into the Groups registration client base.
22 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW | INVESTMENT SOLUTIONS To achieve cost savings and environmental benefits for Selftrade, the divisions execution-only brokerage service had clients and improve service for their shareholders, the division a good year despite a reduction in trading volumes as a result developed a new digital solution for providing statements to of the uncertain UK equity market.
There has been a trend shareholders in nominee vehicles.
This was in response to MiFID for customers to save more into self-invested pension plans II, which now requires such shareholders to be sent statements SIPPs.
Selftrade is well placed to benefit from further growth in quarterly rather than annually.
The statements give investors SIPPs, as its platform offers access to more SIPP providers than online access to a breakdown of trade activity during the quarter, many competitors.
The business has an ongoing educational as well as the value of assets, shares and outstanding payments.
programme around these products, which will continue into Equiniti will continue to add to the services shareholders can 2019.
This opens up a sizeable new marketplace for the business.
access through the portal, to further reduce costs for clients.
Selftrade also reviewed its pricing structure during 2018, to enhance transparency and reward customer loyalty.
Other Investment Solutions had a strong year for wins in the share important developments included enhancing its capability for plans market with key wins including AstraZeneca, Cobham, certificated trading.
The business can now trade any certificated Countryside, Deltex, Hiscox, Wm Morrisons and National Grid.
shares, not just those for which Equiniti is the registrar.
The majority of these wins came from competitors, with IPOs also an important contributor.
These new share plans will be The international payments business had a good year, with important contributors to revenue over the coming years, as steady organic growth.
In particular, demand has come from the the balances invested by employees build up.
Many of the new SME and mid-sized corporate markets, where companies do not clients are sizeable employers, with Wm Morrisons, for example, have in-house treasury functions.
The business has continued to employing around 105,000 people.
develop its product range, creating a software licence offering for companies who want to carry out their own global payment The share plans business has worked closely with EQ US processing, and investing in virtual bank accounts and e-wallet during the year, to develop a new service for UK-listed services.
It also strengthened its partnerships with financial companies that allows them to emulate a UK share plan for institutions, signing a new partnership with Barclays to add to US employees.
A number of clients are already in discussions the existing arrangement with Citigroup.
This both increases about this product.
Other UK clients who want to offer more resilience and allows the business to route flows through the traditional US employee stock purchase plans are also benefiting most appropriate bank.
from EQ USs capabilities in this area.
Another important development in the year was the launch of a new executive There was good traction with the estate management and share plan module, based on the Groups retail shareholder bereavement services offering during the year, with the tell-usweb portal.
This offers users more functionality across all once pilot with six major UK banks going live.
The division also devices and will be rolled out during 2019. extended its outsourced estate processing work with Lloyds from the banks wealth customers to its retail customers, which will result in a significant increase in volumes.
Investment Solutions had a good year, with revenue increasing by 7.7% to 142.5m 2017: 132.3m SHARES AWARDS 2018 WINNER Best Investor Education Pictured above left to right : Gemma McCluskey, Daniel White 23 Intelligent Solutions had an excellent year, with a 33.4% increase in revenue to 165.9m 2017: 124.4m, underpinned by exceptional organic growth of 30.2% Operational review Intelligent Solutions MARKET There are strong underlying trends driving growth across The KYC market is driven by regulation, which requires Intelligent Solutions four areas of operation regulatory numerous organisations, from banks and financial services remediation, credit services, know your customer KYC and to solicitors and accounting firms, to understand who they data analytics.
are doing business with and prevent money laundering.
Globally, money laundering is estimated to be between 2% In the regulatory remediation market, growth is being and 5% of GDP and less than 1% of money laundering is driven by two main factors.
First, clients need to reduce currently caught.
Regulators have responded with a wave costs by automating their processes, with Equiniti being of new rules, which are becoming ever more stringent.
This a leading provider in this area.
Second, there is an everis pushing organisations to adopt technology solutions to growing range of issues requiring remediation.
Some of help them manage KYC issues effectively and efficiently.
these are specific to individual firms, while others apply across the industry.
Examples include pensions mis-selling, To grow their top line, companies increasingly need interest-only mortgages and consumer lending affordability specialist support to extract insights on existing and checks, which could all drive significant volumes of potential customers from vast quantities of their own remediation work.
This means that while payment and third-party data.
Other important drivers of the protection insurance PPI claims will come to an end in data analytics market include cyber security and asset August 2019, as a result of the Financial Conduct Authoritys reunification, through which individuals are reconnected deadline, we expect continued growth in this area of our with lost assets such as pensions or savings accounts.
The UK data analytics market is expected to more than double in size between 2018 and 2023 source: The credit services market is driven by the ongoing ResearchandMarkets.
expansion of consumer debt, which is rising at around 8.5% per annum, according to the Bank of England.
A key PERFORMANCE opportunity here is for Equiniti to provide technology to Intelligent Solutions had an excellent year, with a new firms offering different forms of lending, such as peer 33.4% increase in revenue to 165.9m 2017: 124.4m, to peer and guarantor loans.
Lenders of all types also need underpinned by exceptional organic growth of 30.2%.
to increase automation and efficiency, to maintain their Underlying EBITDA rose by 21.7% to 39.8m 2017: 32.7m profitability in the face of an ongoing squeeze on their net as a result of strong organic growth with the contraction in interest margins.
24 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW | INTELLIGENT SOLUTIONS margin to 24.0% 2017: 26.3%, reflecting the change in business mix driven by an increase in lower margin remediation projects.
The division produced a strong performance, with remediation services a particular driver of revenue growth, as Intelligent Solutions won multiple large-scale remediation and fulfilment projects with major UK Banks.
PPI is becoming a smaller proportion of the remediation business as evidenced by the two largest projects in 2018 being non-PPI.
Intelligent Solutions is evolving its business model in remediation as it moves away from providing resource to clients in the form of people and adopts a managed service approach.
This allows the division to use technology to reduce the cost to the client, while driving efficiencies that increase Equinitis margin.
The 2017 acquisitions of Gateway2Finance and Nostrum supported strong growth in credit services, with new wins including contracts with Vodafone and MotoNovo Finance.
Other major wins during the year included cross-selling its customer on-boarding services to Ulster Bank, its case management platform to Hiscox and Lloyds Bank, and its EQ Pictured: Pamela Beasley Amplify data analytics product to Royal Mail.
A global deal to roll out Equinitis complaints management platform for HSBC demonstrated the divisions ability to cross-sell into the US.
Intelligent Solutions also won contracts to provide data analytics to Neilson, IT solutions to the Information Commissioners Office, an asset reunification project with Lloyds Bank and a project with Ofcom, the UKs communications regulator, to run their claims management system.
Intelligent Solutions launched two new data analytics products in the year.
EQ Amplify is designed to help businesses better understand their customers, so they can better serve their needs and develop mutually rewarding relationships.
EQ FirstSight is a cyber security product, which combines comprehensive and scalable data analytics with human data security experts, to protect organisations from digital risks.
The division continues to focus on efficiencies and new ways of working with our people in Chennai supporting Intelligent Solutions technology, with further scope to increase capacity offshore.
The division is also starting to work with clients to offer them robotics and artificial intelligence capabilities, which can generate substantial reductions in processing times.
Intelligent Solutions further strengthened its senior team during the year, recruiting a strategy director and a head of Amplify proposition sales.
Both these appointments will support the divisions ability to offer clients complete solutions, rather than individual product sales.
Equiniti KYC Solutions was named amongst Europes Top 25 Fintech solution providers by CIOApplications TOP 25 Equiniti Credit Services wins Equiniti Credit Services wins the Technology Award at the Best Technology Partner Loan FINTECH Yorkshire Post Excellence in management payments at the SOL UTION PR O VIDEr COMPANIE S - 20 18 Business Awards 2018 Lending Awards 25 The acquisition of Aquila enhances our technology and services offering for insurance and the life sector Operational review Pension Solutions MARKET Pension Solutions continued to face a challenging Technological solutions have an important role in delivering marketplace in 2018.
In the first half of the year, improved outcomes for scheme members, for example by relatively few clients sought to procure either pensions introducing self-service functionality.
While companies have administration or software provision.
While more historically been heavily focused on the cost of introducing administration opportunities arose in the second half, improvements, Equinitis market research has identified many of those procurement processes were still ongoing that there is increasing willingness to invest to drive better at the year end.
There is also continuing consolidation outcomes.
in the marketplace, which is part of a long-term trend of Innovation in the retirement products market is another increasing concentration.
Life insurance companies and other fund Despite these short-term challenges, the longer-term providers aim to attract savers with new products, creating drivers of market growth remain in place.
The shift to full opportunities for service providers to administer their older, outsourcing of pension fund administration continues, legacy products.
as companies and pension fund trustees look to cope A theme underlying many of the drivers of the pensions with the burdens of regulation, cost and the effective market is the need for reliable data.
For example, companies management of scheme liabilities.
need high-quality data before they can complete a buy-in or buy-out transaction, or they will face a risk premium from the There is a growing volume of buy-in and buy-out insurer which will typically far outweigh the cost of enhancing transactions in the bulk-purchase annuity market, as their data quality.
This creates demand for services such companies look to fide-risk their pension fund liabilities.
as bulk analytics, bulk rectification, remediation and data The opportunity for Equiniti is to support the insurance companies who initiate those transactions, both during cleansing.
the transfer and with ongoing administration.
26 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW | PENSION SOLUTIONS The Group purchased the Cabinet Offices 24% stake in MyCSP for 8m, increasing Equinitis ownership from 51% to 75% PERFORMANCE Pension Solutions continued to pick up ongoing project work As expected, Pension Solutions saw revenue decline by 7.5% to with existing clients and signed new clients, including Highland 129.0m 2017: 139.5m, with a decrease in underlying EBITDA Council Pension Fund, South Warwickshire NHS Trust, the UK of 19.9% to 19.7m 2017: 24.6m, representing a margin of Atomic Energy Authority and a ten-year contract to administer 15.3% 2017: 17.6%.
The decline was the result of the ongoing the Combined Nuclear Pension Plan.
competitive market together with a contract loss and change in scope of the NHS contract at the end of 2017.
The previously MyCSP continued to deliver in line with expectations during announced 2.0m of restructuring and transformation costs in the year.
In September, the Group announced that the contract respect of the division is reflected in underlying EBITDA.
We with the Cabinet Office to provide pension administration and continue to actively manage the cost base with initiatives in place related services had been extended until the end of 2021.
At the throughout the course of 2018 and into 2019 to stabilise trading.
same time, the Group purchased the Cabinet Offices 24% stake Initiatives to manage the cost base include driving closer working in MyCSP for 8m, increasing Equinitis ownership from 51% to relationships with Pension Solutions and MyCSP, utilising further 75%.
The remaining 25% of MyCSP continues to be owned by automation and offshoring work and rationalising the property MyCSP Trustee Company, which is an employee benefit trust.
MyCSP has made a significant investment in technology and The divisions underlying EBITDA in 2018 included 2.0m services for public sector pensions' administration, and has the of restructuring and transformation costs.
This programme experience and scale to operate the largest and most complex is designed to improve Pension Solutions operations in a of schemes.
With this contract extension, we are committed to number of areas.
These include enhancing the quality of its bid further investment in the services and enhancing the employer submissions, client engagement and management information, and member experience.
and simplifying and standardising its operating processes.
The In October 2018, the Group acquired Aquila, a UK-based life and intention is to support the divisions ability to win new work and pensions' technology provider for pension schemes and large to deliver that work as effectively as possible.
In addition to this insurance companies.
Its proprietary Administrator platform programme, the division is exploring opportunities to integrate supports propositions in workplace savings, bulk-purchase some of Equinitis digital capabilities into the solutions it provides annuities and heritage transformation.
The acquisition enhances to clients.
Equinitis technology and services for insurance and the life sector.
The acquisition brings with it a number of key clients Despite the challenging market environment, the division including Aon Hewitt, Aviva, the BBC, British Airways, Fidelity successfully retained all of its relationships in the year.
renewals and contract extensions included Abbey Life, GSK, Lloyds Banking Group, Metal Box and Metropolitan Police.
Pictured above: Rachel Roberts 27 The division also retained all of its major clients, reflecting its strong relationships.
This included signing a five-year extension with General Electric and renewing its foundation contract with MDU, a client since 1929 Operational review EQ US MARKET The US shareholder services industry is mature and highly In addition, at the time of acquisition, EQ US had a concentrated.
The top three players have around 90% of narrow product set, providing transfer agent services the market between them, based on both the number of and corporate actions to its client base.
This creates a shareholders and the number of issuers served.
Clients significant opportunity to open up new areas of the market are focused on achieving value, which means they look to EQ US, by cross-selling the Groups existing capabilities to control their costs while ensuring they receive a good developed in the UK and by developing new capabilities quality of service.
They are also looking for their service in the US.
providers to solve more of their issues, by offering an The US IPO market was relatively slow in the first half of expanded range of products and capabilities.
However, the year, with greater activity in the second half.
The level the industry has underinvested in both technology and of corporate actions in the US market was also stronger in service in recent years, creating opportunities for EQ US the second half.
The market EQ US can address is also increasing.
The separation from Wells Fargo means EQ US can now compete for banking and financial services clients, which Underlying EBITDA increased by were closed to it when it was owned by a bank.
The business had also historically focused on clients with the 15.0% to 19.2m largest shareholder bases and now has the opportunity to work for clients of all sizes.
28 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW | EQ US The separation of the business from Wells Fargo and its PERFORMANCE integration into Equiniti is proceeding well.
We have now The acquisition of EQ US completed on 1 February 2018 established our data centres and deployed our applications and its results were consolidated into the Group from this date.
within those data centres, inaugurated our second site in Prior period performance shown below is for the period from Milwaukee and introduced new finance, HR and billing systems.
1 February to 31 December 2017 and is provided to demonstrate The final phase of our work is the business acceptance testing the divisions underlying performance.
of core transactional systems which is well underway, and we Revenue in the period decreased by 2.0% to 81.4m 2017: are now progressing an extended period of parallel running, 83.1m with revenue from corporate actions of 12.3m anticipated to conclude by June 2019.
Whilst revenue declined by 6.3% in the first half, of prudent dual running requires an additional investment in the business delivered growth of 1.5% in the second half and transitional resource, increasing our estimated total cost to achieved a substantial increase in its profitability.
Revenue from complete to no more than 45.0m.
The synergies committed in interest income increased to 9.0m 2017: 4.7m as the division the acquisition case of $10m in the second year of ownership benefitted from the rising interest rate environment.
2020 are on track and will deliver in their entirety.
Underlying EBITDA increased by 15.0% to 19.2m 2017: 16.7m, Good progress is being made towards delivering our annual representing a margin of 23.6% 2017: 20.0%, reflecting the rising synergy target of $10m with cost savings being delivered from interest rate environment, reflecting growth in corporate actions, insurance, IT and back office services.
As we go through 2019, stability of the client base and good cost discipline offset by further savings are expected from a number of procurement investment to drive future growth.
exercises, IT licences, digitisation of services and widening our service delivery capabilities to start and use the Groups offshore Following the announcement of the acquisition, EQ US capability.
experienced some attrition among smaller clients following the announcement of the acquisition.
This has now stabilised Following feedback from clients, EQ US has prioritised the with the division winning additional new clients through the introduction of web-based capabilities which will improve service second half of the year.
The division also retained all of its major for both clients and their shareholders.
To facilitate this, EQ US clients, reflecting its strong relationships.
This included signing has renewed its relationship with its existing system provider, FIS, a five-year extension with General Electric and renewing its and will transition clients to the Groups Sirius platform over a foundation contract with MDU, a client since 1929.
Other major longer period than originally envisaged.
renewals included 3M, Garret Motion, Honeywell, CVS and JP In addition to the successful introduction of Riskfactor, EQ US Morgan.
New client wins in the period were also encouraging developed and launched a capability to administer private M&A and included AbbVie, Inmarsat, Mastercard, National Bank transactions towards the end of 2018.
This will support new and Holdings, Perspecta and Residio.
EQ US serves as transfer agent existing clients and is already gaining traction with six clients to JP Morgans depository receipts business.
JP Morgan now has secured in 2018.
The division also has a roadmap for introducing greater access to Equinitis UK clients and during the year we further capabilities in 2019, including data analytics, proxy together won Royal Dutch Shell as a depository receipt client.
solicitation services and employee plans.
Proxy solicitation has Royal Dutch Shell is Equinitis first share registration client, with now been launched and is already generating commitments 60 years of continuous service, and this cooperation for London for 2019.
As well as presenting scope for faster revenue growth, and New York listings demonstrates the strength of our service the introduction of new capabilities will deepen EQ US client model.
Significant corporate actions in the year included being relationships and further enhance retention.
Key US clients appointed as exchange agent by Conagra Brands, Inc. for its currently take two services, compared with more than ten $11bn acquisition of Pinnacle Foods Inc and CVS Healths $69bn services for key clients in the UK.
To achieve its growth potential, EQ US has recruited new talent There was early success with selling the Groups UK credit in sales, marketing, human resources, finance and a range of services into the USA, following the introduction of Riskfactor to other functions.
This will enable the division to both capture the the US in July 2018.
There is significant potential for this product opportunities presented and deliver the quality of service clients among asset-intensive lenders in the US, with the target market expect.
The division has also created a Chief Customer Officer ranging from smaller companies to large financial institutions.
role, which is unique in the market and will ensure EQ US stays In total, EQ US added 11 clients for this service, including wins close to its clients to best meet their needs.
EQ US has also with Advanced Partners, Baron Finance, Capital Business Credit successfully retained its core team, ensuring continuity for clients.
Pictured: Andy Edler and Amy Madden 29
