Strategic Report Operational Review Components Global market-leading manufacturer and distributor of small components Revenue 271m 2017: 242m Packaging Multicontinental supplier of secondary packaging to the health and personal care sectors Revenue 342m 2017: 351m 48 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Components 50 Packaging 54 Specialist Filters 58 Components Specialist Components 62 Six smaller standalone businesses with strong positions in niche markets Revenue 159m 2017: 164m Filters The only global independent provider of filters and related solutions to the tobacco industry Revenue 260m 2017: 278m OPERATIONAL REVIEW ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 49 Strategic Report Operational Review Components Essentra difference In 2018, we worked with a global manufacturer of hermetic compressors to help them resolve a number of procurement frustrations.
With our expert help, extensive range and free sample service, we were able to meet all our customers specifications on a just-in-time basis, as well as allowing them to source multiple products from one place.
As a result, they have been able to consolidate their procurement process from six suppliers to one and take advantage of flexible ordering, saving them time, space and money 50 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Revenue 271.1m 2017: 241.8m 1 Adjusted operating profit 60.0m 2017: 53.6m Scott Fawcett Managing Director 1 Adjusted operating margin Components 22.1% 2017: 22.2% 1 Excluding amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional and other adjusting items Who we are and what we do How we do it A leading global manufacturer and Our objective is to leverage our extensive distributor of a comprehensive range customer base, product range and of components, used in diverse industrial distribution capability, using our efficient applications and end-markets.
sourcing and manufacturing operations and integrated IT platform, to respond to We are a global market-leading the demands of our diverse customer base.
manufacturer and distributor of plastic Our tool library, product development skills injection moulded, vinyl dip moulded and and manufacturing experience, combined metal items.
Operating in 28 countries with our inventory and logistics worldwide with 12 manufacturing facilities infrastructure are unique assets.
We have and 29 logistics centres, the division serves sophisticated business-to-business, more than 85,000 customers with a rapid multi-channel marketing expertise, and supply of low-cost but essential products support this with our knowledgeable sales for a variety of applications in industries resource and comprehensive product such as equipment manufacturing, catalogues, which are available in many automotive, fabrication, electronics and languages and online.
We target organic growth through increasing the range of products and effective marketing, cross-selling to existing customers, expanding our customer base and entering new geographic markets.
We also see opportunities to grow through acquisition, where it can move our business into complementary product categories or end-markets, or further our geographic distribution capability.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW: COMPONENTS ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 51 Strategic Report Operational Review: Components continued Our markets How we performed in 2018 Revenue increased 12.1% 14.8% at constant exchange to 271.1m.
Adjusting for the acquisition of Micro Plastics on 12 December 2017 and Hertila on 5 July Automotive Equipment Fabrication Electronics Construction 2018, like-for-like growth was 5.9%.
manufacturing This strong performance reflected good progress across a number of our key strategic objectives, with refinement of our product offer and service proposition and improved customer experience Oil and Gas Retail POP supporting a broad-based result across Paper and geographic markets and customer size Board notwithstanding Industrial Production levels declining throughout the course of the year.
Our range of access hardware maintained 2019 key initiatives its very strong growth, boosted by the launch of new lock, hinge and handle solutions and underpinned by investment Successfully roll out the new Increase cross-selling through in additional injection moulding equipment digital platform, to support better product training and and a new painting environment at our new customer acquisition and enhance commercial two facilities in Istanbul, Turkey.
Cable to improve cross-selling effectiveness management solutions and the general opportunities and ease of use Continue to drive growth in China protection range of caps and plugs also Continue to drive hassle free through recruitment of dedicated performed well, while components aimed proposition through best Commercial team and marketing at the consumer electronics sector practice customer service training approach supported the result in Asia.
In addition and OTIF improvements, as well and reinforcing our strength in our core Further enhance acquisition as more streamlined processes ranges over 1,500 new products were pipeline, with the objective of and procedures introduced globally through our websites boosting organic growth with and catalogues, particularly in the Improved discipline in pricing value-creating transactions specialist fastener and hardware segments.
across geographical markets Consistent with our strategic objective of providing our customers with a hasslefree experience and reliable and timely delivery, we initiated a number of commercial and operational projects Our objective is to leverage our during the year.
Supported by a selective investment in talent, these included the extensive customer base, product upgrading of our digital capability with our new online platform scheduled for range and distribution capability.
initial launch in Q1 2019 as well as ongoing customer service improvement and product training programmes.
In addition, we made significant progress in ensuring that our operational processes for both our products and customers are in place and are standardised.
As a result, we not only delivered a material uplift in our OTIF delivery but also a meaningful reduction in our waste levels, with further Continuous Improvement initiatives being launched towards the end of the year to drive additional benefits in 2019.
Having made three commitments to our customers in 2018 better communication, website investment and improved delivery we were therefore pleased that these combined initiatives contributed to a further improvement in our Net Promoter 52 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT W Wh ha at w t we m e me ea as su ur re e 85K 30 92.4% 4 2017: 94K 2017: 29 2017: 90.4% 2017: 6 Number of active Net promoter score On time in full Lost time incidents customers Why we measure it Why we measure it Why we measure it Why we measure it Reflects our customers overall Demonstrates the ability Indicates our overriding Reflects marketing satisfaction with our products to meet delivery demand commitment to health, safety effectiveness and measures the and service, as well as loyalty and welfare in the workplace potential population for further to our brand How we have done growth opportunities 92.4% compares to How we have done How we have done 90.4% in 2017 Decreased to four from six How we have done Increased from 29 to 30 in 2017 Reduction from 94K to 85K, on a global basis as we focus on mid-sized customers Revenue by segment Having made three commitments to our customers in 2018 better communication, website investment and improved delivery we were therefore pleased that these combined initiatives contributed to a further improvement in our Net Promoter Score.
Electronics: 41.8% Fabrication machinery: 22.8% Automotive: 15.8% Hydraulics Pneumatics: 3.5% Retail POP Paper and Board: 3.0% Oil and Gas: 2.1% Construction: 1.9% Other: 9.1% Score, which is our key metric to measure Continental Europe.
At the same time, we overall satisfaction levels and reflecting invested considerable time in rebuilding our Revenue by destination a particularly good uplift in the USA.
pipeline of potential transactions, to ensure we are well-placed to continue realising our Both the recently-acquired Micro Plastics, strategic objective of complementing our USA and Hertila, Sweden businesses organic growth with value-creating performed in line with expectations and acquisitions should the opportunities arise.
the respective integrations have progressed well.
In the case of the former, the Adjusted operating profit increased 11.9% cross-selling of Essentra products in Mexico 13.2% at constant exchange to 60.0m, and of Micro Plastics components to our equating to a margin of 22.1%.
This 10bps USA customer base rolled out during the decline -30bps at constant exchange second half of the year, with Europe Asia reflected the robust top line performance scheduled for early 2019.
Regarding the as well as ongoing operational efficiency latter, the cross-selling of Essentra products initiatives, which were offset by continued Europe and Africa: 55.2% Americas: 33.6% to Hertilas c. 1,000 customers is on track measured investment in divisional Asia including Middle East: 11.2% for the first half of 2019, and has also capabilities and the dilutive impact allowed us to transfer certain equipment of recently acquired businesses which between Sweden and our Spanish facility in currently have a margin below the Barcelona, thus providing us with greater Components average.
flexibility in our manufacturing footprint in OPERATIONAL REVIEW: COMPONENTS ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 53 Strategic Report Operational Review Packaging Essentra difference In 2018, we supported a global pharmaceutical customer in meeting a regulatory deadline to introduce tamper-evident cartons.
Working in close collaboration through a dedicated project management team, we leveraged our innovation and flexible manufacturing expertise to design, trial and approve 68 carton profiles, as well as redesign, process and approve 1,000 artworks.
As a result, 1,200 new cartons were implemented within eight months, ensuring our customer fulfilled their regulatory obligations.
54 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Revenue 342.3m 2017: 350.5m 1 Adjusted operating profit 5.4m 2017: adjusted operating loss: 1.8m Iain Percival Managing Director, 1 Adjusted operating margin Packaging 1.6% 2017: n a 1 Excluding amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional and other adjusting items.
Who we are and what we do How we do it One of very few multi-continental Our objective is to understand our suppliers of a full secondary packaging customers needs and business challenges, range to the pharmaceutical, personal and then to collaborate closely with them care and beauty sectors.
using our product, process and services know-how capabilities and resources to Our innovative products include cartons, deliver successful and value-creating leaflets, self-adhesive labels and printed solutions.
We seek to leverage our foils used in blister packs, which help international footprint to provide marketcustomers to meet the rapidly changing leading quality and service on a global requirements of these end-markets and basis, and to add value to both customers can be combined with Essentras and consumers.
authentication solutions to help fight against counterfeiting.
As a result, our Operating from 24 manufacturing sites products and technologies provide a across four geographic regions, we are a value-adding, multi-functional choice for leading global supplier of a broad suite of our customers, with our solutions helping innovative specialist secondary packaging to ensure that the consumer receives and authentication solutions to meet the products that have been protected in rapidly changing requirements of the transit, have not been tampered with, pharmaceutical, personal care and beauty contain critical information which is markets.
Working in effective partnership accurate and user-friendly and can be with customers and strategic suppliers, confirmed as genuine.
we are committed to quality, flexibility and creativity, to ensure we are well placed Supported by in-house design studios to meet the exacting needs of an the Design Hub R&D and multi-million international customer base.
pound print facilities, we are positioned to deliver the very best in quality, service and reliability through our worldwide manufacturing and sales structure.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW: PACKAGING ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 55 Strategic Report Operational Review: Packaging continued Our markets How we performed in 2018 Revenue decreased 2.3% -1.5% at constant exchange to 342.3m.
Excluding the divestment of the Bristol consumer packaging facility on 5 June 2017 and the Pharmaceutical Personal Care trade and assets of Swiftbrook, Ireland on and Beauty 3 September 2018, like-for-like revenue was -0.5% lower 3.2% adjusting for both disposals and the closure of the Newport IP5 cartons site at the end of 2017.
As anticipated, the revenue trend improved progressively over the course of the year.
2019 key initiatives The Europe and Asia region returned to underlying growth during Q2 ie, excluding divestments and Newport IP5, shortly Continue to leverage Key Account Leverage scale to improve followed by the Americas in Q3, with the Management structure and the procurement benefits entire division delivering a very encouraging Design Hub capabilities to drive Improve quality management performance during H2 and thus entering revenue growth and regain through enhanced training across 2019 on a solid footing.
This inflection point market share the site footprint for our business reflects our continuing Further improve operational focus on key service and quality metrics Drive profitability towards efficiency through which have been maintained at least at medium-term objective of implementation of Continuous industry-average levels throughout 2018, industry-average levels, Improvement Lean as well as a further strengthening and through volume gearing and manufacturing tools deepening of the dialogue with our returns from ongoing incremental customers as to how we can collaborate investment programme to help them meet a range of needs and business objectives.
Further underpinning these enhanced customer relationships has been the establishment of a clear Key Account Management structure during the year, as well as the embedding of new global Our objective is to partner closely with and regional leadership teams.
In addition, we continued to develop our product our customers, to provide them with pipeline to ensure that customers are well placed to meet such industry trends as value-creating solutions to their needs.
patient adherence and evolving legislative requirements regarding the tracking, tracing and authenticating of products through the supply chain.
As a result, we have not only built on the global framework agreements with certain international blue-chip healthcare companies which were signed towards the end of 2017, but also secured a number of encouraging new business wins over the course of 2018.
To support the ongoing improvement in both our commercial and operational effectiveness, we continued to rebuild our capabilities through significant investment in machine upgrades.
To meet the growing demand for more complex literature, we installed new folding equipment in the USA, Puerto Rico, the UK, Ireland and Germany.
Meanwhile, we added a new gluing line in Spain, as well as carton presses featuring the latest colour management technology at several sites in both the Americas and Europe: as colour management is the single largest source of product defects, this will therefore allow us 56 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT W Wh ha at w t we m e me ea as su ur re e 95.6% 21.6% 47 2017: 95.9% Decrease 2017: 23 vs 2017 On time in full Customer complaints Lost time incidents Why we measure it Why we measure it Why we measure it Drives performance of quality Drives performance of quality Indicates our overriding systems and service delivery systems and service delivery commitment to health, safety and welfare in the workplace How we have done How we have done 95.6% compares to A 21.6% decrease in customer How we have done 95.9% in 2017 complaints versus 2017 23 lost-time incidents compares to 47 in 2017 Revenue by segment Underscoring our strategic focus on the health and personal care endmarkets, we undertook further site footprint rationalisation during the year.
Health and Personal Care: 84.5% Food and Beverage: 6.2% Retail POP Paper and Board: 3.0% to further improve our capability and rationalisation during the year.
New cut-and-crease equipment in we announced the divestment of the trade Other: 5.5% Charlotte, USA and Bradford, UK has and assets of Swiftbrook, a paper already resulted in a material reduction in merchant based in Dublin, that serves waste, while we also invested in our digital customers in end-markets such as office Revenue by destination footprint with additional digital label supplies, commercial print and capacity in Lublin, Poland to support future pharmaceuticals.
Then in September, we growth opportunities and a digital carton announced the intended closure of the printing capability at Glasnevin, Ireland to commercial print consumer packaging site allow us to better meet the demand for in Largo, USA, as well as a consultation small batch runs which are particularly process at our commercial print facility in required for clinical drug trials.
Having confirmed the to leverage the capabilities of the Design proposal at Kilmarnock, both this and the Hub in providing value-added solutions, Largo site closed at the end of 2018. we established a second facility in Moorestown, USA, to better serve Adjusted operating profit of 5.4m customers in the Americas.
Taken compared to an adjusted operating loss in aggregate, this incremental investment of 1.8m in FY 2017 and equated to a Europe and Africa: 60.0% Americas: 38.6% will not only help us to realise our margin of 1.6%.
This was largely driven by Asia including Middle East: 1.4% objective of being the leading provider of the closure of the loss-making Newport IP5 secondary packaging in terms of quality facility and the receipt of an additional management, but also to make continual 1.2m of insurance proceeds in respect of improvement in our manufacturing lead hurricane-related disruption to the Puerto times as customers require even greater Rico sites in 2017, boosted by price increases agility from their suppliers.
to offset higher raw material costs and a modest volume gearing effect as revenue Underscoring our strategic focus on the returned to growth.
On a like-for-like basis, health and personal care end-markets, the margin was 1.6% 1.6% adjusting for we undertook further site footprint both divestments and Newport IP5.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW: PACKAGING ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 57 Strategic Report Operational Review Filters Essentra difference In 2018, we worked with a global customer to develop a new e-cigarette component to solve a performance issue.
Leveraging our extensive expertise and understanding of customer and consumer needs, we designed, prototyped and tested a bespoke circular component.
We also created a manufacturing process to produce for larger volumes.
As a result, the consumer vaping experience is vastly improved and we can efficiently supply our customer as this Next Generation Product NGP segment continues to grow.
58 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Revenue 260.0m 2017: 277.5m 1 Adjusted operating profit 34.8m 2017: 34.8m Kamal Taneja 1 Adjusted operating margin Managing Director, Filters 13.4% 2017: 12.5% 1 Excluding amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional and other adjusting items.
We supply over 700 product specifications Who we are and what we do to c. 250 customers, including all the The only global independent provider multi-national tobacco companies.
We of filters and related solutions to the have seven manufacturing facilities in tobacco industry.
seven countries, supported by a dedicated research facility and three regional Not only do we manufacture standard development centres.
filters, but as the leading supplier of special filters we also provide innovative solutions How we do it that meet the consumer-driven demands Innovation is at the heart of our business, of the tobacco industry against a backdrop and our objective is to develop valueof ongoing legislative changes.
In addition, creating partnerships with our customers.
our offering extends to nicotine delivery We seek to leverage our long-standing devices, where we have a number of experience, expertise and insight to provide fully-functional and packaged e-cigarette brand differentiation and identity solutions, products as well as solutions for the Heat as well as excellence in both manufacturing Not Burn HNB segment, which draw and service.
Our recognised ability to upon the broad range of technologies provide new value-added products and which the Essentra Group can deliver.
services is key to the future growth of our business, as market dynamics in the We also increasingly provide adjacent tobacco industry continue to evolve.
services to the tobacco industry.
Our Scientific Services facility located in the UK was one of the first independent, externally accredited laboratories for the testing of cigarettes, cigarette filters, smokeless devices including e-cigarettes and low ignition propensity LIP for cigarette papers, and has over 20 years experience of providing analytical services to state monopolies, and both independent and multi-national customers.
Additionally, we offer a full bespoke range for the design, packing and packaging of filters of roll-your-own brands, providing an efficient and cost-effective solution to delivering retail-ready products to the market.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW: FILTERS ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 59 Strategic Report Operational Review: Filters continued Our markets Research in filters is carried out at a dedicated Technology Centre, supported by three regional development facilities.
Together, they work closely with customers to understand their specific needs and strive to deliver innovative solutions which Tobacco will give their brands differentiation and relevance, at a pace appropriate to local market conditions and legislative requirements.
Our offering is further enhanced by our ability to complement our customers own strengths and assets in a variety of tolling, or outsourced management, relationship arrangements, as well as our growing adjacent services activities.
2019 key initiatives We continuously upgrade our technology and footprint, to ensure we exceed our Continue to progress discussions Drive additional operational customers expectations and remain at regarding each of the three excellence initiatives, to help the forefront of market trends.
Our flexible potential game changers shorten the supply chain and to manufacturing capability allows us to further reduce waste Continue to leverage respond rapidly to market changes and scientific know-how to add Continue to leverage and customer demand for surge volumes, while value to customers, in both reinforce Key Account a consistent focus on high standards of the traditional combustible Management structure, to further quality, cost control and production and NGP segments strengthen customer relationships efficiency act as further sources of competitive advantage.
Further enhance value proposition through customer and supplier How we performed in 2018 partnerships to drive innovation Revenue decreased 6.3% -2.9% at constant exchange to 260.0m, with good progress with independent customers notably in China, India and the Middle East being offset by the volatile nature of projects which is characteristic of the tobacco industry.
In addition, further progress was made in discussions regarding Our objective is to leverage our longeach of the potential game changers we identified in the 2017 strategic review of the standing experience, expertise and insight division namely, further outsourcing, a joint venture in China and NGPs.
to develop value-creating partnerships Continuing to build on our track record of with our customers.
successful innovation and the acknowledged capabilities of our business, we launched a number of new products during the year to meet the evolving requirements of our customers.
In the combustibles segment, we developed further products to meet the ongoing trend for combining flavour capsules in filters which also offer visual differentiation, building on our extensive know-how in both technologies.
Our business in China also maintained its strong growth, driven by ongoing demand for Superslim and shaped filters as the consumer trend for increasingly complex and smaller diameter products continues to increase.
In addition, the result in both our joint ventures in India and Dubai were driven by a strong performance for capsule products.
60 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT What we measure What we measure 98.5% 41.4% 3.9% 4 2017: 95.2% Decrease 2017: 6.0% 2017: 7 vs 2017 On time in full Quality complaints Waste Lost time incidents per billion rods Why we measure it Why we measure it Why we measure it Demonstrates the ability Why we measure it Drives productivity and the Indicates our overriding to meet delivery demands Drives productivity and the efficient use of material commitment to health, safety efficient use of material and welfare in the workplace How we have done How we have done 98.5% compares How we have done 3.9%, a decrease from How we have done to 95.2% in 2017 A 41.4% reduction in 6.0% in 2017 Decreased to four from complaints per billion rods seven in 2017 versus 2017 Revenue by segment Consistent with our strategic objective of Scientific Services: based in Indonesia, further upgrading the divisions innovative continued to perform well, further building capabilities, we held a series of customer on its extensive experience and expanded and supplier workshops, which have range of accredited testing methods.
resulted in a number of strategic During the year, we added the testing of development projects already being HNB products to the existing analytical launched.
In particular, the matter of laboratory services, to ensure the delivery degradability and littering of cigarette of high-quality analysis which remains butts has again come to the forefront as a at the forefront of industry trends and key regulatory and consumer concern regulatory requirements in this growing where, given our existing Paper, Ochre and segment.
Bi Tech products and our more dispersible plug wrap, we believe we have significant Adjusted operating profit was unchanged Mono: 28.2% experience which we can bring to bear in increased 1.5% at constant exchange Carbon: 11.4% assisting our customers meet these at 34.8m, with the 90bps 60bps at Flavour: 3.0% important evolving requirements.
constant exchange uplift in the margin Other: 57.4% to 13.4% driven by further significant Beyond traditional combustible filters, efficiency improvements and progress in NGP was encouraging during productivity gains.
Revenue by destination the year.
Although currently a relatively modest contributor to divisional revenue and operating profit, the business successfully piloted a number of HNB solutions with Chinese and other Asian independent customers, as well as continuing to work with various multinationals to advance their respective potential or next phase HNB offers.
With our customers increasingly focusing their research and development beyond traditional combustible filters, we have likewise shifted our innovation efforts into Europe and Africa: 24.1% these emerging but reportedly fastAmericas: 13.8% Asia including Middle East: 62.1% growing new technologies, to ensure that we continue to expand our knowledge and capabilities to meet their needs.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW: FILTERS ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 61 Strategic Report Operational Review Specialist Components Essentra difference In 2018, our Speciality Tapes business was approached by a residential construction company that needed a way to easily bond decorative tiles to interior wall surfaces.
With our vast experience, we were able to identify and produce multiple samples, working directly with the customer for six months through many rounds of testing.
As a result, our ability to provide a consistently high-quality solution to our customers evolving needs, we have been appointed as their sole tape supplier.
62 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Revenue 159.1m 2017: 163.6m 1 Adjusted operating profit 12.2m 2017: 14.1m Tim Wilson President, 1 Adjusted operating margin Specialist Components 7.7% 2017: 8.6% 1 Excluding amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional and other adjusting items.
Our Card Solutions business is a Who we are and what we do provider of ID card printers, systems and Six smaller standalone industrial accessories to direct and trade customers, businesses with strong positions in providing a broad product offering and niche markets.
Our Pipe Protection Technologies PPT Our Tear Tapes business is globally business specialises in the manufacture recognised as the leading manufacturer of high-performance innovative products and supplier of narrow-width pressurefrom commodity resins to engineeringsensitive adhesive tear tapes, which grade thermoplastics and polymer alloys allow the easy opening of a products largely for use in the oil and gas industry.
packaging and which are largely used in Locations in four countries, combined with the tobacco, food and drink and specialist a wide distributor network, serve customers packaging sectors.
How we do it Our Industrial Supply business provides a As a global leading supplier to the oil and wide range of branded hardware supplies gas sectors, our PPT business provides the to a broad base of industrial customers in broadest range of custom thread and pipe the Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul protection products for a complete range MRO segment, largely located in the of Oil Country Tubular Goods OCTG US Mid-West.
tubulars, line pipe and drilling pipe applications.
Our objective is to leverage Our Speciality Tapes business has expertise our state-of-the-art manufacturing in coating multiple adhesive systems in footprint headquarters in Houston, USA, numerous technologies, with approximately to meet global demand while ensuring 1,200 tape products stocked for same-day adherence to the latest industry shipping and an additional 450 custom regulations.
product variations predominantly for retail POP, white goods and industrial With c. 73,000 SKUs from approximately applications.
650 suppliers in stock and available for rapid shipment, our Industrial Supply Our Extrusion business is a leading business focuses on supplying small and customer profile extruder located in the medium-sized Original Equipment Netherlands, which offers a complete Manufacturers OEMs from its welldesign and production service.
One of the located facility in the Mid-West, enhancing first companies to extrude plastics in 1956, its customer service proposition with we are now one of Europes most advanced value-added technical support.
suppliers of co-extrusion and tri-extrusion to all branches of industry.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW: SPECIALIST COMPONENTS ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 63 Strategic Report Operational Review: Specialist Components continued Our markets Combining over 65 years manufacturing experience with rapid distribution capability, our wide range of premiumquality Speciality Tapes products can meet all high-performance needs, from foam, magnetic, finger-lift and acrylic high bond Fabrication Oil and Gas Tobacco Construction Retail POP tapes to hook and loop and non-skid foam.
Paper and Board Offering a full range of value-adding design and production services, our Extrusion business is well placed to provide purposedeveloped products based on unique specifications.
Our objective is to leverage our extensive in-house capabilities including laboratory, R&D department and tooling expertise to partner with 2019 key initiatives customers from the earliest stages of new product development and provide them with a compelling value proposition, no Continue to enhance customer Expand product range and matter how complex the finished product.
experience and launch new improve commercial effectiveness products to leverage distribution in Card Solutions Our Card Solutions business has access to a infrastructure in Industrial Supply wide portfolio of products and service, Increase commercial effectiveness including printers, software and Drive commercial excellence and and focus, and continue to drive consumables from leading manufacturers.
gain share through further operational excellence in Tear Our systems produce durable, high-quality penetration of higher-growth Tapes credit card-style photo ID cards, which are segments in Speciality Tapes compatible with the majority of security Continue to drive operational systems, and which can be specified to excellence and gain share through incorporate magstripes, barcodes, new market entry innovation in contactless chips or smart cards.
Uniquely Extrusion combining manufacturing, coating and printing capabilities with global service, our Tear Tapes business serves key multinational and regional customers with a comprehensive range of high-quality, filmic-based narrow tapes which can be designed to meet specific requirements.
Additional relevant capabilities include Our objective is to leverage our regulatory expertise, tamper evidence and authentication.
respective in-house capabilities to add How we performed in 2018 value to our customers in the diverse Revenue decreased 2.8% -0.8% at end-markets we serve.
constant exchange to 159.1m, largely due to ongoing weakness in Tear Tapes where a strategic improvement plan has been implemented.
PPT delivered good growth albeit at a significantly reduced rate of improvement compared to FY 2017 and benefited for much of the year from the strength in the oil price and increase in the North American rig count, with the consequent impact on drilling activity and demand from the pipe mills, oil and gas service companies and pipe processors.
A modest increase in Industrial Supply was supported by the expansion of core product lines and the introduction of new branded ranges, with site automation initiatives additionally improving operational efficiency.
The performance in Speciality Tapes reflected specific customer-related softness in the retail POP and appliance segments, which offset a stable result for tapes used in industrial end-markets.
64 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT W Wh ha at w t we m e me ea as su ur re e 92.9% 17.0% 6 2017: 91.9% Decrease 2017: 8 vs 2017 On time in full Customer complaints Lost time incidents quality Why we measure it Why we measure it Demonstrates the ability to Why we measure it Indicates our overriding meet delivery demands Drives performance of quality commitment to health, safety systems and performance and welfare in the workplace How we have done delivery 92.9% compares to 91.9% How we have done in 2017, with four out of How we have done Six lost time incidents compares six businesses showing A 17.0% reduction in incidents to eight in 2017, with five out an improvement compared to 2017, with five out of six businesses showing an of six businesses showing an improvement or maintaining improvement a very low zero level Revenue by segment Revenue in Extrusion was broadly Reflective of the portfolio assessment unchanged versus the prior year.
The which we continue to undertake across business made further progress with the entire Essentra Group, in September its complex, technical profiles which are we announced a consultation process at used in the water purification process our Nottingham, UK site regarding the and in the construction industry for production of Speciality Tapes and, swimming pool covers: however, this was having confirmed our proposal, we ceased offset by a weakening in the retail POP production at the end of 2018.
Neither the and furniture segments.
Tear Tapes business based at Nottingham, nor the vast majority of Speciality Tapes The result in Card Solutions reflected the activities which are located in the USA, consolidation of business in the university was affected by this decision.
Then shortly and healthcare sectors, as well as after the year end, on 14 January 2019, Oil and Gas: 20.8% successfully developing ID solutions we announced the divestment of our Retail POP Paper and Board: 18.2% for major sporting events and some of PPT business to National Oilwell Varco, Inc.
Fabrication Machinery: 17.6% the largest English Premier League NOV for a transaction value of Tobacco: 13.5% Construction: 8.7% football clubs.
Given Other: 21.2% the historically volatile industry exposure The decline in Tear Tapes was driven by and limited addressable market from an lower end-market volumes, as well as Essentra perspective, this disposal therefore Revenue by destination reduced demand for certain valuerepresents not only good value for the added consumer tobacco lines in Asia Companys shareholders but also provides and Europe and macro-economic weakness our PPT business with a strong platform in Latin America.
for future successful growth under the strategic ownership of NOV. Having created the Specialist Components division with effect from 1 January 2018, Adjusted operating profit was 13.5% lower we initiated a strategy development -10.9% at constant exchange at 12.2m, programme with the aim of providing equating to a margin of 7.7%.
This 90bps a well-defined and objective assessment decline -80bps at constant exchange was of the current status of each of our six driven by the revenue decline in Tear Tapes, business activities, together with their which offset margin progression in the future potential.
Presented at the time of other five businesses.
Europe and Africa: 39.6% our interim results on 3 August 2018, the Americas: 53.0% output of this six-month review has been Asia including Middle East: 7.4% a clear strategy for each of our businesses, which provides a data-driven view of how we intend to drive future growth and of the respective commercial and operational opportunities available, as we seek to maximise the value-creation potential of our diverse activities.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW: SPECIALIST COMPONENTS ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 65 Directors Report Directors Report 66 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018
