Operational review AVERAGE NUMBER OF PUBS TRADING 1,733 -4.4% PUB COMPANY REVENUE At the year end our Pub Company division comprised 1,767.7m -2.7% 1,745pubsand restaurants open across Britain, 1,2 EBITDA appealing to a broad rangeof the population.
Adjusted measures exclude the impact of exceptional and non-underlying items.
An explanation of the groups use of alternative performance measures APMs, including definitions and reconciliations, is included in the glossary on page128.
STRATEGIC REPORT Total Pub Company LFL sales were -1.7% and underlying LFL sales, adjusting for the impact of snow, were -1.2%.
Slower food sales was the main driver of the negative LFL sales, partially offset by positive drink and accommodation sales growth.
AWT was up 1.6% to 19.6k, reflecting ongoing estate quality improvement.
We invested 10m in Operating profit was 268.2m, 13.0% or 39.9m lower than last year andthe operating margin was down 1.8%pts to 15.2%, driven primarily improving our customer byexternal cost pressures.
The fall in operating profit was due to the 4.4% reduction in the size of the estate, the fall in LFL sales and the net offer, and it has shown cost inflation in the year.
In response to the challenging environment and negative LFL sales performance in the first half of the year, we took the decision to invest 10m in improving our customer offer.
The investment was targeted at three main areas: 1.
Strategic price investment in the value segment 2.
Acting Local or empowering general managers to invest in in-pub events, such as high profile pay-per-view boxing and live music nights 3.
Effective labour redeployment at key customer occasions The investment has shown early signs of success, reflected in the improvements in underlying LFL sales from -1.4% at the half year to -1.2% and in guest experience metrics including TripAdvisor, guest satisfaction and mystery guest service scores.
96% of our pubs in England and Wales received four or five-star ratings this year in food standards.
We will draw on the outcomes of the three initiatives to target further improvements in the offers of our four brands and continue to drive LFL sales momentum.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 21 STRATEGIC REPORT Operational review continued We laid solid foundations for growth in our digital offering.
Our Season Ticket app is live in 750 pubs following an accelerated rollout in time for the World Cup.
The app allows users to find upcoming sports fixtures and their nearest Greene King Season Ticket pubs and enables personalised offers and loyalty points.
We signed up a total of 100,000 Season Ticket we have an excellent users in the run up to the World Cup.
Our Order and Pay app is available at 32 Greene King and Hungry Horse pubs and has had 33,000 downloads quality estate in pub so far.
We are learning from these trial sites to improve the app as we look to roll it out further going forward.
In addition, we launched a new platform onto which all of our pub websites were transferred, taking the company and A disciplined total number of websites we run down from over 500 to 80.
It provides us with a cost-effective, user-friendly platform which will better support approach to investment.
We have an excellent quality estate in Pub Company, achieved through the active management of our portfolio, primarily selling pubs at the tail ofour portfolio and opportunistically disposing of a small number of high end pubs.
We disposed of 38 managed pubs in the year, raising over 84m in proceeds, which was above expectations due to the sale of three high value leasehold pubs.
There were five internal transfers of managed pubs into Pub Partners, where we believe the tenanted model will drive greater returns on investment.
Meanwhile, we completed nine new builds in the year, mostly under the Farmhouse Inns brand.
Our disciplined approach to investment in our estate saw 96m of maintenance and development capex deployed over the year, maintaining our five to six-year core capital investment cycle.
We spent 27m on 106 brand conversions and have now fully debranded Fayre & Square, in line with our strategy of reducing exposure to the value food segment.
Ourbrand optimisation programme continues to generate returns ofaround 25%.
Time Well Spent Beautiful country pubs Local wet-led estate of over 1,000 pubs Mid-market, food-led, suburban andsemi-rural offer Recognised brand being extended withintheestate Highly ranked brand for service 1 andoverall experience Over 2,000 Greene King branded pubs across PubCompanyandPub Partners estate VIEW MORE ONLINE VIEW MORE ONLINE www.
22 OUR FOCUS BRANDS STRATEGIC REPORT Feast together Generous value every day Suburban and out-of-town carvery offer Value-for-money community anddestinationpub offer Voted top pub brand in four offivecategories, including Putting the pub back into OverallExperience and Food communityHungryHorse 1 QualityandTaste VIEW MORE ONLINE VIEW MORE ONLINE www.
