Operating review Flagship destinations UK Our portfolio Sector overview Our UK portfolio accommodates more than 2 Not all destinations are equal and able 1,000 tenants in 838,000m of space tosupport the future needs of brands providing an exciting, modern environment intoday s dynamic omnichannel with a wide mix of retail, catering and leisure environment.
Our prime centres include Bullring, Birmingham: Cabot Circus, Bristol: and Properties are differentiated by scale, Westquay, Southampton.
catchment size, customer experience and the quality of the brand mix.
Net rental income Flagship destinations are those with the On a like-for-like basis, net rental income ability to attract customers from a wide decreased by 1.3% in 2018.
A key factor in Mark Bourgeois area and provide a superior trading thisdecline has been the significant increase environment for our tenants.
These Managing Director, UK and Ireland in tenant failures which have resulted in an venues offer a range of experiences adverse income impact of 3.0 million.
including shopping, dining and leisure Excluding the impact of tenant failure, Like-for-like NRI growth where our visitors want to spend time like-for-like NRI would have increased and money.
A further differentiating factor is how -1.3% Grand Central and Westquay recorded the destinations are operated.
They need 2017: 1.8% highest income growth in the year associated theoptimum mix of retail, dining and with strong leasing demand.
Silverburn and leisure offers for the catchment and the Victoria reported the most significant NRI ability to provide superior events and Occupancy reductions of 6%, due to tenant failures and customer service.
These factors are vital higher car parking and marketing costs.
Brands continue toseek space in these venues which are 97.6% Occupancy and leasing well-invested, provide high footfall and 2017: 98.1% support their growth and omnichannel Whilst the wider retail market has suffered a strategies.
turbulent period during 2018, our leasing Leasing activity performance has been strong with We own and operate 21 of these flagship 14.4 million of annual rental income secured destinations which are sited in major during the year, some 1.0 million 7.5% urban locations in the UK, France and 14.4m higher than the prior year.
In total they provide over demonstrates the polarisation in the retail 2 1.3 million m of shopping and 2017: 13.4m market, with brands increasingly seeking entertainment space and were visited space in flagship destinations rather than less 300 million times in 2018.
Leasing vs ERV successful locations where a large number of brands are closing stores.
Information on our strategy, the economic and consumer environment 5% In 2018 we signed a total of 196 leases and market trends is set out in the Letter 2 representing 86,600m of space.
For principal from the Chair of the Board, Chief 2017: 8% leases, which represented 60% of total Executives review, Our markets, Our leasing, rents secured were 5% above strategy and Our business model on Retail sales growth December 2017 ERVs and 1% above the pages 2 to 3 and 6to15.
The average incentive package was seven months, compared to eight -2.9% months in 2017.
Leasing of reconfigured space represented 26% of total leasing with 2017: -2.7% 14% being on a temporary basis.
Temporary leases act to enhance the tenant offer across Footfall growth our portfolio, trial new concepts and brands and generate short-term income.
-1.8% 2017: 0.4% 18 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Operating review Occupancy levels remained high throughout Footfall, sales and Despite the turbulent the year and stood at 97.6% at 31 December occupancy cost retail environment in 2018, only slightly lower than the prior year Footfall levels declined in 2018, with a position of 98.1%.
At six assets occupancy rose the UK the attraction reduction of 1.8%, although our assets during the year, it fell at four and was of our flagship outperformed the Tyco benchmark of 3.5%.
The most Three destinations reported increased significant reduction was at Westquay where destinations to brands footfall with the strongest growth achieved at River Island vacated in late December.
has been clearly Grand Central.
The weakest performance was The turbulence in the wider UK retail market at The Oracle which suffered from new local demonstrated in 2018 was demonstrated by an 88% increase in the competition, but had a strong end to the year with a record leasing number of stores impacted by tenant failure with 10% year-on-year growth in December.
in 2018 compared with the prior year Source: performance across Consistent with the turbulent retail backdrop, Centre for Retail Research.
consumer confidence has been subdued wasnot immune with a total of 55 units, during 2018.
Retail sales at our centres fell by representing 2.6% of the Groups passing At Grand Central, we continue to improve 2.9%, calculated on a same centre basis, rent, impacted by CVAs or administrations the catering line-up with openings for broadly in line with the BDO sales index which during 2018.
The majority of tenants in CVA Comptoir Libanais, Holy Moly Macaroni fell by 2.7%.
Sales performance by venue and have chosen to remain trading in our venues and Tasty Plaice retail category has been mixed with stronger as they are among their more successful At Highcross, Jo Malone London opened performances from sports and leisure and stores.
In total only 13 units subject to CVA or health and beauty offset by weak high street and the sports and leisure offer was administration in 2018 were vacant at enhanced by introducing Cotswold fashion.
Department store performance has 31 December 2018. also been mixed, with a clear differentiation Outdoor, Runners Need and Social At 31 December 2018, 49 units were let to Climbing, an exciting indoor bouldering between the various operators.
The tenants in administration or to tenants occupational cost ratio, calculated as total operator subject to a CVA and represent 1.8% of the occupancy cost as a percentage of sales, At Silverburn, Khaadi, the international Groups passing rents.
As explained above, we increased from 21.7% at the end of 2017 to Pakistani clothing brand, opened its first estimate that tenant failure has adversely 22.6% at 31 December 2018, while the rent to store in Scotland and Fun Street opened a impacted 2018 net rental income by sales ratio remained constant at 13.3%.
2 1,100m childrens play concept 3.0 million, with a further 1.6 million At Union Square in November, Brewdog As previously explained and reinforced by adverse impact, based on our current the locally founded, fast growing brewer work completed by McKinsey & Company in reletting assumptions, expected in 2019. opened its first bar and restaurant in a the first half of 2018, in-store sales figures are There will be a further reduction in net rental flagship destination becoming less relevant in today s omnichannel income if there are additional tenant failures At Victoria, the aspirational brand offer world.
They do not capture the additional in 2019.
The precise impact will depend on was improved through lettings to benefit that tenants derive from their stores in the lease terms, any unamortised incentive, Penhaligons, Ralph Lauren and the our flagship destinations, such as online sales the timing of the failure and whether the Cornish lifestyle brand, Seasalt.
The Ivy and returns and building brand awareness.
Whilst also opened its first restaurant in Leeds at administrations and CVAs reduce short-term Victoria Quarter which complements the income they provide opportunities to existing high-quality dining offer introduce new tenants and improve the Positive places tenant mix at ourdestinations.
At Highcross, we completed the reconfiguration of the former House of Fraser We also settled 66 rent reviews, securing an The increase in F&B across our assets anchor store in September.
The project uplift of 0.7 million, or 7%.
The involved creating eight units including upsized introduction of BioWhales at Westquay Our leasing strategy is to reduce the amount stores for Zara and JD Sports and a new leisure and Cabot Circus have turned this of floor space occupied by challenged retail offer, Treetop Adventure Golf.
Debenhams has negative impact into a positive as the categories, including department stores and also invested 5 million in store improvements waste is used to generate natural gas high street fashion, and replace them with and introduced new brands to Leicester which is fed into the national grid.
exciting new aspirational fashion, leisure and through concessions including Maisons du F&B brands.
These will broaden our offer and Monde, Murad and Kat Von D. The BioWhale storage system compacts enhance the visitor experience.
Key leasing the organic waste and starts the natural Next and River Island relocated from the high deals during 2018 included: digestion process.
This has allowed us to street in Reading and opened new flagship store more waste on-site and has At Bullring, Morphe, the US beauty units in The Oracle where we reconfigured resulted in 203 fewer lorry trips in 2018, retailer, opened its second UK store space formerly let to HMV and a small part of improving local traffic congestion and andHugo Boss opened its first HUGO the Debenhams store.
In total we generated standalone store outside London.
330mWh of gas, equivalent to saving 58 Otherkey brand lettings included Arket, tonnes of CO. 2 Barbour, Calvin Klein, Kurt Geiger, NYXProfessional Make Up and Further information on Sustainability on page 34.
com 19 Bullring, Birmingham A game changer for the city Bullring celebrated its 15th birthday in 2018 and is now one of Europes most successful shopping and dining destinations.
On opening, Bullring brought 53 new brands to the city, with more than 50 of the original brands continuing to trade there, including Selfridges and Zara.
Since launch, the number of restaurants, aspirational brands and consumer brands at Bullring has doubled.
Providing over 4,000 full-time jobs and attracting more than 362 million of indirect investment to the local economy each year, Bullring has transformed the city centre and this will continue over the next decade.
Our future investment in the UKs second city includes a new neighbourhood at Martineau Galleries, a 7 acre site adjacent to Bullring, part of our City Quarters concept see page 31.
20 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Operating review Operating review continued Flagship destinations Sector overview 2018 has been Ireland The Irish economy continues to perform another strong year strongly, with rising employment and GDP for our Irish portfolio growth of over 6% forecast for 2018 Source: Oxford Economics.
Inward foreign with further rental investment remains a key driver of growth and continued economicproductivity.
Dublins growing urban population of 1.4 million and significant tourism industry Occupancy and leasing 9.9 million visitors in 2017 underpin demand for retail space in the city which Occupancy remained very high at 99.0%, accounts for 50% of national GDP.
Grafton andtenant demand for space continues to Street and Henry Street in the heart of Dublin bestrong.
Simon Betty are the focus of the city centres retail offer Director of Retail, Ireland In 2018, there have been fewer and there are also a number of large shopping administrations and CVAs impacting our centres around the citys perimeter.
Irish portfolio than witnessed in the UK.
Like-for-like NRI growth During the year, the only significant tenant Our portfolio failure was House of Fraser at Dundrum Our Irish portfolio consists of three flagship where the store continues to trade.
At centres in Dublin, the largest being Dundrum 1.6% 31 December 2018, no stores were let to Town Centre Dundrum which is the tenants in administration or subject to CVAs.
In 2 total these three venues provide 199,000m of We signed 51 leases representing Occupancy high-quality space, with over 330 tenants and 2.6 million of annual rental income.
For annual footfall of almost 50 million in 2018. principal leases, rents secured were 28% above previous passing rents and 8% higher The portfolio also includes mixed-use 99.0% than December 2017 ERVs.
At Dundrum, development land in Dublin see page 31, leases were signed with wellness brands, 2017: 99.7% including Dublin Central, which will allow Rituals and Therapie and at Pavilions, Swords usto demonstrate our City Quarters concept with River Island and Smiggle.
There is strong and the potential to expand and diversify Leasing activity demand from restaurants and leisure theportfolio.
operators including at Dundrum where Leon and PFChangs both opened their first stores Net rental income 2.6m in Ireland.
In the vicinity of these restaurants we are investing in the new Pembroke Square The portfolio generated net rental income of 1 2017 : 1.9m district.
We have signed key lettings with 40.4 million during 2018 and produced Fallon & Byrne and J2Sushi to anchor this like-for-like net rental income growth of 1.6%.
Leasing vs ERV 2 600m new, enlivened public space.
All three centres recorded higher income.
Growth at Pavilions, Swords, which was the Footfall and sales final asset to have been acquired from the loan 8% portfolio in September 2017, was due to rent While the economy continues to grow reviews, tenant rotation initiatives and new 2017: 10% strongly, high living costs, especially housing, restaurants which have enhanced the appeal and lower consumer confidence has impacted of the venue.
2 retail sales growth in Ireland in 2018.
Due to Footfall growth restrictions in leases, sales data is not At Dundrum, the closure of Hamleys available for the large majority of tenants in following their withdrawal from the Irish our Irish portfolio.
National store retail sales -2.4% market generated a surrender premium in the continue to be positive, up 2.6% with strong first half of 2018.
Taking back space creates an 2017: n a growth in food, homeware and electricals, opportunity to satisfy strong demand from 1.
albeit this is lower than 2017 annual growth of new restaurant and leisure brands.
Sales data not available for Ireland portfolio and 3.5% and was flat for fashion and footwear footfall only available for 2018. from commercialisation has increased at all categories.
In 2018, footfall at our three centres showcasing brands including destinations was 2.4% lower than in the prior Tesla, Dyson and fashion start-up Folkster.
year, in part due to the negative effect of extreme weather conditions in Q1.
"com 21 Operating review continued Flagship destinations France Sector overview Our portfolio has The retail environment has been stable in outperformed the France during 2018, although sales and national sales and footfall suffered towards the end of the year footfall indices and due to the temporary disruption caused by the ""Yellow Jacket"" protests."
However, will be enhanced by theoutlook for GDP and employment the two on-site remains positive.
extension projects at French leases differ from those in the UK and Italie Deux and Les 3 Ireland.
They are subject to annual indexation changes instead of five-yearly rent reviews Fontaines.
Jean-Philippe Mouton and have three or six-year break clauses, Managing Director, France although in practice these are seldom Net rental income exercised.
Indexation averaged 1.5% in 2018 and will increase to 2.1% in 2019.
On a like-for-like basis, net rental income Like-for-like NRI growth decreased by 0.9% in 2018.
This was largely Online penetration levels are lower in France due to a lower occupancy during the year 11% compared to the UK 18% Source: associated with tenant rotation and a -0.9% Global Data.
Nonetheless online retail 0.8million reduction of turnover rent at continues to grow and retailers are focusing 2017: 2.6% LesTerrasses du Port, as in the first half of on their omnichannel strategies in a similar 2017 we received confirmation of sales for way to retailers operating in the UK.
prior periods which were significantly higher Occupancy than anticipated.
Our portfolio Occupancy and leasing We own and manage seven high-quality 97.1% flagship destinations in France which We continue to target new tenants to enhance 2017: 97.9% accommodate over 800 tenants and attract the brand mix at our venues.
During 2018, we nearly 80 million visitors each year.
The signed 109 leases representing centres are in urban locations in Paris, Leasing activity 7.3 million of annual rental income and Marseille and Nice and at 31 December 2018, 2 28,000m of space.
Leasing volumes were the three largest centres, Les Terrasses du 2.5 million, or 25%, lower than in 2017, as Port in Marseille and Italie Deux and 7.3m the prior year included leasing at Place des Les 3 Fontaines in Paris, accounted for almost Halles, Strasbourg and Saint Sbastien, Nancy 2017: 9.8m 90% of the value of the French portfolio and which were sold in late 2017.
On a like-for-like generate 75 million of annual passing rents.
basis, 2018 leasing was 9% higher than the Our French team works closely with our UK Leasing vs ERV prior year.
For principal leases, the new rents and Irish teams to ensure operational were 5% above both December 2017 ERVs excellence is maintained across all our and the previous passing rents.
Key leasing destinations and a number of functions, 5% transactions included: including marketing and product innovation, 2017: 5% have a Group-wide remit.
At Les Terrasses du Port, new lettings to Polo Ralph Lauren, Timberland and Boggi We are on-site with extension projects at Retail sales growth Milano - its first store to launch in a Italie Deux and Les 3 Fontaines to enhance French shopping centre and Nespresso, the quality of these destinations and further the first to open in our French portfolio details of these schemes are provided on 2.2% At Les 3 Fontaines, Cergy, 19 lettings page30.
including Foot Korner, Timberland and 2017: 0.1% major renewals with Armand Thierry, Go Sport and Sephora Footfall growth At Italie Deux, lettings included Les Armoires fide Paris, Sostrene and renewals with Carrefour and Celio 2.5% 2017: 1.6% 22 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Operating review At OParinor, 23 lettings including than at the beginning of the year.
"All of these until November when shopper visits were Decimas, Le Kolam and a new larger unit units continue to trade and represent only adversely impacted by the ""Yellow Jacket"" for JD Sports 0.7% of the Groups passing rents."
These were focused on major cities, such as Paris, Marseille and Nice, and At 97.1%, occupancy levels were 80 basis Footfall, sales and occupancy reduced our footfall in November and points lower than at the beginning of the year, December which fell by 0.5% and cost but in line with our five-year average.
Footfall in our centres increased by 2.5% in Tenant failure has been significantly lower 2018, 420 basis points ahead of the national Retail sales, calculated on a same centre basis, inFrance compared with the UK and only CNCC Index which reported a 1.7% decline.
increased by 2.2% which was 400 basis points 18stores suffered tenant failure during 2018, Italie Deux and Les Terrasses du Port higher than the CNCC index which fell by 1.8%.
30% lower than the level of default suffered recorded the highest footfall increases of 5.4% The occupational cost ratio fell slightly from in2017.
These reduced NRI in 2018 by and 4.6% respectively, the former benefiting 13.8% at the beginning of the year to 13.7%, 1.0million.
At 31 December 2018 a total of from the decision in late 2017 to permit while the rent to sales ratio increased by 10 23 units were in administration, four fewer Sunday opening.
Footfall was 3.1% higher basis points to 10.7% at 31 December 2018.
Positive places The continued focus on energy efficiency has delivered further savings in 2018.
At Les Terrasses du Port, electricity and gas demand were both 8% lower respectively.
Electricity demand at Nicetoile was 4% lower driven by improved building management systems and new LED lighting.
At Italie Deux the project to modernise all common parts lighting was completed with new movement sensors installed to maximise efficiency.
This project is expected to reduce annual energy consumption by 26,000 kWh.
Further information on Sustainability on page 34. www.
com 23 Operating review continued Product experience framework across our flagship destinations challenge ourselves to apply best practice in World first to test appetite Innovation driving retail design and digital solutions, customer for voice tech engagement and sustainability.
experience In September, we were the first in the industry The success of our destinations relies on to explore how to expand the success of chatbot Technology to boosts first class customer service and creating using voice recognition technology.
We our brands compelling reasons for shoppers to visit.
undertook a voice technology trial which To ensure a focused approach, we have an We have built a network of trusted partners allowed customers to speak to VoiceBot at insight driven product experience that deliver specialist expertise in core Bullring, sourcing content from our chatbot framework which shapes our strategy and technologies.
Our approach of working with provider.
This was an exciting trial, which anchors the way we build desirability for ambitious start-ups alongside more demonstrated there is clear appetite from retailers and consumersalike.
established technology partners gives us customers to use voice technology which they unique insight into emerging tech trends and are comfortable with in their own home.
As highlighted in the business model page has enabled us to trial and test new However, the technology is not yet advanced 15, the framework has four key pillars: technologies in a low-cost and agile way.
enough to work consistently in the public iconic destinations, retail specialism, environment.
We will continue to monitor this experience led and customer first.
Shopping with us 24 7 technology as it is enhanced.
Put into practice, this year we continued At the start of 2018, we launched our affiliate A problem parked toenhance our digital offer, using shop online portal on Bullrings website.
technology to boost the shopper Designed to support and drive traffic to A focus of our 2018 digital strategy was driving experience, with world-class retailers, it allows customers to browse shopper convenience.
We partnered with entertainment encouraging shoppers to products from over 100 brands meaning our Easytrip in Dundrum, Dublin to deliver a visit and spend time at our venues.
loyal shoppers are able to shop with us 24hrs a frictionless payment experience within the day.
We have subsequently rolled this out at venues car parks.
A similar trial goes live in Westquay, Southampton and Brent Cross, March 2019 at Bullrings car park, allowing Challenging the customer London to date the trial has driven over customers to skip the queues and opt for journey to deliver the best 3million in retailer sales.
We are on track for automatic payment triggered by automatic Our highly experienced customer experience a full rollout to all UK destinations by the number plate recognition ANPR technology.
team continues to apply the Product middle of 2019.
Experience Framework across the portfolio Exhilarating entertainment We also successfully rolled out a customer concentrating on where technology can solve and events service chatbot across a number of our real customer or business challenges.
The venues websites in both the UK and France.
Finally, in July 2018, we announced an framework guides our investment in specific The bot learns and delivers updated answers enhanced focus on events in 2019 to meet initiatives which differentiate and enliven our to shoppers on a real-time basis.
To date over increased consumer demand for experience destinations, drive shopper footfall and 42,000 customers have successfully used the led destinations.
We will be investing over improve catchment sales for our retailers.
tool, which has significantly improved 2million in super events across the The framework is embedded across customer service and provided a large volume portfolio, hiring expertise and leveraging everything we do and ensures we constantly of valuable insight on the online and offline the success of our pilot events program at customer experience.
24 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Operating review Festival of Light at Westquay, Southampton www.
com 25 V IA Management changes In 2018, VIA Outlets partners have supported the ongoing consolidation of the VIA platform to create a more permanent and independent vehicle, capable of its own mission, identity and long-term growth.
During the year, VIA Outlets announced the appointment of two newly-created senior management positions to join its growing team of experienced real estate professionals, and subsequently successfully integrated its new Chief Operating Officer, Otto Ambagtsheer and Chief Financial Officer, Peter Stals.
These changes have supported the alignment of partners strategy, strengthened relationships and enabled more effective governance.
Freeport Lisboa Fashion Outlet 26 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Operating review Operating review continued Premium outlets particular from Greater China, Russia, Sector overview South East Asia and the Middle East.
Outlets offer a distribution channel for Following very strong growth in 2017, 2018 brands to sell excess inventory at a material saw further tax-free sales growth in our discount to the original price.
outlets are at the top of this sector, offering visitors international fashion and luxury There are a limited number of specialist brands in an upscale shoppingenvironment outlet operators in Europe, and planning where retailers are able to maintain and consents for new schemes are often protect their brand identity.
Consequently, growth of new space tends to be delivered through Over recent years, the European outlets extensions to existing schemes and brands sector has seen both strong sales growth are attracted to well-managed centres Timon Drakesmith and increasing retailer demand.
The market where they can be confident of strong Chief Financial Officer and Managing for discounted luxury and fashion items is footfall and sales.
Director, Premium outlets attractive for international tourists, in Table 9 Operational summary 1 1 Value Retail VIA Outlets Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 2 Brand sales m 2,903 2,693 1,071 930 3 Brand sales growth % 8 8 9 13 2 Footfall millions 36.8 35.4 30.3 28.3 2 Average spend per visit 79 76 35 33 Average sales density growth % 4 5 5 10 4 Like-for-like net rental income growth % 4 14 10 5 5 Occupancy % 97 95 92 91 1.
With the exception of like-for-like net rental income growth, figures reflect overall portfolio performance, not Hammersons ownership share and 2017 figures have been restated at 31 December 2018 exchange rates.
Figures include assets acquired from the date of acquisition.
2017 VIA Outlets figures have been updated to reflect more accurate footfall data and to include Zweibrcken Fashion Outlet from the date of acquisition.
Figures include assets owned for 24 months.
Like-for-like NRI growth now excludes the impact of extensions and reconfigurations.
VIA Outlets 2017 like-for-like NRI has been restated for a foreign exchange correction -4% impact to 2017 like-for-like NRI.
Occupancy is the spot occupancy as at 31 December 2018.
2017 VIA Outlets figures have been restated to reflect spot occupancy rather than assets owned for 12 months.
interest in the net assets of VR from 20% to These investments represent 25% of the Our portfolio approximately 40% over the last five years.
Group s property portfolio value, or 31% of Our interest in the sector is gained through Details of our investments are shown in note EPRA net assets.
Within the portfolio, the six investments in Value Retail VR and VIA 14 to the financial statements.
most high-end outlets account for more than Outlets VIA.
At 31 December 2018 we had 65% of total income.
These six outlets deliver interests in 20 centres in 14 European During 2018, we acquired a number of high to very high sales densities, highlighting 2 countries offering 450,000m of retail space investor stakes in Villages including Bicester the Group s strategy of investing in the most for international luxury and fashion brands.
Village, La Roca Village, Las Rozas Village profitable and desirable outlets.
Since 2014, and La Valle Village for a net purchase price aCompound Annual Growth Rate CAGR of The sector has many similarities with our of 109 million.
This acquisition increased 24% in investment property values has been directly managed properties and we utilise our economic interest in Bicester Village, the achieved, 42% of which has been driven by the knowledge gained from the sector to largest asset within the portfolio, to 50%.
underlying revaluation growth, 35% by enhance the brand experience across our acquisitions and 14% by capital expenditure, other portfolios.
VIA is a joint venture formed in 2014 in the balance being attributable to disposals partnership with APG, Value Retail and Meyer and foreign exchange.
We hold our VR interests in the holding Bergman in which we have a 47%stake.
companies as well as direct investments in the Villages and have grown our economic www.
com 27 Operating review continued Our premium outlet investments are Retail continues to welcome brands with Income externally managed, independently financed their first openings of outlets worldwide such Brand sales growth of 8% has again been and have operating metrics which differ from as Victoria Beckham at Bicester Village and strong in 2018, driven by domestic, regional the Group s other sectors.
The relevant legal Herschel at Maasmechelen Village.
Tax-free sales at agreements have pre-emption rights in VR have increased by 12% during the second Occupancy across the Villages has increased to favourof the Group and other owners of half of 2018 and by 7% over the full year.
Occupancy at premium outlets is typically VRand VIA in the case of transactions of This significantly outperformed overall marginally lower than the Groups other sectors interests in the two businesses and have European tax-free sales which were down to support proactive re-merchandising.
certain governance and liquidity provisions 4% after a strong 2017 Source: Global Blue which are triggered by a change of control of VR management continues to develop December 2018.
Value Retail continues to Hammerson plc.
Timon Drakesmith is a successful marketing strategies.
New loyalty invest in broadening long-haul tourist Board member of VR and is Chairman of the apps have been implemented and the focus markets, with Korea, Taiwan and India VIA Outlets Advisory Committee.
on digital is illustrated by the successful being strong growth drivers in 2018. partnership with Instagram influencers.
For La Valle Village achieved the highest sales VIA Outlets management has significantly the second year running, The Bicester Village growth as it continued to benefit from active evolved in 2018 with the recruitment of its Shopping Collection returned as exclusive remerchandising activity during 2017 and COO, Otto Ambagtsheer, and its CFO, partner at The Green Carpet Fashion Awards, 2018 and from high tax-free sales growth.
This is consistent with its benefiting from high media coverage Fidenza Village and Bicester Village were the transformation from an acquisition platform and sponsoring emerging designers.
other top performers with sales boosted by into a leading premium outlet operator.
Other collaborations include Tate opening their recent extensions.
Wertheim Village a pop-up boutique at Bicester Village selling was the weakest performer in 2018, with a Value Retail VR merchandise, with a bespoke virtual reality small decline in year-on-year brand sales, Portfolio overview experience of Modigliani artists studio.
partly due to nearby major motorway works.
Partnerships with brands are also a successful Sales in the second half were marginally Value Retail owns and operates nine high-end feature across the portfolio.
Demonstration positive following the opening of new brands.
Villages in the UK and Western Europe of these partnerships during 2018 included 2 which provide 190,000m of floor space Average sales densities increased by 4%, the Guess running personalisation events and across more than 1,000 stores.
VR focuses on strongest performances being at La Valle Coach offering monogramming services, both international fashion and luxury brands and Village and Fidenza Village.
Sales density with positive results on sales growth.
attracts long-haul tourists and wealthy growth in 2018 at Bicester Village softened domestic customers.
slightly as anticipated, as the extension which Developments and extensions opened in late 2017 has marginally diluted The Villages, which include Bicester Village Following the opening of extensions in 2016, densities in 2018. outside London, La Valle Village, Paris and Fidenza Village and Kildare Village have La Roca Village, Barcelona, are among the shown high single-digit sales density growth Like-for-like net rental income growth was best outlet centres in Europe.
in 2018 and have achieved occupancy of 98% 4%, consistent with the growth in average and 100% respectively.
The strongest contributions In 2018, the Villages had an average sales were from Bicester Village, Kildare Village 2 density of 16,300 m and generated total At Bicester Village, the opening of the and La Valle Village.
sales of 2.9 billion, placing them in the top 5,800m extension in October 2017 enabled echelons of the premium outlets sector.
the acceleration of remerchandising and right Occupancy and leasing The Villages actively target the growing sizing activity in 2018.
In August 2018, Gucci shopping-tourism market as well as attracting VR adopts a very active leasing and asset opened a new flagship store in the former footfall from affluent domestic catchments.
management strategy to enhance and refresh Polo Ralph Lauren unit from which the brand This strategy has been very successful and VR the Villages to maximise the customer had transfered into the extension at opening.
has delivered annual compound brand sales experience.
This strategy drives sales and growth of 13% over the last 10 years.
During 2018, 276 leases Administrative approvals have been granted for the extension and remodelling of were signed, with a total of 109 new brands In April 2018, the operating platform was introduced to the Villages.
Key new brands KildareVillage and of La Roca Village, rebranded as The Bicester Village Shopping whereconstruction is expected to commence included Prada at La Valle Village, Collection, reflecting VR s continued focus Lululemon at Wertheim Village and Michael in 2019.
The remodelling works at La Roca on retailhospitality.
Village will increase the lettable area Kors at Kildare Village.
There has also been a specific focus on enhancing the F&B offer by2,500m.
across the portfolio, demonstrated by the opening of Menu Palais at La Valle Village and Caf Wolseley at Bicester Village.
Value 28 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Operating review Outlet where an extension opened in May 2017 In 2018, VIA continued the deployment of its VIA Outlets VIA and at Landquart Zrich Fashion Outlet loyalty programme, Fashion Club, across five Portfolio overview where both occupancy and footfall of the outlets.
In partnership with brands, haveincreased.
VIA implemented its first cross-portfolio At 31 December 2018, VIA operated 11 outlets marketing campaign in September 2018 and in nine European countries, providing Fashion Arena Prague Fashion Outlet has will develop further portfolio marketing 2 260,000m of floor space and over 1,100 been the weakest performer with lower initiatives in 2019. stores.
The centres include Batavia Stad year-on-year sales as the centre was impacted Amsterdam Fashion Outlet, Freeport Lisboa by a double-digit decrease in tax-free sales, Developments and extensions Fashion Outlet and Zweibrcken Fashion in line with the Global Blue Prague Index Outlet on the Germany France border.
VIA acquired land at Sevilla Fashion Outlet -13%: Source: Global Blue December 2018.
Following its acquisition in September 2017, and Oslo Fashion Outlet.
Sevilla extended its Russian visitors were the main driver of this the Norwegian Outlet was rebranded Oslo car park and future expansion of parking is reduction, impacted by currency movements Fashion Outlet in August 2018. due to commence shortly in Oslo.
The centre was also impacted by the opening of Prague The Over the past four years, VIA has built a VIA recently started works on the extension StyleOutlet.
significant pan-European portfolio by of Hede Fashion Outlet.
The programme acquiring existing European outlet centres will add an additional 2,700m to the centre.
The strong sales performance across the with strong catchments, focused on In early 2019, a new train station adjacent to portfolio resulted in like-for-like net rental mainstream fashion brands and with the outlet will open, which will allow visitors income growth of 10%, with the most significant potential for growth through active asset to travel from Gothenburgs city centre to contributions from Mallorca Fashion Outlet and development management.
By using the outlet in just 20 minutes.
The total and Freeport Lisboa Fashion Outlet.
VR s expertise and brand relationships, investment for this centre amounts to the VIA management team has implemented 11million and the extension is set to open Occupancy and leasing initiatives to enhance centre appearance, in October 2019.
Occupancy levels increased to 92% during tenant mix, the provision of flagship stores 2018, compared with 91% in 2017.
Following the acquisitions in December 2016 and international brands, the leisure and and February 2017, refurbishment works catering offers, tourism marketing and The strong sales growth outlined above have started as planned in Sevilla Fashion overall centre management.
This strategy reflects the benefits of VIAs management Outlet and Wroclaw Fashion Outlet, with has delivered strong operational and and remerchandising initiatives introduced works due to start shortly in Zweibrcken financial performance.
across the portfolio and 240 leases were Fashion Outlet.
The remodelling will play an signed during 2018, including 139 new or At 31 December 2018 the total portfolio was important part in delivering an enhanced re-merchandised stores.
valued at 1.4 billion of which the Group s experience to visitors and in welcoming new 47% share was 636 million.
Key leasing transactions included the hasbecome a leading premium outlet introduction of new brands such as Karl Remodelling studies have also progressed at operator, and has further evolved in 2018, Lagerfeld at Batavia Stad Fashion Outlet, Vila do Conde Porto Fashion Outlet and at with the appointment of its COO and CFO Polo Ralph Lauren at Freeport Lisboa Oslo Fashion Outlet.
The team have developed a Fashion Outlet, Samsonite at Hede Fashion clear sustainability strategy and have Outlet and Mallorca Fashion Outlet, Skechers completed BREEAM In-Use certification at Oslo Fashion Outlet, Lacoste at Wroclaw VIA achieves its first across the portfolio.
This is being used to Fashion Outlet and Under Armour at drive environmental improvements which GRESB Green Stars Zweibrcken Fashion Outlet.
Leasing also will deliver cost savings and mitigate focused on relocating and enhancing existing climaterisk.
Working closely with our joint venture brands including some upsizing into flagship partner APG, we have supported the VIA stores such as Nike at Batavia Stad Fashion Income management team in establishing a Outlet and at Wroclaw Fashion Outlet and strong sustainability strategy for this Like-for-like brand sales growth was 9% in Adidas at Hede FashionOutlet.
This approach was rewarded in 2018.
The highest growth was achieved at 2018 with a doubling of their GRESB After the opening of the Food Plaza in Freeport Lisboa Fashion Outlet which score to 70 points and three green stars.
Lisbon in 2017, F&B continues to be benefited from the remodelling completed This is a significant achievement for such improved across the portfolio illustrated by in November 2017 and at Mallorca Fashion a newly formed portfolio.
the openings of Starbucks and Ame Fashion Outlet which saw the results of recent Caf at Batavia Stad Fashion Outlet, the remerchandising and asset management Further information on remodelling of the food court at Sevilla initiatives.
Double-digit sales growth was also Sustainability on page 34.
Fashion Outlet and the opening of Pasibus achieved at Batavia Stad Amsterdam Fashion at Wroclaw Fashion Outlet.
com 29 Operating review continued Developments and City Quarters Completed developments In 2018 we started In February 2018, we completed the 2 two extension 21,400m, 16 million redevelopment of Parc Tawe, Swansea.
The scheme has created a projects in Paris.
modern, mixed retail and leisure park with We also launched new public realm and improved pedestrian links to the city centre.
Tenants include B&M, our new City Quarters Office Outlet, the UKs first Dennys concept to extract restaurant and our second carbon neutral value from our Costa Eco Pod.
The scheme was impacted by the Toys R Us administration, and there are existing land holdings currently four retail units and two restaurants Peter Cole and complement our to be let.
When fully let, the project is forecast Chief Investment Officer to achieve a yield on cost of 9%.
2 In March 2018, we opened the 8,700m Overview extension to the Orchard Centre in Didcot.
Italik extension The Group has a proven track record in This has been designed to attract consumers delivering iconic, urban developments including 2 in this affluent and rapidly growing Italik, a 6,400m extension of Italie Deux destinations such as Bullring, Victoria Gate and catchment.
The scheme is currently 76% let commenced in June 2018.
The project will Les Terrasses du Port.
The launch in July of our and is anchored by a M&S Foodhall with add 12 new retail, catering and leisure units to City Quarters concept will leverage our expertise other tenants including Boots, Fatface, H&M, our central Paris scheme and will create an to extract value from our existing land holdings JoJo Maman Bebe, Mountain Warehouse, attractive new faade for the existing centre.
and complement our flagship destinations.
When fully let, the At 31 December 2018, the total development scheme is forecast to achieve a yield on cost Capital expenditure is tightly controlled and we cost of the scheme is estimated to be of5%.
will only commit to projects when the balance of 40million, with 22 million of costs risk and reward is acceptable.
We have recognised 4 million of On-site developments include funding and financial returns, cost and revaluation gains todate.
programme certainty, leasing confidence and Les 3 Fontaines extension pre-letting performance.
Whilst projects are The scheme was due to complete in late 2019, In January 2018, we commenced works on a controlled individually, our total exposure to however following a recent dispute with the major extension of Les 3 Fontaines which is development is also closely monitored.
contractor, the project has been delayed.
part of a wider city centre development in Thecontractor has been changed without Cergy-Pontoise, in the suburbs of Paris.
At 31 December 2018, developments increasing the overall cost of the project.
Theproject involves extending the existing represented only 7% of the Groups total Thescheme is now expected to open in scheme and adding new retail, leisure and property portfolio.
catering space together with a major value is related to five key schemes: Les 3 refurbishment of the adjacent Cergy 3 centre, Fontaines extension, Croydon, Dublin When launched the project is expected to which was acquired in October 2017.
Central, Leeds Phase 2 and The Goodsyard.
generate 2 million of rental income Committed capital expenditure remains low representing an estimated yield on cost above When complete in spring 2021, the project is at 163 million at 31 December 2018.
The 5% and is currently 34% pre-let.
The forecast to achieve a yield on cost above 5% majority of this expenditure related to the pre-letting level has recently fallen and will extend the entire trading space to two on-site extension projects in Paris with followingthe decision of a major retailer to 2 over 100,000m, creating one of the leading the remainder relating to land acquisitions for withdraw from the scheme, and we are flagship destinations in the Paris region.
the major London development schemes.
currently in discussions with a number of alternative brands.
At 31 December 2018, the costs to complete Reflecting the heightened uncertainty levels, were 145 million and the project was valued particularly in UK retail markets, in July we at 194 million.
The scheme is currently 23% decided to defer the start on site at Brent pre-let to tenants including Adidas, JD Sports Cross.
Given our focus on reducing debt and Vapiano.
We have recognised a total during 2019, we do not expect to commit to revaluation gain of 41 million to date.
any major projects until markets stabilise.
30 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Operating review venture continues to review the optimal mix Future major developments The Goodsyard of uses for the Brent Cross extension in light Whilst we do not expect to commit to any new The Goodsyard is a 4.2ha site on the edge of evolving market conditions.
of the City of London and is owned 50:50 major expenditure in the near-term, progress has been made in 2018 with our future major with our joint venture partner, Ballymore Croydon town centre Properties.
A planning application was called schemes as explained below.
In 2018, the Croydon Partnership, a 50:50 joint in by the Mayor of London in September 2015 venture with , Brent Cross extension and then deferred in April 2016 to allow for secured revised outline planning consent for further consultation with the GLAs planning In conjunction with our joint venture partner, the redevelopment of the Whitgift Centre.
officers and potential redesign of some Aberdeen Standard Investments, in the first Italso served notice on the local council to elements of the proposed scheme.
half of the year we signed agreements for exercise compulsory purchase order powers to lease for a planned major extension of the assemble the areas of the site not currently Work to submit an amendment to the existing scheme with John Lewis & Partners application for a major mixed-use scheme owned by the partnership.
The partnership and Showcase Cinema fide Lux.
alsoannounced that John Lewis & Partners including workspace, retail and residential has progressed through 2018, including an extensive had agreed to anchor the redevelopment with a Following our decision in July to defer the 2 new 15,300m four-storey department store public consultation in November 2018, which start at the extension project, the joint was well received.
The joint venture is proposing and a Waitrose.
venture has been working with Barnet to submit a planning amendment to the GLA in Council and Argent Related to advance the The retail and leisure-led scheme will establish spring 2019, with a targeted determination from wider Brent Cross Cricklewood regeneration Croydon as a major lifestyle destination for the Mayor of London later this year.
programme and progress outstanding issues south London and include up to 1,000 new in preparation for future delivery.
The development will also involve the Dublin Central refurbishment of the existing Centrale centre This includes plans that will allow Brent In February 2018, the Court of Appeal in and is part of the wider large-scale regeneration Cross Thameslink to commence the new Dublin overturned an earlier ruling relating already underway in the town.
Brent Cross West Thameslink station and to buildings on Moore Street and their Brent Cross South to commence the national monument status, which has enabled We are currently reviewing the scheme to mixed-use regeneration to the south, ahead of us to engage with stakeholders on the future ensure it responds to changing retailer the retail and leisure extension to Brent of this site.
This scheme will be included requirements and is appropriate for the future.
This amended timeframe will allow the within our new City Quarters concept wider regeneration to proceed whilst the joint see below.
2 returns for the Group and complement our residential units, 1,200 hotel rooms, 200,000m City Quarters existing flagship destinations.
Success will be of workspace and nine parks and public spaces.
A key strand of our strategy is our City further enhanced by our existing relationships Anoverview of a number of the projects is set Quarters concept.
Our flagship destinations with local authorities and landowners, building out in Table 10 on page 32. sit at the heart of their local communities.
on our track record of great place-making to This concept takes this to the next level, In 2019 we will submit further planning create truly integrated sustainable breaking down the walls of our venues to applications including Martineau Galleries, a communities.
This will create vibrant, hotel opportunity in Leeds and residential sustainable city neighbourhoods where The opportunities have different timescales and development at Dundrum.
people want to work, live and play.
include near-term schemes, such as a residential Once schemes have been progressed and development adjacent to Dundrum and This concept will leverage our existing land initial value secured through planning Ladywood House above Grand Central.
Longer interests surrounding our flagship destinations, consents, we will determine the optimal term projects include fully mixed-use sites such located in and around major European cities implementation plan.
This could include as Martineau Galleries in Birmingham and and near to key transport links.
This provides development by the Group, in partnership Dublin Central.
Together with our major the Group with opportunities to develop a mix with expert third parties, or realisation of developments this concept has significant scale, of uses, including residential, workspace, hotel value through disposal whilst retaining a with the possibility to deliver a total of 6,600 and leisure.
These schemes will deliver financial degree of control.
com 31 Operating review continued Table 10 Overview of City Quarters and major developments Next Start Retail Education Public Area planning Residential Workspace Leisure Hotel on-site F&B Culture spaces submission Near term 2 Les 3 Fontaines, Cergy 8,500m n a On-site 2 Citywall House, Southampton 2,800m 2019 Q2 2020 2 Dundrum Building 5, Dublin 10,000m 2019 Q2 2020 2 Victoria Hotel, Leeds 8,400m 2019 Q2 2020 2 Ladywood House, Birmingham 9,400m 2019 Q2 2020 Strategic Martineau Galleries, Birmingham 7 acres 2019 Dundrum Phase 2 5 acres 2020 Broadmead, Bristol 9 acres 2020 Dublin Central 6 acres 2021 Pavilions Phase 3, Swords 13 acres 2021 Victoria Phase 2, Leeds 10 acres 2021 Major Brent Cross 15 acres n a Croydon 22 acres n a Bishopsgate Goodsyard, London 10 acres 2019 Dundrum, Dublin Realising a new neighbourhood Dundrum is Irelands leading retail destination located in the affluent southern Dublin catchment.
As part of our City Quarters concept, we are expanding the neighbourhood offer at Dundrum and building new apartments, a product much needed and in high demand in the Dublin market.
The first stage of the planning process has commenced with the local authority for a best-in-class Private Rented Sector scheme of over 100 apartments, complemented by generous open space and a range of shared resident amenities.
The building is expected to achieve a BREAAM Excellent rating.
Ideally located given its convenient access to excellent transport links, as well as its proximity to the flagship destinations retail and leisure offer, this residential development represents the first phase of a long-term strategy to create exceptional spaces at Dundrum.
32 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Operating review UK retail parks We continue to Sector overview actively manage our Retail parks tend to be situated in high-quality retail out-of-town locations and offer efficient and flexible space formats with larger parks portfolio to units, lower rents per square metre than support the Groups those in flagship destinations, and the ability to accommodate a wide range of disposal strategy.
Accessibility is a key success factor for retail parks with the majority Occupancy and leasing of shoppers using cars or publictransport.
Due to the challenging UK retail market, Andrew Berger-North leasing activity was significantly lower in Director, UK Retail Parks Demand for space has been subdued 2018.
We signed 26 leases across the portfolio during 2018, with a number of high representing 2.4 million of annual rental 2 profile tenant failures increasing the income and 17,400m of space.
This was Like-for-like NRI growth supply of available space in the market.
3.9 million lower than the prior year.
For This impact will take some time to work principal leases, rents were contracted at 11% through the sector, although there above December 2017 ERVs and 19% above -4.3% continues to be demand for selected, previous passing rent.
well-managed parks where trading 2017: -2.5% remains strong.
Key leasing deals in 2018 include Tessuti at Cyfarthfa in Merthyr Tydfil, Decathlon at Occupancy Telford Forge, Hobbycraft and NCF Furnishings at Elliotts Field in Rugby and a Our portfolio 2 new 3,600m M&S store at Ravenhead in We operate shopping parks, hybrid parks 96.9% St. Helens following a relocation from the andkey homeware parks where occupational towncentre.
At 31 December 2018, our portfolio comprised 13 convenient Reflecting the turbulent UK retail market 2 Leasing activity parks providing 318,000m with more than andimpact of tenant failures, occupancy 260 tenants.
Our parks are intentionally levels fell during 2018 to 96.9% at 31 located on the edge of town centres with December 2018.
During 2018, 23 units were 2.4m ample free parking and are let to a wide subject to administration or CVAs.
spectrum of retailers including fashion, At31December 2018, 1.9 million of passing 2017: 6.3m furniture, homewares and bulky goods.
rents related to units in administration or subject to CVAs and which remained trading Leasing vs ERV As announced in the July 2018 strategy in our parks.
This represents 0.5% of the update, we intend to exit this sector over the Group s passing rents.
medium term and sold four parks in 2018.
Footfall and sales 11% Net rental income During 2018 the number of visitors to the 2017: 11% On a like-for-like basis net rental income fell portfolio fell by 1.3%, 80 basis points below by 4.3% in 2018.
Consistent with our UK the Springboard Retail Parks index which Footfall growth flagship destinations, the most significant declined by 0.5%.
As with flagships impact was from CVAs and administrations, destinations, there was a mixed performance which reduced income by 2.8 million.
If this across the portfolio with higher footfall at the -1.3% impact was excluded like-for-like income Orchard Centre, Didcot and Parc Tawe, would have grown by 0.4%.
The most Swansea which attracted more customers 2017: -0.4% significant failures at our retail parks following their recent redevelopment, but portfolio were Toys R Us, Poundworld, Fabb lower footfall at the otherparks.
Whilst we do not receive tenant sales information for our retail parks, based on recent customer surveys, retail spend was 7% higher than in 2017 and dwell times increased by 3%.
