28 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Operational review IMI Critical Engineering is a world-leading provider of flow control solutions that enable vital energy and process industries to operate safely, cleanly, reliably and more efficiently.
Our products control the flow of steam, gas and liquids in harsh environments and are designed to withstand temperature and pressure extremes as well as intensely abrasive or corrosive cyclical operations.
Performance footprint reorganisation which has resulted Up 5% Adjusted revenue in the closure or transfer of thirteen lower growth In 2018 the division continued to experience a operations.
These initiatives delivered 12m mixed trading environment in some of its most 682m of benefit in 2018 and have strengthened the important markets.
Value Engineering and New divisions competitive position by realigning its Product Development programmes continued Up 5% manufacturing footprint with customers in higher Adjusted operating profit to provide competitive levers which have enabled growth markets.
Our continuing high 88.3m order win-rate indicates that we have been In addition to the product and operational capturing more of the available projects than investments, the division continued its programme our competitors.
This system is now fully embedded in fourteen of IMI Critical Engineerings sites.
Full year order intake at 652m 2017: 658m Key achievements was flat on an organic basis and, as expected, Value Engineering secured 180m of Outlook included a strong second half recovery.
The new orders and underpinned excellent Value Engineering process, which is now fully Based on current order book phasing and the order win-rates embedded within the division and used on all comparatively large Petrochemical deliveries in Further success in securing new New Construction quotes of scale, supported the early 2018, we expect first half organic revenues business in adjacent markets delivery of 180m or 60% of New Construction and profits to be lower when compared to 2018. orders in the year.
Results for the full year are expected to reflect Profit growth supported by successful a more favourable second half phasing and restructuring programme Strong order growth from Water contrasted with the benefits from restructuring.
HIPPS orders On-time and on-budget ERP were also ahead of 2017, partially offsetting lower implementation across fourteen sites Upstream and Midstream orders.
Aftermarket Increased average Lean score to 74% orders were 11% higher and reflected a 22% increase in upgrades and a 6% increase in parts, when compared to the prior year.
At the year-end, the order book was 474m 2017: 510m with margins slightly higher, compared with 2017.
Revenues of 682m 2017: 648m were 5% higher on an adjusted basis and, after excluding 6m of adverse foreign exchange and 3m from disposals, were 7% higher on an organic basis.
Segmental operating profit of 88.3m 2017: 84.0m was 5% higher on an adjusted basis and 6% higher on an organic basis.
Margins were flat versus 2017, reflecting the divisions ongoing work to counter softer markets with the benefits from restructuring and Value Engineering.
Lean scores improved significantly in the year from 70% to 74% and our core customer satisfaction metrics also showed continued progress.
The division progressed its long-term Find out more: www.
com Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 29 Value Engineering is now at the heart of the divisions new quotation and design procedures.
Great new products at lower costs has increased our success rates which protect product margins.
Roy Twite Divisional Managing Director Proven track record of engineering excellence secures major contract win World-class engineering expertise, innovative technologies and reliable cost effective solutions are at the heart of IMI Critical Engineerings customer offering.
During the year these key attributes were key enablers to the divisions success at winning a diverse range of significant contracts.
In September, IMI Truflo Italy and IMI Critical China won a new order to supply pneumatic actuated ball valves for a petrochemical plant in Dalian, China.
The plant, which is owned by Hengli Petrochemical, processes purified terephthalic acid PTA, which is used to produce a range of materials including textiles and food and drink packaging.
Previously Hengli Petrochemical had awarded contracts to other businesses within the IMI Critical Engineering division including IMI Z&J and IMI Remosa.
Prior knowledge and experience of IMIs technical engineering capabilities, our products and customer service, helped IMI Truflo Italy secure the Dalian contract.
Working closely with Invista, the company that licenses the PTA technology to the Dalian plant, IMI Truflo Italy developed customised ball valves capable of operating with extremely viscous and corrosive fluids.
The technical specification and know-how associated with the products design were originated at IMI Truflo Ronas plant in Belgium, and then transferred to IMI Truflo Italy.
Henglis plant in Dalian, China, is one of the worlds largest Petrochemical operations.
30 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Operational review IMI Precision Engineering specialises in the design and manufacture of motion and fluid control technologies where precision, speed and reliability are essential to the processes in which they are involved.
world-class manufacturing and engineering Performance Up 16% Adjusted revenue capabilities and enhances the divisions ability IMI Precision Engineering had another year of good to serve our rapidly expanding market positions 916m progress and delivered solid growth across all across Asia.
Revenues of 916m 2017: The implementation of Lean throughout the division 791m were 16% higher on an adjusted basis and, Up 15% Adjusted operating profit has continued to make excellent progress.
At the after excluding 10m of adverse foreign exchange end of 2018 Precision Engineerings Lean score and 88m from the Bimba acquisition, were 6% 153.2m increased to 75% compared to 70% at the end higher on an organic basis.
Strong Industrial Automation sales in the first half Our focus on New Product Development to enhance of 2018 slowed in the third quarter and declined Key achievements our market competitiveness gathered momentum.
slightly in the fourth, leaving the full year up 2% The addition of integrated intelligence and when compared to 2017.
Commercial Vehicle related On-time and on-budget completion connectivity across our product range remains sales of 196m reflected stronger than anticipated of world-class facility in India an important element of that strategy.
In 2018, markets and were 8% higher in the year, despite Commercial Vehicle contract wins new products were introduced across the entire 8m of contract completions.
European Commercial support growth range and represented an increase in the vitality Vehicle revenues were slightly higher whilst North index sales from new products introduced in the America grew by 15%.
Energy sales were 16% Improved underlying margin despite last three years to 12%.
higher than 2017 while Life Sciences and Rail cost pressures were 12% and 14% higher, respectively.
In-sourcing actions already completed combined Increased average Lean score with improved market conditions have helped Segmental operating profit of 153.2m 2017: to 75% increase utilisation in the year.
Localisation and 133.5m was 15% higher on an adjusted basis and, Bimba integration progressing to plan low-cost manufacturing transfers continue to after excluding 2m of adverse foreign exchange and reduce lead times and improve customer service 7m from the Bimba acquisition, was 11% higher on and competitiveness.
Operating margins of 16.7% 2017: 16.9% reflect the impact of the Bimba acquisition In addition to product and operational investments, in the year.
Excluding Bimba, underlying margins the division continues to implement its new ERP compared favourably to last year at 17.7%.
system and now has a world-class, fully integrated IT system which is now planned to be rolled-out Good progress has been made with the integration in our Asian operations.
of Bimba into Precision Engineerings North American operations.
We have also accelerated some of our Outlook plans for Bimba to improve its operations and IT infrastructure, in readiness for the opportunities The industrial outlook has become more volatile for growth and margin improvement.
with leading indicators pointing to continued but slower growth in the Industrial Automation and Operationally, the division continued to make solid the Commercial Vehicle markets in 2019. progress and the combination of Lean, New Product Development and cost-reduction initiatives all Based on current market conditions, we expect contributed to a good performance in the year.
first half organic revenues to be slightly higher, We also completed the relocation of our Indian with broadly flat margins, when compared to operation to a new and larger facility in New Delhi the first half of 2018.
The benefits of new product which was officially opened in October.
This new launches and operational improvements are plant expands Precision Engineerings low-cost, expected to support improved results for the full year.
com Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 31 2018 was a year of further success for IMI Precision Engineering.
Great new products, improved operational performance and the addition of Bimba were all highlights in the year.
Massimo Grassi Divisional Managing Director Innovation driving growth The Rail industry is highly competitive.
Reliability, safety and cost control are vital and the need to maximise operational efficiency is a key priority.
IMI Precision Engineering, with more than 30 years experience in the rail sector, provides a range of products and technologies which enable rolling stock to operate effectively.
In particular the divisions innovative and patented AMT air dryer system removes moisture and impurities from compressed air ensuring that pneumatically operated systems, such as doors, suspension and brakes operate reliably and safety.
The AMT system offers market-leading levels of performance and reliability.
During 2018 demand for the AMT system continued to grow and IMI Precision Engineering won a number of new orders including a contract to supply Metro Trains Melbourne Pty Ltd in Australia with 270 AMT air dry systems and a major OEM order covering approximately 90 new Metro trains from Biaoding in China.
A constantly improving production process has been required to help the division meet increasing demand, efficiently.
At the Leeds facility where the AMT system is manufactured, a fully engaged team and their passion for continuous improvement and Lean have delivered the required improvements.
Lead times have been reduced, inventory management improved and standardisation of the build process has reduced the production cycle time.
Metro Trains Melbourne Pty Ltd in Australia will be supplied with 270 AMT air dry systems.
Credit: Metro Trains Melbourne Pty Ltd 32 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Operational review IMI Hydronic Engineering is a leading provider of technologies that delivers energy efficient water-based heating and cooling systems for the residential and commercial building sectors.
Performance Outlook Down 1% Adjusted revenue IMI Hydronic Engineerings 2018 performance Based on current market conditions organic revenue was a tale of two halves with the first half is expected to grow in the first half of 2019 with 309m being focused on the actions necessary to margins slightly improved when compared to the deliver significant improvements in the second first half of last year.
Results for the full year are Up 5% Adjusted operating profit half of the year.
The actions taken successfully expected to reflect the benefits of our 2018 recovered margins and consolidated the restructuring and our normal second half bias.
52.0m divisions position as a market leader in our core geographies and sectors.
Recovering substantially from the decline experienced in the first half of the year, revenues Key achievements on an adjusted basis of 309m 2017: 312m Second half margins improved to were 1% lower than 2017 and, after excluding 18.4% 2017: 15.9% 3m of adverse foreign exchange, were flat on Successfully re-established an organic basis.
The result was affected by foundations for sustainable and the actions taken to return to satisfactory profitable growth margins, including the closure of a loss-making service business and the decision to avoid New product launches continue product and project sales that generated to build sustainable competitive unacceptable margins.
advantage Segmental operating profit of 52.0m 2017: Maintained excellent Lean score 49.7m was 5% higher on an adjusted basis and, of 78% after excluding 1m of adverse foreign exchange, 6% higher on an organic basis.
Margins improved On-time on-budget implementation of divisional ERP to 16.8% 2017: 15.9% for the full year, with a significant improvement in the second half to 18.4% 2017: 15.9%.
In our core territories market shares have remained strong.
Our key distributors, installers and specifiers have responded positively to our refreshed product offering, constantly improving customer service and ongoing commitment to customer support.
New product investment continued and contributed 69m, or 22% of sales, in the year.
The division also maintained its excellent Lean score of 78%, with the Polish plant once again achieving the highest Lean score in the Group.
The roll-out of the new JD Edwards ERP system continued throughout 2018 with the system now live in three manufacturing businesses and thirteen of the divisions sales offices.
com Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 33 Our in depth hydronic experience in many varied projects around the world and our ability to share the knowledge across the local market and engineering teams, gives confidence to our customers and is a significant competitive advantage for IMI Hydronic Engineering.
Delivering Phil Clifton Divisional Managing Director competitive and effective solutions for large complex projects IMI Hydronic Engineering has a long and successful track record of working closely with designers and consultants to create some of the most energy efficient and highly successful commercial and residential developments in the world.
These credentials, including the divisions work on the Maracan Stadium in Brazil, which hosted the 2014 World Cup final, helped IMI Hydronic Engineering win contracts to design and install temperature control systems in four of the World Cup 2018 stadia.
The systems installed at each stadium, including the St. Petersburg Stadium which has a seating capacity of 67,000, incorporated products from IMI Pneumatex, IMI TA and IMI Heimeier, three of the divisions market leading brands.
In addition, through effective cross-divisional collaboration with IMI Precision Engineering, Norgen solenoid valves were also incorporated into each temperature control system.
Four Russian 2018 World Cup stadiums were fitted with Hydronic Engineering products to provide great temperature control.
