OPERATING REVIEW DELIVERING QUALITY GROWTH OUR BRANDS The rest of our portfolio consists of Portfolio Brands: some GROWTH BRANDS of these are strong local brands that support our volume and revenue development, while others are delisted or migrated into Growth Brands.
A number of migrations were completed in the year, as we continued to streamline our portfolio and improve our quality of growth.
Total Group tobacco volumes were 255.5 billion stick equivalents 2017: 265.2 billion, with volumes down by 3.6 per cent, outperforming industry volume declines of 5.0 per cent.
Growth Brands increased volume by 2.1 per cent and market share by 70 basis points, with share gains in all divisions.
Excluding the benefit of brand migrations, Growth Brands also outperformed the industry.
GROWTH BRANDS Full Year Result Change Constant 2018 2017 Actual Currency Market share % 9.2 8.5 70 bps Net revenue m 3,799 3,690 2.9% 3.9% We achieved another Percentage of Group % 63.8 60.2 360 bps excellent performance with volumes Percentage of tobacco % 49.1 47.6 150 bps our Growth and Specialist & NGP net revenue Brands.
These are the most Growth Brands have broad consumer appeal and are comprised important assets in our of: Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, JPS, West, Lambert & Butler, portfolio and together they Bastos, Fine, Winston, News and Parker & Simpson.
now account for 66.9 per cent Growth Brand volumes outperformed the market in the period and net revenue grew by 3.9 per cent at constant currency.
of our tobacco & NGP net Growth Brand investment was prioritised behind equity building revenue, up 420 basis points campaigns and key consumer growth segments such as queen size, low tar and crushball.
Growth Brands now account for 63.8 per cent of total Group tobacco volumes, an increase of 360 basis points, and 49.1 per cent of overall tobacco & NGP net revenue, an increase of 150 basis points.
SPECIALIST BRANDS 14 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 14 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Brand Chassis Highlights JPF JPS, Parker JPF delivered excellent results in the year, driven by JPS and Parker & Simpson.
JPS generated strong net revenue and profit & Simpson growth in Australia and increased market share in the UK.
The positive performance of Parker & Simpson reflects growth and Fine in Russia, Czech Republic and Poland, supported by investment in growth areas such as queen size, low tar and modern filter formats.
West West, Lambert West has benefitted from the growth in value-oriented variants such as make-your-own in Germany and superkings in Spain.
& Butler, News and We launched the West queen size range in a number of markets, including Saudi Arabia, to capitalise on this growing segment.
Bastos In France we took the decision to increase the price of News to support our financial delivery, which affected volumes and share.
Winston Winston continued to perform well, gaining share in the year as we supported the brands growth trajectory with direct mail promotions and increased advertising.
We also strengthened the brand franchise with the launch of Winston Black.
Davidoff Davidoffs revenue contribution was lower than last year due to the impact of excise increases in the Middle East and Taiwan.
We continued to successfully roll out our new queen size range, Davidoff Reach, which is now in 14 markets and performing well.
Gauloises Gauloises delivered strong volume growth in a number of territories including Morocco, where volumes were up, supported by the introduction of Gauloises New Generation.
These good performances were offset by Germany.
SPECIALIST BRANDS Full Year Result Change Constant 2018 2017 Actual Currency Net revenue m 1,375 1,172 17.3% 20.9% Percentage of tobacco & NGP net revenue % 17.8 15.1 270 bps Specialist Brands appeal to specific consumer groups and are comprised of: blu, Kool, Gitanes, Jade, Cohiba, Montecristo, Romeo Y Julieta, Backwoods, Skruf, Golden Virginia and Drum.
Our Specialist Brands continue to perform well, with particularly strong growth from blu, Backwoods, Kool, Skruf and premium cigars.
Our mass market cigar brand Backwoods delivered strong revenue and share growth in the USA.
In premium cigar we achieved good growth from Cohiba, Montecristo and Romeo Y Julieta: these three brands now deliver more than half of our premium cigar revenues.
Net revenue from Specialist Brands grew 20.9 per cent at constant currency and these brands now represent 17.8 per cent of overall tobacco & NGP net revenue, up 270 basis points on last year.
BLU We delivered a significant step change in the performance of our vapour brand blu this year through new product launches and market roll outs.
Net revenue from our NGP business grew substantially to 200m or 2.6 per cent of tobacco & NGP net revenue, reflecting the growing number of smokers we are transitioning to blu.
The my blu pod format gathered momentum in the second half, resulting in an acceleration in revenue growth and an annualised full year exit run-rate of around 300 million.
We expect this rapid growth to continue into 2019 and subsequent years as we further build the brand and extend distribution, supported by innovation and leading-edge science.
Performance highlights included the excellent progress we made in the USA, the worlds biggest vapour market.
Here, we focused on maximising the availability of my blu and leveraging our considerable distribution network in traditional retail outlets, while also building a presence in the specialist vape channel and online.
Successful promotions generated added momentum behind the brand and a rapidly growing level of sales as we exited the year.
In the UK we have been very active with my blu and the blu ACE open system device.
These are both high quality devices that resonate with smokers.
Again, we are taking an omnichannel approach and the accelerating sales growth we achieved during the second half of the year clearly demonstrates repeat purchases and growing brand loyalty.
my blu in the USA and UK also benefitted from my blu Intense, a nicotine salt variant that more closely replicates the experience and satisfaction of smoking a cigarette.
This is an important addition to our portfolio, which we believe will enhance our ability to transition smokers to blu.
We are taking an innovative approach to establishing blu in Japan where the sale of nicotine-based liquids is currently prohibited, launching a non-nicotine my blu variant in the city of Fukuoka and generating an excellent response from smokers.
We also launched my blu in France, Italy, Spain, Germany, Russia and Canada and have more launches planned for 2019.
PORTFOLIO BRANDS Volumes were down 14 per cent.
Six per cent of the decline was due to migrations to Growth Brands: the rest were delistings and other market driven volume declines.
Net revenue declined by 7.7 per cent at constant currency, with price mix of 6.3 per cent, as we further optimised the profitability of these brands.
com 15 OPERATING REVIEW continued GROWTH MARKETS AND USA We achieved a good set of results in Growth Markets and the USA as we continued to drive the performance of our strongest brand equities, while increasing investment in NGP.
DOMINIC BRISBY Division Director, Growth GROWTH MARKETS Full Year Result Change Constant 2018 2017 Actual Currency Volume bn SE 73.5 74.8 -1.7% Net revenue m 1,795 1,768 1.5% 5.6% Adjusted operating profit m 364 411 -11.3% -4.4% Growth Brand % of net revenue % 45.8 49.1 -330 bps Growth Brand volume bn SE 50.9 49.9 2.2% Growth Brand market share % 4.7 4.3 40 bps Growth markets delivered strong revenue growth of 5.6 per cent at constant currency, driven primarily by the significant step up in our blu sales and a stronger performance in Russia, where we continue to gain share and have achieved price mix gains.
This has more than offset revenue pressures from Saudi Arabia and Taiwan, where tax increases have affected volumes and mix.
All blu revenue is currently reported in Growth Markets.
From our next financial year our blu results will be reported in the markets and segments where they occur, following our segmental reporting changes.
Growth Brand volumes grew 2.2 per cent as we strengthened our quality of growth through further migrations and more focused investment.
However, the overall percentage of Growth Brand net revenue declined, materially due to the significant increases in blu revenues, which are currently still categorised as a Specialist Brand, as well as revenue pressure in Saudi Arabia and Taiwan.
Our continued focus on Growth Brands, supported by sustained investment, has driven improved share performances in Russia, Saudi Arabia, Italy and Japan.
Adjusted operating profit fell 4.4 per cent at constant currency, mainly driven by the increased investment in blu and the negative mix in Middle Eastern markets, which was partially offset by a stronger profit performance in Russia, particularly in the second half.
16 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 16 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Country Performance Russia We delivered a strong performance, growing revenue, profit and market share, driven by Parker & Simpson and supported by the launch of Davidoff Reach.
The stabilisation of Maxims share and growth in Jade also added to our overall performance.
Saudi Arabia Last years significant tax increases doubled retail sale prices, leading to a significant reduction in market size and a marked reduction of the premium segment.
This adversely affected Davidoff and our financial delivery.
We successfully refocused investment behind West and grew market share.
Italy Our share continues to grow in Italy, reaching another record high, driven by the continued excellent performance from JPS.
Sweden We have grown net revenue in Norway, with Skruf maintaining its status as the leading snus brand in the and Norway market.
In Sweden we launched Skruf Super White into the rapidly growing tobacco-free segment.
Japan The Japanese tobacco market continues to decline due to the success of Next Generation Products.
Against this backdrop, our share and volume continue to grow, driven by West.
Taiwan Our portfolio performed well, with share growth from Davidoff and West.
However, the market continues to be affected by last years excise increase leading to reduced revenues and profit.
USA MARKET Full Year Result Change Constant 2018 2017 Actual Currency Volume bn SE 22.1 23.3 -5.0% Net revenue m 1,671 1,665 0.4% 6.7% Adjusted operating profit m 1,040 1,013 2.7% 9.5% Asset Brand % of net revenue % 50.2 44.5 570 bps Asset Brand volume bn SE 11.1 11.1 0.0% Growth Brand market share % 2.5 2.4 10 bps Our USA strategy continues to focus on growing our strongest brand equities: Winston, Kool and Maverick in cigarettes and Backwoods in mass market cigars.
We grew net revenue 6.7 per cent at constant currency reflecting cigarette revenue growth and continued strong growth in our mass market cigar business.
The percentage of tobacco & NGP net revenue generated by Asset Brands increased to 50.2 per cent as we continued to reshape the portfolio.
Winston benefitted from the launch of Winston Black in August.
Kool and Maverick also gained share in the period, with Kool growing strongly to a 2 per cent spot market share and Maverick back into growth for the year.
Although our overall cigarette market share was down slightly, we achieved an improving share trajectory and our fourth quarter share was up year-on-year.
Results included higher Growth Brand share, as we continued to realign the portfolio around our strongest brand equities.
In mass market cigars, investment in our key brands and the changes we have made in our route to market continue to deliver excellent results, including further share gains and strong growth in revenue and profit.
The mass market cigar business now represents just over 20 per cent of our USA net revenues.
Adjusted operating profit grew 9.5 per cent at constant currency, despite increases in brand and market investment, which has been more than offset by the benefit of additional revenue growth and cost efficiencies.
com 17 OPERATING REVIEW continued RETURNS MARKETS We continue to focus on balancing returns with market share growth and achieved a stronger second half performance, leaving us well-placed for future growth.
JOERG BIEBERNICK Division Director, Returns RETURNS MARKETS Full Year Result Change Constant 2018 2017 Actual Currency Volume bn SE 159.9 167.1 -4.3% Net revenue m 4,264 4,324 -1.4% -1.1% Net revenue per 000 SE 26.67 25.88 3.0% 3.4% Adjusted operating profit m 2,153 2,171 -0.9% -0.4% Growth Brand % of net revenue % 62.2 58.0 420 bps Growth Brand market share % 17.8 16.7 110 bps We delivered some good performances in our Returns Markets.
We maintained investment behind our Growth Brands in priority markets, aligned with our Market Repeatable Model.
We grew our overall share in the UK, Netherlands and Poland.
We also improved our fine cut tobacco share and strengthened our share in blonde cigarettes in Spain.
In line with our strategy for Returns Markets, we balanced financial delivery with share progression in France and Australia.
First half performance was affected by the carry over of 2017s tough trading environment, resulting in net revenue declining 3.7 per cent at constant currency.
The environment improved considerably in the second half and we delivered net revenue growth of 1.4 per cent, resulting in full year net revenue down 1.1 per cent.
Our quality of growth further improved with Growth Brands now generating 62.2 per cent of tobacco & NGP net revenue, an increase of 420 basis points.
Growth Brand volumes increased 2.3 per cent, while industry volumes declined 3.5 per cent.
Growth Brand share increased 110 basis points, supported by migrations and strong organic brand performances.
Adjusted operating profit was down 0.4 per cent at constant currency, reflecting investment and the lack of price mix in the first half.
Second half adjusted profits were up 4.1 per cent at constant currency due to the improved environment and cost initiatives.
18 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 18 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RETURNS MARKETS NORTH Full Year Result Change Constant 2018 2017 Actual Currency Volume bn SE 86.6 89.8 -3.5% Net revenue m 2,749 2,755 -0.2% 0.4% Net revenue per 000 SE 31.73 30.69 3.4% 4.1% Adjusted operating profit m 1,507 1,485 1.5% 2.4% Growth Brand % of net revenue % 62.7 60.2 250 bps Growth Brand market share % 17.0 16.6 40 bps Country Performance UK Players and Gold Leaf continued to perform well, improving our overall market share.
Price mix improved in the second half as we lapped the impact of EUTPD regulations and increased prices.
Germany Our financial delivery was strong, with both revenue and profit up.
We grew our fine cut tobacco share with West, although this was offset by a lower cigarette share mainly as a result of Gauloises.
Benelux We grew share in the Netherlands through the launch of larger cigarette formats, supported by consumer activation, while Belgium has seen an improving cigarette share trajectory as a result of focused investments.
Australia Balancing financial delivery with volume and share progression ensured further good revenue and profit growth.
JPS continued to perform well.
Our overall share declined but our spot share recovered, reflecting the success of portfolio initiatives.
Ukraine Increased prices and a focus on cost optimisation supported profit growth, although revenue was impacted by significant market size declines.
We improved Davidoffs performance with the successful launch of Davidoff Reach queen size but share was down as we prioritised financial delivery.
Poland We grew share in both cigarette and fine cut tobacco, driven by Parker & Simpson and supported by increased brand investment.
RETURNS MARKETS SOUTH Full Year Result Change Constant 2018 2017 Actual Currency Volume bn SE 73.3 77.3 -5.3% Net revenue m 1,515 1,569 -3.4% -3.7% Net revenue per 000 SE 20.68 20.29 1.9% 1.6% Adjusted operating profit m 646 686 -5.8% -6.4% Growth Brand % of net revenue % 61.1 54.2 690 bps Growth Brand market share % 18.8 16.8 200bps Country Performance Spain The dark tobacco segment continues to decline.
Our blonde tobacco share was supported by refocused investment and the strong performance of larger formats and fine cut tobacco, resulting in an improved share trajectory.
France Following significant excise increases we chose to prioritise profitability and value share growth at the expense of volume share.
Algeria Over the years we have substantially increased our market share, although our recent performance was impacted by excise pressure and disruption to local third party production.
Morocco Positive performances from Gauloises Blondes and Marquise enhanced our financial performance, with growth in both revenue and profit.
