Strategic Report | Operating reviews PRODUCTS BUSINESS LINES Excellent performance with strong margin-accretive Softlines Transportation Technologies revenue growth Hardlines Food Electrical & Connected World Chemicals & Pharma Business Assurance Building & Construction FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2018 REVENUE Change at Change at 2018 2017 actual constant 1,680.2m m m rates rates Revenue 1,680.2 1,625.5 3.4% 6.6% ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT Organic revenue 1,654.4 1,620.6 2.1% 5.2% 371.0m Adjusted operating profit 371.0 350.5 5.8% 9.5% STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT Adjusted operating margin 22.1% 21.6% 50bps 60bps Statutory operating profit 344.5 335.5 2.7% 344.5m Statutory operating margin 20.5% 20.6% 10 bps INTERTEK VALUE PROPOSITION STRATEGY Our Products-related businesses consist Our Total Quality Assurance value of business lines that are focused on proposition provides a systemic approach ensuring the quality and safety of physical to support the Quality Assurance efforts components and products, as well as of our Products-related customers in each minimising risk through assessing the of the areas of their operations.
To do this operating processes and quality we leverage our global network of management systems of our customers.
accredited facilities and world-leading technical experts to help our clients meet As a trusted partner to the worlds leading high-quality safety, regulatory and brand retailers, manufacturers and distributors, standards, develop new products, the division supports a wide range of materials and technologies and ultimately industries including textiles, footwear, assist them in getting their products to toys, hardlines, home appliances, market quicker, in order to continually consumer electronics, information and meet evolving consumer demands.
communication technology, automotive, aerospace, lighting, building products, INNOVATION industrial and renewable energy products, We continue to invest in innovation to food and hospitality, healthcare and deliver a superior customer service in beauty, and pharmaceuticals.
our Products-related businesses: Across these industries we provide 360 Brand Assurance and awiderange of ATIC services including, E-Reputation laboratory safety, quality and Customer Insight: Our Food Industry performance testing, second-party customers are taking an increasingly supplier auditing, sustainability analysis, holistic approach to risk in their supply product assurance, vendor compliance, chain and organisation: with the rise people assurance, process performance of social media, detailed E-Reputation analysis, facility plant and equipment monitoring is becoming a key part verification and third-party certification.
of their risk management and mitigation strategies Food innovation: Intertek has developed a unique TQA solution providing an end-to-end mapping of 44 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INSIGHT INNOVATION TQA SOLUTIONS EVER BETTER Strategic Report EVER BETTER SOLUTIONS PEOPLE ASSURANCE In a world of increasingly complex supply chains and distribution channels, employees are key in driving operational excellence.
As corporations around the world increase their focus on quality, safety, productivity and compliance, our clients are seeking People Assurance solutions that enable them to identify, monitor and close skills gaps amongst employees particularly frontline employees.
These services are mission-critical for our clients to deliver the highest standards in customer service.
As we engage with our clients and as we continue to build our Business Assurance services, we acquired Alchemy Systems, a leading People Assurance specialist with a unique Software as a Solution SaaS offering.
Alchemys cloud-based technology platforms, industryspecific training content, and bespoke employee communications programmes help identify and close skills gaps quickly and efficiently.
Alchemy engages with over three million frontline employees at 50,000 locations around the world to drive safety, operational excellence, and customer service.
The Alchemy, Wisetail, Ontrack, and Catalyst platforms are scalable across multiple industries and ensure an organisations workforce is empowered with the right knowledge and confidence to consistently perform their jobs in the right way.
Assurance Interteks People Assurance solutions are industry-agnostic and uniquely designed to address the skill gaps and increase the level of engagement to empower employees to work at their maximum potential.
We continue to use customer insights, data and innovation to expand our Assurance proposition, together with our scale position in 100 countries with our TQA experts operating at a local level.
We can now offer People Assurance solutions to our global client base across multiple industries to continue to drive operational excellence and mitigate risk.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Strategic Report | Operating reviews PRODUCTS continued our customers E-Reputation and network to rapidly assess the material We delivered robust organic revenue Operational data to deliver tailored 360 risk components growth in our Electrical & Connected Brand Assurance Reports World business driven by higher Customer benefit: Thanks to our regulatory standards in energy Customer benefit: Our customers now accelerated screening programme, our efficiency and by the increased demand have a 360 view of the risk areas customer was able to enter the market for wireless devices and cybersecurity.
across their food service site networks, successfully and faster than they had as well as ATIC action plans to mitigate expected, benefitting from Interteks We continue to benefit from the those risks proprietary technology, lab network increased focus of corporations on food and efficient assurance approach safety and delivered robust organic First and Only Oligonucleotide revenue growth in our Food business.
Expert Centre Globally 2018 PERFORMANCE We delivered robust organic revenue Customer insight: Our customers In 2018 our Products business delivered growth in our Chemicals & Pharma ground-breaking research and an excellent performance with strong business as we continue to leverage development into DNAor RNA-based margin-accretive revenue growth.
the structural growth opportunities therapeutics oligonucleotides needs Our organic revenue growth at constant in the healthcare markets in both highly experienced analytical scientists rates was 5.2%, driven by broad-based developed and emerging economies and and state-of-the-art technology to revenue growth across business lines and we benefited from the increased focus enable efficient drug development for geographies.
We delivered strong adjusted on product safety and traceability.
the treatment of diseases including operating profit of 371m, up 9.5% at cancer, neurodegenerative disorder Driven by the growing demand for more constant currency enabling us to deliver and cardiovascular diseases environmentally friendly and higher a margin of 22.1%, up 60bps versus quality buildings and infrastructure Chemicals and Pharma innovation: last year: in the US market, our Building & In the UK, Intertek has established a Construction business reported Our Softlines business reported solid unique, dedicated centre for regulatoryrobust organic revenue growth.
We are driven analytical development and leveraging the investments we have quality control support for 2019 OUTLOOK made to support the expansion of our oligonucleotide therapeutics, offering We expect our Products division to customers into new markets and to unrivalled product specific expertise to benefit from good organic revenue seize the exciting growth opportunities our global clients.
Our world leading growth at constant currency.
We continue to oligonucleotide scientists provide MIDTO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK benefit from strong demand from our innovative and comprehensive Our Products division will benefit from customers for chemical testing as well analytical support throughout the midto long-term structural growth as from a greater number of brands pharmaceutical development life cycle drivers including product variety, brand and SKUs.
Customer benefit: With access to and supply chain expansion, product Our Hardlines and Toy business Interteks world leading subject matter innovation and regulation, the growing continues to take advantage of our experts and specialist analytical demand for quality and sustainability strong global account relationships, technology, we empower our clients to from developed and emerging economies, the expansion of our customers supply ensure the safety, purity and quality of the acceleration of e-commerce as a sales chains into new markets and our their oligonucleotide products through channel, and the increased corporate innovative technology for factory highly efficient development support, focus on risk.
We delivered good organic helping them to bring their treatments revenue growth performance across to the market, and to the patients that our main markets of China, Hong Kong, need it, faster India and Vietnam.
Accelerated Screening of Restricted Our Transportation Technologies Substances business delivered double digit organic Customer insight: Our customer, a revenue growth as we capitalise on luxury watch manufacturer, urgently our clients investments in new needed to determine whether their powertrains to lower emissions product contained any of 950 banned and increase fuel efficiency.
substances before they could enter a Our Business Assurance business new market delivered strong organic revenue Assurance innovation: We provided growth as we continue to benefit from an accelerated screening programme, the increased focus of corporations on supported by our proprietary Material risk management, resulting in strong Risk Database, which contains 50,000 growth in Supply Chain Audits and data points.
Through the programme, increased consumer and government we assessed each product components focus on ethical and sustainable supply.
risk of containing a banned substance.
We then mobilised our extensive lab 46 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INSIGHT INNOVATION TQA SOLUTIONS EVER BETTER Strategic Report EVER BETTER SOLUTIONS CONNECTED WORLD In recent years, cybercrime has grown from a threat to corporations IT systems, to one that permeates every element of operations.
Everything from automated manufacturing sites to the connected products sold to customers is affected.
This is a new dimension of risk for consumer goods as diverse as lightbulbs to fridges, vehicles to pacemakers.
In addition to the familiar requirements of electrical, physical and chemical safety testing is now added cybersecurity assurance, of which clients rarely have significant experience.
Interteks Connected World business has a deep knowledge of product cybersecurity.
We help clients to mitigate new and ever-evolving risks.
This allows their customers securely to experience the benefits connectivity brings to their daily lives.
Interteks Connected World provides cybersecurity solutions for clients based on risk factors of specific products and systems.
Our testing for the medical device sector to which Intertek already provides extensive services for electrical safety testing is at the forefront of product cybersecurity.
Connectivity brings huge advantages to both individual patients, such as real-time remote monitoring and diagnosis, and society more broadly as medical Big Data collected from connected devices speeds the development of new medicines.
However, the associated risks are significant, from data privacy concerns about individuals most sensitive information being accessed through to fatal risks associated with compromised embedded devices.
To help clients launch products which harness these huge benefits of connectivity whilst mitigating the risks, Intertek provides a range of services from basic penetration tests through to full evaluation under US Food and Drug Administration guidelines.
Work on products as diverse as surgical robots to hospital monitoring equipment help our clients eliminate security flaws and launch successful products.
Assurance Testing Inspection Certification Regulators are increasingly focusing on product cybersecurity in addition to existing data privacy laws.
Notably EU and Californian regulation is expected in H2 2019 and Q1 2020 respectively.
Intertek is ready to help all our clients meet these challenges, with support at every point in their product life cycle.
In addition to securing the physical product, Interteks Network Security businesses provide a range of cybertesting such as penetration tests and social engineering.
These tests provide assurance over data generated by connected products held in the cloud and test the security of underlying IT systems.
In this way Intertek helps clients protect their businesses against all facets of cybercrime.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Strategic Report | Operating reviews TRADE BUSINESS LINES Solid performance with an acceleration in the second Caleb Brett Cargo AA half of the year Government & Trade Services AgriWorld FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2018 REVENUE Change at Change at 2018 2017 actual constant 642.1m m m rates rates Revenue 642.1 647.8 0.9 % 3.1% ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT Organic revenue 636.5 647.8 1.7 % 2.2% 83.4m Adjusted operating profit 83.4 88.7 6.0 % 1.3 % STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT Adjusted operating margin 13.0% 13.7% 70 bps 60 bps Statutory operating profit 78.3 82.8 5.4 % 78.3m Statutory operating margin 12.2% 12.8% 60 bps INTERTEK VALUE PROPOSITION to optimise the return on our customers Customer benefit: With Interteks Our Trade division consists of three Global cargoes and help them resolve difficult support, our insurance industry Business Lines with differing services and technical challenges.
Our independent customers are able to mitigate customers, but similar midto long-term product assessments provide peace of catastrophic losses faster than ever structural growth drivers: mind to our government clients that the before, while continuing to ensure quality of products imported into the safety and compliance Our Cargo AA business, newly country meet their standards and ScanCal Laser Scanning rebranded Caleb Brett, provides cargo importprocesses.
Customer insight: For Interteks Caleb inspection, analytical assessment, Brett customers, accurate and timely calibration and related research and INNOVATION storage tank stock measurement is key technical services to the worlds We continue to invest in innovation to for robust stock management, allowing petroleum and biofuels industries.
deliver a superior customer service in our them to identify stock losses and Trade-related businesses: Our Government & Trade Services loading issues.
However, traditional GTS business provides inspection Rapid Response to Extreme Weather volumetric approaches can interrupt services to governments and regulatory Events operations and cause safety risks bodies to support trade activities that Customer insight: With the increase Caleb Brett innovation: Interteks help the flow of goods across borders, in extreme weather events and the proprietary ScanCal platform uses laser predominantly in the Middle East, Africa effects of climate change, our insurance scanning technology to collect and and South America.
industry customers are finding that analyse minutely detailed calibration Our AgriWorld business provides large and complex Catastrophic Loss imaging in real time, avoiding analytical and testing services claims are becoming more frequent.
interrupting operations, cutting to global agricultural trading The ability of our customers to manage calibration time by over 90% and companies and growers.
their risks quickly and safely is vital reducing safety risks when dealing with these claims STRATEGY Customer benefit: Our customers Trade innovation: Intertek has created Our Total Quality Assurance value newfound ability to identify issues a unique rapid response solution to proposition assists our Trade-related quickly, accurately and without stopping requests for support on these large customers in protecting the value and operations, has allowed them to realise and complex claims, attending the site quality of their products during their significant operational efficiency gains within 24 hours and working to assess custody-transfer, storage and Scanning Electron Microscopy safety, environmental impacts and to transportation, globally, 24 7.
Customer insight: When the extreme advise on remedial strategies in Ourexpertise, service innovations and wear conditions of our customers mitigating the loss advanced analytical capabilities allow us 48 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INSIGHT INNOVATION TQA SOLUTIONS EVER BETTER Strategic Report EVER BETTER SOLUTIONS TM INTERTEK INTERPRET mechanical equipment cause concern, As the global demand for energy increases, they look to Intertek to determine how so too does the need to ensure complex this debris was produced and whether hydrocarbon compounds are accurately analysed this has implications for the life and effectively utilised.
expectancy of the equipment Oil and gas companies are looking for innovative Caleb Brett innovation: Our experts solutions to help them improve efficiency and data have leveraged cutting edge Scanning accuracy during hydrocarbon processing within Electron Microscope technology, production and refining environments.
Rapid access not normally used for this purpose, to composition measurement data, characterisation in an innovative new way.
Using this analysis and evaluation are critical for increasing technology, our experts can analyse productivity, reducing costs, improving efficiency and growing profits.
This customer insight led the wear debris with unprecedented Intertek to develop the innovative Interpret accuracy software solution.
Customer benefit: With this new level of accuracy, our customers can take Interpret was developed to give clients rapid access maintenance and replacement decisions to the vital data required to make informed with confidence, with greater certainty decisions on product quality, saving time and cost on the condition of their equipment while maximising margins.
This game-changing and the potential impact of any damage breakthrough has led us to create a vast database on the quality of the end product and of the worlds crude oils, radically streamlining the safety of their staff processes involved in analysing crude oil chemistry.
2018 PERFORMANCE By leveraging expertise from across Intertek we Our Trade-related businesses delivered enable refineries to accurately predict, in real time, an organic revenue growth of 2.2% at the economics of the oil they refine.
This is truly a constant rates, driven by broad-based new layer of specialist support and domain expertise, from our centres of excellence in revenue growth across business lines and Aberdeen and oil industry hubs across the world, geographies and we delivered an adjusted including Houston, Rotterdam and Singapore.
operating profit of 83.4m, down 1.3% at constant currency driven by portfolio mix.
Intertek is the only company in the world that combines global modelling expertise, technically Our Caleb Brett business reported advanced software and a vast crude oil database solid organic revenue growth, reflecting to enable real-time, traceable insight on crude the structural growth drivers in the oil compositions.
Crude Oil and Refined Product global trading market.
Benefiting from new contracts, our Government & Trade Services business delivered robust organic revenue growth.
Our AgriWorld business delivered an organic revenue lower than last year due to lower export activities in a few Assurance markets that benefited from strong trading activity in 2017.
2019 OUTLOOK We expect our Trade-related businesses to benefit from good organic performance at constant currency.
By combining these insights to deliver one unique MIDTO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK solution, Interpret provides our clients with faster, Our Trade division will continue to benefit real-time data to make informed decisions on from both regional and global trade-flow product quality and quantity.
This solution is being growth, as well as the increased customer used by increasingly more major refineries around focus on quality, quantity controls and the world as it provides them with a tangible supply chain risk management.
Given the high scalability of the Interpret platform Intertek can help its clients not only in the oil and gas sector but also in other industries.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Strategic Report | Operating reviews RESOURCES BUSINESS LINES Improved performance following several Industry Services years of challenging Minerals trading conditions FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2018 REVENUE Change at Change at 2018 2017 actual constant 478.9m m m rates rates Revenue 478.9 495.8 3.4 % 0.3% ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT Organic revenue 478.9 495.8 3.4 % 0.3% 27.4m Adjusted operating profit 27.4 28.5 3.9 % 0.4 % STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT Adjusted operating margin 5.7% 5.7% 0bps 10 bps Statutory operating profit 13.4 4.4 204.5% 13.4m Statutory operating margin 2.8% 0.9% 190bps INTERTEK VALUE PROPOSITION STRATEGY Customer benefit: Our customer Our Resources division consists of two Our Total Quality Assurance value gained assurance over the integrity of Business Lines with differing services proposition allows us to help customers their piping quickly and without having and customers, but both demonstrating gain peace of mind that their projects will to stop operations similar cyclical growth characteristics: proceed on time and their assets will Ultrasonic Sensors Incorporated continue to operate with a lower risk of Our Industry Services business uses into Intertek Aware technical failure or delay.
Our broad range in-depth knowledge of the oil, gas, Customer insight: Our Oil and Gas of services allows us to assist clients in nuclear and power industries to provide customers monitor the corrosion of protecting the quantity and quality of a diverse range of Total Quality their equipment to determine its life their mined and drilled products, improve Assurance solutions to optimise expectancy and to prevent failures.
safety and reduce commercial risk in the the use of customers assets and Traditional inspection methods are trading environment.
minimise the risk in their supply chains.
manual, involving shutting down Some of our key services include INNOVATION equipment, and can present safety risks technical inspection, asset integrity We continue to invest in innovation to when equipment is hard to reach management, analytical testing and deliver a superior customer service in Industry Services innovation: ongoing training services.
our Resources-related businesses: Interteks experts place remote Our Minerals business provides a ultrasonic sensors on our customers Microwave Interferometry broad range of ATIC service solutions equipment in precisely the right areas Customer insight: A major to the mining and minerals exploration to measure the rate of corrosion with petrochemical customer had a vast industries, covering the resource supply the greatest accuracy.
The data is network of fibre-reinforced plastic chain from exploration and resource automatically fed into Interteks piping systems in urgent need of development, through to production, proprietary Aware software, where integrity assessments shipping and commercial settlement.
it is analysed to predict when the Industry Services innovation: equipment should be replaced, before Interteks experts developed a new failures occur inspection solution based on an Customer benefit: Interteks innovative application of the advanced innovative approach removes the need technique of Microwave Interferometry, for operations to be interrupted and allowing for rapid and precise the risk to safety.
Our Aware software microwave scanning of the pipelines, empowers our customers to predict delivering substantial integrity equipment corrosion rates in real assessment productivity gains time, allowing for timely repairs or replacement 50 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INSIGHT INNOVATION TQA SOLUTIONS EVER BETTER Strategic Report EVER BETTER SOLUTIONS TM INTERTEK DEEPVIEW 3D Extreme Conditions Simulation In the complex world of offshore oil and gas Customer insight: Our Oil Industry production, the time and costs involved in customers see managing corrosion as inspecting safety-critical equipment are major vital in protecting our environment from issues for drilling contractors and operators.
The injection of To gain a competitive edge, they require access to corrosion inhibitor chemicals is an precise, digital data on equipment condition that important corrosion control strategy helps monitor performance and improve safety.
Under traditional inspection and maintenance Industry Services innovation: To test programmes, key components often need to be whether our customers corrosion broken down and taken onshore in a timeinhibitors will perform reliably, our consuming inspection process.
This ties up experts have developed advanced test mission-critical and expensive resources, while methods and equipment to simulate the transportation contributes significantly to a worst-case operating conditions, companys carbon footprint.
through manipulating factors including brine chemistries, flow rates, Following in-depth customer conversations temperature, acid gas partial pressures drawing on TQA expertise from across our ATIC and pipeline condition value chain, Intertek developed a practical, Customer benefit: Our customers can lower-cost process to enable rapid on-deck TM continue their production operations inspections.
DeepView 3D is a new, innovative with the confidence that the inspection methodology that combines 3D laser scanning and precise metrology data with advanced environment and their equipment non-destructive testing NDT results that are are protected then joined in 3D space.
By combining established 2018 PERFORMANCE technologies to create an innovative new TM Our Resources-related businesses solution, DeepView 3D produces a digital equipment condition record, while reducing reported an organic revenue growth of typical inspection time and significantly 0.3% at constant rates.
We delivered an minimising a company's environmental impact.
adjusted operating profit of 27.4m, and our disciplined approach to cost control In addition, over time this new solution allows enabled us to report an operating margin clients to move away from time-based maintenance to a more efficient condition-based that was broadly stable: programme, generating significant cost savings.
The revenue from Capex Inspection Services was lower than last year and our Opex Maintenance Services continued to benefit from stable volume in a price competitive environment.
Accelerating the trend seen in 2017, we saw robust growth in demand for testing activities in the Minerals Inspection business.
2019 OUTLOOK We expect to deliver a solid organic revenue growth in our Resources division.
MIDTO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK Using innovation and cutting-edge technologies, Our Resources division will grow in the Intertek now sets a new standard for digital midto long-term as we benefit from mechanical integrity data and condition assessment investments in the exploration and of critical drilling and offshore operational assets.
production of Oil and Minerals to meet the demand of the growing population This margin-accretive, differentiated solution will around the world.
also allow Intertek to diversify into other areas that involve expensive and hazardous testing requirements, including the aerospace, nuclear, defence, automotive and construction industries.
TM As a result, DeepView 3D has generated considerable interest amongst existing and new clients in the oil and gas industry.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51
