22 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 Q&A OPERATING GROUPS VIEWS FROM OUR OPERATING GROUP LEADERS RESORT THEME PARKS Fiona Eastwood Q.
What is your best guest story of 2018?
Q. H ow do you see the marketplace changing and your Its always great to receive feedback from guests and one that really position in it?
stands out for me relates to a mum visiting Alton Towers Resort with We have the challenge of operating in a world thats rapidly changing: her autistic son.
She wrote to thank the team for the way they made time with a plethora of choice for thrill-seekers and young adults from for her son: sitting with him to answer all of his questions and providing pop-ups to increased escapism from in-home entertainment.
With exciting facts at Altons SEA LIFE which made him feel important.
She pressure on families to find time to be together and escape the day to said that her sons confidence had grown due to the kindness and amount day, our role is to deliver unmissable, memorable experiences that tap of time the staff had spent with him.
She ended with a comment that its into the fear of missing out amongst the teen and young adult clear the team there love what they do.
This to me epitomises what we demographic and deliver on togetherness and escapism for families.
In do and the difference our team can make in delivering amazing, doing this, we need to ensure we have a strong digital customer journey memorable experiences.
to delight our guests from the hello to the goodbye and everything in between.
We see the potential for growth in the family short break and Q.
What were your key achievements in 2018?
staycation market, where we will continue to transform our parks into As well as delivering a strong trading performance on the back of great resorts by building our unique themed accommodation.
new product offering and smart marketing, for example, on local season passes as part of our strategy to build loyalty, drive revenue and hedge against weather, it would be how we delight our guests as evidenced by our continued high guest satisfaction across our resorts.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 23 LEGOLAND MIDWAY PARKS ATTRACTIONS Hans Aksel Pedersen Nick Mackenzie Q.
What are you proudest of in 2018?
What are your key achievements in 2018?
During 2018 one of our main achievements was to significantly increase Midway London is our largest division so it was reassuring to see growth our accommodation offering, opening new hotels at three resorts in in the cluster in the second half of the year, as visitors return to London Germany, Japan and the USA.
At LEGOLAND California, for example, following the suppressed trading we saw in 2017 after the terror we doubled the on-site accommodation capacity with the new 250 room incidents early in that year.
Similarly, in Istanbul, another location where LEGOLAND Castle Hotel.
With an overall guest satisfaction score of there have been security concerns in recent years, our cluster of three 93%, we are proud to share one typical comment I cannot rate this attractions reported strong growth, confirming our view of the long place highly enough!
Give yourselves a round of applause because your term potential of that exciting marketplace.
ability to make us feel so welcomed, special and all the amenities your hotel provided was simply spectacular!.
Ever since Merlin acquired Living and Leisure Australia in 2012, and Q.
How do you see the marketplace changing and your position in it?
reflecting our long held view that cetaceans should not be kept in We are aware that competition is fierce so we need to aim to beat our captivity, we have been committed to finding a sustainable solution to the best performance every day.
This comes from a combination of both the long term care of the beluga whales we inherited at Changfeng Ocean product offering and how our staff interact with guests.
If guests come World in Shanghai.
So it was great that in June 2018 we confirmed that in for their first visit and we blow their socks off then they will return early 2019 we will hand over the care of Little Grey and Little White to the challenge is then to keep up that level of performance for their our partner charity, the SEA LIFE Trust, at the worlds first beluga whale second visit and hopefully many more to come.
Memorable experiences sanctuary, now being constructed at a small bay on the south coast of still reign and Merlin delivers these unique family experiences through Iceland.
We will be telling the amazing story of their journey throughout exceptional staff and high quality attractions.
Luckily our business is built the SEA LIFE estate in 2019, as they move to a more natural and wild on LEGO play, fun and imagination, and well probably not run out of that habitat hopefully somewhere that more belugas currently housed in any day soon!
aquariums will call home in the future.
What are you and your team most excited about in 2019?
In 2019 we open The LEGO Movie World at LEGOLAND Florida There is a wide range of great products this year that really show the Resort based on the first LEGO movie and the 2019 sequel that hits breadth of what Midway offers.
At SEA LIFE Sydney Aquarium there will cinemas around the world from February.
This state of the art be a full years trading from the Day and Night on the Reef, recreating experience will put guests right in the middle of Bricksburg, the city the wonders of that unique habitat across 24 hours of the day.
At where Emmet lives in the movies, featuring two new rides, the chance to SEA LIFE Bangkok Ocean World we will see a new ice themed penguin meet the characters from the movies, a giant themed playscape, and the attraction, while Madame Tussauds New York will showcase the best of complete transformation of an existing interactive boat ride.
The sights Andrew Lloyd Webbers Broadway musicals, as we take guests on a fully and sounds will be fully immersive, bringing the movie franchise to life in a immersive journey through the magical world of Broadway.
Finally, we way that only a LEGOLAND park could.
This is a significant investment are looking forward to The LEGO Movie 2: The Second Part, where our at LEGOLAND Florida and the first of what we plan to be a global roll LEGOLAND Discovery Centres will have movie themed events across out of a programme of LEGO Movie Worlds in the coming years.
