OPERATING REVIEW Putting our strategy into action Our strategy Weunderstand that running a business can be time We are a high-growth retailer delivering best-in-class pressured enough and, therefore, we aim to make our banking.
We do this by: business banking services as convenient and streamlined as possible.
Business Current Accounts can be set up on the creating FANS with our integrated customer spot in store without an appointment in a matter of hours, experiencemodel: rather than days or weeks.
It is services like this that are fostering our unique culture: leading us to win 15% of business switchers in the growing our low-cost deposits: and Londonarea.
offering low-risk and diversified lending.
During the year, we continued to expand our store network by opening ten new stores.
This included the opening of a Over the course of 2018 we have continued to deliver flagship store in Bristol.
Alongside the banking hall, the site progress in all of these areas, despite a challenging operating also houses a MetroBank University site as well as space environment in the second half of the year.
As well as fora back office team to support our growth in the West delivering year-on-year balance sheet growth of 32% we Country and Wales in the years ahead.
have been rated first for overall quality of service for personal banking in the latest CMA survey and also awarded In January, we opened our 66th store in Moorgate in London 120 million from the Capability and Innovation Fund of the and have a further seven stores in build.
We will open in RBS Alternative Remedies Package, which will accelerate our newlocations and markets including Enfield, Cardiff and SME offering.
The 120 million award from the Capability and Innovation Fund will accelerate the pace of Read more about our strategy on pages 10 and 11. our growth into the North of England.
A truly integrated model Our digital capabilities also continue to expand at pace 2018 has seen us deliver record investment in both our andin October we launched our artificial intelligence tool digital and physical offerings, as well as the integration Insights on our mobile app.
Insights can identify of the two, in order to make our customers lives easier.
patterns, trends and upcoming payments in customers accounts and then create personalised reports and analysis As well as the rollout of Current Account Online opening to allow them to better understand how they are using their for our retail customers we also launched our Walk Out money.
The feedback we have received in the few months Trading service for business accounts.
Walk Out Trading is this has been live has been phenomenal.
Looking ahead we revolutionising SME banking, allowing businesses to receive have plenty more exciting projects under development to a card terminal in store, so that they can accept debit and continue to improve our integrated customers experience credit card payments as soon as they open their account.
12 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Culture is at the heart of what we do Low-risk lending Out of everything we do at MetroBank, our culture is at our The UK mortgage landscape remains challenging as despite heart.
Creating a truly differentiated approach to banking a further base rate rise, mortgage yields remain broadly flat.
cannot be achieved without the right people and attitude.
In spite of this headwind our lending engines continued to deliver gains in market share, largely driven by organic During the year we welcomed over 800 new colleagues lending growth.
In addition, we continued to develop our colleagues, promoting more than 730 to roles with greater responsibility.
In October, we launched an MSc in Retail and Retail: 69% Commercial: 31% Digital Banking, designed in partnership with Cranfield University.
By investing in our colleagues across the Bank through initiatives such as this, we are ensuring that we willcontinue to be a disruptive force in UK retail banking.
2018 also saw us expand the work we do within our 9.9b 4.4b communities.
During the year we hosted 3,500 community and charity events in our stores as well as taking over 41,000 school children through our financial education programme, Money Zone.
We also continued to support our two charity partners, Place2Be and Alzheimers Society, and colleagues have raised over 140,000 for these important causes during the year.
Retail Commercial mortgages 7.3b loans 2.7b Retail Professional Deposit-led banking mortgages BTL 2.3b BTL 1.4b In 2018 we created more FANS than ever before, who in turn Customer Asset and invoice each trust us to deliver exceptional service at every point of leading 0.3b finance 0.3b contact.
Despite an increasingly competitive marketplace for savings, we grew our deposits by 34% to over 15 billion and continued to do so at low cost.
This was assisted by the For the second year running we met our pledge to provide expansion of our network by another ten stores, with new 1 billion of net lending to businesses.
Given our own markets including Southampton, Oxford and Bristol.
entrepreneurial beginnings, we understand the important role that access to finance plays for all organisations.
At the start of the year we launched Current Account Delivering this pledge has allowed thousands of businesses Online, allowing people all over the country to join the to grow, recruit and innovate, benefiting their communities revolution.
This technology is truly game-changing, allowing and contributing to the success of the UK economy.
retail customers to open an account in less than ten minutes, using selfie identification technology.
It also allows people We continue to have local business managers in store who live near our network to order online and pick up their and on the phone whenever customers need them and card straight away in store, finally bringing the era of click remain committed to offering simple and fair products and collect to banking.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 13 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Strong capital base We were also ranked top for overall service quality in Our balance sheet continues to be underpinned by our personal banking in the second Competition and Market strong capital position, supported by a further equity capital Authoritys CMA Service Quality Survey released in raise of 303 million in July 2018.
We also came second among business account holders.
We were the only bank to achieve a top We also completed our first-ever Tier 2 debt issuance, fivespot for all qualifying business and personal services.
We are grateful to our investors, both existing and new, who believe in our model and supported Strategic priorities these transactions.
Our integrated customer experience model is working well and we remain committed to our core strategy of creating Looking forward, maintaining a strong capital position while FANS, attracting low-cost sticky deposits and lending at low having the resources to support further capital efficient risk.
However, we are conscious of the need to adapt to the growth remains a key focus for us.
We plan to raise equity conditions in the wider economic, commercial and ofc.
350 million in 2019 and have a committed standby regulatory environment.
To that end we are implementing underwrite to support the transaction.
The Chairman four strategic initiatives to deliver the next phase of our andExecutive Directors also intend to participate in this growth: i balancing growth with profitability and capital fundraise.
efficiency: ii rebalancing the lending mix to optimise capital allocation and returns: iii expanding our range of services It remains our intention to maintain a minimum Common to create new sources of income: and iv improving cost Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio of 12% and a regulatory leverage efficiency.
Each of the initiatives is set out in greater ratio above 4%.
Our capital planning also includes the detail below.
issuance of up to c. 500 million of MREL-eligible securities in 2019 to meet our transitional MREL requirement by In order to balance growth and profitability we will moderate 1 January 2020. deposit growth to the c. 20% per annum range, with a concentration on relationship current accounts and variable Awards and recognition accounts, while reducing the proportion of higher-cost term 2018 saw our work recognised across the board, including deposits.
We will also manage our loan to deposit ratio to being named as one of the UKs 25 best companies to work the 85-90% range over time, thereby balancing loan growth for by Glassdoor.
to optimise capital efficiency and profitability.
The expansion of our physical store network and digital footprint to deliver an integrated customer experience will remain at the core of our model.
14 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our lending will be built around low-risk mortgages, which Guidance are both cost-efficient and deliver a higher return on equity.
Medium-term guidance In addition, we will use the C&I funding to broaden business c. 20% per annum, c. 2% share of the services, creating opportunities for further SME and Deposits growth market by 2023 commercial trading business lending, whilst reducing the proportion of lower return on equity ROE commercial c. 8 new stores a year plus C&I funded Store growth realestate loans.
As the risk-reward trade-off in consumer store growth 2 stores in 2019 unsecured lending improves, we will also grow in Average deposits per unsecuredlending and credit cards.
4 million store per month We will drive expansion in fee income through launching Loan to deposit ratio 85% 90% new value-added services, especially for SMEs.
The initiatives Cost of risk 15bps 30bps through the cycle we expect to launch include developing our digital offering, particularly in relation to online business accounts.
We will Cost:income ratio 55%-60% by 2023 partner with companies that can work with our customers to 12% minimum CET1 ratio make running their business more convenient across a range Capital and leverage ratio 4% of issues from tax to payroll.
Return on equity Low double digit ROE by 2023 Part of ensuring the model is in the right shape for the broader environment will mean reducing our cost base.
Summary Werecognise that the pace of improving operating leverage 2018 has seen us pass another set of incredible milestones.
has been too slow and requires back-office transformation We have expanded our reach further than ever before, to scale appropriately with our growth.
We have therefore enabling more people to save for their future, buy their own identified a programme of initiatives that will enable us to home or support the growth of their business with us.
achieve a 55-60% cost:income ratio in the medium term.
These cost actions will enable us to scale more efficiently We have been rewarded in these endeavours by a 140% with our pace of growth, with digitisation and automation increase in underlying profitability to 50.0 million.
Our improving efficiency across our operations.
statutory profitability increased by 117% to 40.6 million.
Finally, our application with the Prudential Regulation 2019 will see us continue to focus relentlessly on creating Authority PRA regarding Advanced Internal Ratings-Based FANS.
We will also continue to invest in all areas of our AIRB migration for residential mortgages is ongoing but business whilst balancing growth, profit and cost efficiency.
accreditation is not expected before 2021.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 15
