Strategic Report Review of operations Group performance Group revenue and operating profit Group revenue was 1,033.9 million 2017: 1,001.4 million, an increase of 3.2% on a reported basis compared with 2017, driven by improvements in the underlying business, more than offsetting the impacts of prior year disposals and foreign exchange headwinds.
On an organic constant-currency basis revenue increased by 7.4%.
Group headline operating profit was 124.8 million 2017: 120.7 million.
Headline operating profit margin was 12.1%, compared to 12.1% for 2017.
Operating profit was 107.3 million 2017: 159.1 million and profit before tax was 94.9 million 2017: 136.8 million.
Both of these included specific adjusting items charge of 9.5 million 2017: credit 45.7 million, explained in note 6 to the financial statements on pages 100 and 101.
The year ended 31 December 2018 has been prepared reflecting the adoption of IFRS 15.
The year ended 31 December 2017 has been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS 15.
Further details are provided in notes 1 and 27 to the financial statements.
Definitions of these non-GAAP measures, and their reconciliation to the relevant GAAP measure, are provided on pages 31 to 33.
Read more about our Thermal Products Division on pages 24 and 25 and Carbon and Technical Ceramics Division on pages 26 and 27 22 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2018 2017 Specific adjusting items m m In the consolidated income statement, the Specific adjusting items Group presents specific adjusting items Net pension past service credit 5.7 separately.
In the judgement of the Directors, as a result of the nature and value of these items Business closure and exit costs 15.2 they should be disclosed separately from the Net profit on disposal of businesses 45.7 underlying results of the Group to allow the reader to obtain a proper understanding Total specific adjusting items before income tax 9.5 45.7 of the financial information and the best indication of underlying performance of Income tax charge credit from specific adjusting items 1.7 0.9 the Group.
Income tax credit from US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 4.1 Details of specific adjusting items arising during the Total specific adjusting items after income tax 11.2 50.7 year and the comparative period are given in note 6 to the financial statements.
Specific adjusting Business closure and exit costs items in relation to discontinued operations are Brazil, Thermal Ceramics disclosed in note 9 to the financial statements.
In 2018 the Group announced its decision Specific adjusting items after income tax were to close the Thermal Ceramics site in Rio a charge of 11.2 million, 2017: credit of fide Janeiro.
A 6.2 million charge has been 50.7 million, and comprised the following: recognised.
This comprises cash exit costs of 2.6 million relating to site clean-up costs, 2018: Net pension past service credit, UK professional and legal fees and staff redundancies Early and late retirement adjustment and impairment costs of 3.6 million relating During 2018, the Group reviewed with the to the impairment of property, plant and Trustees of Morgan Pension Scheme the factors equipment and other assets.
applied on early and late retirement, and clarified the practice regarding the calculation of In the year ended December 2018 the business pension payments with members who elected generated a headline operating loss of to retire other than at the normal date of 2.6 million on revenues of 3.0 million, retirement.
This was effected via a Deed 2017: headline operating loss of 2.0 million of Amendment.
This change resulted in a net on revenues of 6.5 million.
gain of 7.6 million in the income statement.
China, Technical Ceramics Adjustment for Guaranteed Minimum The Group has decided to close its ceramic Pensions GMPs cores operations in China, a part of the On 26 October 2018, the High Court ruled that Technical Ceramics global business unit.
the Trustee of the Lloyds Banking Group A 1.4 million impairment charge has been pension schemes needed to remove the recognised relating to the impairment of plant inequalities in pension scheme benefits that arise and equipment and other assets.
We have included a charge In the year ended December 2018 the business of 1.9 million to reflect the potential cost of generated a headline operating loss of removing the GMP inequalities for the Groups 0.9 million on revenues of 0.5 million, UK defined benefit pension schemes.
2017: headline operating loss of 0.9 million The net impact of these pension adjustments is on revenues of 0.6 million.
a credit to the income statement of 5.7 million.
Venezuela, Thermal Ceramics The Group has decided to exit its Thermal Ceramics operations in Venezuela.
A 7.6 million charge has been recognised, of which 7.3 million relates to the recycling of deferred foreign exchange translation losses in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, and 0.3 million relates to the impairment of assets.
In the years ended December 2017 and 2018 the business had negligible revenue and headline operating profit 0.0 million.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 23 Strategic Report Review of operations continued Divisional and global business unit performance With our extensive applications experience and Thermal Products Highlights process knowledge Molten Metal Systems helps 1 The Thermal Products Division 2018 Revenue m customers put together the optimal system for reported revenue was 482.2 million their needs.
The global business unit works with 2018 482.2 2017: 474.4 million, an increase of customers in non-ferrous castings, metal 2017 474.4 1.6% compared to 2017. powder production, refining and recycling of On an organic constant-currency basis, precious metals and the production of pure revenue increased by 5.5% compared aluminium for electronics applications.
Our product range includes crucibles, foundry Divisional EBITA margin was 12.3% 2018 59.5 products and furnace industries furnace ranges.
2017 63.9 Footprint Business description As at 31 December 2018 Thermal Products The Thermal Products Division comprises the comprised 28 operating sites employing Thermal Products % of revenue Thermal Ceramics and Molten Metal Systems approximately 3,240 people, with manufacturing global business units.
It also has a comprehensive 5% Thermal Ceramics manufactures advanced network of sales offices allowing immediate ceramic materials, products and systems for access to and facilitating direct working with thermal insulation in high-temperature end-users.
Some sales, particularly for the 15% 64% environments.
insulating fibre and crucible product ranges, are made through a well-established We engineer systems for the safety of people distributor network.
and equipment in demanding applications.
Our products help customers, especially Performance and business review those operating energy intensive processes, Revenue for Thermal Products for the year was 16% to reduce energy consumption, emissions and 482.2 million, representing an increase of 1.6% operating costs.
On an organic constant-currency basis, year-on-year Our products are used in high temperature revenue increased by 5.5%.
Divisional EBITA Industrial industrial processing of metals, petrochemicals, for Thermal Products was 59.5 million 2017: cement, ceramics and glass, and by manufacturers Transportation 63.9 million with a Divisional EBITA margin of equipment for aerospace, automotive, marine Petrochemical and chemical of 12.3% 2017: 13.5%.
Our core strength is our ability to address individual customer Energy The statutory operating profit for the Thermal problems, using our materials and our Products Division was 43.2 million in 2018, 1.
The year ended 31 December 2018 has been applications expertise to design, manufacture 2017: 61.9 million, and included 13.8 million prepared reflecting the adoption of IFRS 15. and install optimum thermal solutions.
of charges related to the exit of the Brazilian and The year ended 31 December 2017 has been Venezuelan businesses, see note 6 to the restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS 15.
Further Our product range includes high-temperature details are provided in notes 1 and 27 to the financial statements for additional information.
insulating fibre products, microporous products, financial statements.
firebricks, monolithic products, heat shields, Revenue for Thermal Ceramics for the year was fired refractory shapes and structural block 433.6 million, representing an increase of 1.5% insulation products.
On an organic constant-currency basis, year-on-year Molten Metal Systems manufactures an revenue increased by 5.3%.
Strong growth in extensive range of high-performance crucibles Asia was led by China and India.
North America and foundry consumables for non-ferrous metal experienced lower demand while Europe was melting applications.
We provide melting slightly ahead of prior year.
Growth was solutions for foundries, die-casters and melting primarily in insulation projects for the facilities working with zinc, precious metals, petrochemical industry, and in the metals aluminium, copper, brass, bronze and other and industrial market segments.
24 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Thermal Ceramics 2018 EBITA was We recognise the key advantages we have in the 52.9 million 2017: 56.9 million with EBITA markets we serve and will build on these our margin of 12.2% 2017: 13.3%.
The margin global manufacturing footprint, broad product decline was driven by two factors.
First a range, application experience, and technological mix impact, with increased lower margin advancements.
We will further leverage our petrochemical project business in Asia offset by global footprint for optimisation, while continuing lower volume in North America.
Secondly, the to drive operational excellence through lean profitability of the South American business manufacturing, process efficiency, and declined in 2018 reflecting the challenges in that automation.
We continue to invest in product market.
The Thermal Ceramics manufacturing site and process technology to optimise our in Brazil was closed in the second half of 2018. products and processes to serve the challenging performance needs of our customers.
We need Revenue for Molten Metals Systems for the year to continue to invest in this differentiation as we was 48.6 million, representing an increase of Superwool XTRA see increasing competition which is putting 3.2% compared with 47.1 million in 2017.
On pressure on the margins for our standard Our new low biopersistence fibre, an organic constant-currency basis, year-onproducts.
Superwool XTRA, has low thermal year revenue increased by 7.3%.
Growth was conductivity and thermal mass, low driven primarily by the Asia and North America Outlook density and ease of installation, critical regions.
The core crucibles business grew The market outlook is mixed for 2019, the for insulating iron and steel kilns.
Its year-on-year, primarily driven by strong Thermal Products Division will continue to high temperature tolerance, improved performance in India.
Industrial equipment sales focus on product and end market growth pollutant resistance and a chemical increased as well as consumable sales into the opportunities, sales effectiveness and new formulation meets stringent health and strengthening precious metal fire assay markets.
safety requirements, reshaping the oil Molten Metal Systems 2018 EBITA was and gas industry.
During 2018 we continued our investment in technology, product development and sales capability, which depressed the margins compared to the prior year.
Strategy The priorities for the Division remain in line with the execution priorities of the Group.
During the course of 2018, the Division undertook work to develop a market-driven business strategy to deliver sustainable and profitable growth.
As a result of this work, we have put increased emphasis on growth markets where we bring clear technological differentiation.
We have invested in changes in Molten Metal Systems our customer-facing organisation to improve our understanding of customer needs and Our Salamander ladle liners are market drivers and to develop sales designed for use with the steel ladle effectiveness as a distinctive capability.
shells used in metal foundries.
Made from super clay graphite or Excel silicon-bonded silicon carbide and available in a wide range of sizes, these high endurance liners are easy to fit and offer long life with no need for patching.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 25 Strategic Report Review of operations continued Divisional and global business unit performance Technical Ceramics engineers high performance Carbon and Technical Ceramics Highlights functional and structural ceramic materials, The Carbon and Technical Ceramics Revenue m components and sub-assemblies to address Division 2018 reported revenue was customer-specific technical challenges.
The 2018 551.7 551.7 million 2017: 527.0 million, business employs advanced materials science 2017 527.0 an increase of 4.7% compared to 2017. and applications expertise to produce parts that On an organic constant-currency basis enhance reliability or improve the performance revenue increased by 9.2% compared of its customers products.
Much of what the Divisional EBITA to 2017, with increases across each of global business unit makes is used in demanding, the businesses.
The global 2018 71.2 business unit works in selected segments of the Divisional EBITA margin was 12.9% 2017 62.5 electronics, energy, healthcare, industrial, 2017: 11.9%.
petrochemicals, security and transport markets, Business description typically in close collaborative customer The Carbon and Technical Ceramics Division Carbon and Technical Ceramics relationships.
comprises the Electrical Carbon, Seals and % of revenue Bearings and Technical Ceramics global Our product range includes semiconductor business units.
products, engineered coatings, ceramic to metal 4% assemblies including brazed and metallised 7% Electrical Carbon develops and manufactures assemblies, zirconia products, ceramic injection a wide range of electrical carbon brushes and moulded products, ceramic cores, braze alloys 9% 34% collectors, brush holders, slip rings and linear and the Haldenwager range of ceramic tubes transfer systems, which are used to transfer and rollers.
electrical current between stationary and rotating or linear moving parts in motor, Footprint 9% generator, and current collector applications.
As at 31 December 2018 the Carbon and Our products are engineered for specific Technical Ceramics Division comprised 50 customer applications and they are often 26% operating sites employing approximately 5,420 11% required to operate in harsh or extreme people, with manufacturing sites across the environments.
Electrical Carbons main markets world.
As a result of the customer-specific Industrial are rail, industrial drives, power generation, iron nature of most of the products sold and the and steel, mining and wind.
The businesss core importance of staying very close to the market, Transportation strength is its longstanding materials and most sales are made directly by the Divisions Semiconductor and electronics applications experience and its ability to engineer sales force and application engineers, with appropriate, reliable solutions for individual limited use being made of distributors.
The Security and defence customer requirements.
global spread of operating sites supplemented Healthcare by a comprehensive network of sales offices Seals and Bearings makes high-performance Energy allows immediate access to, and facilitates direct self-lubricating bearing and seal components, working with customers and the products Petrochemical and chemical used predominantly in pumps, industrial and end-users.
domestic, or other sealing applications.
The year ended 31 December 2018 has been use advanced carbon graphite, silicon carbide, Performance and business review prepared reflecting the adoption of IFRS 15. alumina and zirconia materials to engineer The year ended 31 December 2017 has been Revenue for the Carbon and Technical lightweight, low-friction bearings and seals.
restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS 15.
Further Ceramics Division for the year was These materials help solve the problems details are provided in notes 1 and 27 to the 551.7 million, representing an increase financial statements.
associated with use of lubricants in extreme of 4.7% compared with 527.0 million in 2017. temperatures, corrosive or hygienic On an organic constant-currency basis, environments and where access is restricted, year-on-year revenue increased 9.2%.
and are engineered into products which provide customer-specific solutions.
Divisional EBITA for the Carbon and Technical Ceramics Division was 71.2 million 2017: The businesss components often help to extend 62.5 million with Divisional EBITA margin the operating life of customers equipment and of 12.9% 2017: 11.9%.
The main markets served are specialist applications in the Revenue for the Electrical Carbon global oil and gas, automotive, industrial, water pump, business unit in 2018 was 166.8 million, aerospace and home appliance sectors.
representing an increase of 6.3% compared with 156.9 million in 2017.
On an organic Our product range includes seals, bearings and constant-currency basis, year-on-year general pump components shafts, vanes, rotors revenue increased by 12.6%.
26 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The strong year-on-year growth was Revenue for the Technical Ceramics global driven primarily by the rail, industrial and business unit in 2018 was 252.2 million, a semiconductor market segments.
The decrease of 1.8 % compared with 256.8 rail segment benefited from good market million in 2017.
On an organic constantconditions, primarily from sales of our carbon currency basis, year-on-year revenue increased collector strip products for electrified rail by 2.8% primarily driven by increased demand applications.
for ceramic cores in the aerospace market and supply of ceramic parts into the semiconductor On a regional basis, growth in Asia was and medical markets.
This demand growth was driven by sales of specialty graphite products Technical Ceramics partially offset by sharp slow-down in the accompanied by good growth in the industrial industrial gas turbine IGT market We offer unique brazing and and rail sectors.
Double digit growth was also active-brazing capabilities for the seen in North America across all sectors, Technical Ceramics EBITA was 28.1 million production of medical assemblies.
supported by the strong economy.
Europe 2017: 28.3 million with an EBITA margin of Our products can be manufactured saw good growth in the wind power and rail 11.1% 2017: 11.0%.
Margins expanded slightly using the Ultinex brazing process, segments offsetting a slight decline in the with the benefit of higher volume offsetting the which delivers real world benefits such industrial market.
significant reduction in IGT volume, and the as better thermal transport within dilutive impact of the 2017 divestment of the surgical tools, allowing surgeons to Electrical Carbon EBITA was 19.4 million Electro-ceramics business work longer and faster.
Strong revenue growth, Strategy supported by operational efficiency actions, The priorities of the Carbon and Technical more than offset the dilutive impacts of the 2017 Ceramics Division, and of the three global divestment of the Rotary Transfer Systems business units of which it comprises, remain business.
These actions enabled Electrical in-line with the execution priorities of the Carbon to re-invest in sales effectiveness, Group.
The Division remains focused on research and development and wider business delivering operational efficiencies to support infrastructure.
reinvestment in product development and sales effectiveness, in support of growth in our Revenue for the Seals and Bearings global selected markets and drive margin expansion.
business unit in 2018 was 132.7 million, representing an increase of 17.1% compared The focus on operating costs is reflected in the Seals and bearings with 113.3 million in 2017.
On an organic Divisions results, most notably in the improved constant-currency basis year-on-year revenue Capable of unprecedented EBITA margins.
Plant-specific initiatives include a increased by 18.9%.
The business saw strong performance in extreme conditions, focus on reducing scrap and improving yields, growth in most key markets, offsetting our carbon and silicon carbide which when combined with the benefits of continued weakness in the Korean automotive components optimise the performance global footprint management, and the increased market.
In a continuation of the contracts of chemical processing and refinery use of low-cost manufacturing operations, awarded in 2017, sales of ceramic armour set-ups worldwide.
With exploration underpin the reductions in the operational cost increased significantly, from 6.6 million in 2017 companies drilling into evermore base of the business.
A significant part of the to 24.0 million in 2018.
Excluding armour, challenging environments, our Divisions capital expenditure is on investments organic revenue growth on the core business components offer the outstanding which will improve the operational efficiency of was 3.3%.
The business saw organic revenue dimensional stability and high thermal the Division.
growth in the water, petrochemical, medical and conductivity needed.
Carbon and Technical Ceramics has two global aerospace markets.
Centres of Excellence Carbon Science and Seals and Bearings EBITA was 23.7 million Metals and Joining.
Their focus will be on 2017: 17.5 million with an EBITA margin ensuring a strong pipeline of innovation for the of 17.9% 2017: 15.4%.
businesses within the Carbon and Technical Ceramics Division.
The increase in volume and a strong continuous improvement projects pipeline yielded Outlook incremental savings which offset cost inflation The Divisions focus in 2019 will be on embedding and investments in the production base.
sales effectiveness across the global business units Additionally the business continued to invest and delivery of product development innovations in sales effectiveness training, research and through the Centres of Excellence.
The Division development and the functional capabilities will also continue its efforts to deliver operational Electrical Carbon in support of its growth strategy.
With our extensive range of high performance, low wear electrical rail components and industry-leading applications expertise we help our customers to optimise the performance of their rail systems from trams and metros to high speed and freight trains.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 27
