Strategic report OPERATING REVIEW EMEA Services The base line profit rate which applies to pricing discussions is a three-year rolling average.
Whilst the input rate for FY19 Financial performance increased from 6.44% to 7.94%, the overall three year rolling average, which forms the basis for pricing discussions in the 2018 2017 year, decreased from 7.46% to 6.81% for FY19.
m m 1,3 Total orders 456.1 1,522.3 The impact of changes to single source pricing regulations to 1 Orders excluding LTPA amendments 355.9 520.9 QinetiQ are expected to intensify this year with the anticipated Revenue 651.4 613.5 repricing on the remainder of the LTPA, which was not part of Underlying operating profit 94.3 92.7 the December 2016 amendment, representing a headwind of Underlying operating margin 14.5% 15.1% 6m to operating profit in the EMEA Services division for 2 FY19.
Based on changes to the profit rate for single source Book to bill ratio 0.8x 1.3x contracts and our contract mix, we expect a reduction in the Funded order backlog 709.6 813.6 headwind to our EMEA Services divisions profitability in FY20 3 Total funded order backlog 1,804.9 2,019.8 and onwards.
1 Includes share of orders from joint ventures 2 B 2B ratio is orders won divided by revenue recognised, excluding the LTPA contract FY18 review and share of JV orders 3 F Y18 includes value associated with work to be performed under the interim LTPA Overview arrangement for 12 months beginning 1 April 2018 EMEA Europe, Middle East and Australasia Services combines world-leading expertise with unique facilities to provide Orders for the year were 355.9m 2017: 520.9m due in part capability integration and assurance.
Our core value proposition to the award in the prior period of the 109m Naval Combat is built upon our expertise in capability integration, threat System Integration Support Services NCSISS contract and representation and operational readiness underpinned by 55m of Strategic Enterprise contracts.
Excluding the impact long-term contracts that provide good visibility of revenues of these multi-year contracts, acquisition contribution and and cash flows.
The division is also a market leader in research foreign exchange, we saw slower H1 2018 orders offset in part and advice in specialist areas such as C4ISR, weapons and by stronger order performance in H2 2018 resulting in an overall energetics, cyber security and procurement advisory services.
modest decrease of 12.7m for the year.
Air & Space 29% of EMEA Services revenue Revenue increased by 6% to 651.4m 2017: 613.5m and The Air & Space business fide-risks complex aerospace increased by 4% on an organic constant currency basis, programmes by testing systems and equipment, evaluating principally driven by the International and Maritime, Land the risks and assuring safety.
In March we announced the appointment of Dr Nic At the beginning of the new financial year, 75% of EMEA Anderson as Managing Director of Air & Space.
Nic joined Services FY19 revenue was under contract, compared with from Babcock where he was MD of Land Defence.
79% at the beginning of the prior year.
The change is a We are building upon the investment made as part of the reflection of lower value, shorter dated orders during FY18, and December 2016 amendment to the LTPA in test aircrew an increasing international mix within the business, which is training.
We have begun marketing the new enhanced offer, typically shorter dated.
which utilises our new aircraft and syllabus, and in November 2017 signed the first multi-year contract with the Underlying operating profit increased to 94.3m 2017: 92.7m.
Royal Netherlands Air Force for 6m.
We have subsequently FY18 underlying operating profit was assisted by 7.7m signed a contract with Armasuiss, which is responsible for 2017: 5.2m non-recurring trading items including: 5.3m defence procurement in Switzerland, and we are in close credit relating to the release of engine servicing obligations: dialogue with a number of other potential customers.
4.7m credit related to settlement of a contractual dispute: The business completed the implementation of Strategic 2.7m charge relating to property liabilities: and a number of Enterprise, securing customer endorsement and achieving other contract-related releases.
Excluding these non-recurring Full Operating Capability, a major milestone under the trading items, the effect of foreign exchange and acquisitions, contract.
Strategic Enterprise has been a significant underlying operating profit fell by 3.4m due to the lower achievement for QinetiQ, with over 250m of orders placed baseline profit rate for single source contracts, in line with under the framework since its inception.
In addition, we have our expectations.
received positive customer response for the framework, increasing customer satisfaction from 80% to 85%.
Approximately 75% of EMEA Services revenue is derived from Looking at ways to bring innovation to our service delivery, single source contracts.
By investing in our core contracts and we have piloted a number of approaches with the Air extending their duration we are reducing our exposure to future Warfare Centre to deliver faster and more cost-efficient changes in the base line profit rate set annually, and the test and evaluation to accelerate the ability to bring new methodology used by the Single Source Regulations Office, or modified equipment into frontline service.
as well as securing longer-term revenue visibility.
The business continues to deploy significant resources to develop the gridded ion engine electric propulsion system to be used on ESAs BepiColombo mission to Mercury.
This ambitious, multi-spacecraft mission remains scheduled to launch in October 2018 and the module has D efinitions of the Groups alternative performance measures can be found in the glossary on page 139. now been shipped to the launch site in French Guiana.
28 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Supporting our customers enduring need for capability assurance QinetiQ has skills and facilities that are vital to both maintaining and enhancing the UKs defence capability.
We occupy a unique position in UK defence as many of these only exist within QinetiQ.
QinetiQ operates across the lifecycle of platforms, from initial early stage research, to development and testing to upgrades and enhancements.
Throughout the lifecycle, we ensure that systems and platforms deliver what they are intended to do.
An example of this is the work we do in integrating and testing complex combat and communications equipment and software systems for all Royal Navy warships, guaranteeing their safety and effectiveness.
As ships are brought into service, upgraded or maintained over their service life, QinetiQ ensures new or adapted systems integrate and work effectively in their own right and with pre-existing systems.
Conducted under the 10-year NCSISS contract, and operating in the Portsmouth area, we have established a centre of excellence for maritime mission systems integration.
During FY18 we were pleased to add the new Type 26 frigate to the contract.
QinetiQ will play an intrinsic role supporting the Type 26 both into active service and throughout its service life.
Technical qualification of the electric propulsion system significant contract for weapon test and evaluation and needs to be satisfactorily completed and accepted by the completed the refurbishment of an Environmental Test customer before approval can be given to launch.
Centre, a key facility at MOD Shoeburyness.
By actively embracing our customer challenges, and Following successful delivery of the DragonFire design review, proposing innovative service delivery and business models, the MOD has agreed to place the second year of funding with we have been invited by the UK MOD to negotiate the the DragonFire consortium, formed of QinetiQ, MBDA and Engineering Delivery Partner EDP programme on a sole Leonardo.
We provide world leading high energy laser source source basis.
This is a significant arrangement through expertise into the critical programme for the UK.
which the MOD will procure its engineering services, which we will deliver with Atkins and BMT.
Cyber, Information & Training CIT 15% of EMEA Services revenue Maritime, Land & Weapons 45% of EMEA Services revenue The CIT business helps government and commercial customers The Maritime, Land & Weapons business delivers operational respond to fast-evolving threats based on its expertise in training, advantage to customers by providing independent research, secure communication networks and devices, intelligence evaluation and training services.
gathering and surveillance sensors, and cyber security.
In May 2017, Steve Fitz-Gerald was appointed as Managing CITs orders were lower in FY18 than the prior year, Director of Maritime, Land & Weapons.
Steve joined from principally due to fewer research related orders from the Marshall Aerospace and Defence Group where he was Chief UK MOD during the period.
Following the appointment of James Willis as Managing The investment in our air ranges we are making as part of the Director of CIT in July 2017, the business is focused on December 2016 amendment will allow us to deliver more bidding and winning more transformational deals with new complex trials and rehearsals to our UK and international customers, services and products.
The strategy is focused customers.
Large scale exercises, such as Formidable Shield, on becoming the Mission Assurance Partner to key are a reflection of the increasing demand from customers to strategic clients within the defence and security market.
rehearse against increasing threat complexity.
This will enable CIT to build its services and products Using our facilities at MOD Aberporth, we worked in portfolio to change the revenue profile from short-term partnership with the MOD and MBDA, the manufacturer of contracts to more multi-year service and product revenue the Brimstone 2 missile system, to provide the capability streams.
Major deals being bid for include work for client assurance required to ensure that the missile can be side support for Battlefield and Tactical Communications integrated safely onto Typhoon.
This expands the aircrafts & Information Systems BATCIS with an estimated capabilities enabling the timely retirement of Tornado, which contract value of between 50m to 95m, the new Defence will ensure cost efficiencies for the MOD.
Operational Training DOT synthetic training environment, We showcased the short-range engagement capabilities and continuation of the Rockwell Collins partnership for of the Sea Ceptor air defence system against Mirach aerial the next generation of position, navigation and timing targets, which emulate the threat from missiles, from within PNT receivers.
Sea Ceptor is in development for QinetiQ is bidding for Serapis, the replacement for the the UK MOD as the principal air defence capability for the MODs current communications and information systems Royal Navys Type 23 and 26 frigates.
R&D framework run by QinetiQ CSIIS.
We are delivering an increasing amount of work for During the period the business was awarded a 4m international customers.
In January 2018, we won an order consultancy contract to the UK Space Agency utilising our from a key international customer to perform submarine experience in satellite communications.
research, modelling and testing at our Haslar site which The business has developed a cyber test and evaluation provides world-class ocean and ship testing facilities.
service to enable organisations to test and rehearse cyber As part of an ongoing programme of work we provided test defence scenarios to better understand vulnerabilities and and evaluation services on the escape systems of the new responses to them.
class of submarines being built for the Italian Navy.
QinetiQ is responding to customer needs and building a new Our credentials in delivering real innovation to our capability hub in Lincoln to address new requirements for the customers were recognised by our appointment to lead Electronic Warfare community based around RAF Waddington.
a new framework programme for naval research and development for the UK MOD.
This is an innovative four-year framework programme providing the UK MOD with access to key industry, academia and SME expertise.
Working with MBDA, the missile systems specialist, and the MOD, the business is developing a joint UK energetics strategy.
As part of this strategy, we have secured a Strategic report | Operating review QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 Strategic report OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED EMEA Services continued Global Products International 11% of EMEA Services revenue Financial performance Our International business leverages our expertise and skills 2018 2017 developed in the UK and applies them to opportunities in m m attractive markets globally.
Revenues derived from outside of Orders 231.3 154.4 the UK are reported in many of our businesses, and are not Revenue 181.6 169.6 exclusive to our International business.
Underlying operating profit 28.2 23.6 Underlying operating margin 15.5% 13.9% FY18 marked a significant year for our business in Australia.
Overall record orders were complemented with strategically Book to bill ratio 1.3x 0.9x significant contract wins and an increase in revenue of Funded backlog 200.5 158.9 approximately one third.
Earlier in the year we announced the award of our second test and evaluation facilities Orders increased to 231.3m 2017: 154.4m including a total operations contract in Australia to run the Mine Warfare of more than US$50m orders for maritime systems in the US Maintenance Facilities at HMAS Waterhen in Sydney.
and a 25m spacecraft docking mechanism order from the Building on our January 2017 acquisition of RubiKon, an European Space Agency.
Australian specialist in integrated logistics services, we achieved an A$16m increase in our contract under AIR7000 The Global Products division had 51% of its FY19 revenue to provide support relating to the procurement of maritime already under contract at the beginning of the new financial patrol aircraft in Australia.
year compared with 55% at the same time last year, reflecting QinetiQ, as part of a consortium led by Nova Systems, has the shorter contract cycle of the division and an overall increase been down-selected by the Australian Department of in expected revenues.
Defence as one of four Major Services Providers MSPs enabling it to bid for larger strategic, capability and Revenue was up 7% on a reported basis at 181.6m integrated work partner contracts.
2017: 169.6m driven by the impact of the acquisition of Our Advisory Services business increased its international QinetiQ Target Systems.
On an organic constant currency consulting contract wins and entered a number of new basis revenue declined by 4% due to lower robot sales.
Middle Eastern and European countries.
As a result the business doubled the size of its order intake in 2018.
Underlying operating profit increased to 28.2m In Sweden, we secured three new international customers 2017: 23.6m.
Adjusting for the impact of the acquisition of at our Flight Physiological Centre that we operate on behalf QinetiQ Target Systems, foreign exchange movements and of the Swedish FMV.
The centre also conducted its first 1.0m 2017: 2.2m of non-recurring trading items, underlying space mission training.
operating profit increased by 2.7m, predominantly driven by Post the year end, we announced the acquisition of E. I. S. improved profitability in OptaSense and high margins in the Aircraft Operations, a leading provider of airborne training QTS business in the last quarter.
The acquisition will, subject to completion, enhance QinetiQs international growth strategy, FY18 review establishing a test and evaluation and engineering capability Overview in Germany and enhancing our access to the broader Global Products delivers innovative solutions to meet customer European market.
requirements and undertakes contract-funded research and development, developing intellectual property in partnership with key customers and through internal funding with potential for new revenue streams.
The division is technology-based and has shorter order cycles than EMEA Services so can have a more lumpy revenue profile.
D efinitions of the Groups alternative performance measures can be found in the glossary on page 139.
30 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Space Products 11% of Global Products revenue Delivering innovation to our customers QinetiQs Space Products business provides satellites, payload QinetiQ North America QNA has a strong track record of delivering leading edge innovation to customers.
instruments, sub-systems and ground station services.
The business was selected by General Atomics as the provider of the During the year we were awarded a 25m contract from Electromagnetic Aircraft Launch System EMALS and the Advanced Arresting the European Space Agency for our innovative International Gear AAG for the USS Gerald R. Ford CVN 78, the future John F. Kennedy Berthing and Docking Mechanism.
We are engaged in CVN 79 and the future Enterprise CVN 80 aircraft carriers.
discussions with other potential users of the system both EMALS is designed to replace the steam catapult system currently used on US in the commercial and governmental sectors for the supply Navy aircraft carriers.
EMALS provides significant benefits over current launch of docking modules, potentially creating a new revenue systems, including reduced maintenance and installed volume.
The business secured a 3m contract with the European The electric motor-based AAG system provides for aircraft deceleration during Space Agency for the preliminary design activities on the aircraft carrier recovery operations.
AAG allows for arrestment of a broad range of aircraft, reducing manning and maintenance, and higher reliability Altius earth observation satellite.
This satellite will study and safety margins.
AAGs design uses simple, proven energy-absorbing the distribution of ozone in the earths stratosphere.
water turbines coupled to a large induction motor for fine control of the The business also secured a number of new contracts, the arresting forces.
most significant of which was COLIS, a 6m project to build a Colloid Light Scattering instrument for investigating the effect of density and temperature on colloidal structures.
QinetiQ North America 40% of Global Products revenue QinetiQ North America QNA develops and produces innovative EMEA Products 35% of Global Products revenue defence products specialising in unmanned systems, EMEA Products provides research services and bespoke survivability and maritime systems along with products in technological solutions developed from intellectual property related commercial markets.
spun out from EMEA Services.
It also includes various product based acquired businesses including QinetiQ Target Systems.
In a highly competitive field, we were unsuccessful on US Department of Defences DoD Man-Transportable Robotic The performance of QinetiQ Targets Systems, which System MTRS Inc II programs of record.
Despite this, we acquired in December 2016, continues to exceed our we are well placed for the remaining programs and were expectations.
During the year it won work from two new pleased to be selected as one of two suppliers for the customers, the Republic of Korea Air Force and the Engineering and Manufacturing Development EMD phase Japanese Self Defence Force.
It was also awarded a of the Common Robotic System Individual program of five-year framework contract for the Dutch Navy for the record.
The EMD phase will last approximately 10 months, majority of its portfolio of aerial, rotary and maritime targets during which time the DoD will test and evaluate robots in addition to a long-term framework with the US Targets from the two suppliers.
The total budget for the program is Management Office.
QTS reached production milestones approximately $400m in the form of an indefinite-delivery with its Hammerhead and Banshee targets making them indefinite-quantity contract over seven years.
the most proliferated surface maritime and aerial target We secured over US$20m of orders during the period for anywhere in the world.
Talon robots and more than US$20m of orders for our QinetiQ is supporting the Canadian government with trials of Q-Nets and Armor products.
Obsidian uses state We won a total of more than US$50m orders for maritime of the art radar technology and optics linked to a powerful systems in the US, including for aircraft launch and recovery management and tracking software tool to provide an equipment for the new class of aircraft carriers.
Our ability industry leading solution to detect and track drones.
to innovate was shown by the successful demonstration Exploiting our research into metamaterials, we are of our Dolphin system, allowing underwater full duplex collaborating with Isotropics Ltd in the development of acoustic communications.
electromagnetic lenses for use in electronically steered flat panel satellite antennas.
This technology enables High OptaSense 14% of Global Products revenue Throughput Satellite communications in the growing areas OptaSense provides innovative fibre sensing solutions to deliver of communications on the move and consumer broadband.
decision-ready data in multiple vertical markets.
QinetiQ is launching its new secure Iridium-based satcom phone for military, emergency services and users working in The performance of OptaSense improved as we saw challenging environments such as oil & gas or mining.
It will the impact of returning confidence in the oil field market use a ruggedised design with encrypted data links to ensure and its diversification into adjacent markets started to global secure coverage for users.
The move to a more customer aligned organisation since the beginning of the year has delivered higher quality orders with less reliance on R&D investments.
Our industry leading and proven technology has continued to be a differentiator with major in-well acquisitions taking place in three continents as the focus on production and efficiency accelerates.
OptaSense has made multiple significant deliveries to infrastructure customers during the year: the largest single system awarded TANAP has been delivered to Turkey: we have had significant deliveries into the Middle East region and the first significant award and first phase delivery into the US.
Oil field activity in North America continues to increase while the adoption in the Middle East and Asia markets becomes more embedded.
Strategic report | Operating review QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31
