Operating Review Health Innovative solutions to put health in your hands Our Health business unit has a unique and compelling portfolio including IFCN, health relief, health hygiene, health and wellness and VMS, spanning the whole of lifes journey.
Health Net Revenue 2017 2018 LFL growth: 2% Actual growth: 18% 7,762m 6,562m Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 24 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key Health brands Geographic profile Developing markets Developed markets 49% 51% Category profile Infant nutrition 37% Wellness, health hygiene and VMS With Backgound 37% Over the counter OTC 26% Our priorities and aspirations More innovative solutions Drive excellence in e-commerce Grow infant nutrition to enable people globally, to and digital, capitalising on category creating value for manage their own health, our successful track record in consumers and the business driving innovation in both China, and scaling globally global and local brands Reinforce our strong Active portfolio management Continue to invest in our people, foundations in safety, quality to focus on categories and brands capabilities and resources, and our and regulatory compliance that deliver margin accretion clinical pipeline while sustaining SQRC in support of our our best-in-class operating margins consumer healthcare goals Our unique Health portfolio combines innovative self-cure and self-care solutions to help consumers live better, healthier lives.
Adi Sehgal Chief Operating Officer, Health Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 25 Operating Review: Health continued The consumer health category is shaped by powerful megatrends.
Our product range covers a variety of needs, ages, life stages and socio-economic groups, delivered by a multitude of channels, both on-line and off-line.
We are all living longer Consumers are becoming more proactive about their health asthey become more health literate and more inclined to self-medicate, with a focus on prevention rather than cure.
Demographic trends are also driving demand for the products in our Health portfolio.
Life expectancy, for example, is increasing worldwide, with the number of people aged over 60set to increase from 900million in 2015 to 1.4 billion in 2030 and 2.1 billion by 2050.
This expanded ageing population 400bn increases demand for healthcare services and products.
In developed markets, for example, ageing populations need Total amount consumer health is worth, solutions for problems associated with mobility, pain and combining over the counter 100bn and consumer nutrition.
In the developing markets of Asia and Africa, families health, wellness and nutrition 300bn.
are seeking the best nutrition, family planning and personal hygiene.
The rising incomes in many of these developing markets are providing scope for consumers to try our brands and to become loyal advocates over time.
Prosperity and connectivity Rising prosperity is also driving demand for consumer health products, especially in developing markets where a growing middle class means more people will have a discretionary income after meeting their essential needs.
Rising connectivity is shaping the consumer healthcare marketplace too.
Consumers can communicate with healthcare 35% professionals instantly and learn more about health through category growth rates.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 26 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements platforms such as Facebook, Google and WebMD.
There are RB 2.0 reorganisation large and valuable datasets that allow companies to identify, It was a transformational year in 2018 as we launched RB 2.0, track and respond to emerging consumer needs.
Technology built the RB Health organisation and integrated MJN.
We have ishelping consumers track data about their own bodies and now created the platform that is going to lead us from solid other factors relevant to their health, such as air pollution.
performance to outperformance in future.
Thefast pace of modern life is also encouraging consumers touse over-the-counter OTC health products and our Health We made excellent progress in strengthening our e-commerce portfolio is actively engaged with all these trends.
We have tripled the number of people in e-commerce in RB Health between 2017 and 2019 from just Infant and Child Nutrition IFCN over 300 to over 1,000 full-time employees.
We also made The right nutrition during the first 1,000 days a period from other major investments, such as the 100million R&D Centre conception up to two years of age has a critical impact on a in Hull in the United Kingdom that comes on stream in childs ability to learn and thrive and provides the essential mid-2019.
Weve more than tripled our clinical spend, doubled building blocks for brain development, healthy growth and a our external partnerships and weve re-engineered how we strong immune system.
Nurturing the best start in life through engage with external partners.
our trusted brands, Enfamil and Nutramigen with LGG, is at the centre of what we do.
FOCUS ON FUNDING THE FIGHT AGAINST AIDS RED Durex Have Sex, Save Lives Durex joined forces with RED to fight AIDS in South Africa, where it is estimated that around 7.2million people are currently living with HIV or AIDS.
Together with the Global Fund, it pledged to raise awareness and money that will empower young women and girls to live a happy, healthylife.
RED Durex created the special edition DUREX condom making it the first global RED product that directly helps to protect against HIV and other STIs, making this partnership particularly powerful.
Funds raised from the sales of this special-edition condom will go towards helping fight HIV and AIDS, so for the first time, as the campaign suggests, people can #HaveSexSaveLives.
RB and Durex have committed $5million to support RED s mission over three years, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation will match this taking the commitment to $10 million minimum to fight AIDS.
RED 100% of the money donated through the DUREX partnership will go toa programme in South Africa.
The Keeping Girls in School programme aims to reduce new HIV infections and pregnancies among young women, improve access to sexual and reproductive health services and encourage 1 billion more girls to stay in education.
RED people reached through DUREX campaign Have Sex, Save Lives.
The #HaveSexSaveLives campaign was highlighted in South Africa on World RED AIDS Day on 1 December 2018, when the DUREX bus travelled around the townships and gathered over 200,000 pledges to practice safe sex.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 27 Operating Review: Health continued Innovation for 2019 We are also emphasising our innovation pipeline and have many new products for 2019.
Neuriva is the first brand that offers a holistic ecosystem that supports brain performance.
Following our success with NeuroPro, we are now rolling out the benefits of our breakthrough MFGM Milk Fat Globular Membrane to our entire range in the United States.
We are relaunching our Dettol brand along with our portfolio of personal wash products, starting with South East Asia.
We are launching a new Dettol multi-surface wipe made from 100% biodegradable plant fibres.
For Durex, we have started a global multi-year partnership with RED.
For our Scholl brand, we have launched an orthotic insole range, a fungal nail product and acream for athletes foot.
Our Nurofen plaster innovation performed better than we expected during 2018, so we will be rolling it out across FOCUS ON PARTNERSHIP all of Europe in 2019.
Finally, we have launched several local innovations such as our Lemlift supplement.
Working in partnership for the Best Start in Life Financial performance FY 2018 total Net Revenue was 7,762million, with pro-formagrowth of 3% and LFL growth of 2%.
Formillions of children around the world, the issue of Pro-forma growth comprised 1% volume and 2% price early malnutrition has long-term consequences, the most mix, with IFCN volumes negatively impacted in H2 from the prevalent being stunting, restricting their height, weight temporary manufacturing disruption communicated in our and brain development.
At RB we recognise that we Q3 trading update.
Category growth is within our mediumhavethe ability to provide help and support to those term expectations of 3-5%.
From a channel perspective, whoneed it most, and thats why we have taken the we continue to make strong progress in e-commerce as we opportunity to launch Best Start in Life, a new 5million meet consumers changing shopping habits.
E-commerce social-impact initiative, partnering with the China now contributes 9% of total Health Net Revenue, led by Children and Teenagers Fund CCTF one of Chinas IFCN, VMS and our Sexual Wellbeing brands.
The scheme will focus Operating Profit was 2,207million, a 28.4% margin and on improving childrens well-being and preventing -130bps reported versus the prior year.
This was due to stunting and malnutrition in poor rural areas.
-160bps arithmetic impact of consolidating the MJN business into the Health business unit.
On a pro-forma basis, the Adelaide Gu, Vice President, Health Greater China, says: operating margin increased by 30bps due to MJN synergies, Were excited and proud to be working on this offset by additional business unit infrastructure costs.
We believe good nutrition in the first 1,000 days supports lifelong health.
Through nutrition IFCN intervention and education, she continues, this project We have now owned the MJN business for 18 months, will directly bring a meaningful and positive change to delivering a strong turnaround in the business with 3% 10,000 pregnant women and their 10,000-plus babies in pro-forma growth over this time compared to two years of poverty-stricken areas in China.
And it will give a chance NetRevenue decline previously.
Our actions include significant for tens ofmillions of Chinese families to ensure the best focus on innovation such as Enfamil NeuroPro, and on start for the next generation.
e-commerce and specialist channels in China and the US.
Overall, the aim of the partnership, which is initially being rolled out in the remote western regions of China, is to reduce the prevalence of stunting by 50-80% by 2022.
This will be achieved, in part, by providing vital advice and nutrition packs for pregnant mothers, monitoring All regions for IFCN grew their health, working with rural hospitals and training in 2018, delivering a strong upto 5,000 professionals in local maternal and childhealthcare centres, and encouraging exclusive turnaround after two years breastfeeding for the first six months of a babys life.
Adi Sehgal Chief Operating Officer, Health Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 28 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements We have also delivered our planned synergies at an accelerated rate versus our ongoing expectations, whilst continuing to invest in enhancing and improving supply chain capacity and capabilities.
There is more to be done in 2019.
The market in China continues to see good growth behind both volume and premiumisation, albeit at slowing trends as the recent decline in birth rates caused both stages 1 and 2 segments to be in volume decline.
Revenue in our IFCN business in China was flat in Q4 due principally to constrained capacity.
We also saw some loss in demand following on-shelf availability shortages, and we were able to achieve only modest restocking of channels following our temporary manufacturing disruption in Q3.
Our North American business had a strong year following the There have been some notable successes successful launch of Enfamil NeuroPro during the year in the in the year, especially from our branded mainstream IFCN category, and strong growth in the specialist VMS business that delivered double-digit allergy segment which is both a faster-growing segment, and growth across the US and China.
one where our key brand Nutramigen is gaining market share behind innovation in both our Enfamil and Nutramigen brands, and improved execution.
Other IFCN markets were mixed but we saw good Q4 growthin Latin America and ASEAN, where we are lapping aweak comparator.
Q4 saw a slowdown to 2% LFL behind lower-than-normal incidence of cold and flu across the US and many parts of Health relief Europe.
We continue to see materially lower incidence of Our over-the-counter OTC brands delivered strong growth coldand flu into the start of 2019. and outperformance in 2018 of 5% LFL, compared to market growth, which was at the lower end of our long-term Wellness, health hygiene and VMS expectations.
This result was delivered despite a small decline Our Other Health category grew by 1% in 2018.
We saw in Mucinex sales for the year as it experienced both the improving trends throughout the year with 4% growth in re-entry of private label variants during the year, and lowerQ4as we seek to return to growth and outperformance.
than-normal incidence of cold and flu during Q4.
There have been some notable successes in the year, especially Gaviscon, Nurofen and Strepsils all delivered mid-single digit from our branded VMS business that delivered double-digit growth behind a combination of recent innovations Nurofen growth across the US and China.
In China our VMS brands medicated plaster, Nurofen Meltlets and Nurofen for Children have been launched exclusively in e-commerce channels and soft chews, Strepsils Flurbiprofen sprays and strong base Move Free is now one of the market leaders in joint care.
products Nurofen Express liquid capsules, and Gaviscon Advance and Double Action formats.
Durex had a strong year in developing markets but was slow in Europe as we saw some pharmacy destocking across the Mucinex continued to build on its strong equity as the marketRussian pharmacy channel throughout the year.
Dettol saw leading brand in the US.
This was led by innovation, with the strong growth in India and improving but still weak macro launch of our new Fast-Max Maximum Strength All In One conditions in the Middle East.
Cold & Flu product, and targeted advertising across both digital and TV mediums.
Mucinex did, however, cede some market Scholl was a significant drag in the year, particularly in H1 as share during the year due to the re-entry of private label we faced high comparative gadget sales.
The brand was also variants in the 12-hour cough and congestion segment.
weak in H2, but to a lesser extent than H1.
Our improvement Weexpect this share loss to continue to impact the brand plan is multi-faceted, involving innovation across all of our into2019.
footcare sub-segments, and better on-pack identity and claimsto enable easier consumer navigation on shelf.
Local brands performed well, with good growth from Lemsip cold and flu UK, Luftal GI Brazil, Moov analgesics India and Tempra analgesics Mexico.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 29
