Operating Review Hygiene Home Creating a cleaner world Our Hygiene Home business unit is bringing innovative solutions into 1 billion homes around the world by eliminating dirt, germs, pests and odours that impact health and happiness.
We are also accelerating hygiene foundations across the world.
Hygiene Home Net Revenue 2017 2018 LFL growth: 4% Actual growth: -1% 4,887m 4,835m Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 30 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key Hygiene Home brands Geographic profile Developing markets 25% Developed markets 75% Category profile Other brands 20% Key brands 80% Our priorities and aspirations Identify powerful social Focus on low-penetration, Expand e-business causes and develop purposehigher-growth categories opportunities rapidly by led innovations with superior while delivering better product investing disproportionately product solutions solutions in premium category inthis fast-growing channel segments to a growing base of middle-class consumers Unlock emerging markets Increase the contribution Continue investing in capabilities by exploiting digital platforms that innovation makes to our and innovation while sustaining for consumer communications growth rates by leveraging the our best-in-class operating margins and transactions that open combination of our global leading up new opportunities for brands and local innovation hubs market penetration We are back to competitive LFL growth of 4%.
Our strong purpose-led brands that fight social causes with innovative solutions, give us great penetration potential in high-margin categories.
Rob fide Groot President, Hygiene Home Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 31 Operating Review: Hygiene Home continued We see huge opportunities in both mature and emerging markets.
Our performance in 2018 In Europe Australia and New Zealand ANZ, Hygiene Home A key feature of our performance is that we have returned to had a flat year with a weak Q4 of -2% LFL decline.
The LFL growth achieved in 2018 means conditions remain challenging with an ongoing tough that we are in the top tier of the industry.
was broad based, with all areas seeing expansion.
Developing markets went from -4% to 9% and North America improved Adjusted Operating Profit was 1,151million, with a 23.8% from flat growth in the previous year to 6% for 2018, while margin and -20bps versus the prior year.
We saw a decline Europe improved on the previous years -1% to record a flat ingross margin during the year, due to the combination of performance.
Six out of our seven key brands grew in sales headwinds in respect of input costs and a difficult pricing terms.
The growth was also balanced in terms of volume environment in developed markets in H1.
Where we compete FY 2018 total Net Revenue was 4,835million, with LFL We are operating in a world where the growing middle class is growth of 4%.
Growth comprised 3% volume and seeking better solutions.
RBs Hygiene Home product portfolio 1%price mix, with the pricing environment having been is weighted towards the premium segment, which is growing particularly challenging in H1.
Currently, market growth is in faster than the value segment.
Every time RB creates a better line with our medium-term expectations of 2-3%.
Our growth customer solution, we are driving that trend of category was broad based across all our leading brands delivering premiumisation with the higher price points associated with growth in both developed and emerging market areas.
The combination of being in the right categories and theright segments, with the right innovations, drives more North America delivered an excellent performance in both Q4 attractive margins.
We choose carefully where we can make and for the full year at 6% LFL.
Lysol had a very strong year, adifference in the life and development of our consumers, due to a combination of a seasonal benefit in Q1, the success with purpose and superior solutions for their stage of life.
of our new Daily Cleanser and Daily Cleansing Wipes, and Thisunlocks high growth categories with attractive improved distribution.
Finish, Air Wick and Vanish all delivered industrymargins.
good growth behind both innovation Finish Quantum Ultimate Clean & Shine and Air Wick Essential Mist diffuser and improved Our portfolio strategy is to take our seven leading brands that in-store execution under our new RB 2.0 infrastructure.
together deliver 80% of our Net Revenue and build on their global presence to achieve much deeper market penetration.
Our unique portfolio of brands has significant growth Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 32 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements potential, especially in emerging categories where there is From a channel perspective, e-commerce remains less currently less than 25% penetration.
This is preferable to significant to Hygiene Home, with a low single-digit operating in a well-penetrated category that is typically contribution to total Net Revenue but strong growth.
characterised by promotions and cost-cutting.
However, we continue to focus on this through  innovation.
Our Hygiene Home business is relatively underpenetrated in developing markets and represents around a quarter of the Innovation in 2019 total business unit.
Our performance has been strong with We have a strong innovation pipeline going into 2019 with 9% LFL growth in 2018. a focus on developing markets.
In China, we are launching a completely new Powerball Finish tablet for the dishwasher Developing markets growth was broad based across market.
In Brazil, our Veja Power Fusion is a multi-purpose geographies and brands.
On a geographic basis, our larger surface cleaner.
In India, our Mortein 2-in-1 Insect Killer is markets of India and Brazil delivered strong, above-market, effective for both mosquitoes and cockroaches.
In Brazil we saw good performances from our majorbrands of SBP pest, Veja surface care and Vanish, There are innovations from our larger brands due in 2019. aswell asour less penetrated brands of Finish and Harpic.
These include Vanish 0%, which offers consumers effective InIndia, Harpicdelivered a strong performance behind both stain removal without harsh ingredients such as chlorine, innovation our Swachh Bharat clean India pack and social dyesor fragrance, and Finish 0% which cuts out phosphates, awareness programmes aimed at changing behaviours towards perfumes and preservatives.
There are also innovations from open defecation.
Air Wick, Harpic and Lysol.
WORLD TOILET DAY: CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION RB and Harpic partner with Water.
org to tackle the global sanitation crisis RB and Harpic have joined forces with Water.
org to raise awareness that onein three people around the world do not have a toilet.
In addition to a donation of $1million, Harpic has launched a campaign More than a Toilet to bring to light the exceedingly high number of people in India and other developing countries living without access to basic sanitation and highlight the alarming effect this has on peoples health, safety and education.
org For billions of people, not having access to a toilet can be incredibly dangerous and comes with many risks, with nearly 1million people beingkilled by water-borne and sanitation-related diseases each year.
Women living without access to a toilet are twice as likely to experience sexual violence when defecating in the open, and along with their children, can spend hours each day finding a place to go.
Time that could be spent at school and work.
Harpics campaign aims to mobilise the public to join the movement and 80,000 raise awareness of the issue.
A hero video formed the centrepiece of the people empowered with access campaign.
It has been produced featuring footage showing what happens to safe water and sanitation.
where public access to a toilet was restricted and their response captured on camera.
The video strikes home the realities that individuals face when they are unable to access adequate toilet facilities.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 33
