STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 40 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 41 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued skills are honed through frequent mystery shopping more effectively.
Great care has been taken to SALES & MARKETING surveys and each year our very best consultants will ensure that the user interface is as intuitive and be awarded the prestigious title of Sales Consultant responsive as possible so that the specific needs of our customers are always satisfied.
of the Year in their division.
At Redrow we have a reputation for Sales Excellence Champions regularly meet to AWARD WINNING SHOW HOMES develop new customer initiatives and many beneficial Redrow show homes set a benchmark that is the building award winning homes.
ideas are also generated at the Annual Sales envy of the industry.
Redrow have an in-house Conference where approximately 450 sales staff dedicated team of professional interior designers come together to explore ways in which the customer who meticulously design and create show homes that experience can be enhanced.
Customers often comment on SALES EXCELLENCE ON-LINE TO ON-SITE the exceptional interior design and independent CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT Once our customers arrive at a Redrow development Redrows sales and marketing strategy combines commentators recognise Redrow as the leader in the CRM they can truly experience the Redrow lifestyle.
traditional, proven sales and marketing methods with field.
This has been reflected through more than Timely, empathetic and compliant communication is the very latest techniques in targeting prospects eight interior design awards in the year and glowing Our sales centres are carefully designed to showcase essential in an increasingly crowded media world.
These show homes based on analysis and insight.
the Redrow collections and our unique, immersive, Redrow has committed thousands of man-hours into perfectly showcase the product and transform our virtual reality development plans enable people to Extensive research into the demographics and ensuring that all communications are GDPR compliant customers dreams into reality.
This is the point where make the most informed decision about their ideal behaviours of our target segments results in finely and has also invested in sophisticated CRM systems to most people fall in love with a Redrow home.
house style and position on the development.
tuned marketing campaigns that generate high personalise dialogue with prospects and customers.
Many developments now feature show villages such volumes of quality traffic to our website.
Redrow sales staff are highly experienced and as Woodford Garden Village, Cheshire where there In addition, our sales and build management system undergo regular refresher training in product The resultant campaigns are extremely cost effective are seven house styles on show.
has been extensively re-engineered to enable sales specification and understanding who our key and utilise those channels which our customers suppliers are.
Sales excellence and customer service staff to service the specific needs of our customers increasingly choose as their preferred method of communication.
Often this will be a social media channel, however traditional forms of media are still used to ensure that we always invest appropriately in our brand where it is cost effective.
This strategy is reaping significant rewards.
A CONSISTENT EXPERIENCE The vast majority of our customers first contact with Redrow is through our consumer website www.
co. uk and their experience when they arrive is carefully designed to ensure consistency of service across all channels and devices with almost 60% of website visitors now being generated from mobile devices.
This Redrow experience is very important in communicating the strength of our product ranges and conveying our brand purpose To create a better way to live.
Features on the website include augmented reality floorplans and 3D development layouts to assist people in visualising the Redrow lifestyle.
Further tools within My Redrow help customers choose their options and upgrades to personalise their Redrow home.
Our My Redrow system has been shortlisted as a finalist in the BESMA awards The British Excellence in Sales Management Awards in the category of Award for Innovation in Sales.
Intuitive navigation through the website ensures that our customer experience is enjoyable and helpful and our ambition is to encourage the maximum number of people to visit our developments as well informed as they can be on our products, brand and communities.
LYMINGTON SHORES, HAMPSHIRE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 42 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 43 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued SALES & MARKETING Our Inspirational STRATEGY IN ACTION: Homes magazine showcases interior Lifestyle homes design trends and styling advice In the same way our technical team has created our We dont style any bedrooms specifically for children in the together with Lifestyle Homes in response to the evolving needs of our Lifestyle Homes range but we do create desirable guest bedrooms features on our customers, our interior design team has undertaken as we know our customers like to have family and friends to stay.
extensive research to ensure the Show Home interiors are developments.
By ensuring our Show Home interiors are in line with our also in tune with how our purchasers want to live.
customer research we can capture the imaginations of potential Emma Brindley Our Lifestyle Homes have evolved the layouts of some of purchasers and make them feel instantly at home as soon as they Head of Interior Design our most popular Heritage Collection designs to feature a walk through the door.
smaller number of larger bedrooms, each with its own It is a process that is proving very successful and one of the en-suite, and other luxurious features such as dressing reasons why the Lifestyle Homes have been so popular since areas to master bedrooms.
Having launched the collection a year ago driven by our findings that not all home buyers want a traditional family home weve now been able to analyse exactly who has been buying the designs.
Our research suggests that the average Lifestyle purchaser is in their late 40s, either with no children or children who are older or have left home.
Additional research into the interior design preferences of those customers has further informed how we create our Show Homes.
Meticulous research and planning by Emma Brindley, Head of Interior Design and her team has arrived at the personas of the purchasers who would choose to live in the homes.
Its really about understanding our customers their jobs, interests and consumer behaviour and reflecting their aspirations and needs in the interiors we create, says Emma.
Were discovering that many people arent precious about bringing pre-loved items of furniture from their previous homes: they are generally making a completely fresh start, buying everything new, and opting for a contemporary look and feel.
We know our target audience is style conscious and trend aware, with exacting standards, so bedrooms and bathrooms are luxurious and reflect boutique hotel styling.
Some of the designs, such as the Leamington Lifestyle, feature vast master suites with generous en-suite bathrooms and dressing rooms, and the look we create is extremely high-end with a focus on opulent fabrics and elegant furniture.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 44 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 45 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued Private reservations per outlet per week were 0.67 We are committed to providing customer service CUSTOMER SERVICE excluding PRS, in line with the previous year on a 52 comparable with the very best from the retail and week like for like basis.
This 2018 rate increased to services sectors.
To achieve this we are constantly 0.70 with PRS included.
The cancellation rate improving our customer experience, a recent We are committed to providing customer remained consistent with the previous year at 15%.
example being the addition of a customer Hard Hat tour.
CUSTOMER FEEDBACK service comparable with the very best My Redrow is our online members area designed We achieved a 89.1% HBF customer recommend specifically for customers.
It provides a secure rating in 2018 2017: 88.9%, a modest improvement personalised dashboard supporting their customer in a year during which our legal completions from the retail and services sectors.
My Redrow option choices and upgrades increased by 8%.
Our current recommendation level enable our customers to personalise their new is trending at over 90%.
home and these extras accounted for 20m of sales PRODUCT RESERVATIONS AND ORDERBOOK Customer Service training is an integral part of our in the year, in line with the previous year.
We are proud of our reputation for designing The Group secured 1.7bn of private reservations in induction programme for new starters.
Our attractive homes that meet the modern-day needs the year 2017: 1.6bn and ended the year with a total Customer Service Culture course is accredited by of our customers.
Outside Greater London, our order book including social of 1.1bn 2017: 1.0bn.
the Institute of Customer Service.
divisions continue to focus on our award winning Heritage Collection and this year it contributed 72% of the Groups private sales revenue 2017: 75%.
We appreciate that homebuyers needs and aspirations differ which is why we have added the Lifestyle Collection to our Heritage range.
Lifestyle Collection homes are just as spacious as our family homes but have been redesigned with fewer yet larger bedrooms and have proved a popular addition to our product range.
The Heritage Collection is complemented by bespoke product which represented 28% of private sales revenue in the year 2017: 25%.
Bespoke product features more strongly in the South and Greater London uses bespoke product exclusively as each development is specifically designed to reflect the sites constraints whilst preserving the best of its individual character.
The contribution from Greater London increased this year representing 296m of our homes sales revenue 2017: 218m with the first completions from our flagship Colindale Gardens development in North London.
ORDER BOOK M 1,144 1,030 899 594 535 14 15 16 17 18 SALES CENTRE AT PARC PLYMOUTH, CARDIFF STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 46 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 47 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued CUSTOMER SERVICE STRATEGY IN ACTION: Hard Hat tours Hard Hat tours are an exciting opportunity for Redrow homeowners to view their property, quite literally from the inside out.
They are arranged just after the first fix stage of the housebuild.
This is when the property is watertight and cables and pipework for the various services have been installed, but before the internal walls have been plastered.
At this point, customers can begin to appreciate the layout and room sizes, really understand what goes into building their new home and check the placing of all their optional extras and upgrades.
Hard Hat tours have helped to further improve the positive relationship between our customers and their site and customer service managers, who personally lead the tours.
This open dialogue has given us more opportunity to better manage customer expectations throughout the home buying process.
Ultimately, our commitment to continual improvement, and the introduction of Hard Hat tours, has helped to deliver happier customers with improved customer recommend and net promoter scores across the Group.
Matt Grayson Group Communications Director I had no idea what goes on behind the scenes and it was nice to see that.
You can start to visualise where to place things.
Its given me a good understanding and you can appreciate the time it actually takes for the house to be ready Rebecca Scott Redrow Customer STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 48 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 49 STRATEGIC REPORT Financial Review REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY M Earnings per share have increased by 22% in the year to 85.3p.
EARNINGS PER SHARE P 85.3 There was also a 5m after tax contribution from our Joint Venture on the Morello, Croydon development 2018 2017 2017: 1m which delivered 195 legal completions in 70.2 2017: 97.
This Joint Venture development is now 55.4 complete.
44.5 As a result, the Group delivered a record profit 28.3 before tax of 380m 2017: 315m in the year with 2018 2017 basic earnings per share up 22% at 85.3p 2017: North 433 463 70.2p.
Central 445 360 14 15 16 17 18 TAX South 740 614 The corporation tax charge for the year was 72m Greater London 302 223 2017: 62m.
The normalised rate of tax for the year ending 30 June 2019 is projected to be 19% based on rates which are substantively enacted currently.
BARBARA RICHMOND INVENTORIES DIVIDEND PER SHARE P Group Finance Director The Group paid 74m of corporation tax in the year Our investment in land increased by 127m, or 10% 2017: 56m following the normal quarterly pattern.
in the year to 1,439m 2017: 1,312m reflecting the 28 Payments will continue in the normal quarterly attractive land market and our success in securing PROFITABILITY pattern until the new legislation for corporation tax sites to best utilise our product and placemaking The Group once again delivered record financial payments by very large companies takes effect for skills on acceptable terms.
Over a third of our results with revenue of 1.92bn 2017: 1.66bn and our financial year ending 30 June 2020, which will current land holdings additions in 2018 came from 17 profit before tax of 380m 2017: 315m.
This was bring our instalment payments forward by four our forward land holdings broadly in line with the achieved by completing a record 5,718 new homes months.
10 Our owned plot cost has increased by 1,000 per DIVIDENDS 6 Total Group revenue rose 16% to 1.9bn.
This plot to 71,000 at June 2018 2017: 70,000, The Board has proposed a 2018 final dividend of 3 comprised private homes revenue which increased reducing slightly to 19% of the average selling price 19p per share which will be paid on 13 November by 14% to 1.8bn 2017: 1.5bn as a result of a 7% 14 15 16 17 18 of private legal completions in the year 2017: 20%.
2018 to Shareholders on the register on 21 increase in private homes legal completions and a September 2018, subject to Shareholder approval 7% increase in average selling price, social homes Our investment in work in progress increased by at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
The full year dividend is 28p 20m 2017: 12m from land sales.
As a percentage of Homes turnover it reduced from 2017:17p and a payout ratio of 33% of earnings 44% to 41% in part benefiting from the first legal 2017: 24%.
In 2017 we announced our intention to As a result of the increase in revenue, gross profit completions off our Colindale Gardens development progressively increase the dividend payout ratio to increased by 64m in the year to 469m 2017: in North London.
As a result of our 405m giving a gross margin of 24.4% in line with ROCE % ongoing strong cash position we have been able the previous year.
Land creditors increased by 36m to 387m at June to meet this commitment earlier than expected.
2018 2017: 351m representing 27% of gross land 28.5 The strong revenue growth has generated an value in line with the prior year.
26.0 The Group paid dividends of 74m 2017: 44m operating profit for the year of 382m 2017: 322m, 23.7 during the year.
This represents an operating margin RECEIVABLES of 19.9% 2017: 19.4%.
This 50 basis point margin 18.0 Trade receivables decreased by 5m during the RETURNS increase is due to tight control of costs leading to a year to 16m 2017: 21m due to the ongoing receipt Net assets at 30 June 2018 were 1,483m 2017: reduction in administrative expenses as a of historic shared equity scheme monies.
Capital employed at the percentage of revenue from 5.0% to 4.5%.
receivables increased from 21m to 29m partly due same date was 1,420m 2017: 1,308m up 9%.
Our to the timing of the recovery of VAT on land return on capital employed continued to benefit Net financing costs at 7m were 1m lower than the payments.
from improved capital turn and higher profits and prior year due to the improved cash position in 14 15 16 17 18 increased in the year from 26.0% to 28.5%.
We had an average positive cash balance on equity also increased slightly from 27.7% to during the year of 22m compared to average net 28.0%.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 50 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 51 STRATEGIC REPORT Financial Review continued PAYABLES i Liquidity PENSIONS Trade payables, customer deposits and accruals The Group regularly prepares and reviews its As at June 2018, the Groups financial statements increased by 30m to 452m 2017: 422m again cash flow forecasts which are used to manage showed a 22m surplus 2017: 2m deficit in reflecting increased levels of production activity.
liquidity risks in conjunction with the respect of the defined benefits section of The maintenance of appropriate committed banking Redrow Staff Pension Scheme which closed to CASH FLOW AND NET CASH DEBT facilities to ensure adequate headroom.
future accrual with effect from 1 March 2012.
The Net cash stood at 63m at June 2018 compared to 24m improvement is mainly due to the increase in Facilities are kept under regular review and the net debt of 73m at June 2017.
This significant corporate bond yields along with a decrease in the Group maintains regular contact with its banks movement reflects a cash inflow generated from markets long-term expectations for inflation which and other financial institutions: this ensures operations of 276m 2017:189m.
This equates to a have served to decrease the liability values.
In Redrow remains attuned to new developments cash conversion from EBITDA of 72% in 2018, up addition new census data used for the Actuarial and opportunities and that our facilities remain from 58% in 2017.
Together with a net 26m cash Valuation at 30 June 2017 was incorporated which aligned to our strategic and operational inflow from our Joint Ventures, this more than reduced the benefit obligation by 5m.
funded the growth in the business and the increase in both dividend distributions and corporation tax Our current banking syndicate comprises six payments made in the year.
banks and in addition to our committed BARBARA RICHMOND facilities, Redrow also has further uncommitted Group Finance Director FINANCING AND TREASURY MANAGEMENT bank facilities which are used to assist day to In the light of the ongoing improving cash position, 3 September 2018 day cash management.
on 31 January 2018 we reduced our committed unsecured syndicated loan facility by 100m to ii Interest rate risk 250m and extended its maturity from March 2020 The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as it to December 2022.
We also cancelled a 15m borrows money at floating rates.
Redrow uses unsecured bilateral facility.
simple risk management products, notably sterling denominated interest rate swaps, as Redrow remains a UK based housebuilder and appropriate to manage this risk.
Such products therefore the main focus of its financial risk are not used for speculative or trading purposes.
management surrounds the management of liquidity and interest rate risk.
Financial management at Redrow regularly reviews its hedging Redrow is conducted centrally using policies requirements.
No hedging was undertaken in approved by the Board.
CURRENT LAND BY GEOGRAPHY CASH CONVERSION % NO.
OF PLOTS 72.0 58.0 50.0 2018 2017 29.0 15 16 17 18 2018 2017 North 5,331 5,382 Central 7,848 6,483 South 10,356 9,963 Greater London 4,095 4,272 27,630 26,100 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION POLICIES AND DECISIONS 52 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 53 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management HOW WE MANAGE RISK OUR RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Our Risk Assessment Process Key Risk Management Objectives: BOARD OVERSIGHT To ensure our approach to risk meets the needs of our business and its key stakeholders: MAIN BOARD To effectively communicate our risks and define responsibilities in order to manage risk: and To continually evaluate and review the impacts of any potential new risks occurring within our business.
Placemaking and Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Sustainability Committee Main Board T he ultimate responsibility for the effective management of the risks we face in order to achieve our strategic OPERATIONAL MEETINGS and financial objectives lies with the Main Board: M aterial risks and principal concerns are identified as part of our risk assessment framework, following a EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM detailed review of the Companys strategic objectives: T hese headline risks are then approved by the Board to be included within our risk register: Divisional Boards Functional Seminars Team Meetings T he risk register is reviewed formally annually and updated for any new risks identified during our Risk Assessment processes: and I t is also presented to the Audit Committee for final review and consideration to ensure that it is appropriate and reflects our business risks.
POLICIES FOR IDENTIFYING AND CONTROLLING RISKS Budgeting & Forecasting Price & Sales Monitoring Cost Reviews Land Bank Management Operational Divisions PROCEDURES AND INTERNAL CONTROLS All identified high level risks are then further broken down into components and sub level risks to be considered at Business Policies and Procedures Authorisation Processes System Based Controls the divisional level: The probability and potential impact for each sub level risk is assessed by each Divisional Board: and Business Process Reviews Site Completion Reviews Internal controls are implemented to mitigate, control and continuously monitor these risks.
PEOPLE AND CULTURE Professionalism Clear Communication Qualified Personnel Risk Owners & Executive Management Team Pride and Achievement Interests Aligned with Shareholders Commitment to Training A ny new risks identified at divisional level are individually assessed and evaluated on their potential impact to the business and its likelihood of occurrence: T hese risks are then communicated to the Risk Owners who will use this assessment to inform their formal view BUSINESS RISKS on these risks: I t is then the Risk Owners responsibility to ensure key preventive and detective controls are designed and implemented to address these risks and ensure their inclusion in our risk register: and G roup Policies and Procedures are updated to reflect any new or improved key controls or processes.
MONITORING AND REPORTING STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 54 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 55 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management continued Risk Risk Owners Key Controls and Mitigating Strategies Risk Movement Risk Risk Owners Key Controls and Mitigating Strategies Risk Movement Housing Market Group Chief Market conditions and trends are being Customer Service Group My Redrow website to support our Executive closely monitored allowing management to Communications customers purchasing their new home.
The UK housing market Failure of our customer identify and respond to any sudden Director conditions have a direct service could lead to Introduction of Hard Hat Tours for changes or movements.
impact on our business relative under customers of their new home at an DEVELOPING BUILDING performance.
performance of our With underlying build costs continuing to appropriate stage of production.
rise and house price inflation moderating COMMUNITIES Economic uncertainty Regular review of our marketing and over the year we maintain tight controls on has increased with the communications policy at both Group and costs and continue to build our lack of clarity over Brexit.
relationships with key suppliers and Risk has increased following the broaden our supplier base.
We mitigate this by Weekly review of sales at Group, ensuring that we are fully compliant with divisional and site level.
the new GDPR regulations in our marketing Ensuring strong relationships with lenders activities by taking a proactive approach to and valuers to ensure they recognise our GDPR with detailed project team defining premium product.
and implementing new Policies & Procedures and training for staff.
Ongoing and regular monitoring of Government policy and lobbying as appropriate.
Availability of Group Proactively engage with the Government, Land Procurement Group Proactive monitoring of the market conditions Mortgage Finance Finance Lenders and Insurers to support the Development to implement a clear defined strategy at both The ability to purchase Director housing market.
Director Group and divisional level.
Availability of mortgage land suitable for our finance and increased products and the timing Expert New Build Mortgage Specialists Experienced and knowledgeable personnel BUILDING DEVELOPING lending criteria of future land purchases provide updates on and monitoring of in our land, planning and technical teams.
RESPONSIBLY THRIVING requirements are key are fundamental to the regulatory change.
COMMUNITIES Effective use of our Land Bank Management factors in the current Groups future system to support the land acquisition environment.
process and monitor opportunities has led to the risk decreasing overall.
Peer review by Legal Directors and use of third party legal resources for larger site acquisitions to reduce risk.
Liquidity and Funding Group Suitable committed banking facilities with Planning and Regulatory Group Close management and monitoring of Finance covenants and headroom.
Environment Development planning expiry dates and CIL.
The Group requires Director Director appropriate facilities for The inability to adapt to Regular communication with our investors Well prepared planning submissions its short-term liquidity changes within the and relationship banks, including visits to Group Human addressing local concern and deploying BUILDING BUILDING and long-term funding.
RESPONSIBLY RESPONSIBLY environment could Director Regular review of our banking covenants Careful monitoring of the regulatory adversely impact on our and capital structure.
Group environment and regular communication of ability to comply with Company proposed changes across the Group Ensuring our future cash flow is sustainable regulatory requirements.
Secretary through the Executive Management Team.
through detailed budgeting process and reviews.
Proactive approach to the introduction of GDPR with a broad based project team Strong forecasting and budgeting process.
defining and implementing new policies and procedures.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 56 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 57 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management continued Risk Risk Owners Key Controls and Mitigating Strategies Risk Movement Risk Risk Owners Key Controls and Mitigating Strategies Risk Movement Appropriateness Group Design Regular review and product updates in Key Supplier or Group Use of reputable supply chain partners with of Product and Technical response to the demand in the market and Subcontractor Failure Commercial relevant experience and proven track record.
Director assessment of our customer needs.
Director The failure to design and The failure of a key Monitoring of subcontract supply chain to build a desirable product component of our supply maintain appropriate number for each trade Design focused on high quality build and BUILDING DEVELOPING for our customers at the chain to perform due to to identify potential shortage in skilled flexibility to planning changes.
RESPONSIBLY THRIVING appropriate price may financial failure or trades in the near future.
Regular site visits and implementation of COMMUNITIES undermine our ability to production issues could Subcontractor utilisation on sites monitored product changes to respond to demands.
fulfil our business disrupt our ability to to align workload and capacity.
deliver our homes to Materials forecast issued to suppliers and programme and reviewed regularly.
Group Monthly Product Development meetings to identify and monitor changes in the regulatory environment.
Attracting and Group Personal Development Programmes Cyber Security Chief Communication of IT policy and procedures Retaining Staff Human supported by National training centres at Information to all employees.
Failure of the Groups IT Resources three locations.
Officer The loss of key staff and systems and the security Regular systems back up and storage of Director or our failure to attract Graduate training, Undergraduate of our internal systems, data offsite.
VALUING BUILDING high quality employees placements and Apprentice training data and our websites PEOPLE RESPONSIBLY Internal IT security specialists.
will inhibit our ability to programmes to aid succession planning.
can have significant Use of third party entity to test the Groups achieve our business impact to our business.
Development of a bespoke housebuilding cyber security systems and other proactive objectives.
degree course in conjunction with Liverpool The introduction of approach for cyber security including Cyber John Moores University and Coleg Cambria.
GDPR has increased the Essentials Plus accreditation.
Remuneration strategy in order to attract requirements for the Compulsory GDPR and IT security online and retain talent within the business is control of personal data.
training to all employees within our reviewed regularly and benchmarked.
Introduction of a new Engagement Team and development of a new internal communications platform in addition to annual employee survey to create framework for strong, two-way communication.
Health and Safety Group Health Dedicated restructured team operating across Fraud Uninsured Loss Group Systems, policies and procedures in place Environment and Safety and the Group to ensure compliance of Finance which are designed to segregate duties and A significant fraud or Environmental appropriate Health and Safety standards.
Director minimise any opportunity for fraud.
Instances of nonuninsured loss could Director compliance with Health damage the financial Separate focus on Assurance visits to site and Regular Business Process Reviews BUILDING BUILDING & Safety standards and proactive management support to develop performance of our undertaken to ensure compliance with RESPONSIBLY RESPONSIBLY Environmental business.
procedure and policies followed by formal regulations could put our action plans.
Internal and external training provided to all people and the employees.
environment at risk, Divisional Construction Design and Insurance strategy driven by business risks.
ultimately damaging Management Regulation CDM inspections our reputation.
carried out to assess our compliance with our client duties under CDM.
Increased levels of scrutiny of the Health and Safety discussion at both Group housebuilding industry and divisional level board meetings.
heightens the risk CDM competency accreditation requirement environment.
as a minimum for contractor selection process.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 58 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 59 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management continued The Group has committed banking facilities requirements and cash flows.
The Group also uses VIABILITY STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL through to December 2022. a top down model to give another perspective.
In accordance with provision C2.2 of the UK The Strategic Report outlined on pages 1 to 59 Corporate Governance Code 2016, the Directors has been approved by the Board.
The three year plan is stress tested for robust The Directors have selected a three year timeframe have assessed the prospects and viability of downside scenarios.
This involves flexing key over which to assess the viability of the Group, from By order of the Board the Group.
assumptions including the impact of reduced 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2021.
This timeframe was average selling prices, sales rates and land prices chosen as it corresponds with the Boards three year The Groups investment case, business model and which could arise from a deterioration in housing planning horizon.
On an annual basis, the Directors strategy are key to understanding Redrows future market conditions and mortgage availability.
GRAHAM COPE review the financial forecasts for the Group prospects.
The Directors assessment has made Company Secretary constructed using a detailed bottom up process reference to our current position, our strategy, the The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable incorporating assumptions about the timing of legal potential impact of the principal risks facing the expectation that the Group will be able to continue 3 September 2018 Group, and the Boards appetite for risk which are completions of new homes and land purchases, in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due to be found in this Report in the Strategic Report.
selling prices, profitability, working capital over the three year period ending 30 June 2021.
THE LOFTINGS, MAIDENHEAD STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 60 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 61 GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and ensuring that the requisite mechanisms are in place to meet such standards.
Since the last report, Debbie Hewitt has indicated DEAR SHAREHOLDER her intention to retire from the Board following the I am delighted to introduce the Corporate conclusion of the 2018 Annual General Meeting and Governance report outlining the Companys she will step down as Chairman of the Remuneration approach to corporate governance.
As outlined and Nomination Committees and as a member of elsewhere in the report, the Board remains the Audit Committee at the same time.
Following the committed to high standards of corporate close of the 2018 Annual General Meeting, Nick governance.
This report on corporate governance Hewson will be appointed as the Senior sets out and explains in clear terms the processes in Independent Director and Chairman of the place which are essential for delivery of long-term GRAHAM COPE Nomination Committee and Vanda Murray will success, while ensuring that the Company complies Company become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
with all applicable laws and regulations and, of Secretary course, meeting the requirements of our In 2017, Steve Morgan indicated his decision to ease shareholders and their representative bodies.
back from a full time Executive role towards a Non-Executive role.
The role transition successfully We are reporting against the UK Corporate took place in the financial year ended 30 June 2018, Governance Code 2016 version the Code for this with Steve Morgan maintaining focus with the Board report.
We welcomed the publication of the new UK on strategic development of the business, the Corporate Governance Code, released in July by the product and key important projects.
The renewed focus on long-term success and A number of Board meetings have been held in a sustainability in the revised UK Corporate number of the divisions during the year and have Governance Code is in direct alignment with the included open discussions with the Management Company and the Groups culture and we are Teams on such matters as land acquisition, sales pleased that it will help further raise the standards of outlets, sales and our product.
Our 2018 Annual corporate governance in the UK.
General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, 7 November 2018 and the Notice of Annual General This report has been prepared and approved by the Meeting together with Explanatory Notes will be Board and, on behalf of the Board I confirm that sent to you separately.
during the financial year ended 30 June 2018, the Company applied the principles of, and was Finally on behalf of the Board, for those who wish to compliant with the provisions of the Code.
This attend our 2018 Annual General Meeting, the Board report also explains what the Board actually does looks forward to meeting with you.
and describes how it is responsible for setting the codes and values of the Company, thereby ensuring that the Company is run in the best interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders and how it GRAHAM COPE interacts with its shareholders and explains the Company Secretary Companys strategic goals and performance against them.
ERSKINE PARK, WILTON, WILTSHIRE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 62 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 63 GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors Composition of Length of tenure of Main Board the Board Non-Executive Directors by Gender Executive Over three years Female Non-Executive One to three years Male 4 6 5 3 1 8 2 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 M M M M M A N R P M A N R M A N R P M A N R SIR MICHAEL LYONS 68 DEBBIE HEWITT 55 NICK HEWSON 60 VANDA MURRAY 57 STEVE MORGAN 65 JOHN TUTTE 62 BARBARA RICHMOND 58 GRAHAM COPE 54 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CHAIRMAN GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR COMPANY SECRETARY Sir Michael joined the Redrow Debbie joined the Redrow Board Nick joined the Redrow Board Steve Morgan founded Redrow John Tutte joined the Board Barbara Richmond joined the Graham Cope joined Redrow as The Board appointed Vanda Board in January 2015.
She has a wealth in December 2012.
His business in 1974 and grew the business to of Redrow in July 2002.
In Board of Redrow in January Head of Legal in November 2002 Murray with effect from recently chaired the Lyons of board experience in executive career to date has been spent become one of the UKs leading September 2009 he was 2010, bringing with her a proven and was appointed Company 1 August 2017.
Vanda has Housing Commission to produce and non-executive roles.
mainly in the property industry, home builders.
He floated the promoted to Group Managing track record, with over 20 years Secretary two months later.
He substantial Non-Executive a road map for increasing house from commercial to residential.
Company in 1994 and stepped Director and in July 2014 became experience as Group Finance is Company Secretary to the Director and Remuneration She is currently the Nonbuilding in this country.
down as Chairman in November Group Chief Executive.
Director at a number of UK listed Main Board and Secretary to all Committee experience.
Executive Chairman of Moss Bros Nick is a Non-Executive Chairman 2000 to pursue other interests.
John qualified in civil engineering He is also Chairman of the English Group plc, The Restaurant Group of Supermarket Income REIT plc She was appointed NonSteve returned to Redrow in plc, Croda International PLC and and has amassed more than 40 Graham has over 25 years Cities Fund, which undertakes plc, BGL Group, Visa Europe and a Non-Executive Director of Executive Chair of Marshalls plc Spring 2009, once again taking Whessoe plc.
years experience within the experience in the housebuilding large scale urban regeneration Limited and White Stuff.
Croma Security Solutions Group in May 2018 and holds Nonover as Chairman.
industry, having previously held She has a strong background in sector, either working in-house or schemes in a number of places Plc.
Executive roles with Bunzl plc, She also holds a Non-Executive Steve is also Chairman of The the position as Chief Executive of both manufacturing and retail for clients in private practice.
and is Chairman of SQW Group where she is Senior Independent Director role in Domestic & Nick is a Fellow of the Institute of Bridgemere Group of Companies, Wilson Connolly plc.
as well as having completed a and a strategic adviser to CBRE.
Director, Manchester Airports Graham qualified as a solicitor in General.
Chartered Accountants in England which includes leisure, aviation number of major acquisitions and Holdings Limited and Just John was appointed to the board 1989 and is a member of the Law Prior to this, following a long and Wales and has a degree in and overseas property interests.
Debbie has an MBA from Bath of the Home Builders Federation Society.
and distinguished career in Law from Cambridge University.
Vanda is also Pro-Chancellor and University, is a fellow of the In 2001, he set up The Steve in February 2015.
He is also a Barbara was appointed a Nonlocal government, Sir Michael Chair of Governors at Manchester Chartered Institute of Personnel Morgan Foundation, which is now Chairman of the Home Building Executive Director of Lonza Group completed a four year term as Metropolitan University.
and Development and was one of the largest charitable trusts Skills Partnership an initiative Ltd with effect from 16 April 2014.
Chairman of the BBC and has awarded an MBE in 2011 for in the UK.
between the HBF and CITB held a range of non-executive Vanda has a BA Hons in services to business and the Barbara is a Fellow of the Institute to attract and develop a more positions across the three sectors.
European Business Administration public sector.
Steve has been awarded five of Chartered Accountants diverse skilled workforce for the and a French Business Diploma Honorary Doctorates Degrees.
in England and Wales and a industry and its supply chain.
completed at Neoma Business He was awarded the OBE in 1992 graduate of the University of School in Reims.
She is a Fellow for services to the construction Manchester.
of the Chartered Institute of industry and the CBE in 2016 for Marketing.
BOARD EXPERIENCE: COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP: philanthropy.
M Vanda was awarded an OBE in Finance Main Board 2001 for services to business and A Property Audit Committee to exports.
N Operational Nomination Committee R Sustainability Remuneration Committee P Placemaking and Sustainability Committee S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC R RE EP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 64 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 65 GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Report continued REDROW GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Senior Independent Director INTRODUCTION Main Board Debbie Hewitt was appointed as the Senior This report sets out the Companys compliance with Independent Director on 1 September 2014.
Debbie the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS will retire from the Board at the close of the Annual and describes how the governance framework is General Meeting on 7 November 2018 and will be Responsible for leading the Board and Responsible for day-to-day operation Responsible for providing constructive applied by the Company.
succeeded in her position as Senior Independent ensuring its effectiveness with a key of the business and performance of challenge and helping to develop The Directors have considered the contents and Director by Nick Hewson.
focus of the strategic development of the Company.
requirements of the Code and confirm that the business.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Nick has a wealth of experience as a Non-Executive throughout the year ended 30 June 2018 the Director and, having been on the Board since 2012, Company has been compliant with the provisions of has a good understanding of the business thereby the Code.
Board Committees making him best placed to succeed Debbie in her The governance structure is set out in the diagram position as Senior Independent Director.
The following additional responsibilities fall within Provides independent scrutiny of the Companys financial Identifies and makes recommendations concerning the THE BOARD the remit of the Senior Independent Director: and non-financial performance, risks and audit functions.
composition of the Board and that of its Committees.
The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and two Executive Directors and four Independent supporting him in ensuring the Board is effective PLACEMAKING AND SUSTAINABILITY REMUNERATION Non-Executive Directors, one of which acts as the and that constructive relations are maintained: Senior Independent Director.
Promotes high environmental and placemaking standards in Aims to attract and retain good management and to being available to shareholders in order to line with our three key principles: Thriving Communities, incentivise them to create shareholder value.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive understand their issues and concerns in order to Building Responsibly and Valuing People.
The Company has separate roles for the Chairman relay to the Board: and and Group Chief Executive, ensuring that there is a leading the evaluation of the performance of the clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Executive Management Team Chairman and obtaining views from other Company between the running of the Board and the Directors.
operational responsibility for the running of the GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Companys business, as required by the Code.
Non-Executive Directors Responsible for the operational management of the Group, Responsible for the financial management of the Group in its The division of responsibility and accountability The role of the Non-Executive Directors within the the implementing of strategic plans and reporting to the broadest sense and maintaining effective communications between the roles is well defined and using such a Company is essential in order to view the Group Board on these matters.
balanced approach ensures that no one individual objectively and provide constructive challenge to has unfettered powers of decision.
the Executive Directors and scrutinise performance.
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY REGIONAL CHIEF EXECUTIVES They have a good understanding of the business Steve Morgan, as Chairman, is primarily responsible and bring a range of skills and experience to the Responsible for governance structures and mechanisms, Responsible for the operational management of divisions for: discussions of the boardroom.
The diversity and corporate conduct and is the primary source of advice on the within their assigned locations and reporting to the Group skills brought into the Company by the Nonconduct of the business.
leading the Board to ensure optimum Executive Directors is crucial to developing the effectiveness: strategy of the Group.
GROUP DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR GROUP HR DIRECTOR encouraging a culture of openness and debate: The Non-Executive Directors play a vital role in taking a leading role in determining the Boards Chairman of Harrow Estates plc and responsible for the Responsible for implementing the strategy on people, occupying seats on the Boards Committees and composition and structure: strategic management of the Groups land holdings.
ensuring that the management of talent and culture is they are positioned in such way that the Committees aligned with the Groups longer-term goals.
ensuring that effective communications are benefit from their expertise and background.
maintained with shareholders: and The Company Secretary GROUP SALES & MARKETING DIRECTOR GROUP COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR meeting with the Non-Executive Directors without The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the the presence of the Executive Management Team.
Responsible for the marketing and sales strategy and Responsible for developing the Groups reputation via Board and its Committees and his appointment and implementation across the Group and all Redrow brands.
strategic communications and customer services.
removal is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The John Tutte, as Group Chief Executive, is responsible Company Secretary is a Member of the Executive for: Management Team and all Directors have access to operational management of the Group: DIVISIONS GROUP his advice and services.
In certain circumstances, Board Committees and individual Directors may implementing strategic plans with the assistance Build | Commercial | Customer Services Commercial | Finance | H&S | HR | IT wish to take independent professional advice in of the Executive Management Team: Finance | Land | Sales | Technical Legal | Marketing | Technical | Sustainability connection with their responsibilities and duties, ensuring that the visions and values of the Our 14 Homes divisions are comprised of the above The above departments support the divisions to contribute to and, in this regard, the Company will meet the Company are properly communicated across departments which work together to deliver the the successful operation of the business.
reasonable costs and expenses incurred and the the Group: and Company Secretary will assist in arranging such Groups strategy.
reporting on these to the Board.
REDROW HANDBOOK POLICY AND PROCEDURES MANUAL TERMS OF REFERENCE S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC R RE EP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 66 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 67 GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Report continued Long-term performance and shareholder value relies appropriate view of the detail of the business and DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS INSURANCE APPOINTMENTS TO EXTERNAL BOARDS on high quality corporate governance and the Board the benefit of their significant collective experience The Company has directors and officers insurance Prior to Executive Directors and Non-Executive is responsible for maintaining strong governance of the UK house building industry and that enables it in place which insures Directors against certain Directors taking on any additional responsibility practices and regularly reviewing the Groups to discharge their respective duties and liabilities, including legal costs.
outside of the Group, an assessment is undertaken to governance structure as illustrated on page 64. responsibilities effectively.
The Non-Executive determine whether this will compromise their ability to Directors bring a wealth of experience and APPOINTMENTS AND RE-ELECTIONS TO commit sufficient time to the Company to properly BOARD MEETINGS understanding from outside the Company which THE BOARD discharge their responsibilities or create any potential enables them to challenge and help develop The Board meets regularly and frequently, not less conflicts.
In making the assessment, the Board The appointments of the Non-Executive Directors proposals on the Companys strategy.
All Nonthan six times during the year and maintains a close considers the mandates attributable to such positions, are generally made for three-year terms.
Following Executive Directors holding office during the year dialogue, as appropriate, between meetings.
Board in line with the scoring mechanism used by Institutional the assessment on the effectiveness of the ended 30 June 2018, other than Steve Morgan, are meetings are held at Head Office or divisional Shareholder Services, to determine whether a person Directors, the Nomination Committee will make considered to be independent.
offices when visits are frequently made to a is overboarded.
The Board does not consider that any recommendations to the Board on re-appointments.
selection of developments accompanied by the of its Directors are overboarded and is satisfied that Details of the Directors respective experience is set local Management Team.
Board papers are The Nomination Committee has recommended the sufficient time and energy is devoted to the Company out in their biographical profiles on pages 62 to 63. distributed sufficiently in advance of the meetings to re-appointment of each of the Executive Directors by each Director.
allow adequate time for review to enable informed and Non-Executive Directors, save for Debbie Under the Code, at least half the Board, excluding a debate and challenge at meetings and include key Hewitt, who has indicated her intention to retire ROLE OF THE BOARD Non-Executive Chairman, should comprise Nonstrategic, operational and financial information.
The Nomination Committee report The Board is responsible for putting in place the Executive Directors determined by the Board to be can be found on pages 76 and 77. strategic plans for the Group and providing the independent.
The Board currently comprises one Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, they leadership required in order to achieve its vision Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors are encouraged to discuss any issues arising with Under the Companys Articles of Association, all and goals.
and four Independent Non-Executive Directors in the Chairman or Group Chief Executive as Directors are subject to re-election at their first compliance with the Code.
If a Director has a concern about the General meeting after appointment.
Debbie Hewitt There are matters which the Board delegate to running of the business, the minutes should completed nine years as a Non-Executive Director Committees, the Executive Management Team and RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT accurately reflect this.
Should any Director resign of the Company on 19 August 2018 and will other relevant management bodies in order to The Company is party to a Relationship Agreement from their position as a result of unresolved therefore not be submitting herself for re-election.
ensure that the Group is operating efficiently and with Bridgemere Securities Limited and Steve concerns in the Company, they are requested to Debbie will retire from the Board following the close effectively.
Morgan, which regulates the relationship between submit a written statement to the Chairman outlining of the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
the parties and complies with the requirements of their concerns for circulation to the Board.
There In order to ensure that the Board fulfil their statutory The Board is not seeking to appoint an additional the Listing Rules, including Listing Rule 9.2.
2AR 2 a were no statements received of this nature for the duties as Directors, there is a formal schedule of Non-Executive Director to replace Debbie Hewitt as and Listing Rule 6.1.
In accordance with the year ended 30 June 2018. matters reserved specifically for the Boards they believe that the resultant balance of Nonrequirements of Listing Rule 9.8.
The matters reserved include: Attendance by individual Directors at Board Executive and Executive Directors remains effective confirms that the Company complied with the meetings is set out below.
and contains the appropriate mix of skills and approval of the Groups long-term objectives and independence provisions set out in the Relationship experience for the Board to remain successful.
The strategy: Agreement during the period under review, and, so BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE composition of the Board will remain compliant with far as the Company is aware, Bridgemere Securities approval of the Annual Report, preliminary and principle B.
1.2 of the Code following the change as The Board considers that it is of a size and has a Limited, Steve Morgan and their associates half-yearly financial statements, trading updates the ratio of Independent Non-Executive Directors to balance of skills, knowledge and experience that is complied with the independence provisions set out and the recommendation of dividends: Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, will be appropriate for its business.
The Executive in the Relationship Agreement during the period 3:2 60%.
approval of any significant changes in accounting Management Team provides the Board with an under review.
policies or practices: any changes relating to The Board having been informed of the conditions capital structure and approval of treasury policies: of the Code on election and re-election, including ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of that there should be a formal, rigorous and TABLE OF ATTENDANCE internal control and risk management: transparent procedure for the appointment of new Name Role Attendance at Meetings directors to the Board, and that re-election is assessing the prospects and viability of the Group: subject to continued satisfactory performance, has Steve Morgan Chairman 6 6 approval of corporate acquisitions or disposals, decided that all Directors, with the exception of John Tutte Group Chief Executive 6 6 significant land purchases or contracts: Debbie Hewitt for the reasons outlined above, will be submitting themselves for re-election at the Barbara Richmond Group Finance Director 6 6 changes to the size, structure and composition of Annual General Meeting.
the Board: Debbie Hewitt Senior Independent Director 6 6 The Board has satisfied itself that all Directors who Nick Hewson Non-Executive Director 6 6 approval of significant policies, including the will be submitting themselves for re-election Groups Health and Safety policy: Sir Michael Lyons Non-Executive Director 6 6 continue to perform satisfactorily.
Details of review of overall corporate governance Vanda Murray Non-Executive Director 6 6 appropriate Annual General Meeting Resolutions arrangements: and will be found in the Notice of Annual General All details for the Directors are provided on pages 62 to 63.
Meeting which will be sent to shareholders appointment and removal of the Company Details of internal control and risk management processes are included in the Audit Committee report on pages 72 to 73. separately.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 68 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 69 GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Report continued Formal notification of the 2018 Annual General BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT CAPITAL STRUCTURE Meeting is sent to Shareholders at least 21 working The Board undertook an internal formal evaluation The Board recognises that a structured appraisal The information of the capital structure of the days in advance.
of its own performance, and the performance of process and good training are important Company is included in the Directors Report on each of its Committees, during the year ended requirements across the Group.
This started with a questionnaire regular presentations and briefings from those access to current financial and corporate information.
DIVERSITY designed to assess performance and ongoing responsible for key Group disciplines.
In addition, effectiveness across key areas in the year ended the Board maintains close working relationships The principle of boardroom diversity is strongly 30 June 2018 and to maintain visibility and progress with divisional Management Teams.
It is the Boards policy that during the financial year.
Following the completion appointments to the Board will always be based on GRAHAM COPE All Directors undertake a comprehensive induction of the questionnaires, a report was presented to the merit, so that the Board has the right individuals in Company Secretary programme following their first appointment.
The main observations from place, and recognises that diversity is an important 3 September 2018 the evaluation were: consideration as part of the selective criteria used The programme for the Non-Executive Directors is to assess candidates to achieve a balanced Board.
specifically designed to encompass the full breadth the appropriateness of the timings and number of of the business and includes visits to operating meetings and active contribution from Board The table below sets out the current position of the businesses.
members were rated very highly: Company on a gender basis.
the Committees of the Board were deemed to be During the year the formal appraisals of the Group Female Male operating effectively and within their Terms of Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director Main Board 3 43% 4 57% Reference: were undertaken by the Chairman.
Executive there was unanimous agreement that the Board All Non-Executive Directors had an annual appraisal Management Team 2 22% 7 78% was appropriately made up of individuals from a conducted by the Senior Independent Director.
diversity of gender, background and Direct reports to Executive psychological type as well as having an COMMITTEES Management Team 10 29% 25 71% appropriate mix of skills and knowledge: and The Board is supported by Audit, Nomination, Redrow employees Remuneration and Placemaking and Sustainability the Board members were highly satisfied that at June 2018 764 33% 1,518 67% Committees and their memberships, roles and there was a clear linkage between remuneration activities are set out in separate reports: the Audit offered to the Directors and strategy, risks and SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Committee report can be found on pages 70 to 75: performance of the Company.
The Company announces its financial results the Nomination Committee report on pages 76 to half-yearly, and, immediately following their The evaluation also identified the following areas for 77: the Remuneration Committee report on pages publication, undertakes formal presentations to improvement which will continue to be addressed 80 to 95 and the Placemaking and Sustainability equity analysts.
These presentations are available on over the coming year: Committee report can be found on pages 78 to 79. the Companys website.
continued focus on the longer-term strategic Each Committee has Terms of Reference approved objectives of the Group to allow constructive During the year ended 30 June 2018, the Chairman, by the Board and the minutes of the Committee challenge by the Non-Executive Directors: the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance meetings are circulated, and the Committee Director, together with the Senior Independent Chairmen provide reports, to the Board.
further consideration to be made to the longerDirector, also held a number of meetings with term succession planning of the Executive The Audit Committee is chaired by Nick Hewson, significant shareholders and subsequently briefed Management Team, although it was the Remuneration and the Nomination Committees the Board on issues discussed at these meetings.
acknowledged that good progress had been are chaired by Debbie Hewitt and the Placemaking made: and Following the full year and half-yearly results and Sustainability Committee is chaired by Sir announcement in September 2017 and February Michael Lyons.
Following Debbies retirement at the scope for a more rigorous evaluation of 2018, the Group Chief Executive and the Group 2018 Annual General Meeting, she will be performance.
Finance Director met current and potential significant succeeded by Vanda Murray as Chairman of the shareholders.
This included visits to London and the As a result, the Board considers that it continues to Remuneration Committee and Nick Hewson as United States of America and feedback from these operate effectively with meetings to facilitate and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
meetings was independently collated and debate decision making.
The Board completed a performance evaluation of disseminated to the Board.
The evaluation also considered succession planning each of its Committees during the financial year Last year the Annual General Meeting took place at a for the Executive Management Team and the ended 30 June 2018.
The evaluation reports were venue close to the Companys Head Office.
discussed at a meeting of the Committees and it Directors attended the Annual General Meeting on 9 was concluded that they were contributing and November 2017.
Shareholders are encouraged to functioning effectively and were complying with attend the 2018 Annual General Meeting, which their Terms of Reference.
presents an opportunity for all shareholders attending to ask questions formally during the meeting and informally afterwards to the Directors.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 70 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 71 GOVERNANCE REPORT Audit Committee Report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORTING ON SIGNIFICANT ISSUES The Committee is responsible for providing independent scrutiny of the The primary areas of judgement and estimation uncertainty which were considered by the Committee and how these were Groups financial and non-financial performance, internal control process addressed is set out below.
The Group Finance Director and Finance Director Group Services attend meetings by invitation to answer any questions the and external Auditors.
The Committee also annually reviews the internal controls that are in place and reviews the findings of PwCs testing of controls and processes for estimating as well as the adequacy of disclosures that management propose to be made in financial statements.
separately with the external Auditors and Internal COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS VALUATION OF INVENTORY Audit following the final audit and the review of the The four Members of the Committee are Independent The Committee receives a paper prepared by management at each reporting date outlining the approach taken by year ended 30 June 2018 financial statements.
Nick Hewson is Chairman of management to assess the net realisable value of inventories together with details of sites with significant areas of judgement No matters of concern were raised within these the Committee and is a Fellow of the Institute of and any forward land against which provisions have been made.
The Committee Chairman also met with Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
the Engagement Partner of the external Auditors DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEME VALUATION Biographies of the Members of the Committee can be and the Chief Information Officer to discuss Internal found on pages 62 to 63.
The Committee receives details of the IAS 19R Employee Benefits valuations carried out at each reporting date for management Audit matters.
The Group Company Secretary acts by the actuary who advises the Company and the underlying assumptions.
A sensitivity analysis is also provided for its The Board believes that Nick Hewson has the as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee also receives details of the triennial independent scheme valuation report prepared by the Scheme NICK HEWSON requisite financial qualifications and experience to Actuary and reviews key judgement areas made including relevant actuarial advice that has been received.
In addition the Chairman of the RESPONSIBILITIES AND TERMS chair the Committee and the balance of the Committee also reviews PwCs report benchmarking pension actuarial assumptions.
The Scheme was in surplus as at 30 June 2018.
Audit Committee OF REFERENCE Committee has the appropriate level of experience to fulfil its Terms of Reference and the requirements of MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR The key responsibilities of the Committee are: the Code.
The Committee followed a programme which is structured around the annual reporting cycle and received reports from Internal monitoring the timeliness and integrity of the Audit, the external Audit and management.
Vanda Murray joined as a Member of the Committee financial statements of the accompanying reports The principal activities undertaken were as follows: following her appointment to the Board on 1 August to the shareholders and Corporate Governance 2017.
Liz Peace retired as a Member of the Board and Statements including reviewing the findings of A review of the full year 2017 results including the Annual Report and a report from the external Auditors: the Committee with effect from 31 August 2017. external Auditors: September 2017 Consideration of the Group risk assessment process, viability statement and a going concern review: reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of The Group Finance Director and Finance Director An update on cyber security and attaining Cyber Essentials Plus: and systems for internal control, financial reporting Group Services attend meetings by invitation and both and risk management having regard to the A review of the Companys policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the General Data Protection were present at all the meetings in the year ended 30 long-term prospects and viability of the Company: Regulation 2018.
The external Auditors, reviewing and overseeing the effectiveness of  LLP PwC, and the Chief A review of the 2018 half-yearly accounts and going concern including a report from the external Auditors: February 2018 Internal Audit: Information Officer who had the responsibility for A review of the Terms of Reference of the Committee: Internal Audit of the Company, were also in attendance making recommendations to the Board in relation A review of the proposed external Audit strategy for 2018 and associated fees: at all meetings.
to the appointment and removal of external A review of the effectiveness of the external Audit process: Auditors and approving the remuneration and A review of the independence and objectivity of the external Auditors: terms of engagement: Table of Attendance A review of the Committees effectiveness: determining the criteria used in order to assess Attendance A further update on cyber security: and the quality of the external audit and reporting on Name Role at Meetings A report on the changes made to ensure that the Company would be compliant under the General Data any significant issues considered in relation to the Nick Hewson Chairman 3 3 Protection Regulation 2018. financial statements: Debbie Hewitt Member 3 3 reviewing and monitoring the external Audit A review of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: June 2018 Sir Michael Lyons Member 3 3 process and independent activity of the Auditors A review of the Risk Register: as well as the nature and scope of the external Vanda Murray Member 3 3 A review of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy: Audit and its effectiveness: Liz Peace Member 0 0 A review of the Groups Anti-Bribery Policy: reviewing the Companys procedures for The adoption of the Groups Anti-Facilitation of Tax Evasion Policy: detecting fraud and the adequacy of its systems A review of internal controls across the whole business: and controls for the prevention of bribery: There were no meetings held between 1 July 2017 and An update on Internal Audit, its strategy and a review of the Internal Audit timetable for 2019: 31 August 2017, being the date which Liz Peace retired as reviewing the Companys procedures for data A review on the independence and objectivity of the external Auditors: a Member of the Committee.
management and cyber resilience: Further discussions regarding the future tendering of the external Audit in compliance with the Order of the reviewing the Companys procedures and Competition and Markets Authority: The Committee met three times in the year ended controls for the prevention of tax evasion and the 30 June 2018 and a summary of the principal Undertook a Performance Evaluation of the Committee: and facilitation of tax evasion: and activities of the Committee are listed below.
An update on cyber security and compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation 2018. reviewing the Companys procedures for raising Detailed papers and information were circulated A review of the full year 2018 results, including the Annual Report and a report from the external Auditors: September 2018 concerns.
sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper Consideration of the Group risk assessment process, viability statement and a going concern review: and consideration of the matters for discussion.
The The Committees Terms of Reference are available Tender process for the appointment of new Auditors, strategy and timetable discussed and agreed.
Committee has also had the opportunity to meet on the Companys website www.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 72 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 73 GOVERNANCE REPORT Audit Committee Report continued provide assurance that Group policies and AUDIT INDEPENDENCE INTERNAL CONTROLS INSURANCE procedures are being implemented and complied PwC were appointed Auditors in 1999 following their The Board of Directors recognises its overall The Board has appointed an experienced broker to with in all material respects: merger with Coopers & Lybrand who were appointed in responsibility for the Groups system of internal advise on and co-ordinate all insurance matters 1987.
The current Audit Partner from PwC commenced control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
There is across the Group and they liaise closely with in addition, key functional Directors complete a his tenure following the conclusion of the year ended an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and appropriate Group personnel at Head Office and Principal Controls Self-Assessment Questionnaire 30 June 2015 audit.
However, in reviewing the within the divisions and report directly to the Group which is reviewed by the Board to assist in effectiveness of internal control, any internal control Finance Director.
improvements in the control framework: Whilst the Company is satisfied that the auditors remain system can only provide reasonable but not absolute independent, it recognises the Order of the RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL AUDIT assurance against material misstatement or loss.
a weekly business report WBR comprising sales Competition and Markets Authority in relation to FTSE The Groups Risk Register defines controls as prevent funnel information, gross margins and order book 350 companies which will require the Company to Key business activities, including finance, land or detect and identifies owners for each high level is produced for the Group, each division and each change its statutory auditor for the June 2020 audit at acquisition, product design, and procurement and risk.
Feedback on the risks and controls is actively site and circulated across the Group: the latest.
information technology are controlled by the encouraged and is facilitated by links on the Groups Executive Directors.
All activity is organised within a intranet to ensure the risks listed remain relevant and a monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance Due to the length of time that PwC have been the defined structure with formal lines of responsibility, accurate.
The Register itself is regularly maintained and reviewed at each of the Main, Executive and Companys Auditors, the Committee considers that it is designated authority levels and a structured and is reviewed by the Committee annually.
Annual budgets are in the best interests of the Company to undertake a reporting framework.
A formalised reporting structure set, with actual performance compared against tender of the external Audit.
As a result, the Committee is established within the Group.
The Executive The Internal Audit strategy is discussed with PwC and the annual budget: has had further discussions regarding its future policy, Directors, the Group Company Secretary, Regional discussed and agreed with the Committee.
strategy and timing for tendering of the external Audit.
Chief Executives, Group Human Resources Director, Suggested control improvements and any control preparation and regular updates of Strategic Group Sales and Marketing Director, Group weaknesses identified are followed up as The Company has commenced a tender process for the Plans: Communications Director and Group Development appropriate.
The cornerstone of the Internal Audit appointment of new Auditors.
The tender process will Director the Executive Management Team meet work undertaken is the Business Process Review, a a policy and procedures manual which covers all be supervised by the Committee, who will then make a monthly to discuss the Groups key issues, risks and risk-based programme that was designed, based on the significant aspects of the Groups operations recommendation to the Board on the appointment of opportunities.
The divisions also hold monthly board the Risk Register, to be carried out regularly at each and describes the systems and controls that are the replacement Auditor.
Following the appointment, an meetings which are attended on a rotational basis by division of the Group.
The Business Process Review to be applied: and announcement will be made.
programme looks to provide assurance to the Group, In the meantime, the Company will be proposing the daily statements of a reconciled cash position by testing internal controls and reviewing specific The key features of the Groups internal controls are re-appointment of its current Auditor at the 2018 Annual identifying significant payments are prepared, risks, as well as seeking out best practice and as follows: General meeting.
rolling cash flow forecasts are prepared and sharing it across the Group and identifying business forecast banking covenant compliance are tested.
Committee Members receive defined authorisation levels exist over key areas The Committee confirms that there were no contractual an Executive Summary of each Business Process such as land purchase, the placing of orders and obligations that acted to restrict the Committees choice Throughout the year, the Committee has carried out Review report and these reports are then discussed contracts and staff recruitment: of external Auditors.
assessments of internal control by considering at the next Committee meeting.
In addition the documentation from the Executive Directors and the a comprehensive prioritised Risk Register which is Committee at its meetings reviews the progress The Committee has a formal policy in respect of the internal audit function as well as taking into regularly reviewed and presented to the Audit made by the relevant division, following the work of the external Auditors.
The purpose of this policy consideration events since the year end.
The Committee: completion of a Business Process Review, against the is to ensure that the Auditors objectivity and internal controls extended to the financial reporting Internal Audit process.
the Groups management information systems independence is maintained by ensuring both that the process and the preparation of consolidated provide weekly updates on key statistics and nature of any non-audit work undertaken and the level accounts.
The basis for the preparation of The Company has introduced a new business information in respect of sales and production of fees paid does not compromise the Auditors consolidated accounts has been undertaken in planning process whereby each land transaction, and the content of these weekly reports is position.
accordance with the Companys Accounting policies following completion of the development, is tested regularly reviewed to ensure it remains as set out on pages 114 to 118. against its original appraisal to ascertain its Appointments in respect of non-audit work require the appropriate: performance and to improve cash flow forecasting.
prior approval of the Committee within an established The Committee therefore confirms that it is satisfied These Post Completion Reports are provided to the the Group has an in-house Health and Safety budget.
In addition, no work can be undertaken by the that the system of controls has been in operation Committee and are discussed at each meeting.
department and places great emphasis on the external Auditors in any area where there is any throughout the financial year and up to the date of importance of health and safety and environment identifiable risk that the work of an individual within the this report.
The department works closely with external Audit firm or the external Audit firm generally The Group has a widely publicised Whistleblowing the divisions to ensure that training is provided to could conflict or compromise the quality, objectivity or RISK REGISTER Policy which enables employees and other employees and subcontractors.
Best practice is independence of any audit or compliance work The Group formally reviews its prioritised Risk stakeholders to raise concerns in confidence.
The shared and appropriate actions are taken to undertaken for the Group.
The updated and reviewed Risk Committee has arranged to receive reports on all comply with health and safety best practice and Register is then discussed and approved by the occasions when such issues are raised under this The external Auditors are not indemnified by the legislation throughout the organisation: Committee.
In addition, the Executive Management policy.
Company nor has the Company purchased liability Team, through its regular meetings, reviews key the Board requires each Director in its operating insurance for them.
areas of risk on an ongoing basis and considers The Whistleblowing Policy is formally reviewed and divisions to complete an annual statement on whether the internal controls identified in relation to approved each year by the Committee.
During the Details of fees paid to PwC for audit and non-audit Corporate Governance and related party those risks remain appropriate.
year, this policy was updated to reflect changes in purposes are disclosed on page 119. transactions.
The statement is designed to STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 74 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 75 GOVERNANCE REPORT Audit Committee Report continued best practice and to incorporate reference to the new PERFORMANCE EVALUATION corporate criminal act of facilitating tax evasion, as The Committee completed a performance referred to below.
evaluation during the financial year by the members of the Committee and those who regularly attend by BRIBERY ACT invitation, including the external Auditor, completing Following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010 a self-assessment questionnaire and a report the Company put in place a policy on bribery and compiled by the Group Company Secretary from the corruption for all employees strictly to adhere to.
results was presented to the Committee and The Group Company Secretary ensures that the discussed.
The Committee was found to be policy is complied with, updates the policy, effective and it was concluded that the Committee procedures and company code of practice as and had fulfilled its remit and had in place appropriate when required and provides regular reports to the Terms of Reference.
The Bribery Act policy is formally reviewed and approved each year by the Committee.
This policy NICK HEWSON was updated this year to reflect changes to internal Chairman of the Audit Committee procedures since the previous publication.
3 September 2018 Training is given to all staff to highlight the various forms of bribery and all new staff attend an induction course at the commencement of their employment which includes a section relating to bribery and the implication on individuals and the Company of an act of bribery either given or received.
Every year, through its internal e-learning facility, each employee will be required to complete a mandatory compliance test which reminds each employee of their obligations.
THE CRIMINAL FINANCES ACT Following the introduction of the Criminal Finances Act 2017 on 30 September 2017, the Company put in place a policy relating to the facilitation of tax evasion.
The policy is applicable to every employee and the Employee Handbook, which is provided to each new employee, includes reference to the policy and the Groups zero-tolerance stance on tax evasion and its facilitation.
As with the Bribery Act policy, the Group Company Secretary ensures that the policy is complied with and reports to the Committee on matters falling within the policy.
The Anti-Facilitation of Tax Evasion policy shall be formally reviewed and approved each year by the Committee.
THE REGENT COLLECTION AT ERSKINE PARK, WILTON, WILTSHIRE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 76 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 77 GOVERNANCE REPORT Nomination Committee Report The Directors were not present and did not vote DIVERSITY The Committee reviews the size, structure, balance and composition of the when their individual proposals were discussed.
The principle of boardroom diversity is strongly Board, oversees Board and Senior Executive succession planning and supported and recognised by the Board.
It is the SUCCESSION Boards policy that appointments to the Board will identifies and nominates for approval candidates to fill Board vacancies.
The Board considers that succession planning of the always be based on merit, so that the Board has the Board and its Committees is extremely important right individuals in place, and recognises that diversity and believes that it currently has a good balance is seen as an important consideration as part of the and diversity among its Non-Executive Directors, selective criteria used to assess candidates to achieve leading the process for Board appointments COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS with each of them having relevant skills derived a balanced Board.
Current female representation on ensuring they are conducted on merit and against from serving in a range of executive and nonAll Members of the Committee are Independent the Board is 43%.
objective criteria: executive positions over many years.
Non-Executive Directors with Debbie Hewitt, the making recommendations to the Board, including Once Debbie Hewitt steps down from the Board at the Senior Independent Director being Chair of the On 19 August 2018, Debbie Hewitt completed 9 on appointment of Executive Directors and close of the 2018 Annual General Meeting, female Committee.
The other Members of the Committee years service on the Board and, in line with best Non-Executive Directors to the Board, the representation on the Board will be 33%, remaining in during the period ending 30 June 2018 were Nick practice, she will not be standing for re-election at re-appointment of Directors, the re-election of line with the Hampton-Alexander Review, which Hewson, Liz Peace, Sir Michael Lyons and Vanda the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Directors at the Annual General Meeting and the recommends that FTSE 350 companies should aim to Murray.
membership of the Audit, Nomination, build the representation of women on their boards to DEBBIE HEWITT Vanda Murray joined as a Member of the Committee In preparation for the retirement of Debbie Hewitt, Remuneration and Placemaking and Sustainability 33% by 2020.
Chairman of the following her appointment to the Board on 1 August the Committee put in place a succession plan Committees: Nomination 2017.
Liz Peace retired as a Member of the Board recognising best practice which advises the The Board believes in the benefits of cognitive ensuring that a formal, structured and tailored Committee and the Committee with effect from 31 August 2017.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee shall sit diversity, from a wide range of complementary skills.
induction programme is undertaken by any newly on the Committee for a year prior to taking up the The Committee will continue to aspire to maintain a The biographies of the Members of the Committee appointed member of the Board: Chairman role and that the Senior Independent diverse Board with recruitment and selection of can be found at pages 62 to 63. reviewing annually the time required from the Director have a good understanding of the talented individuals and with a broad range of Non-Executive Directors: Company to enable them to carry out the duties of appropriate skills, irrespective of gender.
Table of Attendance satisfying itself with regard to succession planning the role effectively.
The Committee continues to monitor and review for the Board and senior management, taking into Attendance reports and recommendations relating to the With effect from the close of the 2018 Annual account the challenges and opportunities facing Name Role at Meetings composition of boards and diversity, including the General Meeting, Debbie Hewitt will be succeeded the Company and future skills and expertise Debbie Hewitt Chairman 3 3 Parker Review on ethnic diversity.
by Nick Hewson as the Senior Independent Director needed on the Board including development and Nick Hewson Member 3 3 and Chairman of the Nomination Committee and by training: and The Group Human Resources Director attends the Vanda Murray as Chairman of the Remuneration ensuring suitable candidates for the Board are Liz Peace Member 0 1 monthly Executive Management Team meetings and Committee.
identified through an appropriate recruitment provides a monthly people report which provides key Sir Michael Lyons Member 3 3 process, giving due regard to the benefits of statistics on Group employees as well as providing Nick Hewson has substantial experience as a Vanda Murray Member 2 2 diversity, including gender and ethnicity, and updates on employee engagement and recruitment.
Non-Executive Director and, having been on the recommended for appointment.
She reports to the Nomination Committee at least Board since December 2012, has a good twice a year to update on progress.
Liz Peace was unable to attend the meeting which was held The Committees Terms of Reference are published understanding of the business of the Group.
He has whilst she was a Member of the Committee.
on the Groups website www.
also been a member of the Nomination Committee PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Vanda Murray attended both meetings which were held since joining the Board in 2012. following her appointment as a Member of the Committee.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR The Committee members completed a Vanda Murray has extensive Remuneration performance evaluation during the financial year During the year to 30 June 2018 the Committee The Committee met three times during the year ended Committee experience, having held Chairman and a report was presented by the Secretary to the undertook the following activities: 30 June 2018.
For all meetings, papers were circulated positions of the Remuneration Committees in Bunzl Committee and discussed.
The Committee was sufficiently in advance to allow proper consideration of a review of the structure, size and composition of plc and Fenner plc.
She joined the Remuneration found to be effective and it was concluded that the all matters for discussion.
The Group Company the Board: Committee of the Company on 1 August 2017 and Committee had fulfilled its remit and had in place Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has spent a significant amount of time shadowing appropriate Terms of Reference.
Actions were concluded that the present Board balance and Debbie Hewitt in preparation for her taking on the agreed to maintain this progress.
RESPONSIBILITIES AND TERMS composition remains appropriate but that it will be role of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
OF REFERENCE kept under review: Throughout the year, good progress had been The key responsibilities of the Committee are: an assessment of the Board composition and Following an assessment by the Committee, the made on the longer-term succession planning of reviewing the structure, size and composition of effectiveness with specific regard given to the Board is not currently seeking to appoint an the Executive Management Team and this will the Board including skills, knowledge and retirement of Debbie Hewitt at the conclusion of additional Non-Executive Director to replace remain a priority for the coming year.
experience and making recommendations for the 2018 Annual General Meeting: Debbie Hewitt, as the recruitment of Vanda Murray further recruitment to the Board or proposing in 2017 has provided for the Non-Executive recommended that the Directors, save for Debbie changes to the existing Board: succession needs.
As a result of careful succession Hewitt following completion of 9 years service, DEBBIE HEWITT planning, the Committee believes that the resultant stand for re-election at the conclusion of the 2018 reviewing the leadership needs of the Company, Chairman of the Nomination Committee balance of the Non-Executive Directors and Annual General Meeting in accordance with UK both executive and non-executive, ensuring Executive Directors remains effective, along with 3 September 2018 Corporate Governance Code: and appropriate succession planning for Directors and each of the Boards Committees.
other senior executives within the business: reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 78 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 79 GOVERNANCE REPORT Placemaking and Sustainability Committee Report to have regard to the Companys involvement in supported a series of workshops that were run to The Committee ensures that the Group lives up to high environmental and the community, and the Companys policy on help refine the Groups placemaking principles.
charitable donations and activities: These principles, which have been titled Redrow placemaking standards and delivers on its commitment to promote the 8, are being developed by drawing on the to have regard to the Companys developments in creation of socially and economically sustainable communities.
Groups many years of experience delivering high customer engagement and service to ensure its quality distinctive places to live: values are upheld: encouraged the Company to become a member to adhere to the Companys three key principles of the NHS Healthy Towns Network.
The purpose COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS RESPONSIBILITIES AND TERMS of sustainability: Thriving Communities, Building of the network is to explore how new housing OF REFERENCE Responsibly and Valuing People: and The Members of the Committee during the developments can achieve better health Financial Year comprised Sir Michael Lyons, who The key responsibilities of the Committee are: to ensure that we are continuing to create great outcomes: was Chairman of the Committee and Nick Hewson, places to live and making social, economical and evaluated the outcomes of a pilot project to develop and monitor the Companys approach Independent Non-Executive Director, Matthew environmental contributions to local areas by examining how our current design approach is to sustainability and to review and approve the Pratt, Southern Regional Chief Executive, Robert setting well-designed homes and amenities within impacting biodiversity at several of our existing sustainability targets proposed by management: MacDiarmid, Group Sustainability Director, and attractive shared spaces.
Whilst the sample of sites in this Karen Jones, Group Human Resources Director.
to assess the impact of the Companys operations exercise was not large enough to make wider The Committee regularly reviews its Terms of SIR MICHAEL on the environment and communities affected by Liz Peace retired from the Board on 31 August 2017 predictions, the findings gave insight into the key Reference: these were last reviewed in May 2018 LYONS its activities, including the consideration of and was replaced by Sir Michael Lyons on considerations for achieving biodiversity net gain and are published on the Groups website Chairman of the policies to enhance the benefits of those 1 September 2017 as Chairman of the Committee.
and will inform the development of our new www.
Placemaking and activities and mitigate any negative impact of biodiversity strategy: Sustainability those activities: On 1 September 2017 the Committee was renamed MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR supported the formulation of a health and Committee the Placemaking and Sustainability Committee.
to have regard to environmental corporate social During the year ended 30 June 2018 the principal wellbeing strategy which is being developed to responsibility and community issues, including activities of the Committee were as follows: improve the wellbeing of the Groups people and environmental management systems, waste create a more inclusive workplace: and Table of Attendance management systems, recycling and energy assessed the changes required to achieve the continued to review and evaluate the Groups management: target of implementing an accredited H&S Attendance collaboration with education partners, which is Management system ISO45001 : to ensure that the Group Sustainability Director Name Role at Meetings aiming to positively impact people and produces in advance of each meeting a implemented three new sustainability themes Sir Michael Lyons Chairman 3 3 communities.
sustainability performance scorecard to assist the Thriving Communities, Building Responsibly and Liz Peace Chairman 0 0 Committee to more clearly evaluate the Valuing People and set the objectives and PERFORMANCE EVALUATION relationship between the sustainability initiatives targets in order to fully integrate these principles Nick Hewson Member 3 3 The Committee members completed a performance in place, or being considered, and the related within the Group: Matthew Pratt Member 2 3 evaluation during the financial year and a report was performance levels being achieved: supported the implementation of the new presented by the Secretary to the Committee and Robert MacDiarmid Member 3 3 to ensure that the Company supports its people Intranet, which promotes increased discussed.
The Committee was found to be Karen Jones Member 3 3 on a learning and development pathway to deliver communication across the Group: effective and it was concluded that the Committee high quality products and services and to ensure had fulfilled its remit and had in place appropriate monitored and reviewed the Companys response that there is sufficient encouragement and Terms of Reference.
to environmental legislation and regulation, support given to Company employees so that There were no meetings held between 1 July 2017 and ensuring the appropriate risk mitigation controls they can realise their capability to contribute to 31 August 2017, being the date which Liz Peace retired as were being implemented, monitored and a Member of the Committee.
the social, environment and economic health of evaluated: SIR MICHAEL LYONS our communities and having regard to the Due to unforeseen circumstances, Matthew Pratt was Chairman of the Placemaking monitored the suitability of internal and external promoting and maintaining the highest degree of unable to attend one of the meetings but was fully and Sustainability Committee communication of sustainability related activities.
physical, mental and social wellbeing in the appraised of the matters discussed therein.
Methods of communication included internal workplace: 3 September 2018 The Committee met three times during the year magazines, Companywide briefings and updates to ensure that the Company continues to be an ended 30 June 2018.
For all meetings, papers were to the Companys website: employer of choice in the industry, valuing and circulated sufficiently in advance to allow proper approved the Company becoming Gold Leaf respecting its diversity: providing both advantage, consideration of all matters for discussion.
The members of the UK Green Building Council and equality of opportunity in recruitment, Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the UKGBC and becoming corporate members of development, recognition and reward: Committee.
Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS, a to review the Companys policies and reporting non-profit-making, independent organisation with regard to personnel recruitment, founded by the construction industry to improve development and succession planning to ensure its image: a sustainable and engaged workforce: STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 80 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 81 GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors Remuneration Report The alignment between performance and reward CORPORATE GOVERNANCE I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year which underpins our executive remuneration The Remuneration Committee continues to monitor framework, is reflected in the outcomes for the ended 30 June 2018. developments in respect of the Governments annual bonus and LTIP: corporate governance reforms including the recently announced changes to the UK Corporate 2017-18 Annual bonus: Based on exceptional At the Annual General Meeting on 9 November land, achieving planning consent, opening outlets, Governance Code the Code.
During the coming performance, with the targets for maximum 2017, our Directors Remuneration Policy was put to building quality homes and selling and handing year the Committee will review Redrows compliance payment exceeded for three of the annual bonus a binding shareholder vote, which was approved by them over on time, are all critical success factors measures PBT, ROCE, land holdings and with the remuneration aspects of the Code and will 99.97% of the votes cast.
The Remuneration and feature as part of our management incentive performance on outlet openings significantly make amendments where necessary.
Committee believes that this approved Policy programmes.
above target but short of the stretch target, the PERFORMANCE EVALUATION continues to reflect our overall remuneration Committee determined that the annual bonus We adopt clear, simple and market competitive philosophy and that it is working effectively to align The Committee completed a performance evaluation should pay out at 96.7% of salary for both of the remuneration arrangements.
The alignment of the executives with the optimum outcome for all during the financial year by the members of the Executive Directors.
50% of this will be paid in executive remuneration with the objectives of our stakeholders.
We are therefore not proposing any Committee and those who regularly attend by shares and half of these will be deferred for a DEBBIE HEWITT shareholders has been the principal focus, ensuring changes to our Remuneration Policy this year.
As invitation, including the Chairman, Group Finance period of one year and the remaining half Chairman of the remuneration structures are fully attuned to the shareholders are now familiar with it, the full Policy Director and Group HR Director, completing a deferred for two years: and Remuneration business strategy.
We aim to balance the short, is not included in this years report but a summary is self-assessment questionnaire.
A report was Committee 2015 -18 LTIP: EPS of 85.0p and ROCE of 28% in medium and long term components of our provided in the form of a Policy table which explains compiled by the Group Company Secretary from the 2018 were both significantly above the targets remuneration, to ensure that we motivate and retain how our framework operates and is set out on results and it was presented to the Committee and for maximum vesting of 76.3p and 22%, our executives and keep them focused on pages 82 to 84.
We will be submitting a Policy for discussed.
It was concluded that the Committee had respectively.
The Committee therefore delivering long-term sustainable growth.
The annual shareholder approval at the 2020 AGM in line with fulfilled its remit and had in place appropriate Terms determined that the 2015 LTIP award should vest bonus encourages performance in key areas of the three year cycle set out in the regulations.
The report also concluded how the in full on 14 September 2018. strategic focus for the business and the Long Term Committee would ensure that the succession Incentive Plan LTIP reflects our market related The Annual Remuneration Report pages 86 to 95 The 2018-19 annual bonus targets are disclosed on planning of the Chair of the Committee would work, growth and return ambitions.
provides details on the remuneration we paid in page 86. including a detailed handover plan.
respect of 2018 and how we intend to operate our We have and will continue to set stretching target 2018 OUTCOMES AN OUTSTANDING YEAR SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT policies in 2019.
It will be submitted to an advisory ranges for our incentive awards.
Shareholders will We remain committed to an ongoing and transparent As described in detail on pages 1 to 59 of this shareholder vote at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
note from our disclosure that historical targets set dialogue with our shareholders on executive Annual Report, 2018 was another outstanding year were stretching and payments have reflected remuneration.
In putting in place our current Policy, OUR PHILOSOPHY ALIGNING REWARD for Redrow, which saw: absolute and relative outperformance in market terms we engaged with a number of our major WITH PERFORMANCE for financial returns and for the strategic objectives of Record profit before tax of 380m, up 21% shareholders and their feedback was taken into Our Remuneration strategy remains unchanged it quality land holdings and strong order book.
account by the Committee in finalising the Policy.
We Revenue exceeding 1.9bn, up 16% is designed to reflect the needs of a UK based, will continue to engage with our shareholders on any REMUNERATION DECISIONS FOR 2019 capital intensive house builder, with ambitious Earnings per share up 22% to 85.3p significant changes to the Policy.
We make long-term investments, The Committee has decided to award salary ROCE improving further to 28.5% which are differentiated by the constant innovation increases to the Group Chief Executive and Group Last year, 99.96% of votes cast were in favour of the and quality of our product.
Successfully acquiring Dividend up 65% to 28p Finance Director of 2.5%, effective from 1 July 2018.
Remuneration Report and 99.97% of votes cast were This is below the average increase for all other in favour of the Remuneration Policy.
We look forward employees across the business which was 3.5%.
to receiving your continued support on our approach Based on these principles, our remuneration framework includes the following components: to remuneration at this years Annual General Meeting.
The annual bonus and LTIP will operate in line with our Remuneration Policy.
CLOSING REMARKS Fixed Components Variable Components The annual bonus will continue to be based on a Finally, as you will be aware, I will be retiring from the Salary Benefits Pension Annual Bonus LTIP balanced scorecard of performance measures PBT, Board following the AGM after 9 years of service as a ROCE, a measure based on the number of outlets Market competitive Maximum 100% of salary Maximum 150% of salary Non-Executive Director.
It has been a privilege to be opened and land acquired.
R eflect nature of B alanced scorecard of key B ased on stretching long-term a member of the Redrow Board during a period of role, and skills performance measures for EPS and ROCE targets The EPS and ROCE target ranges for the 2018-21 LTIP considerable growth.
Assuming her election by and experience example, PBT, ROCE, land award are set out on page 86 of this report.
shareholders, Vanda Murray will take up the position S ubject to clawback for five holdings, outlet openings years following vesting of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with As reported last year, all variable pay elements were 5 0% deferred into shares half effect from 7 November 2018. removed from the Chairmans package and therefore Subj ect to an additional holding vest after one year and half after Steve Morgan was not invited to participate in the period of two years following two years 2017 18 annual bonus scheme nor granted an LTIP in vesting including post- 2017.
Further, following his move to Non-Executive C ash and shares subject to employment DEBBIE HEWITT Chairman on 1 October 2017, his salary of 499k was clawback for five years following Chairman of the Remuneration Committee payment vesting reduced to an annual fee of 300k.
He takes a nominal payment of 10k, which he donates via This report has been prepared in accordance with the UK Shareholding Guidelines payroll giving to the Steve Morgan Foundation and Corporate Governance Code, the relevant provisions of the Listing Rules and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized 200% of salary to be built up over five years from appointment the remainder is donated directly by the Company to Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment the Steve Morgan Foundation.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 82 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 83 GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors Remuneration Report continued THE REMUNERATION POLICY Purpose link Component to strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework The Remuneration Policy became effective following shareholder approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
An extract of the Remuneration Policy table with updated references, where relevant and Pension To provide a Individuals are eligible to The maximum DC N A market participate in the Companys contribution cash supporting disclosures is reproduced below for information only.
The full Remuneration Policy is contained competitive Defined Contribution DC supplement in respect of a on pages 79 to 86 of the 2017 Annual Report, which is available in the Investor Relations section of the element of pension scheme or receive a financial year is 20% of base Groups website, http: investors.
fixed pension allowance cash salary.
Policy Table for Executive Directors for retirement Executive Directors who are planning.
members of the Companys Purpose link Component to strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework Defined Benefit DB pension scheme will Base To provide a Salaries are determined by There is no prescribed N A continue to receive benefits Salary market the Committee taking into maximum salary.
Any salary under the terms of that competitive account all relevant factors increases will normally be in scheme.
There will be no element of such as: line with those of the wider new entrants or accrual of fixed workforce.
future benefits under the DB The size and complexity of remuneration to scheme.
the Company, the scope and The Committee has attract and responsibilities of the role, discretion to award larger retain leaders the skills and experience of increases where it considers of the required Annual A variable pay The Committee determines 100% of salary.
Performance is assessed against the individual and this appropriate, such as to calibre to Bonus opportunity participation levels each key financial and operational performance in role.
reflect for example : deliver the which motivates year.
Targets are set by the performance measures linked to strategy.
The Committees a significant change in and rewards Committee at the start of the the delivery of the strategy and assessment of the the size and complexity annual relevant financial year and shareholder value determined each competitive market of the Company: performance are assessed following the year by the Committee.
positioning of base salaries and delivery of year end.
an increase in scope The current performance measures is based on consideration of the strategy on and responsibility of the A portion currently 50% of are: market data from UK an annual basis.
role, or a change in role: any bonus earned will be companies of similar size 25% based on profit before tax: Deferral aligns deferred into Redrow shares, an Executive Director and complexity and reward with which are awarded in the 25% based on return on capital being moved to market companies in the houselong-term value form of nil-cost options employed ROCE : positioning over time: building sector.
of Redrow which vest after a period set and 25% based on land Salaries are normally shares.
Currently, holdings: and reviewed annually, with any an Executive Director half of the deferred shares changes effective at the falling below 25% based on outlet openings vests after one year and half start of the financial year.
competitive market after two years, subject to The Committee retains discretion to positioning.
adjust the measures and or weightings in future years to reflect Following exercise of a prevailing financial, strategic and Benefits To provide a Benefits may include: a Benefit provision, for which N A vested deferred share operational objectives of the market company car or equivalent there is no prescribed award, participants will be business or of the individual.
competitive cash allowance, private monetary maximum, is set at entitled to receive an However, a minimum of 50% of the benefits medical insurance, an appropriate level for the amount equal to the total will always be based on key package to permanent health specific nature and location aggregate of any dividends financial measures.
support the insurance, fixed term group of the role.
which they would have been Director in income protection and a entitled to receive as a No bonus will be payable for Participation in all employee fulfilling their death in service benefit, shareholder during the performance below threshold share plans is subject to role.
and where appropriate any period between the grant levels set by the Committee.
and satisfaction of the The Committee has discretion to award.
Executive Directors may adjust the level of payout if the also participate in In future years, the outcome from a formulaic all-employee share plans on Committee retains the assessment does not appropriately the same basis as other discretion to change the reflect underlying business employees.
deferred amount and or performance.
The Committee has discretion to include, where Where appropriate, the it considers it appropriate to Committee may determine do so, other benefits to that deferral is in the form of reflect specific individual an equivalent cash award circumstances, such as which in all other respects housing, relocation, travel, mirrors the terms of the or other expatriate deferred share awards.
Clawback provisions apply to both the cash and deferred elements.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 84 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 85 GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors Remuneration Report continued THE REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Clawback For awards under the annual bonus plan including deferred share awards and awards made since the Purpose link Component to strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework introduction of the 2014 LTIP, the Committee has discretion to clawback awards in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys audited financial results or employee misconduct.
Long Term Designed to Awards may be made under The maximum award which The LTIP is based on Incentive motivate and the Redrow plc 2014 Long may be granted in respect of performance In such circumstances, at any time prior to the fifth anniversary of the payment of any cash bonus or vesting Plan LTIP reward Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
a financial year will normally measures aligned to of a deferred bonus LTIP award, the Committee has discretion to: long-term not exceed 150% of salary.
the creation of Awards are normally in the performance long-term form of nil-cost options.
The However, in exceptional reduce, cancel or impose further conditions on outstanding deferred bonus LTIP awards: or and delivery of shareholder value, Committee may also circumstances only, the the strategy measured over a require the participant to repay in cash or shares some or all of the value delivered from a deferred determine that awards are Committee may make and provide performance period made in the form of awards of up to 200% of bonus LTIP awards: and or alignment with of at least three years.
conditional share awards or salary.
Redrow The current require the participant to repay some or all of any cash bonus received as an equivalent cash award shareholders.
performance which in all other respects measures are: Where a charitable donation has been made in accordance with the Remuneration Policy, clawback will not mirrors the terms of the LTIP.
earnings per Awards normally vest share EPS : and For deferred bonus plan awards, if a participants gross misconduct has resulted in the material misstatement subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions 50% based on of the Group accounts or the accounts of one of its subsidiaries, any unexercised awards will lapse measured over a period of at return on capital immediately and the participant will forfeit any shares previously acquired under awards made under that plan.
Vested employed ROCE awards will normally be Service contracts For threshold subject to an additional performance, 20% of The service agreements of the Executive Directors are rolling contracts which were entered into on the holding period of two years.
salary would normally dates shown in the table below: Clawback provisions apply.
Awards may incorporate the The Committee Name Contract date Notice period from the Director Notice period from the Company right to receive in cash or retains discretion to shares the aggregate value include additional or John Tutte 01 07 14 12 months 12 months of dividends paid on vested alternative financial shares between the vesting performance Barbara Richmond 18 01 10 6 months 12 months date and the date on which measures and or the awards are released adjust the weightings The service agreements provide for formal notice to be served to terminate the agreement, by either the following the holding period, in future years to Company or the Executive Director, with the required period of notice shown in the table.
The agreements and on such basis as the reflect prevailing Committee may determine, strategic or letters of appointment do not include any provisions for pre-determined compensation for early termination.
The which may assume the operational Committee may terminate service agreements immediately by making a payment in lieu of notice consisting of reinvestment of these objectives of the base salary, benefits and pension for the unexpired period of notice.
At the discretion of the Committee, this dividends in shares on a business aligned with payment may be made as instalments over the period, subject to a duty to mitigate, or as a lump sum.
For future appointments, it is the Committees policy that notice periods will normally be 6 months from both Performance the Director and the Company initially and thereafter, 12 months from both the Director and the Company, and conditions applicable to LTIP awards may that payments in lieu of notice will comprise no more than base salary, benefits and pension only over the be amended if an unexpired period of notice.
event occurs which causes the Committee The Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment are detailed in formal letters of appointment as shown in to consider that an the table below.
Each appointment is for a fixed initial period of three years although this term is terminable amended upon either party giving three months notice.
performance condition would be more appropriate and Name Position Date of initial appointment Current date of appointment not materially less Steve Morgan Non-Executive Chairman 23 03 09 01 10 17 difficult to satisfy.
Debbie Hewitt Senior Independent Director 21 08 09 19 08 18 Nick Hewson Non-Executive 01 12 12 01 12 15 Where an individual waives any current or future right or entitlement to a remuneration payment or other benefit, which they would otherwise be eligible to receive under any of the components set out in the Policy Liz Peace Non-Executive 01 09 14 01 09 14 Table on pages 82 to 84, the Committee may determine that a charitable donation, which is, in its opinion, Sir Michael Lyons Non-Executive 06 01 15 06 01 18 equivalent to the value of that payment or benefit, may be made by the Company.
Vanda Murray Non-Executive 01 08 17 01 08 17 Executive shareholding guidelines Executive Directors are expected to build and retain a shareholding in the Group at least equivalent to Steve Morgan moved from Executive to Non-Executive Chairman on 1 October 2017.
Until the shareholding guideline has been met Executives will be required to retain all Debbie Hewitts appointment was extended on 19 August 2018 to cover the period from this date until the 2018 AGM at which point she will be retiring from the Board.
deferred bonus shares and LTIP shares on a net of tax basis.
Liz Peace retired from the Board on 31 August 2017.
Vanda Murray joined the Board on 1 August 2017.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 86 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 87 GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors Remuneration Report continued ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION TABLE AUDITED STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION FOR 2019 The remuneration of the Executive Directors in respect of 2018 is shown in the table below with the prior year comparative : This section summarises how the Committee intends to operate the Remuneration Policy for the year ending June 2019.
Annual ii iii iv v Salary Benefits bonus LTIP Pensions Total Salary 000 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 The Committees policy on salary increases, as set out in the Remuneration Policy, is that they should i Steve Morgan 4 15 31 4 46 normally be in line with increases for employees within the business.
This approach has been applied consistently by the Committee over a number of years.
The Committee decided to award Richmond 330 322 17 16 319 322 384 675 66 64 1,116 1,399 base salary increases for the Executive Directors of 2.5%, effective 1 July 2018, as follows: i Steve Morgan served as Executive Chairman from 1 July to 30 September 2017.
The disclosure in this table and footnote are in reference to that period.
Steve Morgan drew a nominal annual salary of 15k 2017: 15k per annum which he donated via 000 2019 2018 Change Payroll Giving to The Steve Morgan Foundation, a UK registered charity of which Steve Morgan is a trustee.
John Tutte 598 583 2.5% The Company also made a donation to The Steve Morgan Foundation of 121k in respect of 2018 2017: 716k.
This donation represents Steve Morgans notional salary of 499k per annum less the 15k per annum nominal salary for the three months Barbara Richmond 338 330 2.5% to 30 September 2017.
In 2017 the donation was made up of a notional salary of 472k being the balance of Steve Morgans notional annual salary of 487k less the 15k nominal salary and 244k being an amount in respect of the cash annual bonus which Steve Morgan waived his entitlement to.
The notional cash bonus represented half of the total bonus for 2017, Annual bonus calculated using the notional salary of 487k and a bonus percentage of 100% of maximum, equivalent to that earned by John Tutte and Barbara Richmond.
For FY 2019, the annual bonus will operate on the same basis as for FY 2018, assessed using the same Steve Morgans 2015 LTIP award, also structured as a cash award over notional Redrow shares, will vest in full on 14 balanced scorecard of measures as shown on page 88.
September 2018 based on performance to the 2018 financial year as described in the section below.
The value of this award calculated using the average share price over the last three months of 2018 in accordance with footnote iv below is 582k 2017: 1,022k.
It is the current intention that the targets will be disclosed in the FY 2019 Annual Remuneration Report provided the Committee is comfortable they are no longer commercially sensitive.
Further details on the donation to The Steve Morgan Foundation are given in the Directors Report on page 99 and in note 22 to the financial statements.
LTIP awards to be granted during 2019 ii Benefits include a fully expensed company car or equivalent cash allowance and private health insurance.
Subject to shareholder approval of the new Remuneration Policy, LTIP awards in the FY 2019 financial year iii Annual bonus represents the full value of the bonus awarded in respect of the relevant financial year.
Half of the bonus is deferred into Redrow shares, which vests in two tranches of 50% each, on the first and second anniversaries of the grant will be made at the level of 150% of salary and will be subject to the following stretching EPS and ROCE date, subject to continued employment.
For Steve Morgan, deferral is in the form of cash awards over notional Redrow performance targets, measured over the three year period ending in 2021: shares.
Details of performance targets are set out below.
iv LTIP represents the value of the LTIP award which vests in respect of a performance period ending in the relevant financial Award vesting level as % of salary for each component EPS for 2021 ROCE for 2021 year.
The 2018 column includes the value of the 2015 LTIP award which will vest in full on 14 September 2018, using the average share price over the last three months of 2018.
The 2017 column includes the vested value of the 2014 LTIP award Nil Below 105.0p Below 25.8% which vested at 100% of maximum, based on the share price on the date of vesting 18 September 2017. v Pension includes the value of the cash allowance paid to John Tutte and Barbara Richmond in respect of the relevant year.
10% 105.0p 25.8% 30% 110.0p 26.8% The fees of the Non-Executive Directors in respect of 2018 are shown in the table below with the prior 75% 115.0p or above 27.8% or above year comparative.
Vesting between the points above is on a sliding scale basis Fees 000 2018 2017 In line with our Policy, these awards will be subject to an additional two year post-vesting holding period.
i Steve Morgan 8 The Committee notes that the ROCE performance target for the scheme which commences in FY19 is below the 2018 actual ROCE performance of 28%, although above the maximum target for the LTIP schemes which have Debbie Hewitt 75 70 or which are due to vest in FY18, FY19 and FY20.
The Committee has discussed this in detail and considers, Nick Hewson 63 45 given the general economic context, that the ROCE target for the 2019 awards is sufficiently stretching.
Sir Michael Lyons 63 45 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES ii Liz Peace 8 45 The base fee for a Non-Executive Director is 55k p. a. from 1 August 2017.
In line with current practice the Vanda Murray 50 Company pays an additional fee of 10k p. a. to Committee Chairs and an additional fee of 10k p. a. to the Senior Independent Director.
The fee for the Non-Executive Chairman is 300k p. a. i Steve Morgan served as Non-Executive Chairman from 1 October to 30 June 2018.
Steve Morgan draws a nominal fee of 10k per annum which he donates via Payroll Giving to OUTCOMES IN RESPECT OF 2018 The Steve Morgan Foundation, a UK registered charity of which Steve Morgan is a trustee.
The Company also made a donation to The Steve Morgan Foundation of 218k being the balance for this period of Steve Morgans notional annual fee The tables below set out the remuneration for the Directors in respect of 2018.
Further discussion of each of of 300k per annum less the 10k nominal fee.
the components is set out on the pages which follow.
Where indicated, these disclosures have been audited.
ii Liz Peace retired as a Non-Executive Director on 31 August 2017.
As Steve Morgan moved from an Executive to Non-Executive role during the course of the financial year, the remuneration that was attributable to each role is shown in the Executive remuneration table and Non-Executive remuneration table respectively.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 88 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 89 GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors Remuneration Report continued The Remuneration Committee has discretion to adjust the number of shares vesting from the award if it SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION TABLE AUDITED CONTINUED considers that performance in the metrics above is not sufficiently reflective of the general growth Annual bonus created by the market.
The maximum bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors during 2018 continued to be 100% of salary, in line with the Remuneration Policy.
This was based on the achievement of stretching targets under a Steve Morgans historic awards under the LTIP are receivable in cash but in all other respects mirror the balanced scorecard of four key performance measures.
The scorecard combines measures which terms and conditions of the LTIP awarded to the other Executive Directors.
represent an appropriate balance between backward looking financial performance PBT and ROCE and The sections below summarise details of the LTIP awards which vested in respect of 2018 2015 awards forward looking strategic and operational measures land holdings and outlet openings which support and which were granted during the 2018 financial year.
shareholder value creation over the medium to long-term.
LTIP awards vesting in respect of 2018 % of bonus opportunity Rationale The LTIP awards granted in September 2015 were based on performance over the three year performance PBT 30% A fundamental measure of annual profitability period ending in 2018.
Based on performance against the EPS and ROCE targets set when the award was ROCE 30% A measure of how effectively we use our capital base granted, summarised in the table below, the Committee determined that the 2015 LTIP awards will vest in Land holdings 20% Measures the foundation for our future growth full on 8 September 2018.
The value of these vested awards is included in the 2015 LTIP column of the Outlets opened 20% A fundamental indicator of future growth Single Total Figure of Remuneration on page 87.
As described in detail on pages 1 to 59 of this Annual Report, 2018 was another outstanding year for Redrow.
As a result of the targets for maximum payment for three of the PBT, ROCE and Land holdings being Award vesting level as a % of share options granted for each component EPS for 2018 ROCE for 2018 exceeded and performance on outlet offerings significantly above target but short of the stretch target, the Nil Below 62.5p Below 18.0% Committee determined that the bonus should pay out at 96.7%, resulting in bonus awards to the Executive 10% 62.5p 18.0% Directors as shown in the Single Total Figure of Remuneration on page 87.
30% 69.4p 20.0% Our policy is to disclose annual bonus targets in the year to which the payment relates, subject to the 50% 76.3p or above 22% or above Committee being comfortable that the targets are no longer commercially sensitive.
Accordingly the 2018 targets are disclosed in the following table: Vesting between the points above is on a sliding scale basis Actual performance 85.3p 28.5% 2018 Target Range Vesting % of total award 50% 50% Payout % of % of bonus Threshold payout Target payout Maximum Actual 2018 total bonus opportunity 10% of maximum 50% maximum payout performance opportunity LTIP awards granted during 2018 PBT 30 340m 360m 380m 380m 30 The LTIP awards granted in November 2017 will vest in November 2020 based on performance over the ROCE 30 21.9% 23.1% 24.3% 28.0% 30 three year performance period ending in 2020 as follows: GDV of land acquired 20 1.8bn 1.9bn 2.0bn 2.2bn 20 Award vesting level as a % of share options granted for each component EPS for 2020 ROCE for 2020 Outlets opened Nil Below 80.4p Below 24.2% in year 20 48 51 54 53 16.7 6.67% 80.4p 24.2% Total 100% 96.7% 20% 90.4p 25.7% Executive Directors are required to defer 50% of any bonus earned into shares, half of which will vest after 50% 104.4p or above 27.2% or above one year and the remaining half after two years, subject to continued employment and clawback.
Clawback Vesting between the points above is on a sliding scale basis provisions for both the cash and deferred share elements will apply.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING 2018 AUDITED The LTIP is designed to motivate and reward long-term performance and delivery of the strategy and The following table sets out details of LTIP awards to Executive Directors during the 2018 financial year.
provide alignment with Redrow shareholders.
In 2018, annual awards were made at the level of 150% of salary, in line with the prevailing policy.
Threshold vesting % of End of The vesting of LTIP awards is based on performance of EPS and ROCE, pre-exceptional, with 50% Executive Director Type of interest Basis of award Face value maximum performance period relating to performance of each measure.
John Tutte LTIP 150% of salary 875k 20% 30 June 2020 The Committee believes that these two measures are transparent, are easy to understand, track and Barbara Richmond LTIP 150% of salary 495k 20% 30 June 2020 communicate, are cost effective to measure and fundamentally aligned to the strategic ambitions that have been communicated to the market: Awards to John Tutte and Barbara Richmond are made in the form of nil-cost options.
EPS ensures that the team delivers strong bottom line profitability and growth for shareholders: and The face value has been calculated using the average share price used to determine the number of shares ROCE provides balance by requiring that profit is delivered efficiently from a capital perspective.
awarded, being 593.5p the average, over the three days to the date of grant.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 90 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 91 GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors Remuneration Report continued The table below provides details of the interests of the Executive Directors in incentive awards during the year.
Shareholding guidelines and share interests Under our shareholding guidelines, Executive Directors are expected to build and retain a shareholding in Awards Awards the Group at least equivalent to 200% of base salary.
Until the shareholding guideline has been met, held at Share Price Awards Awards held at Exercise 30 June Grant on Grant Award granted in Exercised 30 June Price Executives will be required to retain all deferred bonus shares and LTIP shares on a net of tax basis.
As 2017 Date Vested year in year 2018 From To shown in the table below, all Executive Directors currently meet this guideline.
Non-Executive Directors are John Tutte not subject to a shareholding guideline.
Each of these entities are run for the benefit of Steve Steve Morgan Morgans children.
The shareholding shown is as at the date of her resignation.
The performance conditions attached to the 2016 LTIP awards were disclosed in the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report.
The performance conditions attached to the 2017 LTIP awards are shown on page 89. iii.
There are no further performance conditions attached to the exercise of the deferred bonus awards.
Between 1 July 2018 and 3 September 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to the posting of this report, there were no further changes to the directors interests set out in the Statement of shareholding and scheme interests above.
All scheme interests held by Steve Morgan are receivable in cash on terms which in all other respects mirror those for other Executive Directors.
