STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CHANGE FOR GOOD We are outperforming in dynamic markets with our scale, processing expertise and commercial effectiveness delivering growth at higher margins and returns The Operating Review is presented with I&C : Domestic and Hazardous Belgium only.
MARKETS performance variances in local currency and Renewi deploys part of its own sorting and the translation impact of currency movements recycling operations for, amongst others things, The Commercial Division serves four main excluded unless otherwise stated.
For the paper, cardboard, wood, plastics, metals and market segments across the Benelux: C&D, I&C, purposes of understanding the underlying C&D waste.
Renewi has partnerships with other Domestic and Hazardous Belgium only.
business performance, the review primarily recyclers to make sure that we can offer all of compares current year underlying trading with our customers the solutions that are best suited The I&C segment meets the needs of specific pro forma unaudited prior period figures which for their specific waste streams.
Other specific markets, sectors and businesses including include the results of Van Gansewinkel as if the recycling activities are clustered within the production factories, offices, hospitals, retail, latter had been owned throughout the prior Monostreams Division.
Waste streams are year comparative period.
preferably separated at the source to retain Our unique business model in this market quality, such as segregated paper or plastic, COMMERCIAL WASTE allows us to focus on the value that we can food waste or glass.
However, within this sector recover from specific waste streams.
We then there still is a significant flow of mixed waste.
The Commercial Waste Division provides upgrade this waste to new products during its For specific situations such as office buildings a wide range of waste management sorting and treatment.
we have developed specific concepts like solutions and represents around 64% Ecosmart in the Netherlands, which provides of Renewis revenues.
We generally collect a large part of the waste collection bins and services to maximise source ourselves to secure volumes, which we value as separation.
The commercial waste market covers the sources to produce secondary raw materials.
collection, sorting, treatment and recycling We maximise recycling based upon the quality Due to the relatively high amount of residual of the waste we collect and we dispose only of of waste materials from a range of sources.
It waste this segment is vulnerable to price the residues that we are unable to convert into also includes the ultimate disposal of waste movements within the incineration market.
In a reusable product or recyclate.
In this way, streams that cannot be recycled or incinerated.
the past two years the market conditions in this we waste no more both environmentally and Renewi is the market leader in the Benelux.
We segment have improved, with the incinerators economically.
Our general business model is set provide customers with cost-efficient waste full and prices beginning to rise.
These higher out in the graphic opposite.
management solutions and advise them on prices for incineration also have a positive effect how to optimise source separation of waste on recycling as separation of waste becomes Our Commercial Division operates over 80 sites which can then be converted into high-quality more financially viable for our customers.
Our sites have a diverse profile raw materials and energy.
in terms of the activities that take place on the In August 2017 the Chinese government site as well as the focus on specific sources of Our market is divided into the following announced its National Sword legislation to waste and customer segments, which affects its main segments based on the source of the block imports of recycled paper and plastic current financial performance and competitive waste: Construction and Demolition C&D in the short term and to enforce stricter purity strategy as outlined in the following sections.
Netherlands only: Industrial and Commercial standards going forward.
As a result, prices for continued on p38 For investors: www.
com 34 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 COMMERCIAL BUSINESS MODEL COLLECT OR RECEIVE SORT PRODUCE DISPOSE Sorting Trommels Optical lines sorters Shredders Crushers Balers Incineration Magnets Green Sludges waste Composting Landfill Pelletisers Industrial & Commercial Food and Industrial Eddy current Construction & Demolition supermarket fats separators Domestic RECYCLATES AND PRODUCTS Paper Glass Solid Compost Wood recovered chips fuel Plastic Metal Aggregate ICOPOWER Green pellets electricity Customers pay us to Customers purchase We minimise the cost take their waste our products of disposing of the residues RENEWI IS THE MARKET LEADER IN THE BENELUX AND PROVIDES CUSTOMERS WITH COSTEFFICIENT WASTE MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 35 | | S STR TRA ATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T C OPERA ONTINUED TING REVIEW CONTINUED CASE STUDY Our Commercial Netherlands Division has delivered significant synergy savings by optimising waste flow logistics and sharing best practice on the treatment of C&D and bulky waste For investors: www.
com 36 36 RENEWI plc RENEWI plc Annual R Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc count ounts 2018 s 2018 2m of synergy savings delivered from operational best practice sharing Some of the waste recycled by our Commercial Netherlands Division is rockwool, a type of insulation made from stone used in horticulture network of sites: this decreases the need to travel further between fewer sites, reducing CASE STUDY: transport costs and carbon emissions: PAINT IT BACK Delivering waste directly to treatment Collaboration within our Commercial facilities, rather than detouring via waste Our team in Mol, Belgium is working Netherlands team to improve processes at transfer stations: to give new life to used paint a our main sorting lines helped to deliver up fantastic example of Waste no more.
to 2m of synergy savings in this first year.
Optimising the utilisation of treatment facilities: and Renewi has teamed up with Individual sites saw significant performance multinational paint manufacturer improvements after increasing the Sharing best practice by expanding CI AkzoNobel to produce FENIX, which is implementation of continuous improvement on all sorting lines to reduce unplanned a 100% recycled white paint.
For example, daily communication downtime and improve efficiency.
is suitable for painting basements, moments between the team at Hemweg in garages, living areas and classrooms.
Amsterdam on the frequency, causes and Making a difference It will be on offer to our customers, solutions of unplanned downtime resulted in All divisions across Renewi were tasked with employees and organisations with a decrease from 17% to 9%.
coming up with synergy savings as part of a social purpose, such as youth and the integration process.
Introducing efficiency Netherlands, we brought legacy Shanks and The Commercial Netherlands Division collects, Van Gansewinkel employees together into Producing the paint is a multi-step sorts and recycles a mix of construction and six or seven work streams where we thought process that starts with visually demolition C&D and bulky waste.
Originally, we could make a difference, says Bas Bax, inspecting the paint.
Contaminated each of its main sorting lines in Drachten, General Area Manager.
The work streams, products are removed and the paint Burgerbrug, Amsterdam, Wateringen, which covered areas such as transport and considered suitable for recycling is Nieuwegein, Rotterdam and Heerle tended collection, sorting and treatment, were led mixed together, sifted and pulverised to handle only one type of waste.
Now, by joint sponsors from each of the legacy to produce a clean paint.
Finally, we spreading mixed waste streams across all businesses.
The joint sponsors facilitated add chemicals to increase the life and installations has helped to increase the speed visits to other sites so that employees could durability of the paint.
and quality of waste processing, helping to collaborate and share best practice on deliver the synergy savings.
FENIX will be certified to comply with the Belgian and European This better mix of waste streams is just one Its great to have such initiatives because Unions REACH regulations, which are of five CI programmes introduced across people can see things happening, says designed to protect people and the Commercial Netherlands treatment facilities.
CI is a way of working and will lead environment by encouraging the safe The other initiatives include: to constant improvements.
Weve now use of chemicals.
created a baseline from where we will be Increasing efficiency in logistics by making able to build into the future by doing it use of the divisions broader combined better every day.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 37 | STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Collection in the community We collect waste in the Benelux to process at our facilities recycled paper and plastics have fallen sharply.
The domestic segment provides hands and THE COMMERCIAL Renewi is well-positioned due to our high wheels services in door-to-door municipal quality products and dynamic pricing.
This can be through a direct service DIVISION agreement or through a form of Public Private The introduction of dynamic pricing has Partnership in which Renewi controls the PERFORMED reduced risk to the business operating service provision for a management fee.
Within our dynamic pricing model municipal segment is different to the Municipal we pass on monthly movements in the value Division because the contracts tend to be IN 2017 18, of the recyclates by changing the gate fee much shorter in duration and for collection where needed.
not treatment: in the Netherlands the waste DELIVERING A remains the property of the municipality.
The C&D segment is core for Renewi in the 36% INCREASE Netherlands and arises from residential, The Commercial Division also operates IN UNDERLYING commercial or infrastructure construction.
The in a number of niche segments, many of construction market in the Netherlands, which which are complementary to the principal EBIT had hit a 63-year low in 2014, has continued segments outlined above.
These include the to grow strongly for a third consecutive year, collection, separation and aggregation for increasing by 5% during 2017 compared with treatment of small packed hazardous waste 7.1% and 8% in 2016 and 2015 respectively.
such as batteries, paint and out-of-date The hazardous part in Belgium is highly pharmaceuticals, the collection of organic comparable to the Hazardous Waste Division, waste streams from restaurants, a wood chip on a smaller scale.
manufacturing segment and two landfills.
com 38 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 TECHNOLOGIES 5% Our core Dutch construction market grew strongly for a third consecutive year Sorting Trommels Crushers Composting 36% lines Increase in underlying EBIT Magnets Optical Eddy current Balers sorters separators PRODUCTS Over the year there have been improving end markets in our Commercial Divisions, with economic growth and construction market recovery.
GDP grew 3.1% in the Netherlands Paper Glass Recovered Biogas fuels and 1.7% in Belgium.
Dutch incinerators remain effectively full, underpinning more stable pricing in the Dutch waste market and recyclate prices were generally positive compared to the prior year, particularly in metals and paper.
Plastic Metal ICOPOWER Digestate Wood pellets compost chips DIVISIONAL STRATEGY The Commercial Divisions strategy is to create the market leader in waste collection and treatment in Belgium and the Netherlands.
Its combined national coverage, operational scale and advantaged technology positions increased by 750 basis points to 18.0%, announced fall in the price of paper and it strongly.
The division will deliver long bringing the pre-tax return above the Groups plastics.
This impacted second half earnings term growth and attractive returns from WACC as the operational leverage and merger by around 3m.
As planned, Renewi has the increasing demand for its wide range synergies sharply increased returns in our ended the former VGG policy of capitalising of recycling services.
This will be reinforced core activities.
While total waste volumes maintenance costs on older vehicles, bringing through the delivery of synergies and the were slightly down as a result of a one off high around 3m of costs back into the income application of margin enhancing initiatives volume contract in the prior year, volumes statement.
Initial synergies were 4.8m, some such as commercial effectiveness and in the core waste streams were positive, with 9% ahead of target.
7% growth in commercial waste and 9% growth in construction waste.
These growth Belgium revenues increased by 2% to 422.2m FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE rates were significantly above the market, and underlying EBIT grew by 7% to 29.3m.
demonstrating improvements in both market Underlying volume growth was in line with The Commercial Division performed strongly share and increasing volumes from other the market at around 2%.
The core collection in 2017 18, delivering a 36% increase in waste companies using Renewi as a secondary and treatment business was steady, with underlying EBIT to 73.3m on revenues up 5% disposer.
Average prices increased by headwinds in the second half from lower to 1,158m.
Margins increased by 140 basis approximately 6.5% compared with 2016 17. recyclate prices and increased maintenance points to 6.3% and the return on operating costs.
The largest impact in recyclate margins assets rose 620 basis points to 20.6%.
The strong increase in operating margin was came in the wood segment where there was a encouraging, particularly given the second half reduction in net margin compared to the prior Revenues in the Netherlands grew by 7% headwinds from falling recyclate prices and a year of over 3m as a result of the sale of wood to 736.9m and underlying EBIT by 67% change in accounting for vehicle maintenance moving from an income to a net expense at to 44.0m.
Margins improved by 220 basis costs.
Recyclate income fell in the second the off-take side.
The prices to clients had points to 6.0%.
Return on operating assets half of the year as a result of the previously been increased in the prior year to mitigate For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 39 | STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED COMMERCIAL FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REVENUE UNDERLYING EBIT Mar 18 Mar 17 Variance Mar 18 Mar 17 Variance Netherlands Commercial Waste 736.9 690.5 46.4 7% 44.0 26.4 17.6 67% Belgium Commercial Waste 422.2 415.4 6.8 2% 29.3 27.5 1.8 7% Intra-segment revenue 0.9 2.5 1.6 - - - Total m pro forma 1,158.2 1,103.4 54.8 5% 73.3 53.9 19.4 36% Total m pro forma at average rate 1,019.6 925.4 94.2 10% 64.6 45.2 19.4 43% Total m as reported 1,019.6 388.5 631.1 64.6 23.5 41.1 UNDERLYING RETURN ON EBIT MARGIN OPERATING ASSETS Netherlands Commercial Waste 6.0% 3.8% 18.0% 10.5% Belgium Commercial Waste 6.9% 6.6% 27.4% 25.3% Total pro forma 6.3% 4.9% 20.6% 14.4% Pro forma results in the year to March 2017 are unaudited and include Van Gansewinkel VGG as if owned throughout the year rather than from legal completion on 28 February 2017.
The return on operating assets for Netherlands includes properties rented from the legacy VGG property company and for Belgium excludes all landfill related provisions this impact.
Belgium has also faced some forms of outbound residual wastes have THE COMMERCIAL headwinds regarding outlet volumes including also seen sharp increases in disposal cost, solid recovered fuel SRF, as a consequence most notably sieve sands and organic wet DIVISION PERFORMED of which higher priced alternative outlets fractions.
The Belgian market has tightened, had to be used.
Profitability of the Cetem where OVAM, the regulator in Flanders, is VERY WELL, landfill continued to decline as expected, with seeking to enhance recycling rates through the DELIVERING STRONG volumes reducing prior to its closure in 2019. management of domestic incineration capacity Initial synergies of 4.4m were delivered, well and export licences.
Economic recovery in the Benelux is also driving GROWTH IN OPERATIONAL REVIEW cost inflation beyond our waste residues.
Wage increases covered by collective labour REVENUES AND The Commercial Division performed very well, agreements in the Benelux have been around PROFITS IN ITS delivering strong underlying growth in revenues 3% in 2018 and there are certain categories and profits in its first year of integration.
where there is a growing labour shortage.
FIRST YEAR OF Volume increases have also required us to As reported in the Chief Executives Statement, contract in both rented trucks and additional INTEGRATION inbound markets were positive in terms of both temporary labour.
The truck fleet acquired with volume and price, but volatility in end markets VGG has also seen repair and maintenance for our products has required commercial costs increase following a planned change in agility and careful management.
Insurance costs have also and plastic prices fell sharply in the second risen substantially.
half following the Chinese National Sword programme, and the sale of wood products Renewi has a proven commercial effectiveness moved from being an income to a net expense.
approach to enhance margins in these dynamic While most of our volumes to incineration are markets.
We are committed to restoring secured at fixed prices, the Division had to margins as the economic cycle recovers secure additional capacity at higher prices to and our commercial teams are increasingly meet strong inbound waste volumes.
Other focused on margin and not volume, supported For investors: www.
com 40 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 We have rebranded over 1,500 trucks since the launch of our Renewi brand by data-driven analytical tools to manage customer and product profitability.
Annual price increases in January have been successfully passed to customers.
Longer term tenders and contract renewals are subject to scrutiny to ensure margins and or volumes are improving, particularly with regard to certain previously under-priced VGG contracts.
Where appropriate, source separated waste streams such as paper, wood, glass and plastics are dynamically priced, meaning that price is adjusted monthly according to an agreed index thereby, preserving Renewis margin.
Around 80% of the Divisions paper and plastic volumes are covered by this mechanism.
During 2017 18, we implemented a new organisation and management structure for the Commercial Waste Division in both the Netherlands and Belgium.
In the Netherlands, Otto fide Bont was appointed Managing Director of Netherlands Commercial from May 2017 joining us from UTC and GE.
We have created a new operating model based on four regions and two focused businesses Domestic Collection and Specialties.
In Belgium, Wim Geens has continued as Managing Director, following his appointment from VGG.
We have organised the business into two regions, a hazardous business unit and a materials business unit.
The Netherlands and Belgium Commercial organisations share a common new operating the second half of this year and early 2019 20. be made in 2018 19 and 2019 20, funded by model which balances customer intimacy with This migration creates the basis for the larger operating leases, which will bring down the the benefits of scale.
It also brings together savings anticipated from route optimisation cost of maintenance and greatly improve the logistics and treatment facilities within a region and selected site closures as well as creating a emissions profile and safety features of the to drive a combined margin.
Both organisations common platform for future efficiency projects fleet in operation.
A 5m stone crusher will be retain an even mix of former Shanks and former and continuous improvement.
installed in Wateringen in May 2018.
VGG leaders, bringing together complementary skills and experience.
Over 2m of synergy savings year on year were We continue to deploy resource to work on created when sharing knowledge and using longer term innovation initiatives.
In the Across all the regions, local management continuous improvement CI tools to improve Netherlands, we won the Heineken innovation identified quick win projects to enhance processes across our seven main sorting challenge for return logistics and the recycling margins through internalisation of waste lines in the Netherlands Commercial Division.
of a plastic beer keg with aluminium liner.
The streams, optimising disposal costs, reducing Rebalancing mixed waste streams across these Renewi teams solution used current glass logistic movements and better asset utilisation.
lines has helped to improve the speed and collection infrastructure combined with a During 2017 18, the Division achieved total quality of waste processing to generate the solution for recycling of the beer keg and reuse synergies of 9.2m, with a run rate of around synergies.
In our Belgian business, we have 14m as at 31 March 2018.
Feasibility studies collaborated with Reinhard Beck to develop were also initiated to assess how best to Beyond the rebuilding at Icova and Wandre, and launch Renewi branded pet litter from manage the complex process of integrating funded by insurance receipts, capital waste wood and we have also worked with Akzo two overlapping businesses with very different investment in the Division remained tightly Nobel to launch Fenix, a brand of recovered structures, processes and IT systems.
The controlled at 53m, or 91% of depreciation.
Multiple partnerships with target operating model TOM for one way of As disclosed at the time of the merger, the others are being explored to assist customers working in each Division has been defined age of the truck fleet in the former VGG had with their sustainability goals and to create and progress made towards pilot migrations of initial sites in both countries in the first increased beyond its optimum economic life as more valuable products from waste.
This is the most technically a result of capital constraints in the downturn and operationally challenging part of the and required reinvestment.
After a detailed integration and, once successfully proven, a study of future requirements and the creation migration of the remainder of the Divisions to of a harmonised policy and specification for the common platforms will take place during Renewi trucks, significant truck purchases will For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 41 | | S STR TRA ATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T C OPERA ONTINUED TING REVIEW CONTINUED 3% REVENUES INCREASED 3% IN A CHALLENGING YEAR FOR HAZARDOUS WASTE A total care solution: our Reym trucks pictured at our ATM facility unloading waste water For investors: www.
com 42 42 RENEWI plc RENEWI plc Annual R Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc count ounts 2018 s 2018 HAZARDOUS WASTE Reyms highly-experienced and trained remained mixed.
Oil prices have steadily cleaning teams use specialist equipment to increased to c. $65 per barrel in the period The Hazardous Waste Division is deliver a reliable, cost-effective and above and onshore gas production has continued made up of two businesses: Reym all safe cleaning process in a market where to fall because of regulatory restrictions.
It represents around 13% the cost of safety and quality is of paramount expected, maintenance and cleaning activity of Renewis revenues.
ATM is a leader in water and soil at refineries has recovered despite the flat treatment because of: the cost advantages backdrop and Reym has been fully deployed Reym is a leading industrial cleaning provided by its fully integrated plant processes: over the summer, albeit with challenging company in the Netherlands, promoting a its waterside location for the cleaning of project margins.
Improved performance Total Care solution cleaning, transport and ships: and its excellent record of compliance at the new Theemsweg site has offset waste management for heavy industry, with the many environmental controls and weakness in the north where the onshore gas petrochemical sites, oil and gas production permits required in the hazardous waste production has reduced.
The Total Care site both on and offshore and the food industry.
As you can read on page 46, ATM has in Rotterdam, provides a perfect base for our In the past year the Hazardous Waste been impacted during the year by specific established customer base in this important Division successfully integrated the legacy discussions with the regulator on the soil industrial area.
Van Gansewinkel Industrial Services VGIS cleaning process.
business into the Reym organisation and CFS Water intake and treatment at the ATM into ATM.
MARKETS plant has been stable compared to last year.
Inbound volumes by truck and industrial ATM is one of Europes largest sites for the The core market drivers for the Hazardous sludge volumes remained weak but ship treatment of contaminated soil and water, Waste Division are industrial activity in volumes were significantly stronger, supported as well as for the disposal of a broad range the Benelux, particularly in the oil and gas by a large offshore project.
The pyro facility of hazardous waste such as waste paints and sectors and in the Rotterdam and Moerdijk also delivered an increased performance, solvents.
In addition, there is a small specialist region, coupled with construction and site overcoming operational restrictions as the site at Weert called CFS.
CFS is a specialised remediation activity across Europe.
We are new and enlarged inbound warehouse is chemical physical separation unit that can a trusted party for the processing industry constructed around the existing activities.
handle highly contaminated waters and in complex and highly-intensive shutdown sludges.
The combination of both treatment maintenance projects.
Soil intake was also strong, particularly sites gives the Hazardous Waste Division a during the first half.
However, as previously leading position in the market.
The business The core oil and gas market, which represents reported, IL&T, an environmental agency in model is shown in the graphic below.
up to half of the Divisions revenues, the Netherlands, carried out a review of our continued on p46 HAZARDOUS WASTE BUSINESS MODEL CUSTOMER CLEAN TRANSPORT PRODUCE DISPOSE Contaminated Paint & solvent Bio water Pyrolysis Cleaned water Inert ash water waste treatment Industrial cleaning generates contaminated Heavy industry Petrochemical water Industry & Shipping Industry & Government Contaminated Sludge Gasification Thermal Clean soil Construction & Government soil treatment GROWING REGULATION For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 43 | | S STR TRA ATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T C OPERA ONTINUED TING REVIEW CONTINUED CASE STUDY Integrating Reym and VGIS has created a full industrial cleaning and waste service, which is poised to achieve natural growth For investors: www.
com 44 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The integration of Reym and Van The operations departments of the two THROUGH JOINING Gansewinkel Industrial Services companies worked together on a series VGIS within Renewi has bolstered of Just Do It actions: simple ideas that FORCES, WE CAN our leading position in the hazardous delivered significant cost savings.
OFFER OUR A key challenge of the merger has been CUSTOMERS A TOTAL The combination of the two legacy integrating the two companies on a cultural industrial cleaning companies, combined level, notes Fred Muller, Director of Projects, CARE SERVICE AND with our flagship ATM facility, offers a Total Hazardous Waste.
During the technical part of Care solution cleaning, transport and integration, we had good communication on BE THE BEST AND waste management for heavy industry, different levels and good co-operation with the petrochemical sites, oil and gas production common directors, enabling us to implement MOST EFFECTIVE and the food industry.
The aftercare PARTNER FOR THEM and guiding people is essential to create one Before joining together as Renewi, Reym and company with one culture.
We are using the iRenew network approach to bring our people VGIS covered two different market segments, with us on the change journey.
although they had a number of customers in common.
Reym covered refinery, chemical The new integrated company, which will plants, the food industry and onand offshore operate under the name of Reym, delivers real drilling locations, while VGIS worked in waste value through efficiency of people, fleet, sites to energy facilities as well as chemical sites.
and materials, putting the customer front and The integration of these two companies centre and offering a full cleaning and waste means that we are now able to serve the entire service.
Financially, the division is already market.
Geographically, the division serves operating ahead of its synergy target.
the whole of the Netherlands and parts of Germany from its five sites around the country.
Through joining forces, we can offer our customers a Total Care service and be the best The integration of VGIS and Reym centred on and most effective partner for them, Fred says.
Going forward, our strategy is to continue doing what we do best, while broadening our Four of VGISs rented sites, which were business by differentiation to achieve natural located close to those already owned by growth in a very challenging market.
Reym, have been closed, while Reyms Andelst operation has moved into the former VGIS site in Duiven.
We integrated the two companies technology, with taskforces on logistics, Reym trucks pull in at Renewis systems, purchase and invoicing working to ATM facility in Moerdijk in the Netherlands.
Both brands are part ensure that both companies worked on the of our Hazardous Waste Division, same version of one new system.
which holds a leading position in the industrial cleaning market For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 45 | STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED soil treatment process and output which Synergies of 1m were delivered in the year, has negatively affected our off-set of treated well ahead of target.
Underlying activity TECHNOLOGIES soil into a market that has been increasingly continued to recover slightly in the core oil challenging.
Accordingly, we voluntarily and gas market but pressure on productivity reduced soil treatment volumes from the and margins continues.
Overall revenues at ATM grew by 3.4% to DIVISIONAL STRATEGY 107m.
Throughput of water and packed Thermal High Ultrasonic chemical waste was broadly flat compared treatment pressure The Hazardous Waste Divisions strategy is to to the prior year, while throughput of soil was grow by increasing capacity to treat additional reduced to 50% of capacity or below during volumes while retaining attractive returns.
The business benefited from The Division will also increase the range of a large one-off water contract during the year, products that can be treated through its assets only a portion of which was processed at ATM.
Scrubbing Vacuum Chemical and consider geographic expansion where As part of the integration, the CFS waste water Renewi can sustain competitive advantage.
treatment facility from former VGG has also been transferred to Hazardous Waste.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL REVIEW Gasification Biological Detonation Hazardous Waste had a challenging year as a result of previously reported difficulties in ATM, our hazardous waste treatment site, placing its treated soil from the ATM business.
has an advantaged location, deep technical Revenues increased by 3% to 231.0m while expertise and a favourable cost position underlying EBIT decreased by 20% to 19.9m.
with regard to its soil and water treatment Separation Margins reduced to 8.6% and the return on processes.
Given its defensible nature and assets reduced by 190 basis points to 24.1%.
attractive returns, the business has therefore Underlying performance excluding the soil been the focus of investment to increase PRODUCTS treatment process was stable.
The Reym business combined with Van Performance in 2017 18 was affected by the Gansewinkel Industrial Services VGIS to previously reported short term challenges become the largest industrial cleaning and in the offset of treated soil.
Historically, services company in the Netherlands.
Reym ATM had disposed of treated soil for a small Cleaned Clean soil Inert ash VGIS saw revenues increase by 3% to 132m consideration to a neighbouring company, water with margins increasing by 30 basis points.
Martens en van Oord MvO, which placed The Reym VGIS industrial cleaning business performed well during 2017 18 For investors: www.
com 46 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 HAZARDOUS WASTE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REVENUE UNDERLYING EBIT Mar 18 Mar 17 Variance Mar 18 Mar 17 Variance Total m pro forma 231.0 224.3 6.7 3% 19.9 24.8 4.9 -20% Total m pro forma at average rate 203.2 187.9 15.3 8% 17.4 20.7 3.3 -16% Total m as reported 203.2 163.0 40.2 17.4 19.7 2.3 UNDERLYING RETURN ON EBIT MARGIN OPERATING ASSETS Total pro forma 8.6% 11.1% 24.1% 26.0% Pro forma results in the year to March 2017 are unaudited and include Van Gansewinkel as if owned throughout the year rather than from legal completion on 28 February 2017. the treated soil into the market.
In order to create the space for these During the year, we continued our long term treated soil include landscaping, industrial additional process steps, we were pleased investment programme to enhance the 2 and infrastructure developments.
Disposal to acquire 70,000m of adjacent land on the capacity and capabilities of ATM.
As previously costs for treated soil have been rising for Moerdijk waterside from MvO in December reported, we will install a new burner for the some time, leading to an increasing stockpile for a gross consideration of 12.7m, payable TRI in 2018 and will then replace the LUVO of soil at MvO.
ATM was identifying and in as 7.2m in cash and through reacquiring emissions cleaning unit in 2019.
The new the process of directly contracting with around 1 million tonnes of treated soil.
The 7m warehouse for inbound packed chemical additional new outlets when it was the acquired land not only provides the capacity waste, built to address the latest fire standards, subject of a review by IL&T, an independent to expand our soil process, but also provides a will be completed in the first half of 2018 19.
IL&T publicly alleged there deep water quay for ship cleaning and for the were flaws in ATMs treatment process.
ATM logistics movements of soil, water and sludges, The industrial cleaning market for our Reym has strongly refuted the allegations and as well as additional warehousing and land for VGIS business improved slightly compared has entered into a resolution process with other future capacity expansion plans.
to the previous two years, in particular with IL&T.
Concerns about the treated soil has regard to major customer shutdowns.
Good delayed progress with securing new outlet As a result of the soil offset issues, the Group growth in the competitive Rotterdam region opportunities.
As previously reported, ATM incurred an exceptional charge of 3.0m was partially offset by the ongoing long term reduced throughput of soil to below 50% relating to the logistics and storage off-site decline in onshore gas production in the north.
of capacity for the second half of the year of around 200,000 tonnes of soil and an Profitability and productivity continued to be with an impact on second half profitability obligation to assist with the disposal of a challenged by the short notice being given by of around 6m.
Management is confident further 300,000 tonnes of soil not purchased customers in both scheduling and postponing that all treated soil is in full compliance with from MvO.
applicable permits and we continue to take steps to improve further the soil quality.
An The other core waste treatment processes An important initiative for Reym has been encouraging pipeline of potential customers for the Division performed well.
Waste water the integration of the 26m revenue VGIS for the treated soil continues to be developed intake was over 650,000 tonnes, with a further business into the much larger Reym operation.
and we remain confident that sufficient new 95,000 tonnes of sludges.
In addition, we The initial focus has been on consolidating the overlapping footprint.
By March 2018, outlets will be opened during 2018 19 to benefited from a large one-off water treatment we had closed three sites, with one more resume full production by October 2018.
The contract relating to the opening of a new to be transferred to Reym in 2018 19 after final resolution of the discussions with IL&T offshore well.
Treatment of packed chemical some investment to expand the Amsterdam could extend for a further 12-18 months.
waste through the pyro plant was up 4% facility.
We secured Works Council approval on last year and average prices remained for the operational integration of the VGIS ATM has a development programme in strong.
The CFS water treatment facility in employees onto the Reym planning systems place to process the treated soil further into the southern Netherlands did well, increasing from April 2018. secondary materials for the construction profits by 7%.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 47 | STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED MONOSTREAMS The Monostreams Division comprises four Coolrec has innovative partnerships with to operate unique landfill services to manage businesses: Coolrec, Mineralz, Orgaworld industry partners such as Philips and Miele specialist waste streams such as fly ashes and and Maltha.
It represents around 11% of to keep used products in the same chain.
As NORM waste at the Maasvlakte landfill site in Renewis revenues.
Coolrec is operating in a market with price Rotterdam.
volatility for the materials they produce both These businesses produce materials into for plastics and metals we have implemented Orgaworld is an innovative leader in organic specific markets from waste streams such dynamic pricing.
waste treatment and is a producer of green as glass bottlebanks, discarded electrical electricity and soil enhancing materials.
It and electronic equipment, source separated The Mineralz business produces building has five facilities in the Netherlands, primarily organics and incinerators bottom ashes.
Our materials from bottom ashes the ashes based on composting and anaerobic digestion and waste water treatment technology.
In the resulting products are used in markets such remaining after the incineration of waste, Amsterdam area, Orgaworld produces green as jars and bottles for food and beverage extracting both minerals and metals as part energy for 15,000 homes.
packaging, plastics for new products, green of the process.
The company has grown energy, soil and fertiliser, and building and further in this segment over the past year Maltha is a European leader in glass recycling, construction materials in western Europe.
and has become an important partner for focused primarily on recycling flat and incinerators who need to comply with the container glass into cullet and glass powder Coolrec is a recycler of electrical and electronic Dutch Green Deal.
The Deal states that 50% of for reuse in the glass industry.
33% of the appliances, producing recycled plastics and the bottom ashes had to be recycled in 2017 Maltha group is owned by Owens-Illinois, a both ferrous and non-ferrous metals.
It has and this increases to 100% by 2020.
Mineralz world leader in packaging glass.
Maltha has eight sites across Belgium, Netherlands, has partnerships with producers of building sites in the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Germany and France with the majority of materials to turn cleaned materials into Portugal and Hungary.
customers on long-term supplier contracts.
Mineralz continues continued on p52 MONOSTREAMS BUSINESS MODEL INPUT OUTPUT Coolrec Fridges Washing Electronics Plastics Non Plastics Metals machines Ferrous Metals THESE BUSINESSES Mineralz PRODUCE MATERIALS Industrial Soil Ashes Clean Landfill Binder Aggregate waste soil locations INTO SPECIFIC MARKETS FROM WASTE STREAMS SUCH AS Orgaworld Food Green Digestate Green Industrial compost electricity Organics GLASS BOTTLEBANKS, waste waste DISCARDED ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC Maltha EQUIPMENT, SOURCE Car Packaging Sheet Glass Glass windscreens glass glass cullet Powder SEPARATED ORGANICS AND INCINERATORS BOTTOM ASHES For investors: www.
com 48 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 100% OF BOTTOM ASHES TO BE RECYCLED BY 2020 ACCORDING TO LEGISLATION For customers: www.
com Annual R Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc count ounts 2018 s 2018 RENEWI plc RENEWI plc 49 49 | | S STR TRA ATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T OPERA OPERATING REVIEW C TING REVIEW CONTINUED ONTINUED CASE STUDY CASE STUDY WINNERS IN WASTE Our relationships with external stakeholders are an important part of our success in turning waste into new products For investors: www.
com 50 50 RENEWI plc RENEWI plc Annual R Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc count ounts 2018 s 2018 we produce.
The bioplastics project is a new The businesses in Renewis Monostreams dimension of the process of using waste to Division are dedicated not only to turning WHAT IS THE GREEN DEAL?
waste into new, usable products, but also to building strong relationships with our Incineration Bottom Ash IBA Sustainable paving tiles partners and the communities in which is a residual product of waste A partnership between Renewis Mineralz we work.
incineration business, the municipality of Duiven in the Eastern Netherlands and concrete producer fide Last autumn, our Coolrec subsidiary began a The Green Deal aims to create new Hamer has resulted in a sustainable paving tile project with telecommunications company technologies to recycle IBA into an created from what Paul Dijkman, Director of KPN and the KNSB the Royal Dutch Skaters unrestricted construction material, Mineralz, describes as the rest of the rest.
Association, to recycle the precious metals for example as an alternative to from old mobile phones and turn them sand or as aggregate in construction Around the world, the residue of the into gold, silver and bronze medals.
These materials such as concrete incineration process ends up in landfill, he were awarded at the NK All-round & Sprint says.
Its occasionally used to surface roads, Championships in January 2018.
Before 2017 IBA was only used as a but its generally regarded as a dirty material.
secondary construction material in Under the recycling Green Deal agreement Arjen Wittekoek, Director of Coolrec, explains: situations where there was no risk with the Netherlands government, we set a All the medals are made of a base of copper of the material leaching into the soil goal of upcycling this bottom ash: bringing and zinc, with the gold and silver ones or groundwater it higher up in the circular economy, not as a electroplated with precious metal.
Theres a dirty construction material but as a clean one.
lot of metal in mobile phones and the supply The Green Deal required 50% of all of gold and silver was no problem, but we bottom ashes to be reprocessed last The ash is delivered to the Mineralz facility, struggled to get enough zinc.
year and this will increase to 100% where any valuable metals are extracted.
The in 2020 remaining mineral fraction is washed and Sourcing the medal ribbons from ethical, used to make FORZ granules, a substitute for sustainable recycled fabric was a challenge, sand and gravel in concrete products that is until Arjen and his team thought of the idea to itself recyclable.
Bottom ash did not have a good reputation, What began as a marketing and publicity Paul says.
But our partners were willing to initiative turned into an opportunity to develop listen to our ideas and try new things.
Now we relationships, Arjen says.
We are a recycling have a product that is clean, safe and has longcompany and we had never designed medals term sustainability.
But the pilot was a great success and we hope to repeat it next year.
22% of the input into incineration becomes Turning food waste into bioplastic bottom ash At Renewis specialist organic waste subsidiary, Orgaworld, a pilot is under way to turn household waste into bioplastics.
The project is taking place in partnership with Delft University of Technology and the chemical engineering firm Paques.
The project has huge potential, says Klaas van den Berg, Managing Director of Orgaworld.
Our ambition is to convince every household to use a separate bin for food waste, and for that waste to be recycled into bioplastics for bags to be used in the future.
Its truly circular: you make a product from waste that then allows more waste to be recycled.
People in the community who use Orgaworlds products are already a vital element in the partnership, Klaas says.
Every year, we invite The FORZ paving slabs were people who live in the area of our installation developed by a partnership between Renewis Mineralz to come and help themselves to compost for business, the municipality of their gardens.
Thats our way of giving back to Duiven in the Eastern Netherlands our public the product that we make from their and concrete producer fide Hamer waste.
They can also buy the green energy For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 51 | STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED MARKETS comply with the Green Deal policy by 2020.
Mineralz further generates revenues from TECHNOLOGIES Each of our distinct end markets in the specialist materials requiring landfill.
These Monostreams Division has its own market materials have few other disposal options drivers and has customers on both ends of and so input volumes are secure, so long as the value chain.
The companies source their there is landfill capacity and permits in place.
Specialist materials from the collection and sorting Waste legislation and policy is very specific Anaerobic landfill digestion market for waste and transform them into on which waste streams can be landfilled.
raw materials to provide customers at the For the Netherlands this means that only other end of the value chain with secondary waste streams that cannot be recycled or raw materials.
Monostreams is also a division incinerated can be landfilled.
This legislation is Composting Glass where Renewis waste-to-product strategy is well-established and has resulted in relatively recycling becoming very tangible.
stable waste flows being landfilled.
Input volumes have been relatively stable over At Orgaworld, inbound volumes from Electrical and the past years, though the mix is changing municipalities are relatively mature and are electronic equipment rapidly, for example old televisions are fading secured on long-term contracts, many of which out and more and more smart devices are have been renewed over the past year.
The business can benefit from is being driven by operational excellence and PRODUCTS changes in environmental legislation and increased treatment of sludges, which has incentive schemes to drive additional recycling, helped to drive improved profitability at our and also from technology changes which will composting sites.
With a smart commercial lead to higher quality output secondary raw approach and higher uptime of Amsterdams materials.
The business is exposed to the value anaerobic digestion facility, Orgaworld has Plastics Metals Clean soil of the materials that it recovers, particularly been able to improve its profit margin.
non-ferrous metals and plastics, many of which Our Maltha glass recycling business sources have been at low price levels during 2017. waste flat and container glass across Europe.
Binder Aggregate Digestate Supply has been stable, although pricing The Mineralz business is generating good compost has been under pressure.
The cullet and growth from creating building materials from powders produced are sold to leading glass the bottom ashes.
A significant proportion of manufacturers, including our partner Owensbottom ashes from incinerators are not yet Illinois, where demand is currently relatively being recycled and will need to be in order to Glass Green Industrial cullet electricity Organics strong for high purity products.
MONOSTREAMS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REVENUE UNDERLYING EBIT Mar 18 Mar 17 Variance Mar 18 Mar 17 Variance Total m pro forma 204.4 190.4 14.0 7% 18.2 14.7 3.5 24% Total m pro forma at average rate 180.0 159.6 20.4 13% 16.0 12.3 3.7 30% Total m as reported 180.0 30.8 149.2 16.0 3.6 12.4 UNDERLYING EBIT RETURN ON MARGIN OPERATING ASSETS Total pro forma 8.9% 7.7% 25.6% 19.4% Pro forma results in the year to March 2017 are unaudited and include Van Gansewinkel as if owned throughout the year rather than from legal completion on 28 February 2017.
The return on operating assets excludes all landfill related provisions.
com 52 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 DIVISIONAL STRATEGY and also arranged a long term customer ALL FOUR extension with a major cullet customer in Monostreams is a newly formed division that Portugal.
We have invested in a new glass MONOSTREAMS incorporates Maltha, Coolrec and Mineralz powder processing line at Dintelmond, with from VGG with Orgaworld from Shanks.
All four a number of interested customers, and an BUSINESSES FOCUS businesses focus on producing high quality extension to capacity at Portugal that will ON PRODUCING product from specific source segregated input increase the volume of year round production.
streams and the Division has the highest An ongoing project to reduce dust generation HIGH QUALITY recycling rate in the Group at 96% of processed at Dintelmond will result in further investment volumes.
The divisional strategy is to deliver of around 0.9m in 2018 19 to reduce dust PRODUCT FROM profitable growth from the existing businesses levels by at least 60%.
On the back of this and operational footprint and in the longer strong operational performance, we were very SPECIFIC SOURCE term to grow profits through a larger product pleased to renew our long term shareholder portfolio of secondary materials into the agreement with our partner Owens-Illinois in SEGREGATED INPUT growing circular economy.
STREAMS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Orgaworld delivered ongoing growth in volumes treated, in addition to growth Monostreams delivered a strong performance in inbound green waste.
During the year, in 2017 18, growing revenues by 7% to Orgaworld extended two major Source 204.4m and underlying EBIT by 24% to Segregated Organics SSO contracts as 18.2m.
Margins improved by 120 basis points well as its ongoing partnership with a to 8.9% and return on operating assets by 620 major supermarket chain for the treatment basis points to 25.6%.
An unexpected leak in a digester tank at the Amsterdam Revenue and profit growth were driven by anaerobic digestion AD facility caused the strong performances in the Mineralz and loss of electricity production as we repaired Maltha businesses.
Orgaworld delivered profit the broken digester tank and performed growth on broadly flat revenues, offsetting preventative maintenance elsewhere in the the impact of a digester tank leak during the installation.
In February 2018, we announced summer of 2018 that materially disrupted that Orgaworld had started the second phase production for three months.
Coolrec saw of a project with Delft University and Pacques profitability decline on flat revenues, with looking into the production of bioplastics particular challenges in the profitability of the PHA from organic waste.
processing of TVs tubes and small domestic appliances and the flotation line in Belgium.
Coolrec had a mixed year, with flat revenues and lower margins.
Intake of fridges was particularly strong, but other input lines, OPERATIONAL REVIEW including small domestic appliances and TVs tubes, saw a decline in volumes and The Mineralz business had a good year.
Margin pressure Underlying volumes to its three landfill sites on the Belgian flotation line due to the were strong, in particular the Braine site in increasingly competitive market for inbound Belgium.
Volumes of bottom ashes processed material also caused reduced profits.
into building materials increased by over 200% Customer contracts for sustainable long term and strategic discussions are being held with solutions continued to gain traction.
Coolrec a number of Dutch incinerators to expand this is working with many leading appliance important sustainable initiative.
Constructive manufacturers to produce new appliances out negotiations have also continued with the Port of an increasing percentage of recycled metals of Rotterdam and with associated regulatory and plastics.
bodies regarding a long term extension to the Maasvlakte landfill in the Europoort, which offers unique safe immobilisation and storage in the Netherlands for waste streams such as fly ashes and low level NORM waste.
Maltha, our glass recycling business, is 33% owned by Owens-Illinois a leading global glass producer.
The business delivered a strong recovery in 2017 18 from production lows.
Maltha secured important additional inbound glass streams in the UK and Scandinavia For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 53 | STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED MUNICIPAL completion and commissioning of the assets, BOTH PFI AND PPP Renewi has historically injected up to 20% of The Municipal Division operates waste the invested capital of the SPV in the form of CONTRACTS ARE treatment facilities for UK and Canadian subordinated debt, which then earns a return city and county councils under long-term of around 12% pre-tax.
Such contracts BY GUARANTEED are established primarily to divert waste Once operational, there are two potential away from landfill in a cost-effective and income streams from the PFI or PPP contract.
It represents around 12% The first is the income for treatment of the of Renewis revenues.
waste under the operating contract, which TONNAGES FROM is signed with the Municipal Division as the In the UK, the capital cost of the infrastructure supplier.
The operating contract provides THE ASSOCIATED we operate is financed with non-recourse bank guaranteed volumes under agreed terms, COUNCIL debt and in the case of PFI contracts, is also typically with some form of price indexation.
supported by central government funding.
However, the contracts are not always Both PFI and PPP contracts are underpinned linked to the variable cost of the disposal of by guaranteed revenues and tonnages from processed off-take and changes in this market the associated council.
The business model is have resulted in severe margin pressure as shown in the graphic below.
described on the following pages.
In a typical PFI or PPP contract, a special The second income stream is the interest purpose vehicle SPV is created to finance from the subordinated debt and ultimately a the construction of the treatment assets and a dividend stream from the SPV.
club of banks provides the funding.
During the only remaining build phase in Derby, Renewi The Municipal Division has historically sold has not been the construction contractor.
On the majority of its interest in its SPVs, following MUNICIPAL BUSINESS MODEL RECEIVE SORT PRODUCE DISPOSE Sorting Trommels Shredding In-vessel lines composting Landfill Magnets Optical Anaerobic Mechanical sorters digestion biological Local Authorities in the UK and Canada PRODUCTS INPUT RECYCLATES Black bag Dry Paper Glass Solid recovered Green waste recyclate fuel electricity Food Green Refuse Digestate Plastic Metal waste waste derived fuel compost For investors: www.
com 54 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 commissioning, to a third party: so this is waste, especially organic waste, from landfill.
and ensuring the successful completion and currently a minor part of our income.
However, Renewi has a good overview of the pipeline commissioning to full operational capability we maintain an open stance on our ownership of potential opportunities in Canada and into of its new assets both under construction or of SPV stakes.
We are currently completing recently commissioned.
the final stages of commissioning of our In Canada, the facilities are generally funded flagship organic processing plant in Surrey FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE from our own balance sheet, supported Vancouver.
This facility will convert food by long-term contracts.
In some cases, the waste into bio-fuel to power the citys fleet of Municipal revenues fell by 7% at constant customer may provide some funding support.
currency to 192.3m and the business reported an underlying trading loss of 9.2m at constant MARKETS The Municipal Division, having secured its currency 2017: loss of 2.6m.
Canada input waste under long-term contracts, performed particularly poorly, reporting a loss The Municipal Division has continued to be then competes in a number of downstream of 3.4m, as a result of operational challenges impacted by a range of challenges during markets, in particular with regard to the in its London facility and contractor delays 2017 18, offsetting the effect of improvement provision of SRF to cement manufacturers with construction at the Surrey facility.
and RDF to energy from waste companies.
A progress has been made to resolve these large proportion of these disposal routes is issues and Canada is expected to return to Incinerator gate fees continued to rise and now secured under long-term agreements profit in 2018 19.
The UK PFI facilities made whilst this is positive for our Commercial and progress was made in the year with new increased underlying losses of 1.6m reflecting Division, as it broadly supports pricing contracts signed with AEB and Ferrybridge.
underperformance of the Wakefield facility, recovery for Benelux recyclers, it is inherently including the reduction in Feed in Tariff FIT a negative for the Municipal Division.
This The Municipal Division also operates a subsidy, losses at the Westcott Park facility and has been largely mitigated by our strategy of commercial Anaerobic Digestion AD facility ongoing challenges in the export of RDF from locking in the vast majority of our recovered under a joint venture partnership.
fuel to long term contracts at fixed rates.
Cumbernauld facility has benefited from the Zero Waste Scotland initiative with a good The UK business reported revenues up 1% The bidding and building process for major supply of source segregated organic waste in to 176.4m and made a trading loss of 5.8m waste treatment PFI PPP opportunities in the Edinburgh Glasgow area.
The key drivers of the the UK is largely complete, with only our ongoing losses, as previously reported, were Derby project now in the final stages of DIVISIONAL STRATEGY margin pressure in the recovered fuels market, commissioning.
recyclate price falls in the fourth quarter, The Municipal Divisions strategy is to deliver the sensitivity of the legacy business model The Canadian market is still in a growth a recovery plan that will stabilise and fide-risk to market shifts, and specific operational phase, with many municipalities yet to the business.
This will involve reducing losses optimisation issues.
The biggest risk remains invest in the infrastructure required to divert resulting from adverse market dynamics, the paper and plastic recyclate market and continued on p58 TECHNOLOGIES PRODUCTS Sorting Trommels Shredding In-vessel Paper Glass Solid recovered Green lines composting fuel electricity Refuse Digestate Magnets Optical Anaerobic Mechanical Plastic Metal derived fuel compost sorters digestion biological For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 55 | STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED CASE STUDY Our new organic biofuels processing facility in Surrey, Canada is innovative in process, financing and helping customers manage their carbon footprint FUEL OF BEANS 115,000 TONNES The amount of domestic and commercial organic waste the site can convert to biomethane gas every year For investors: www.
com 56 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49,000 TONNES of emissions will be avoided the same as taking 10,000 cars off the roads This year, our Municipal Division pushed the abatement system, which treats more than 3 boundaries of innovation in the Canadian 200,000m of air per hour.
The building is market, achieving multiple firsts at our under negative pressure, sucking in fresh air organic biofuels processing facility in the City whenever a bay door is opened.
With local of Surrey, part of the Metro Vancouver area.
residents living within one kilometre of the site, the odour abatement system is critical to our Not only does the 60m Canadian Dollars site efforts to be a good corporate citizen.
bring three processing technologies standard in-tunnel composting, dry anaerobic digestion Truly waste no more and wet fermentation together under one roof True to our waste no more approach, we are for the first time in North America, it is the first leveraging every recycling opportunity at the waste recycling facility in Canada to be built site, even extracting recyclable materials from under a publicprivate partnership P3 financing the odours created by the organic waste.
odour abatement system features an ammonia scrubber, which uses sulphuric acid to extract Funded in partnership with the City of Surrey ammonia from the water droplets created and the Government of Canada, Renewi within the damp environment.
That ammonia provided the upfront capital costs and will is collected and recycled into ammonia operate the facility over a 25-year term.
The site will convert up to 115,000 tonnes Other recycled products include compost, a of domestic and commercial organic waste few thousand tonnes of which will be given per year into biomethane gas, which away to local residents free of charge at will power Surreys fleet of 18 wasteopen-house events that will seek to bring the collection trucks and other operational community together to learn more about what vehicles.
Using the renewable gas we do at the facility.
to power the collection trucks that supply the site with organic waste The site itself is built to high environmental makes it a fully closed loop facility standards, achieving gold certification a living example of our efforts to under Canadas Leadership in Energy and play a connecting role in the circular Environmental Design LEED rating system, economy.
which provides independent verification that a building has been designed and built The facility is expected to supply with human and environmental health in the national grid with more mind.
LEED takes account of sustainable site renewable gas than the City of development, water savings, energy efficiency, Surrey needs, making it the first materials selection and indoor environmental municipality in Canada to have a quality.
The Surrey facility is also the first waste negative carbon footprint.
sector infrastructure project in North America to be awarded the Institute for Sustainable Being a good corporate citizen Infrastructures Envision Platinum Award We started accepting first waste for sustainability.
for commissioning in December, expect to supply first gas to the national grid by the end of May, and will be fully operational in the summer.
Alongside the innovative combination of waste processing technologies, the site has a state-of-the-art odour For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 57 | STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED the commissioning of the Derby facility, which at Amsterdam is expected to improve A NEW 100,000 we will take control of when it has passed its performance next year.
Following successful full service commencement tests.
Exceptional management action to resolve operational TONNE RDF costs of 72.3m were incurred in the year and compliance issues in Cumbria, the relating to decisive portfolio management Group has released 4m of onerous contract CONTRACT and further onerous contract provisions which provisions that are no longer required.
We WITH THE AEB are discussed below.
Management do not have therefore been able to reverse its anticipate further exceptional costs relating to onerous contract status and the contract will INCINERATOR the UK assets.
be reported through the income statement during 2018 19.
IS EXPECTED The Canadian business reported revenues down by 52% to 15.9m reflecting the end Operational stability at the new Wakefield TO IMPROVE of the construction phase of the new Surrey and Barnsley, Doncaster and Rotherham PERFORMANCE AT facility.
The business reported a disappointing BDR facilities improved over the year with trading loss of 3.4m primarily due to the all performance tests passed at Wakefield.
ELWA NEXT YEAR previously reported recurrence of operational However, as previously reported, the facilities difficulties at the London facility and did not achieve the anticipated gains in contractor construction issues at Surrey.
In particular, the Wakefield anaerobic digestion AD facility OPERATIONAL REVIEW UK was impacted by an 80% reduction in the FIT renewable subsidy awarded by the As previously reported, the UK business government compared to that included in continued to be impacted by a range of the original bid model.
Additionally, it was challenges during 2017 18, offsetting the discovered, once in operation, that the gas effect of improvement initiatives.
yield on the residual waste fraction was less than half that originally expected.
Throughput At ELWA, the operating performance continued at the BDR facility was also curtailed as to be impacted by weak FX rates and higher the marginal cost of processing additional RDF export fees into the Netherlands commercial waste became loss making and Germany.
A new 100,000 tonne per largely due to the high cost of disposal as annum contract with the AEB incinerator RDF.
As noted in the Chief Financial Officers MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REVENUE UNDERLYING EBIT Mar 18 Mar 17 Variance Mar 18 Mar 17 Variance UK Municipal 176.4 174.8 1.6 1% 5.8 4.2 1.6 Canada Municipal 15.9 32.8 16.9 -52% 3.4 1.6 5.0 Total m at constant currency 192.3 207.6 15.3 -7% 9.2 2.6 6.6 Total m at average rate as reported 192.9 207.6 14.7 -7% 9.3 2.6 6.7 UNDERLYING EBIT MARGIN UK Municipal -3.3% -2.4% Canada Municipal -34.3% 7.4% Total -5.0% -1.8% All numbers for Canada are shown at a constant exchange rate For comparability, the Canadian trading margin excludes Surrey construction revenue and profits.
com 58 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 review, the significant progress made to During the year we took decisive action to exit Energen Biogas, our 50% joint venture in stabilise performance across both facilities in loss-making contracts or facilities where we Scotland, delivered another year of solid profit the year has assisted management in being have been unable to restore profitability and growth based on good availability of volumes able to assess the required onerous contract where there is a defined exit route that makes due to the Zero Waste Scotland policy.
provisions taken to reflect the expected future good sense for shareholders.
In March 2018, Investments in the past two years to increase losses from these two contracts, resulting in we sold our loss-making facility at Westcott capacity and provide a gas-to-grid capability an exceptional onerous contract provision Park to Olleco for an undisclosed sum.
This are generating strong returns.
has resulted in a non-cash write-off of 8m and cash exit costs of 6m, saving annual OPERATIONAL REVIEW CANADA The Derby facility made encouraging progress losses of around 1.5m per annum going following the 2016 insolvency of a major forward.
We have also entered into Our Canadian assets experienced challenges technology supplier to the EPC contractor negotiations regarding the Dumfries & in 2017 18 that are largely expected to be for the Derby project, Interserve plc.
The Galloway PFI contract with a view to exiting resolved enabling improved performance and facility has now accepted first waste for the operating contract held between Renewi profitability in 2018 19.
New management commissioning, and was granted renewable and Shanks Dumfries And Galloway Limited.
has now been put in place and is driving obligation certificates ROCs after generating This fifteen-year-old contract was not capable wide ranging commercial and operational electricity from the thermal treatment unit, of meeting the new regulations that require improvements.
thereby removing one of the main remaining greater diversion from landfill in Scotland, risks to the future profitability of the facility.
and long-running negotiations were unable The Ottawa facility saw a reduction in Commissioning is well underway, and to agree the required amendments without profitability due to higher costs of residual full service commencement is scheduled materially increasing the risk to Renewi.
The London plant experienced a during 2018 once a full range of operational contract generated a loss of 3m in 2017 18 recurrence of operational issues relating to performance tests have been passed.
and an additional provision of 9m was taken the stability of the biology in the composting to cover the costs of termination.
This initially reduced throughput whilst consequent odour challenges delayed the ramp up to full production.
Outstanding issues have been settled with MOECC, the Canadian regulator.
The plant has recently learned that it has been unsuccessful in renewing its contract with the City of Toronto, partly as a result of these issues.
This will reduce committed tonnage into London by around 35% for 2018 19 however, a pipeline of alternative inputs is being progressed.
We accepted first waste at our new facility in Surrey, Canada, The innovative bio-fuel facility in Surrey, in December 2017 Canada experienced commissioning delays as a result of contractor issues in construction.
These have now been addressed and first waste was accepted in December 2017 and the facility was formally opened in March 2018.
Full service commencement is expected later in the year and the facility should significantly reduce or eliminate losses during 2018 19.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 59
