Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Strategic Report OPERATING REVIEW Cash flow generation was robust, with net cash flows from operating Results summary activities up 40% to 386.7m.
Free cash flow was also solid at 229.2m Synergy realisation continued and the majority of the remaining spend 2016 17: 239.0m, though lower than the prior year due to the nonassociated with the major European integration programme was substantially repeatability of working capital related cash synergies realised during the prior completed.
The acquisition of Astrapak was completed in the first half and year and investments in capital expenditure and working capital to drive growth.
in the second half, the Group announced the acquisition of Nordfolien which These investments resulted in an adjusted operating cash conversion of 77% completed in April 2018.
Revenue grew by 36% to 3,748m, with strong growth in both the Packaging The Group retains a strong balance sheet with net debt of 1,139m and Non-packaging segments, and included organic growth of 2.8%.
2016 17: 1,049m representing a pro forma 2.0x EBITDA multiple Revenue was further driven by the contribution of acquisitions announced 2016 17:1.9x on a basis consistent with banking covenants.
Total undrawn or completed in the previous financial year and at constant exchange rates finance facilities of 1,004m 2016 17: 974m were available as at 31 March grew 33%.
2018 and the Group has full access to funds held having no restricted Adjusted EBITDA grew 34% to 590.3m and adjusted operating profit cash balances.
increased 38% to 425.0m due to the contribution of acquisitions and business improvement benefits including the realisation of synergies partly offset by a 6m increase in central costs to support the enlarged business more than offsetting cost inflation.
Return on sales increased 10bps to 11.3%.
At constant exchange rates adjusted EBITDA and adjusted operating profit grew by 30% and 34% respectively.
RONOA expanded 150 bps to 27.2%, benefiting from synergy realisation and improved profitability.
ROCE, at 14.8%, remains well ahead of the Groups weighted average cost of capital, with the slight dilution of 40bps primarily reflecting the inclusion of the first full year of Letica trading within the Groups result.
Adjusting items included within profit before tax were significantly lower at 72.8m 2016 17: 131.4m, and primarily consisted of 50.7m 2016 17: 31.0m non-cash amortisation of intangible assets that arise on acquisition and the remaining integration costs associated with the Promens, GCS and BPI acquisitions.
Reflecting the significant reduction in adjusting items, statutory profit before tax grew by 105% to 316.6m.
The Group delivered a good set of results, with record profitability levels, robust cashgeneration and solid organic growth.
Pim Vervaat Chief Executive 36 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Market backdrop Recent industry reports forecast the global plastic packaging market to grow at an annual average rate of 3.7% between 2017 and 2022, taking a 1.4%pts share from other packaging materials and, at 344bn accounting for around Group reported revenue one third of the global packaging market by 2022.
By region, Asia is forecast to growth outside of lead the growth as its economies continue to develop, while Europe, where RPC Europe 2017 18 generates 78% of its revenue, is forecast to grow at an annual average rate of 2.8% including 2.1% in Western Europe.
Demand for plastic packaging in more 116% mature geographies will be driven by factors including a rise in single-person households, e commerce, demand for light weight packaging reducing transport costs and emissions, barrier technology leading to savings in food waste, and recyclability.
Smithers Pira 2017 Plastics in the spotlight During the year, the recyclability, reusability and responsible disposal of plastic products came into greater focus with the announcement of a 25 Year Environment Plan in the UK and, at the end of May 2018, the launch of a draft Directive on Single use Plastics by the EU Commission.
RPC does not manufacture any of the items that will be restricted under the proposed EU Organic revenue directive, and is proactively working with the policy makers and industry bodies growth 2017 18 to best achieve their wider goals.
Following the acquisitions of BPI and ESE World, RPC is able to close the loop 2.8% by collecting agricultural films and used products and then using in-house recycling facilities to manufacture new films and by collecting and recycling disused bins into new bins.
Through ESE World the Group is also leading in storage and collection systems for sorted waste.
The Group continues to manufacture products that incorporate polymer resin from recycled sources and during the year, a pilot scheme tested the feasibility of establishing a closed loop recycling solution for used plastic paint containers, whereby disused containers are collected and recycled into new bins.
In response to increasing customer requests to demonstrate the recyclability of their products, a proprietary circular design tool was developed by RPC in line with RecyClass criteria which also allows the measurement and demonstration of improved recyclability post redesign.
Other initiatives in the year included ongoing research into incorporating Organic revenue biobased polymers and compostable materials in plastic products, and the growthin China launch of a skincare range for men incorporating over 50% sugarcane in the packaging while retaining full recyclability.
26% Overall, RPC remains uniquely placed to benefit from the market growth trends and to work with customers at the design stage and throughout the product lifecycle to improve the recyclability and reusability of their products and contribute to a sustainable future for plastic.
Vision 2020: Focused Growth Strategy Against this backdrop, the Group continued to deliver its Vision 2020: Focused Growth Strategy, which comprises: n Continuing focus on organic growth n Selective consolidation in Europe n Creating a meaningful presence outside Europe n Pursuing added-value opportunities in non-packaging markets Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 Strategic Report Underpinning this strategy is a centralised approach to purchasing polymer After the year end, plans for a further production facility in Shanghai were that allows the Group to benefit from its combined scale as well as a flexibility approved.
The project will expand the capacity in China for higher added-value to purchase many different grades.
The Group now purchases 1,100kt on an products.
The first phase of the expansion is expected to cost around 35m and annualised basis across over 1,000 different grades of polymer.
A strong balance will commence production in c. 12 months.
sheet and a disciplined approach to capital allocation that prioritises investing Selective consolidation in Europe in organic and acquisitive growth and sustaining a progressive dividend policy, complements the overall strategy see the Financial review for details.
In July 2017, the Group announced that it did not anticipate making any Once again, the strategy has delivered another successful year of growth for significant acquisitions, or incurring further acquisition related exceptional the Group.
costs now referred to as adjusting items in the financial year ending 31 March 2018.
Instead, the Group focused on delivering the announced synergy Active portfolio management realisation programme.
RPC conducts ongoing reviews of its business portfolio.
In doing so, the Group Accordingly, further acquisitions announced in the year were limited to the has improved its exposure to added-value products including plastic products recently completed acquisition of Nordfolien for an enterprise value of 75m.
that can be more easily recycled or reused, and overall quality of earnings.
Nordfolien is a leading player in the design and manufacture of higher added value polythene films for both industrial and consumer packaging markets.
It will Following the most recent review businesses equating to 209m turnover contribute to the Groups future growth while affording the opportunity to realise have been identified for disposal and this has been approved by the Board an attractive level of cost synergies, without incurring material adjusting items.
subsequent to the year end.
These businesses are smaller strategic business In addition to a small in-house recycling facility, Nordfolien has spare capacity units of larger entities acquired over the last four years and are typically either that can be used to grow the bpi indupac business without requiring additional sub-scale in the markets in which they operate or operate outside of RPCs core investment.
The Nordfolien deal was completed following the year end.
competencies in plastic packaging and technical components.
There continues to be a good pipeline of further acquisition opportunities in Continuing focus on organic growth this consolidating industry which will be assessed against the Groups strict Organic revenue growth was 2.8% in the year and included growth of over 4% in acquisition criteria.
The annual average organic revenue growth since the launch of Creating a meaningful presence outside Europe Vision 2020 is 2.9%, well ahead of comparable weighted GDP growth of 1.9%.
Reaching 831m 2016 17: 384m, Group revenue outside of Europe grew Organic revenue growth was achieved in both the Packaging and Non-packaging 116% with Letica and Ace key contributors.
On a constant currency basis, segments and was delivered despite four fewer trading days in the year and revenue outside of Europe grew by 118%.
the impact of certain adverse natural events in the first half.
All end-markets delivered organic growth except beverage, where the coffee capsules market The Ace Hefei site, which focuses on personal care packaging, became fully remained soft.
Towards the end of the year, the outlook for beverage improved operational in year, as did the start-up plant in Brazil, whilst the completion and and the Groups coffee capsules plant in Brazil is now fully operational.
integration of the Astrapak acquisition also enhanced RPC Groups presence outside of Europe.
By geography, China was notably strong, with organic revenue growth of 26% in the year, while organic revenue growth in the US was hindered by the impact of Astrapak is a leading South African manufacturer of rigid plastic packaging hurricanes in the first half.
products and components with a broad offering across injection moulding, blow moulding and thermoforming technology platforms.
The company is a mini-RPC Innovation and investment serving customers in sub-Saharan Africa with industrial and consumer products: RPC has an attractive portfolio of innovative and proprietary products and, it provided RPC with a strategic opportunity to acquire a rigid plastic packaging following the completion of the Nordfolien acquisition following the year end, group of scale, with well-established market positions in a new territory with has 33 design centres.
attractive medium to long-term growth prospects.
Although the softening of the South African economy during the year tempered Significant capital investment was made during the year positioning the Group the performance of the business, relationships with global customers are for continued growth.
Purchase of property, plant and equipment of 241.4m already showing positive benefits and there are opportunities to share 2016 17: 175.2m included spend of 53% on growth and efficiency projects, technology expertise across the Group.
and represented 6.4% of revenue and 1.5x depreciation.
The roll out of production lines for the patented CSD Lite and sports cap closures continued in the second half albeit with some customer delays in the US.
Other projects included the addition of further electroplating capacity in China and investment in an innovative, patented trigger spray which is expected to provide good cross-selling opportunities given its compatibility with many RPC existing products.
Elsewhere, following marketing in the first half, a number of applicator machines for the WaveGrip film solution have been ordered.
WaveGrip is a multipack beverage solution supported by both BPI and Letica.
The pipeline for further growth remains strong.
38 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Pursuing added value opportunities in non-packaging Promens GCS BPI markets Promens, GCS and BPI were individually significant acquisitions, providing combined revenue of c. 1,725m and 82 manufacturing sites to the Group within Revenue in the Non-packaging segment grew by 54% to 589m, including by a 30 month period.
The businesses required varying degrees of integration effort 50% on a constant currency basis and 7.3% organically.
Adjusted operating to maximise synergy realisation, which was achieved through a combination profit grew by 23%.
of purchasing savings, elimination of cost duplication, business optimisation Further progress has been made in expanding the Groups propositions in noninitiatives and the rationalisation of operations within existing facilities.
packaging markets, where the focus is on niche products and markets where The integration programme is substantially complete, with the French site higher added value products deliver strong returns, and the Groups scale in restructurings, the closure of Bjverskov Denmark and the consolidation and polymer purchasing creates a further competitive advantage.
sale of the Manuplastics UK operation into the remaining M&H facilities all The Ace business benefited from the start of production with vehicle finalised at the start of the 2018 19 financial year.
Proceeds from the sale of the manufacturers albeit with some launch costs associated with new Manuplastics manufacturing site were received just after the year end and are business wins impacting on margins.
The rebuild and upgrade of the Zhuhai expected to largely offset remaining cash costs under the programme of 6.5m, manufacturing plant in the first half also effected margins, although leaves the which relate to restructuring provisions at sites recently closed.
business well placed for future growth.
In total, 22 locations have closed including four head offices and two operations ESE World, which was acquired in January 2017, performed well in the first full in progress for closure when acquired and over 300 production lines have been year of ownership, with a strong pipeline of opportunities driven by the need to relocated.
However, cost inefficiencies remain in the current footprint and there enhance waste management to increase recycling and avoid litter and plastic are ongoing opportunities for cost improvements.
Acquisition related cost synergies Business integration At 187m, the total cost of the major European integration programme was RPC has a proven track record of successfully and efficiently combining lower than originally anticipated, with cash costs of 100m also lower than organisations following acquisition, with good integration capability across the expected.
These costs are included within adjusting items.
organisation enhanced by a decentralised operating structure, cross-functional As at the end of the financial year, synergies from this programme have reached integration teams and, in many cases, by retaining key management.
95m, leaving the Group on track to achieve its stated target of 105m by the end of the 2018 19 financial year and which equates to c. 6% of the acquired Letica Astrapak business revenues.
As a well-established and independent business, the integration effort required for Letica has been relatively minimal.
Letica management has been retained The cost of realising the Letica synergies was minimal and the Group continues and are incentivised to deliver growth and additional cost savings through a to expect that the synergies resulting from the acquisition of Nordfolien will be two-year earn-out period.
Preparations for their succession following the earnachieved without incurring material adjusting items.
Acquisition criteria and pipeline Astrapak management has been retained and work is ongoing to transfer design The opportunity to consolidate the European market remains both significant and engineering expertise to South Africa.
Post year-end, a small design and and highly attractive, and RPC has the scale, innovation capabilities, and moulding business was acquired to support the development towards higher ambition to continue to exploit this.
RPC maintains disciplined acquisition added value products.
criteria, which include: n Strategic fit n Strength of incumbent management Revenue n Financial track record Packaging 2017 18 m n Financial criteria including quantifiable cost and cash synergies: impact on return of capital employed, return on sales, return on net operating assets: 3,159 and earnings accretion 34% Adjusted In line with these, the Group has continued to build and maintain links with operating profit potential targets and is supported by a strong balance sheet with significant 2017: 2,365m Packaging 2017 18 m headroom in its debt facilities.
349.0 RONOA 42% Packaging 2017 18 2017: 246.2m 26.8% 270bps 2017: 24.1% Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 Strategic Report The Packaging segment serves an attractive, diverse range of end-markets Operational review encompassing both growth and defensive characteristics including the Packaging e-commerce market, where the Group is particularly well placed with its unique network of design and engineering centres.
Included in this business are both Year ended Year ended Increase rigid and flexible plastic packaging and a range of polymer conversion processes 31 March 31 March constant 2018 2017 Increase currency including injection moulding, blow moulding, thermoforming and, following the acquisition of BPI in August 2016, blown film extrusion.
Revenue m 3,159 2,365 34% 31% Adjusted operating Revenue grew 34% to 3,159m 31% on a constant currency basis, and was profit m 349.0 246.2 42% 38% driven by the full year contributions from BPI, Letica and other acquisitions net Return onsales 11.0% 10.4% 60bps 60bps of disposed businesses, and organic revenue growth of 2%.
Adjusted operating RONOA 26.8% 24.1% 270bps profit increased 42% to 349.0m and by 38% on a constant currency basis.
A return on sales increase of 60bps to 11.0% included the benefits of further cost synergy realisation as well as mix improvements, partially offset by a full year contribution from the BPI business which typically has a lower return on sales profile as well as lower capital intensity and higher central costs following the enlarged scale of the Group.
Revenue Organic End-Market 2017 18 growth Performance 1,082m 4.6% The market for food packaging continues to be driven by an increasing recognition of the need Food to minimise food waste and reduce the carbon footprint of production e. g. through shelf-life enhancing solutions, lighter weight packaging options and crop yield improvements.
During the year, there was good growth in the agricultural films, confectionary and fresh dairy markets.
Sustainable design is increasingly important in this market and RPC is well placed to contribute through its unique platform of design and engineering centres.
790m 0.1% The non-food end-market comprises a number of different packaging products all with innovation Non-Food in product design a key driver.
There was good demand for Nicotine delivery systems throughout the year and the popularity of these is expected to continue.
In industrial packaging, the market in surface coatings remained soft in both the US and the UK.
More generally, the Group continues to work with customers to redesign products, taking out weight, reducing complexity, adding recycled content and improving recyclability and reusability.
476m 6.8% Demand for personal care packaging remains attractive, driven by trends towards higher end Personal Care products, substitution from glass to plastic and globalisation.
The Group performed well in personal care, particularly in the US and at the Hefei site in China included in the Non-packaging segment.
Launch of an air-free, patented dispenser has enhanced the future growth potential and RPC is well placed with the ability to leverage its global platform and portfolio of patented, innovative solutions.
502m 1.1 % Innovation, globalisation and demand for sustainable design are key drivers in beverage solutions, Beverage though overall beverage revenue declined in the year.
Despite some customer delays, growth in sports caps and CSD Lite was achieved, particularly in Asia where revenue grew 19%.
This was offset by softness in European coffee capsule customers, and in the Letica foodservice business.
RPC is well-placed for next generation coffee capsule projects and further business wins in Sports caps.
166m 0.7% An ageing population, demand from emerging markets and innovation in developed economies are Healthcare all growth drivers in this end-market.
During the year, there was good growth in standard inhaler products although delays in new product launches continued.
RPC continues to support customers switching to plastic from alternative materials and the formation of the Pharmaceutical Cluster including Plastiape acquired in 2016 has enhanced medium to longer-term growth projects.
40 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED In addition there was a further 143m of Technical Component revenue from Non-financial key performance indicators businesses which are reported in the Packaging segment.
RPC has three main non-financial key performance indicators, which provide perspectives on employee welfare and the Groups progress in improving its Non-packaging contribution to the environment.
Increase Year ended Year ended decrease The electricity and water usage per tonne improved during the year as the 31 March 31 March Increase constant Group is investing in environmentally friendly efficiencies.
Electricity usage 2018 2017 decrease exchange improvement largely reflects the impact of new acquisitions, mainly a full Revenue m 589 382 54% 50% year impact of BPI and Letica whose average consumption is well below the Adjusted operating profit rest of the Group.
Excluding the impact of the new acquisitions the Group has m 76.0 62.0 23% 20% seen a small improvement.
It is pleasing to note that the reportable accident Return on sales 12.9% 16.2% 330 bps 330 bps frequency rate continues to improve to better than industry average levels.
RONOA 32.9% 37.4% 450 bps Further improvements are being targeted.
The Non-packaging businesses of the Group cover many different product Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March and market combinations which are all linked by innovation, application of 2018 2017 technical knowledge and consumption of polymer.
Market drivers include Non-financial KPIs: ongoing demand for lightweighting, for example, in the automotive and large 1 Reportable accident frequency rate 490 534 vehicles industries where components traditionally made out of metal are being replaced with plastic alternatives.
In the market for temporary waste solutions, Electricity usage per tonne kWh T 1,508 1,965 key drivers include the need to enhance integrated waste management to avoid Water usage per tonne L T 793 795 litter and plastic leakage into the environment, and broader waste solutions 1 Reportable accident frequency rate RAFR is defined as the number of accidents resulting in more than three days off work, excluding accidents where an employee is travelling to or from work, divided by the average number of including underground bins and containers for hazardous chemicals.
employees, multiplied by the constant 100,000.
Revenue grew 54% to 589m 50% on a constant currency basis aided by a Outlook full year contribution from ESE World and foreign exchange.
Organic revenue growth of 7.3% was driven by strong growth in demand for higher added-value I am pleased with the progress made since launch of the Vision 2020 strategy automotive components and Ace moulds.
five years ago with record profitability levels achieved this year on a significantly enlarged business whilst establishing a global footprint.
I am excited by the Adjusted operating profit increased 23%, or 20% on a constant currency basis, many opportunities for the business to further develop both organically and with a decline in return on sales reflecting the change in revenue mix following through acquisitions.
With our unique global network of design and engineering the ESE World acquisition, start-up costs associated with new automotive centres, the Group is well placed to benefit from the development opportunities contract awards in the Ace and the injection moulded automotive business and driven by recent sustainability and e-commerce trends.
We target through the an increase in central costs.
RONOA declined by 450bps reflecting the reduction cycle underlying organic growth ahead of GDP and to improve the adjusted in return on sales and investment in new facilities to support automotive operating profit of the core businesses, including the contribution from the contract wins and continued growth.
recent Nordfolien acquisition, by at least 50m by the financial year ending ESE World performed well in the first full year of ownership with notable March 2021.
At the same time, within the overall capital allocation framework, success in high end systems in Scandinavia and in the export of four wheel the Group will continue to assess value-adding acquisition opportunities which temporary waste solutions.
meet our strict acquisition criteria.
The new financial year has started in-line with management expectations.
Pim Vervaat Chief Executive 6 June 2018
