OPERATING REVIEW MATERIALS Analysis Sales increased 16%, reflecting an 8% increase in LFL sales, released the next generation of FacilityPro products which deliver a 10% contribution from acquisitions and a 2% negative impact enhanced flexibility to meet the latest environmental monitoring from foreign currency exchange movements.
Sales growth for the needs whilst ensuring data security and reliability.
Following the year was driven by strong demand in Asia, particularly in China, establishment of a global partnership with Novatek International South Korea and India, with a notably stronger performance in the in 2017 to provide a fully-integrated software and hardware second half.
In North America and Europe, LFL sales were also up, solution for environmental monitoring, PMS launched the first with particularly strong first half performances in both regions.
fully-integrated Quality Assurance data management system for pharmaceutical manufacturers, PharmaIntegrity, to securely meet On a LFL basis, adjusted operating profit increased 11% and regulatory requirements and ensure product integrity.
This uniquely adjusted operating margins increased by 0.4pp, reflecting the offers our customers a complete solution package, with advisory higher LFL sales, some mix effects and good overhead cost services, particle and microbial monitors, cleanroom monitoring control.
The 1.2pp decline in adjusted operating margin reflected systems, training and education, and data management.
the dilutive impact of the acquisition of Concept Life Sciences in the year.
Statutory operating profit increased 5% to 72.1 million.
Performance at Concept Life Sciences CLS was below expectations due to a range of factors including a reduction Sales at Malvern Panalytical have continued to benefit from the in project work from two major clients, delays in gaining new re-organised sales and marketing functions following the merger laboratory and manufacturing accreditations GLP and GMP, and are being aligned with three market sectors: advanced as well as a period of sub-optimal performance at one of its materials, pharma and food, and raw and bulk materials.
These internal issues largely reflected the a key account structure, these are focused on value-based selling state of the business on acquisition, which was in the process in order to benefit our customers and create differentiation from of integrating previous acquisitions into two divisions, as well as the competition.
We have continued to generate orders from distraction and disruption caused to the commercial organisation cross-selling the Malvernand Panalytical-branded product lines, triggered by the acquisition.
Remedial action to improve operational with incremental sales into various universities and industrial effectiveness is already having an impact: the preparatory work for customers recognising the benefits of the combined businesses.
the manufacturing accreditations has progressed well and the Several new products were launched by Malvern Panalytical in funnel of opportunities across the business has developed strongly.
These included the Epsilon 4 XRF spectrometer, a new Management believes that the end markets for CLS are still very high-performance benchtop analytical tool for determining the strong as customers continue to look to outsource analytical chemical composition of different materials.
It is applicable to services and pharmaceutical development work.
With a similar industries such as mining, pharmaceuticals and oils fuels which end-market focus to Malvern Panalytical, the two companies need to comply with international regulations and test methods.
have been marketing collaboratively and, for example, a recent A third generation Empyrean X-ray diffractometer with the significant project was awarded to CLS as it could access Malvern newly-developed MultiCore Optics was introduced.
It aims at Panalyticals Morphologi 4-ID particle characterisation system and increasing productivity in around-the-clock investigations and offer a unique solution to a key client.
offers unprecedented traceability of experiments in regulated Sales to the pharmaceuticals and fine chemicals industries rose environments.
For example, leading electronics companies notably on a LFL basis, with North America seeing particularly have been selecting Empyrean for optimising the performance strong growth.
LFL sales also increased in Europe and Asia, with of lithium-ion batteries.
growth in the latter driven by strong demand in China and India Also launched were the Zetasizer Ultra and Pro systems, which as rising disposable incomes in these countries bring increased deliver significant improvements in the quality and speed of the characterisation of nanomaterials and proteins.
New capabilities, including the use of machine learning techniques, significantly Bringing new products to market faster shorten sample preparation and measurement times, whilst Sprint Bioscience, a Swedish pharmaceutical company, providing more stable and reliable results.
is performing ground-breaking work in immuno-oncology, the study and development of treatments for cancer that And lastly, the new Morphologi range of automated static imaging take advantage of the bodys own immune system.
Two of systems for particle characterisation is designed to provide deeper Malvern Panalyticals MicroCal biophysical characterisation understanding of process and or material properties, for example systems have played direct roles in Sprint Biosciences in pharmaceuticals and battery materials.
The systems capability development of new drugs to target a specific enzyme in delivering precise particle characterisation data enables complex involved in the growth and progression of human cancers.
generic drug manufacturers to gain faster regulatory approval using The instruments were used to confirm that the therapeutic lab-based assessments instead of relying on complex clinical studies.
molecules were stable and soluble and that they bound to Particle Measuring Systems PMS benefited from growth in the their target correctly.
semiconductor industry as well as continued good demand for both Rapid delivery of reliable data has accelerated the its contamination monitoring hardware and high-level consulting services into the pharma industry.
Demand for these services is programme, which is currently in toxicology studies prior to selection of a clinical candidate and has demonstrated motivated by regulatory compliance, which is becoming more stringent, and PMS is well positioned in a growing market for efficacy in several different cancer models.
aseptic processing and sterility assurance.
In this context, PMS 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report demand for effective healthcare.
This has led to greater investment in generic pharmaceutical development and manufacturing in both regions.
Significant cross-selling opportunities have been realised within the value chain Segment performance for traditional oral solid dose products, where Malvern Panalyticals morphology and structural analysis solutions provide insight into drug product bioavailability and stability.
Sales The metals, minerals and mining sector saw an increase in LFL sales, with North America and Europe broadly flat and growth in other regions.
The improved investment climate has 541.1m seen an increase in market activity as well as a focus on safety 2017: 464.9m and productivity.
The sector has focused on delivering improved yields, productivity, product quality and cost minimisation in the extraction and processing of raw materials fundamental to the manufacturing industry, and Malvern Panalytical instruments are critical in delivering these improvements.
After a notably weak 2017, sales to academic research Adjusted operating customers were much improved in 2018, with good LFL profit growth across all key regions.
The year started slowly but improved notably in the second half with a significant 95.4m pick-up in demand in North America and Asia as improving economic conditions and increased government funding led to 2017: 87.3m greater market activity.
In China, for example, the government has a number of initiatives and investments underway to help develop the countrys technology and pharmaceutical industries and establish world-class universities.
In North Statutory operating America, LFL sales benefited from an increase in universities profit internal funding and our improving win-rate.
Sales to the semiconductor and electronics industries 72.1m recorded another year of good LFL growth in 2018, particularly in Asia where we have seen strong demand from battery and 2017: 68.6m electronics customers in China, Taiwan and Korea as Asian demand for consumer electronics and IIoT applications has increased.
Semiconductor capital spending continues to rise as new fabrication plants fabs are developed, although we have seen a slower pace of growth in 2018. Notable customer Sales by destination % wins in this area include a well-known semiconductor manufacturer and world-leading memory supplier, who have installed multiple UDI-20 units, an extremely sensitive liquid 7 Rest of the world North America particle counter, in their new fabs.
In addition, one of the 22 worlds most advanced foundries has just built a leading-edge chip facility in which PMS particle counters have been installed.
Segment outlook 39 In the pharmaceutical sector, the global growth in disposable incomes and consequent demand for effective healthcare has resulted in sustained investment in R&D and we expect this Asia 32 Europe trend to continue.
Alongside this, an increasing awareness of total lifecycle cost is pushing customers to reduce both development costs and time to market for new products, underpinning an increased need for new solutions and services.
Increasing regulatory compliance and sterility Sales by end-user market % assurance for drug manufacturing processes will also continue to drive growth of our hardware and services.
We expect the steady growth in the mining and materials 17 Pharmaceuticals & Other sector to continue, where our focus is on customers involved fine chemicals in the research, development and manufacturing of novel 37 materials and complex systems and devices.
Academic 12 With its dependence on government funding, we expect research growth in the academic research market to be variable, although demand in Asia is benefiting from a number of government initiatives.
13 Semicon, telecoms & Within the semiconductor industry, after another year 21 Metals, minerals & electronics of strong demand, we expect the pace of semiconductor mining investment to be at more muted rates than in 2018.
Spectris plc 19 OPERATING REVIEW continued Test and MEASUREMENT Sales increased 7%, including a 2% contribution from acquisitions, throughout the first half of 2019.
The refurbishment of the net of disposals, and a 1% negative impact from foreign currency full-scale crash laboratory has increased efficiency and enabled exchange movements.
By region, additional tests to be offered.
At Test World in Finland, additional North America, Europe and Asia all delivered similar levels of LFL indoor tyre testing capacity has come into commercial use sales growth, with the UK, China and Japan being the key countries successively through the year.
The acquisition of Revolutionary posting higher growth.
Engineering, Inc now Millbrook RE in Detroit, USA, in April extended our position into a new region, market and services offering and we Adjusted operating profit decreased 9% on a LFL basis and LFL have seen good demand for its services since acquisition.
This reflected the higher LFL sales volumes, in particular at ESG and Millbrook which In August, we acquired VI-grade, a leading global provider are lower gross margin businesses, plus higher overheads.
of vehicle simulation software, systems and services, primarily to The overheads increase resulted from HBK-related merger costs, automotive customers, which complements our existing hardware higher employee costs reflecting an increase in headcount and and services offering into this sector.
VI-grade helps clients shorten higher than expected wage inflation, as well as higher depreciation development cycles, enhance innovation and decrease risk by at Millbrook.
Statutory operating profit decreased to 42.8 million providing real-time virtual prototype simulation capabilities.
from the 55.6 million recorded in 2017.
At the end of May, we Performance since acquisition has been in line with expectations completed the disposal of the EMS Brel & Kjr environmental and VI-grade will be collaborating with other operating companies monitoring business into a joint venture with Macquarie Capital.
to expand our solutions for our automotive customers.
During 2018, preparatory work continued ahead of the merger Within the automotive sector, LFL sales grew strongly during of Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration BKSV and HBM, the two the year with the UK, China and Japan being the main contributors largest operating companies within this segment.
The businesses to the growth.
Growth reflects robust demand for electric and are being combined in order to leverage the strengths and hybrid vehicles globally and policy changes in certain markets such complementary expertise across the measurement chain to enhance as China compulsory EV targets for vehicle manufacturers and our customer proposition and the joint company is being renamed Europe emissions testing for new cars.
We also had another year HBK Hottinger, Brel & Kjr.
An integrated go-to-market model of strong growth in our eDrive applications.
for the joint sales organisation has been established and the In machine manufacturing, a significant portion of which development of joint HBK products and solutions has commenced.
represents sales into the automotive supply chain, LFL sales rose During 2018, both companies launched new software products year-on-year in the two key regions, Europe and Asia.
The two which aim to streamline and simplify data acquisition and main markets, Germany and China, both saw good growth with monitoring: HBM has launched EVIDAS, its next-generation data a continued increase in exports from Germany.
Sales of our acquisition and analysis software with cloud integration, and BKSV weighing sensors benefited from strong machine maker demand released BK Connect, a highly innovative sound and vibration globally and customer wins.
software analytics platform which has already received strong In the aerospace and defence sector, LFL sales declined in all customer feedback and generated a robust funnel of opportunities.
regions, though this is typically a project business and sales can be These platforms help integrate seamless data acquisition, lumpy.
In addition, 2017 was a tough comparator due to a sizeable monitoring, multiple analysis, data viewing and reporting in the one-off order and we have seen some projects being delayed by same system.
HBM also launched ClipX, a novel miniaturised data customers into 2019.
However, we continue to see good R&D acquisition product for industrial applications.
Overall sales growth has been held back in 2018 by supply shortages and constraints at HBM, by internal staffing issues at Improving quality and safety BKSV which have now been resolved, and by some interruption Volvo Car Corporation invests a significant amount of time from pre-merger related activity.
However, orders for their and cost improving the driving experience of its cars.
The traditional hardware products have remained strong, particularly for company has installed VI-grades dynamic driving simulator, BKSVs shaker business and for HBMs core torque, load sensor cell DiM150, to fine tune the next generation of vehicles right and strain applications and data acquisition products.
For example, from the start of the development process.
The DiM platform OEM sensors have seen significant growth, both with existing and enables Volvo to undertake simulation models using human new customers, in applications like agriculture, medical devices, test drivers to test and optimise the handling and ride textile machines and spectrometry devices.
HBMs DAQ instrument behaviour of new vehicles in a realistic environment, business has grown significantly, a notable order being from ITER as well as to test new algorithms for active safety systems.
for their experimental fusion reactor project.
Going forward, we see a solid pipeline of opportunities for ground vehicles and aircraft.
The simulator is used in conjunction with Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibrations SimSound software, which enables At Millbrook, we continued to expand our testing capacity and highly authentic and dynamic vehicle sound simulation to capability.
We increased our capacity for testing advanced driver be generated.
Using the simulator early in the new vehicle assistance systems and connected and autonomous vehicle CAV development process has helped Volvo improve the technologies via modifications to existing track infrastructure plus performance of new cars and reduced development investment in high-precision instrumentation and soft targets that time and cost.
A new battery test facility started up in January 2019 and all 12 chambers will become operational 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report investment in the industry and have been building our pipeline of opportunities, for example within hull vibration monitoring systems for naval applications.
Our key account programme has delivered new sales opportunities with a number of Segment performance notable contracts signed.
For example, we have been working with Mitsubishi Regional Jet on Japans first commercial jet aircraft during its certification phase to ensure exterior take-off and landing noise meets requirements.
BKSVs array acoustic Sales products were utilised to perform noise source identification to help identify areas of the aircraft that need continued 522.6m analysis or further design enhancements.
In addition, HBM has secured various projects for tests of electric aircraft.
2017: 487.3m LFL sales to our consumer electronics and telecoms customers were slightly higher in 2018, with growth this year lower than in prior years, primarily reflecting fewer new product launches by customers.
Sales of our high-frequency head and torso simulator, which was launched in 2017 and Adjusted operating is designed for in-situ electro-acoustics tests on smartphones, profit headsets and microphones, have been above expectations, particularly into consumer electronics companies, and we have 67.2m a strong pipeline.
Underlying demand for our electro-acoustics products is still good as manufacturers strive to deliver the 2017: 74.2m higher sound quality that customers now demand from their mobile devices and speakers.
LFL sales into academic research institutes were flat year-on-year, with lower sales in Europe and North America.
Statutory operating LFL sales were strong in Asia driven by very good growth in profit China, reflecting the increased government funding and continuing investment to move China towards being a technologyrather than manufacturing-driven economy.
42.8m Improved conditions in oil and gas and mining markets 2017: 55.6m continued into 2018 and LFL sales growth was again strong, particularly in North America.
A rising rig count and the launch of new oil and gas and mining projects saw demand for ESGs microseismic monitoring solutions increase notably.
In particular, we saw a higher level of activity for our downhole Sales by destination % hydraulic fracture mapping and monitoring activities.
Sales of our new microseismic data acquisition, processing and analysis Rest of the world product, FRACMAP Clarity, which was launched during the 3 year, have been very good as it brings greater insight for our 22 North America oil and gas customers on the productive fracture network 25 resulting from well completion operations.
This enables more Asia strategic well planning, better stage placement and reservoir coverage and an improved estimate of recoverable resource.
Segment outlook As the development of electric and hybrid vehicles continues to grow rapidly, and stricter emissions testing, battery 50 Europe development and the growth of CAV continue apace, we expect the demand in the automotive sector to continue to grow, especially driven by the associated R&D.
New capacity coming onstream at Millbrook will also enable us to better Sales by end-user market % access these high-growth sectors.
In aerospace, overall demand will be driven by new development programmes and while our pipeline remains Other 13 strong, the ability to convert these into orders will be key.
Automotive Energy & utilities 6 The underlying trends in the consumer electronics and 39 telecoms market remain healthy in our view, with continued Academic 6 consumer demand for smartphones with high-quality audio research and innovative features.
The prevalence of new product 7 Semicon, launches will help drive demand for our applications.
telecoms & 9 Market conditions in the oil and gas industry are harder electronics to predict, with continued volatility in oil and gas prices.
20 Aerospace & defence However, our new product offerings continue to position Machine building us strongly with increased instrument capability and analytic solutions in the micro-seismic segment.
Spectris plc 21 OPERATING REVIEW continued In-line INSTRUMENTATION Sales were broadly flat year-on-year, with a LFL sales increase above target.
These products measure multiple gases, which further of 1%.
Servomex and BTG performed well, with sales at NDC optimises processes, improves product yields, ensures high product Technologies NDCT contracting and Brel & Kjr Vibro having quality and helps meet regulatory and safety requirements for our a tough comparison against high one-off sales in 2017.
Gas monitoring applications are equally in demand in negative impact from foreign currency exchange movements other industries outside of energy, for example, sales of our was compensated by a 1% contribution from acquisitions.
On a analysers into the semiconductor market, to ensure gas purity regional basis, LFL sales rose strongly in Asia, particularly in China, during the manufacturing process, have been buoyant as activity but this was mostly offset by the lower LFL sales recorded in here remains strong.
We had a notable order in the year from North America and Europe.
a major player in advanced semiconductor technology to deliver 135 analysers for their new semiconductor fabrication facility LFL adjusted operating profit increased 17% and LFL adjusted in South Korea.
This resulted from higher gross margins at BTG and Servomex, the segments In the wind energy sector, although the market continues to see larger two operating companies, plus lower overheads year-ongrowth, we have seen lower LFL sales at Brel & Kjr Vibro due year, with the 2017 results reflecting certain one-off restructuring to a tough comparator in 2017 when we had exceptionally high costs which were not repeated this year.
There was also a rise in sales to wind turbine manufacturer Vestas.
During the year, statutory operating profit, from 29.5 million to 32.2 million.
we delivered our 20,000th wind turbine condition monitoring system and have further expanded the number of wind farm In the pulp and paper markets, LFL sales increased compared with owners and operators to whom we provide remote turbine 2017, with similar growth in all the key regions and notably strong monitoring and diagnostic services.
During the year, we launched growth in China driven by robust capital project activity.
BTGs our new state-of-the-art condition monitoring unit, DDAU3, that is Process Solutions business unit, established in 2017, has continued set to provide further opportunities in 2019 and beyond.
Early sales to gather momentum with several customers placing orders for included the selection as a preferred condition monitoring system integrated solutions.
Orders were placed in the Americas and supplier with a large wind turbine manufacturer based in China Europe for pulping solutions, including instrumentation and MACS for both the DDAU3 hardware as well as our remote monitoring advanced process control content.
These solutions are designed to services for one of their LatAm wind farms for a multi-year period.
deliver sustainable gains in business performance for our customers, New and existing customers are also showing keen interest in our including cost savings and productivity enhancements.
tailored to drive gains in efficiency continue to be aligned with many of the projects that the pulp and paper industry is seeking, At NDCT, LFL sales to web and converting industries were including a more widespread use of automation and real-time down notably across all key regions.
In the film extrusion and monitoring of process conditions.
converting segment, we have seen demand softness in all regions, in particular in the Americas where we have seen fewer The Capstone dataPARC analytics offering also continues to be upgrades compared with last year, driven by industry consolidation deployed in several process industries, including power generation, and customers delaying projects to focus on consolidating chemical, wastewater and ethanol.
As an example, a leading production lines.
Korean utility company is replacing their existing data historian with dataPARC across all their generation sites, as described in the case An important development and opportunity has been our work on study below.
lithium-ion batteries and NDCT continues to progress activities to further penetrate this market.
It has developed a new generation In the energy and utilities market, LFL sales rose, with notably of sensor products for the continuous measurement and inspection strong growth in Asia more than offsetting lower LFL sales in of the lithium-ion battery electrode manufacturing process.
Its new North America and Europe, with the higher year-on-year oil Photon Sensor provides a new level of performance in coat weight price supporting steady project investment in both upstream and downstream projects.
In addition, waste-to-energy projects in the Americas and combustion control in power plants in Asia continued to drive opportunities.
Improving operational efficiency With our strengthened sales and marketing organisation at A leading Korean utility company is using BTGs Servomex, we have continued to capitalise on this improved dataPARC software across all their generation sites, backdrop in the industrial gas and hydrocarbon processing sectors creating a central monitoring and prognosis centre at and benefited from sales of new products launched in recent years, their head office and a common visualisation platform where we have seen substantial growth in orders.
For example, we at their sites.
The real-time data and information have had notable sales of our Laser 3 Plus, particularly to the Asian gathered through dataPARC is also integrated with power sector as well as for hydrocarbon processing in both Europe the customers predictive modelling infrastructure.
Since their launch last year, the new MonoExact The customer now has the ability to monitor their and MultiExact gas analysers have been experiencing significant operations centrally, contributing to greater efficiency.
growth, with sales to major industrial gas companies globally, and sales of the newly-launched 4900 Multigas are already notably 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report measurement accuracy and fine detail of the coating flatness and its new micro-caliper thickness sensor enables manufacturers to get a true picture of product quality, enabling them to make improvements to their production Segment performance processes.
We had a notable order with a battery manufacturer in Taiwan and are currently working on projects with American, Chinese, Japanese and Thai battery manufacturers.
In the food and bulk materials segment, Sales manufacturers continued to seek higher performing measurement solutions to meet more stringent food safety 312.2m and consumer requirements.
For example, in 2018, NDCTs Infralab product introduced a degree of roast measurement 2017: 310.9m that allows coffee manufacturers to perform moisture and degree of roast measurements at a single station.
Segment outlook We continue to drive the mix shift in our pulp and paper Adjusted operating business to be less dependent on graphic paper, a long-term profit declining market, into the higher growth areas of tissue, packaging and pulp markets.
Tissue growth is driven by increasing consumer penetration in emerging markets and 42.6m packaging from the rise in online shopping.
We also expect 2017: 36.0m to continue to capture new opportunities with our Process Solutions business, including reliability services.
The market environment in global oil and gas markets is difficult to predict, given current contrary macroeconomic signals.
However, in the wind energy sector, investment Statutory operating is expected to continue to grow and we continue to look at profit expanding our offering into new wind farm owners and operators as well as OEMs.
In the medium term, there remains 32.2m the potential for additional capabilities beyond vibration to encompass other condition monitoring technologies in order 2017: 29.5m to provide more predictive analysis and a more holistic monitoring solution.
The demand softness we have seen in the film extrusion and converting segment is likely to persist into 2019 and we Sales by destination % will continue to look at cost containment measures to offset this, as well as focus on key areas of growth such as the lithium-ion battery market.
In the food and bulk materials Rest of the world 6 market, activity is expected to remain robust.
Over the medium term, we believe opportunities across these markets North America 31 are expected to increase as customers develop new products which require advanced in-line measurement solutions.
35 Asia 28 Europe Sales by end-user market % 25 Other 37 Pulp, paper & tissue 11 Converting, extrusion & packaging 27 Energy & utilities Spectris plc 23 OPERATING REVIEW continued INDUSTRIAL Controls LFL sales increased by 3%, there was a negative impact of 3% from In December, to strengthen market presence and increase growth foreign currency exchange movements and 13% from the disposal prospects, a new e-commerce platform was introduced to enhance of Microscan, resulting in sales being 13% lower year-on-year.
the digital experience for customers.
This was initially launched This segment has a high exposure to North America 74%, where in Canada and the platform will be progressively rolled out we recorded solid sales growth.
Asia recorded good growth in LFL globally during 2019.
Omega has supplemented this with more sales, particularly at Omega.
In Europe, overall segment sales were precisely-targeted digital marketing campaigns as well as enhanced lower on a LFL basis due to a tough comparative from good project organic search engine optimisation performance and, together, sales in 2017. these are expected to translate into higher conversion of website traffic to sales.
Adjusted operating profit LFL increased by 19% and LFL operating margins improved by 2.6pp, following the continued improvement The increasing emphasis on industrial connectivity and IIoT from in gross margin at Omega, from both efficiency improvements and our customers is generating opportunities for both Red Lion and pricing, and at Red Lion Controls Red Lion.
Red Lion added cloud connectivity to its Crimson software reorganisation costs of 0.7 million at Omega 2017: 2.1 million.
platform, allowing the data collected from industrial devices to be Statutory operating profit increased to 29.3 million, pushed to platforms that include Amazon AWS or Microsoft Azure.
This further broadens the appeal of Red Lions equipment beyond their traditional core factory automation market, and has enabled LFL sales growth was good in Asia, driven in particular by demand new wins in several key verticals, including energy exploration and from the Chinese market.
In Europe, LFL sales for both companies alternative energy.
The company also added OPC UA functionality, were lower, with Omega reflecting a tough comparator given the a machine-to-machine communication protocol for industrial strong project work in 2017.
The better year-on-year results reflect automation, allowing access to data via a standard that is the impact of higher LFL sales and the continuing operational becoming the common language of the industrial controls world.
improvements at Omega and, likewise, improvement at Red Lion was primarily driven by operational improvements, coupled with The connectivity capability of Omegas portfolio was similarly solid growth in its main market of North America.
expanded with the launch of four product platforms with wireless, ethernet and or remote connectivity, while also extending the ability Operational performance improved at Omega, with both higher of existing platforms to utilise new types of measurement inputs gross margins and operating margins.
This has been achieved by a and send data through wireless connections.
Omega and Red Lion continued focus on Lean operations, tighter inventory management have begun collaborating to find ways to leverage their digital plus footprint rationalisation by consolidating its global distribution infrastructure to enhance their product offering to customers.
During 2018, Omega has experienced some product availability and lead time issues, impacted primarily by the tight US labour market as well as raw material availability.
Omegas focused operational improvement initiatives should help further on this front going into 2019.
In addition, Omega has been focusing on introducing newer, Protecting high-value assets faster-growing products to offset the lower growth of its Cardinal Glass, a leading US glass manufacturer, produces traditional thermocouple business.
As an example, during the year, Omega launched the ZW-Series wireless sensor system for around 8 million square feet of high-value speciality glass each month, half of which is stored for upcoming orders.
web-based monitoring of temperature, humidity, barometric pressure and a wide range of process-related devices in diverse However, if the stored glass is exposed to humidity swings for too long, the coating will begin to oxidise, causing industrial, laboratory, commercial and agricultural applications.
The ZW-Series is supported by the Omega Enterprise Gateway, catastrophic damage and considerable financial cost.
To monitor the temperature and relative humidity of the which provides a set of web-based data visualisation, monitoring, alarming, data historian and email services.
Omegas first cloudstorage environment, Cardinal has installed six Omega temperature and humidity monitors across two buildings.
capable Bluetooth wireless thermometers were also released.
With their seamless connectivity, they allow the user to collect, transmit The data from these sensors is integrated into their monitoring and control systems via Omegas Enterprise and store accurate temperature data for analysis or compliance reporting without any additional or third-party software.
Omega Gateway for seamless integration with other plant processes.
This allows Cardinal to monitor humidity levels alongside has also created differentiation in its new series of custom pressure transducers for industrial applications that can be quickly and easily other plant measurements in real time and will help the company not only better protect their assets, but also configured online and shipped to the customer within 48 hours, beating the competitions delivery of similar custom products improve their manufacturing processes and environment.
24 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Red Lion has also been refreshing its product lines.
For example, it launched the DA10D and DA30D protocol conversion and data acquisition devices, providing customers with a cost-effective way of unlocking the value of data Segment performance contained in legacy equipment.
Via easy-to-use software, customers can quickly configure communications links to over 300 types of industrial controllers, allowing them to cost-effectively monitor and manage machines that might Sales otherwise have been left isolated from their data collection strategy.
The company also launched a range of additional 228.3m communications modules for their CR3000 series touchscreen operator panels, again allowing easier integration with a 2017: 262.5m broad range of equipment.
The requirement for industrial companies to drive productivity and operational efficiencies by enabling effortless and secure access to their manufacturing information is increasing demand for these types of products.
Segment outlook Adjusted operating profit Given the predominance of sales in the North American market, the performance of this segment will be influenced by industrial markets in that region, where growth in 2019 43.1m is likely to be more subdued than in 2018.
However, our 2017: 41.8m enhanced digital e-commerce platform, in combination with a refresh of our product portfolio, are expected to drive enhanced medium-term growth at Omega, and we will also benefit from improved operating leverage from the continued restructuring activities and Lean focus.
Statutory operating In the medium term, the demand from industrial companies profit wishing to drive productivity and operational efficiencies, by having effortless and secure access to their manufacturing 29.3m data, is expected to increase.
Our ability to provide connected devices, digital monitoring and optimisation solutions enables 2017: 28.7m our customers to benefit from our deep applications knowledge, as we apply our process applications and products expertise to address their industrial optimisation requirements.
Sales by destination % 1 Rest of the world 14 Asia 11 Europe 74 North America Sales by end-user market % 36 Other 43 Distribution 21 Semicon, telecoms & electronics Spectris plc 25
