STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW NETWORKS & SECURITY We delight in knowing that our products and expertise keep people and companies connected, communicating and safe online.
Our products enable vendors to accelerate the time required to get their products to market while ensuring the quality and performance of their products protects their brand and the value they create for their stakeholders.
Operating profit before exceptional items as a percentage of revenue.
30 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY Revenue growth: 9 per cent, Our business objectives are to extend our driven by high-speed Ethernet, market-leadership in Ethernet IP, mobile cyber security and positioning.
infrastructure and positioning test systems Extended our market-leadership.
and to grow our business in emerging in 100G and 400G Ethernet technologies and new application areas, performance test.
Key 400G such as cyber security.
wins secured in the second half.
Demonstrated the worlds highest Our business strategy is to: density 400 200 100 50G test system extend our lead in high-speed Ethernet at Optical Fibre Communication IP performance testing for emerging conference.
Launched the industrys standards for data centers and wide first 25G network emulator.
area networks, such as 100G and 400G: Expanded our cyber security product wireless local area networks LAN and capability and sales coverage, which led to greater than 20 per cent automotive Ethernet: develop software-defined network SDN orders growth.
Gained traction with new enterprise and government and network functions virtualisation NFV test methodologies and tools: customers.
Experienced an increase in subscription sales.
expand our security test business footprint in manufacturers, service Extended our market-leadership in global navigation satellite providers and large enterprises by developing new product capabilities, systems GNSS simulation systems.
Reported our highest revenue in our investing in our security consulting services and expanding our marketing 20-year history.
Grew revenue 22 per cent, driven by contracts in the US.
and sales channel globally: and extend our lead in GNSS simulation and the development of products for the detection and assessment of security threats and vulnerabilities.
We will explore exciting new business opportunities in autonomous vehicles.
WHAT WE TEST We develop performance and security testing systems for next-generation networks and applications, simulating real-world high-capacity conditions in the lab and on the network.
Our portfolio covers high-speed Ethernet IP for data centers and networks, cloud, virtualisation, applications and GNSS.
Using our test systems, developers and test engineers create and transmit complex and highcapacity traffic and can safely assess the resilience of their products against security threats and vulnerabilities.
High-speed Ethernet IP, cloud and virtualisation Our high-speed Ethernet IP test systems help our customers to validate high-speed network infrastructures, up to 400G, ensuring network functions and services can scale to millions of subscribers and to assess the security of devices, networks Read how we partnered with and applications.
Our target customers are China Mobile Research Institute to developers of devices, network equipment demonstrate an automated integration or applications and data centers, network and delivery system at MWC 2018. operators, cloud and service providers.
31 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW NETWORKS & SECURITY Applications performance and security ACCOMPLISHMENTS High-speed Ethernet IP, cloud We offer security test tools and consulting services.
Our security test products offer and virtualisation Spirent won key 100G and 400G deals unprecedented realism, threat modelling and ease of use.
They directly address through 2018, affirming our product CASE STUDY: and market leadership in high-speed the proliferation and complexity of Better together: Spirent partners applications and vulnerability concerns Ethernet testing.
with China Mobile Research Spirent launched the industrys first 25G of vendors, service providers, enterprises Institute for 5G C-RAN platform and government.
network emulator for verification of performance testing Ethernet products and networks.
The performance capability of 5G Positioning, navigation and timing Spirent demonstrated the worlds will place massive demands on the We have a portfolio of test systems and highest density 400 200 100 50G technical infrastructure supporting it.
services to support the development of test system at the Optical Fiber To demonstrate the integrity of that positioning, navigation and timing systems Communication Conference & infrastructure, Spirent, using its NFV for military, space, research and other Exhibition.
This product was a finalist in infrastructure NFVi automated test high-precision applications.
Our Spirent the 2018 Lightwave Innovation Reviews.
solution, and China Mobile jointly GSS9000 global positioning system Spirent released the Spirent TestCenter demonstrated the performance of GPS GNSS simulator is the worlds WLAN 802.11ax Wi-Fi 6 testing virtualisation platforms from eight major leading GNSS test solution.
In terms of solution to accelerate the development providers, as well as the maturity of performance, flexibility and capability, and deployment of Wi-Fi 6 technology, NFVi in supporting 5G C-RAN cloud, it outperforms any other GNSS test access points, gateways and end-toor centralised, radio access network solution.
This also provided a solid GNSS constellation simulator targets R&D, Spirent, China Telecom Guangzhou foundation for large scale field tests of verification and integration testing of Research Institute and Huawei 5G by China Mobile during 2018. location-enabled civilian and consumer completed the first successful carrier products.
We have an interference Flex Ethernet line test at China Telecoms The tests demonstrated that the detection system and vulnerability Network and Terminal Lab.
wireless cloud platform is capable of assessment products and services.
As members of the OPEN Alliance supporting 5G wireless commercial Spirent is also a leader in the testing of Special Interest Group, Spirent and service deployments and is able to hybrid positioning and sensor fusion Rohde & Schwarz collaborated to provide high-quality services for carrier under real-world conditions for connected develop an unrivalled, fully integrated capacities, throughput and latency, autonomous vehicles CAVs development.
test solution, offering full coverage providing assurance for the commercial of the physical and protocol layers implementation of 5G cloud base PERFORMANCE for automotive Ethernet TC8 ECU stations, says Dr. Yi Zhiling, Chief Networks & Security revenue grew test specifications.
Scientist of China Mobile Research by 9 per cent to $285.1 million 2017 Institute.
We are looking forward to $261.0 million, driven by strong demand Applications performance and security more partners joining our research into for high-speed Ethernet and positioning Spirent increased cyber security sales the maturity of 5G C-RAN technologies.
During the year a trade to our enterprise and government embargo with ZTE disrupted supply for customers.
The contracts subscriptiona few months only and normal trading based revenue streams had an initial operations have resumed.
Despite such delaying impact on revenue recognition challenges, sales into China have remained but will improve revenue sustainability strong and continue to grow.
At Black Hat Europe in London, in In the year we benefitted from circa December, Spirent demonstrated $10 million of Positioning business with the new CyberFlood Data Breach one customer which is unlikely to repeat.
Assessment, the first data breach validation solution based on emulation Networks & Security generated operating technology.
Unlike simulation-based profit before exceptional items of data breach validation tools that only $56.4 million, an increase of 28 per cent replay traffic, our solution provides a on the prior year 2017 $43.9 million.
holistic and realistic security evaluation Operating profit margin before exceptional of an organisations networks and items increased from 16.8 per cent in 2017 devices by emulating hackers, malware to 19.8 per cent.
32 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Spirent was approved as an IMPACT OF MARKET DYNAMICS Authorised Test Lab for new CTIA IoT ON SPIRENT BUSINESS CASE STUDY: Cybersecurity Certification, a new Accelerate time to market How do you test a driverless vehicle?
testing programme to confirm the The primary value we deliver is to Ask Spirent!
security designs and capabilities of accelerate the time to market for Spirent is collaborating with Italdesign, cellular-connected Internet of Things developers and vendors.
We enable our the world famous automotive design IoT devices.
As globally acknowledged customers to launch their new chipsets, company, to combine industry-leading industry leaders, Spirent SecurityLabs modules, devices, equipment and systems in different domains to create collaborated with leading wireless applications and to connect to networks an integrated system for testing CAVs operators, technology companies, globally, while providing a comprehensive during their development.
Spirents security experts and other test labs assessment of the performance and simulation combines different vehicle on the programmes development.
security of their products so they can components, positioning information protect and strengthen their brand and and traffic data to provide significantly Positioning, navigation and timing reputation.
As developers and vendors more realistic scenarios and improve Spirents Positioning business had the seek to reduce their time to market and to simulated device testing, even before highest revenue in its 20-year history, ensure their product quality, the demand prototypes have been built.
This will driven by contracts in the US.
for Spirents test systems rises.
help CAV teams reduce their product To mitigate any effect of the UK leaving development times and give them far the EU, Spirent, Fraunhofer Institute for Meet increasing network performance greater confidence in the positioning Integrated Circuits and LZE GmbH the and security demands accuracy of their vehicles.
latter two both in Germany collaborated The growth of cloud services drives to ensure the continuity of supply innovation at an ever faster pace.
Conventional vehicles are of Spirents leading Galileo Public Service providers worldwide are investing driven thousands of miles during Regulated Service Radio Frequency in their networks to keep up with demand.
development, but this is not feasible Constellation Simulator product Over the year, we saw strong demand for for autonomous vehicles, said Antonio extension for the Spirent GSS9000 100G and 400G Ethernet IP testing by data Casu, Italdesigns Chief Technology GNSS test systems.
center and network equipment suppliers.
So we needed a new approach The industrys first M-Code solution, We also saw the advent of 200G Ethernet to R&D development testing that SimMNSA, developed and sold by development projects.
As new routers, combined best-in-class components.
Spirent Federal Systems, the leading switches and other network equipment By working with Spirents experts, we provider of GPS GNSS test equipment are developed, manufacturers, service have created a system that will help to in the US, has been granted security providers and third party test labs buy our bring connected cars to market faster.
approval by the Global Positioning test systems to measure and validate their System Directorate.
Spirent is the performance and security.
first company to provide this highly anticipated solution for simulating Communications service providers are undergoing vast changes driven by classified GPS signals.
The European GNSS Agency and Joint virtualisation enabling technologies, such as SDN and NFV.
We provide test tools Research Centre announced they will test eCall automatic emergency and services to measure and benchmark the performance of virtualised products services call devices using Spirents GNSS simulators.
The devices, which in a range of operating environments and under different conditions.
relay important information regarding a vehicles location and damage status We see strong demand for our security to the emergency services following an testing solutions across network accident, have been a requirement for equipment manufacturers, service all new cars from April 2018. providers and enterprise customers.
Spirent announced a collaboration with Italdesign, the leading automotive Equipment providers with security capabilities, service providers, enterprises design company, to create an integrated system for testing CAVs during and government organisations contract our Spirent SecurityLabs service.
experts carry out assessments and provide a report and advice.
Organisations also purchase our application and security products outright in order to evaluate the functionality and performance of their products and networks themselves.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 33 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW LIFECYCLE SERVICE ASSURANCE Our service assurance solutions accelerate the turn up of new services and the troubleshooting of customer and network performance problems.
Our objective is to enable our service provider customers to reduce their costs while radically reducing their time to isolate problems and improve their network performance and customer experience.
34 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY Revenue growth: 3 per cent, Our business objective is to develop driven by VisionWorks service innovative service assurance and analytics assurance solutions.
solutions focused on the rollout and Expanded VisionWorks at all existing optimisation of mobile networks and customers.
Secured three new services, Ethernet business services and customers for VisionWorks.
Significant order growth for 10G and 100G probes.
Our strategy is to radically reduce the time and cost to turn up new services Awarded Leading Lights Award for Outstanding Test and Measurement and to speedily diagnose, troubleshoot and resolve issues with production Vendor for our innovative Lifecycle Service Assurance strategy.
We do this through automation, visibility and 5G driving demand for Landslide mobile infrastructure test system.
analytics, all of which improve customer satisfaction and retention while reducing the cost and complexity of operating and managing a network.
We provide systems to enable 4G LTE, IoT and 5G devices and applications to connect to networks seamlessly, reducing the time and cost of pre-deployment qualification, and use analytics to manage the onboarding and scaling of network devices and applications.
Spirents patented, active test technology provides unprecedented visibility of the customers true service experience for complex IP services that flow across providers, domains and hybrid networks.
Our active test solutions effectively isolate and resolve issues in virtualised network environments.
By bringing these capabilities together in the Spirent VisionWorks platform, we expect to win business and expand our existing business at multiple top-tier carriers, as they expand their mobile networks and deploy SDN, NFV and next-generation IP services, including 5G and IoT.
Our strategy is to: develop active service assurance systems for Ethernet business service and mobile network turn up, active testing and troubleshooting: develop new active service assurance solutions for mobile networks, leveraging our mobile test tool and our analytics expertise and technology: expand our footprint in our current installed-base and take in new service providers: continue to develop new capabilities Read how we partnered with the for our mobile infrastructure test tool, University of Surrey 5G Innovation fulfilling emerging requirements in labs Centre to advance development and operational networks: and ofthe next-generation of mobile develop and deploy our test creation, andwireless communications.
35 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW LIFECYCLE SERVICE ASSURANCE WHAT WE TEST In 2018, Lifecycle Service Assurance generated operating profit before Service assurance and analytics Our service assurance systems help exceptional items of $17.4 million, remaining broadly level in comparison service providers turn up new services and diagnose and troubleshoot issues to the prior year 2017 $17.9 million, CASE STUDY: following marketing investments to within mobile backhaul, business services 5G and the phenomenal arithmetic and global internet protocol networks support our growth agenda.
ofamazing algorithms to support Ethernet service delivery.
Each new-generation of cellular Our customer experience management ACCOMPLISHMENTS mobile communications technology Service assurance and analytics solutions help service providers to identify has significantly ramped up system critical network issues affecting customers.
Major tier 1 mobile operators in capabilities and 5G presents North America are expanding their Our solutions reduce churn by aggregating opportunities that have commentators, and analysing data from multiple sources rollout of Spirent VisionWorks to entrepreneurs and innovators awestruck automate operations, engineering to provide real-time insights into the by the possibilities.
But between theory customer experience.
and care functions amid a growing and reality lies an uncertain world of industry realisation of the critical testing and verification.
It is in this Mobile infrastructure test need for network automation.
world that Spirent Landslide comes Our mobile infrastructure test systems Following successful initial rollouts into its own.
emulate subscribers and adjacent nodes.
of Spirent VisionWorks for unified They enable active testing of mobile service assurance, these operators Regius Professor Rahim Tafazolli, network equipment and networks, are significantly expanding their Founder and Director of the University including mobile core, wireless LAN, deployments to automate more of Surrey 5G Innovation Centre internet protocol multimedia subsystems than 50 different operational, 5GIC, takes up the story: One of and Diameter networks, in the lab and engineering and customer care our key objectives is to enable our in the network.
These deployments have researchers and industry partners to manufacturers buy our test systems delivered seven-times faster service develop innovative algorithms and then to develop and test their products.
activation, large cost savings and analyse their performance in real-world Service providers buy our test systems to higher-quality, leading to differentiated scenarios.
Spirent Landslide supports qualify and validate network equipment service offerings.
this objective by validating new 5G in their vendor selection and acceptance We expanded our deployment of Spirent algorithms before they are deployed in testing and to actively test the functionality VisionWorks with our key tier 1 mobile the live test bed.
and performance of their network operator customers in North America.
We received new orders for VisionWorks This is all certainly a feather in Spirents from all current customers and added cap.
The universitys 5GIC, a member Test automation three new major customers.
of the 5G UK Digital Strategy, is one of Our industry leading lab-as-a-service We saw significant demand for our 10G only three leading academic research and automation solutions deliver and 100G probes driven by network centres selected by the UK Government efficient, scalable and cost-effective rollouts of 100G and 10G Ethernet to to advance the development of the physical and virtual build, test and support increased traffic for mobile next generation of mobile and wireless deployment environments for wireline backhaul and business services and communications.
Needless to say, and wireless service providers, network to prepare for expected mobile traffic were delighted to be on the team.
equipment manufacturers or anyone growth with 5G.
actively developing software-enabled In May, Light Reading awarded Spirent virtual networks.
the 2018 Leading Lights Award for Outstanding Test and Measurement PERFORMANCE Vendor for the innovative Lifecycle Lifecycle Service Assurance revenue Service Assurance strategy embodied in grew by 3 per cent to $112.8 million our VisionWorks solutions.
2017 $109.2 million, driven by demand At the Metro Ethernet Forum for our VisionWorks solutions at network MEF, Spirent showcased a proofoperators and multiple system operators of-concept called Fulfilment and MSOs in North America and 5G activation of an intercontinental MEF applications of our Landslide mobile 3.0 service spanning four operators.
Spirent demonstrated how a cloudnative service assurance solution such as VisionWorks enables rapid, cost-effective network automation deployments and how service providers can completely automate intercarrier connectivity.
36 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Mobile infrastructure test Our current business is driven by We extended our leadership position service provider investment in Ethernet CASE STUDY: in the mobile infrastructure test market IP services, virtualisation, in-home Ready?
Spirents with our revenue up 26 per cent driven data services, carrier Wi-Fi and mobile go-faster set up solution for by demand for 5G infrastructure technologies, such as long-term evolution Aston Martin Racing verification solutions.
We now have LTE, voice over long-term evolution Even a casual look at a race track pit more than ten 5G customers, including VoLTE, and IP multimedia subsystem lane will show that as well as a helmeted five tier 1 mobile service providers, IMS.
The current market dynamics and team of flameproof-suited mechanics multiple infrastructure providers and a outlook are favourable for our business.
buzzing around each car, there will be a leading university.
The investment in mobile networks phalanx of headset-wearing technicians The 5GIC selected Spirents mobile and their operation and management glued to the telemetry displayed on infrastructure test system Landslide remains a priority for network operators.
Real-time data fed from for its test bed to analyse performance As 4G LTE rolls out globally, there is wider car to pit lane is critical to gaining of innovative 5G algorithms.
The 5GIC commercial deployment of VoLTE, more an edge in todays high-pressure is a member of the 5G UK Digital 3G and LTE-connected vehicles and an racing, and the IT requirements are Strategy and one of only three leading increase in IoT applications.
AMR deploys a highacademic research centres selected speed LAN trackside to connect Network operators are facing major by the UK Government to advance the drivers and cars with the pit crew, development of the next-generation of challenges in reducing operating engineers and managers, to carry radio expenses.
We reduce operating costs by mobile and wireless communications.
communications, telemetry and video The 5GIC operates an indoor test bed accelerating service turn up, reducing data.
To address its complex set up time to diagnose problems and helping with the aim of the project to study needs, the team turned to its technical and provide context about users, our customers understand and improve partnership with Spirent.
their network performance and customer services, networks and devices for nextgeneration services such as broadband, experience.
Continued growth in the As AMR Senior Analysis Engineer, complexity of networks and services, mobile and IoT.
Alistair Grimshaw explains: We travel coupled with intense competition between to races all over the world and until Test automation service providers and the fear of customer recently, every time we set up the pit We announced that Spirents iTest churn, has led to greater emphasis on garage, we had to manually check the solution has been helping Aston Martin customer experience management.
LANs viability and performance a task Racing AMR, the world championship Many operators are evolving from networkthat was taking up a lot of time and motorsports team, to ensure that their centric to customer-centric operations, and resources.
But with Spirent iTest, all we monitoring of real-time race systems is as need to support new technologies, such as have to do is click a button and wait a fast as the action on track.
AMR deploys VoLTE, voice over Wi-Fi VoWi-Fi, 5G, IoT few minutes for the report.
a high-speed LAN trackside to connect and virtualisation.
team drivers and cars with the pit The automated tests not only speed up Service providers remain cautious as lane.
Flawless network connectivity is the team in getting everything ready for they continue their shift from legacy essential to success: any failure in radio race day, there has also been a dramatic networks to virtualisation and as they communications could cost the team its boost to team effectiveness, with a 20X determine how best to realise the potential position in a race.
iTest enables the race test productivity gain.
To manage NFV in a complex team to automatically ensure its network is hybrid network and to manage new configured correctly and faulty segments, services, network operators require active connections or devices are replaced, not performance test systems for service only providing peace of mind, but also turn up and troubleshooting.
Active test dramatically boosting team effectiveness systems can be combined with analytics with a 20X test productivity gain.
to measure network performance and customer experience periodically and to IMPACT OF MARKET DYNAMICS quickly isolate and diagnose performance ONSPIRENT BUSINESS and customer experience problems.
We compete in the service assurance market.
The estimated size of this market is about $3.1 billion in 2018, with growth forecast at a compound annual rate of 1 1.7 per cent between 2017 and 2021.
Analysys Mason Service Assurance Systems: Worldwide Forecast 20172021 June 2017.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 37 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONNECTED DEVICES Today, everyone wants to do things faster.
Our test systems reduce the time to develop and test new devices and connect them to the network.
Using our products or services, manufacturers and service providers can understand how new products operate on real networks.
38 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY Revenue stabilised.
Operating margin Our business objectives are to stabilise increased 7.2 percentage points.
our revenue and improve our operating Collaborating with National margin as the mobile device test business Instruments to develop performance consolidates and declines and we develop test systems for 5G New Radio NR new solutions for 5G.
Our strategy focuses on reducing cost Won 5G channel emulation deals.
Strong demand for our Service to develop and launch new devices and services accelerating time to market while Experience products from EMEA.
Demonstrated the worlds first 5G helping to ensure the highest service quality and user experience.
Over-the-Air Massive multiple-input multiple-output MIMO Beamforming Our strategy is to: RF Test Bed with China Academy of Information and Communication invest in wireless device test products Technology and Huawei.
for development, location and carrier acceptance, while adapting those products and offering new services to meet the emerging requirements and changing customer expectations for video services, 5G and IoT: and provide products and services to test the service experience over different networks or to benchmark a variety of devices over the same network.
WHAT WE TEST Wireless Device Test Spirent develops systems for testing functionality and measuring performance of 4G LTE and 3G mobile devices and services, with a roadmap to 5G: Research & development.
We offer a range of innovative industry-leading test systems that are easy to configure and use for all forms of LTE technology, including LTE-Advanced, frequency division duplex FDD and time division duplex TDD.
We help manufacturers, application developers and operators address signalling, data throughput, mobility, and other cellular specification conformance requirements for LTE, universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS, code division multiple access CDMA, and evolution-data optimised EV-DO.
Leading carriers demand performance that goes far beyond standard specifications.
Our solutions enable customers Read how we collaborated with to validate the most stringent The China Academy of Information requirements, including internet and Communication Technology in protocol multimedia subsystem IMS designing a 5G over-the-air massive signalling themes, mobility scenarios MIMO beamforming RF test bed.
39 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONNECTED DEVICES Location test.
Our Location Technology PERFORMANCE In 2018, Connected Devices maintained Solution Spirent 8100 LTS is the most comprehensive, cutting-edge solution level revenue from ongoing businesses, at $79.0 million 2017 $78.7 million, as our for wireless device and chipset location technology testing.
It addresses both device testing revenue stabilised and we CASE STUDY: saw early 5G RF test wins and strength in indoor and outdoor testing scenarios A world first!
Spirent collaborates covering enhanced 911, eCall, assistedour Service Experience business.
on 5G over-the-air massive MIMO GNSS, observed time difference beamforming RF test bed Operating profit before exceptional of arrival and cellular positioning.
5G base stations use multiple antenna items from ongoing businesses increased The platform spans conformance, elements to move as much as ten times by $6.7 million to $10.5 million 2017 certification and operator acceptance the amount of data per second as their $3.8 million which resulted in an increase of mobile device and chipset design, 4G equivalents.
The China Academy in operating margin before exceptional and can be built to accommodate both of Information and Communication items to 13.3 per cent 2017 4.8 per full-rack or desktop environments in Technology CAICT developed cent.
A relentless focus to reduce cost testing location-enabled 2G, 3G and 4G sophisticated channel models that associated with legacy business, whilst LTE devices.
capture how 5G radio signals travel directing resource to 5G products, has Channel emulation.
We enhanced our through the air and the effect on them been implemented successfully.
Spirent Vertex Channel Emulator, which of disruption caused by absorption or provides an unprecedented level of reflective surfaces, among other factors.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS scalability and modularity for wireless Following this groundbreaking work, We announced an important RF testing.
Vertex can scale in the field CAICT collaborated with Spirent in collaboration with National Instruments to address a wide range of uses from designing a test bed to replicate those Nasdaq: NATI to develop performance basic RF device tests to complex MIMO effects on demand.
test systems for 5G NR devices.
beamforming base station antenna This comes at a time when chipset tests.
Vertex addresses high-density It is a privilege to work with Spirent and and device manufacturers are looking channel requirements and complex Huawei to pioneer the test systems that to accelerate the development of configurations needed to evaluate the industry needs to make 5G a reality, 5G-capable devices.
said Dr. Zhang Xiang, product manager collaboration with National Instruments, for 5G at CAICT.
As 5G work moves we will be able to provide test solutions Service Experience from trials to commercial deployments, that can validate the performance of Our UMETRIX platform accelerates Spirent and CAICT will continue to 5G NR smartphones and IoT devices user experience evaluation for new evolve the test methodology to support in the lab, without requiring access to devices and services VoLTE, VoWi-Fi, additional real-world scenarios and expensive and complex base stations, etc.. UMETRIX automates readiness evolving 5G capabilities.
while being flexible enough to quickly assessments of the launch of new adapt to standards as they evolve.
services, device acceptance and preWe believe this collaboration will allow testing, eliminating test set up errors, us to build even stronger, long-term and accelerating data aggregation and working relationships with industry reporting.
Fit4Launch is our service to partners to help them accelerate conduct these tests.
We have evaluated commercialisation of 5G NR.
We will over 1,300 devices, with more than have the first prototype solutions towards 450 devices requiring changes due the end of 2019, aligned with the to the serious user experience issues emerging market need for 5G NR detected by our Fit4Launch service and device performance testing.
40 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION We continued to enhance our new 5G development Spirent Vertex Channel Emulator, which The standardisation workplan for 5G CASE STUDY: offers unprecedented scalability and has been accelerated.
The standard as National Instruments and Spirent modularity for wireless RF testing.
specified in 3GPP Release 15 has been collaborate on 5G performance Spirent won several key deals for 5G RF finalised in 2017 for Non-Standalone 5G test solution testing with the Vertex and collaborated NR and by mid-2018 for Standalone 5G Following approval of the first round with Huawei and leading Chinese test NR.
Early 5G deployments are anticipated of 5G specifications in June 2018 by lab CAICT to demonstrate the worlds in several markets, including the US, South the 5G standards body, 3GPP, new first 5G over-the-air Massive MIMO Korea, Japan and China.
By mid-January architectural options and additional 2 beamforming test bed.
2019, GSA had identified 2,010 operators, capabilities have been developed at We announced a partnership with ETSin 83 countries, investing in 5G mobile pace, all of which need test solutions Lindgren to pursue joint research and and 5G FWA networks, in the form of tests, flexible enough to quickly adapt to development on a complete radiated trials, planned and pilot deployments, further changes and upgrades while test system to evaluate over-the-air and launches.
This is an area in which Spirent is preThe first commercial networks based on eminent, as acknowledged by National IMPACT OF MARKET DYNAMICS Standalone 5G NR are expected to go live in Instruments Director of Wireless ON SPIRENT BUSINESS 2019, with major network deployments from Research, James Kimery.
By the end of 2023, over one billion in the smartphone supply chain 5G subscriptions are forecast for enhanced The marriage of our high-performance 3 Economic pressure and consolidation mobile broadband.
Spirent benefits from platform and Spirents best-in-class of top-tier global smartphone, chipset the development of Non-Standalone and test methodology for measuring the and network equipment vendors has led Standalone 5G NR technology and from the mobile user experience is exciting for to a fiercely challenging, competitive development of 5G devices.
Being able to and shrinking market.
We anticipate the assess the accuracy of cellular location wireless device test market will continue to Growing opportunities in 5G environments and measuring the contract as wireless component, module and challenges in IoT performance of video and data delivery and network equipment manufacturers The importance of wireless IoT connectivity are critical needs as 5G devices come spending slows in the cyclical market lull continues to rise in a variety of segments on line in 2019. between ongoing 4G enhancements and from connected vehicles, homes and the very early days of 5G.
This results in We look forward to the challenge challenges in developing, connecting and with relish.
4G LTE services growth operating IoT devices and applications Spirent benefits from the development on mobile and non-cellular networks, phase of 4G LTE services, such as VoLTE an attractive new market opportunity for and VoWi-Fi, and the focus on the user Spirent.
The number of IoT connected 1 experience.
GSA reported that, although devices worldwide was 6.2 billion in 2015 already widely deployed, LTE continued and is expected to reach 32.5 billion by to be introduced into markets and regions 2020, growing at a compound annual 4 around the world in 2018.
By the end of growth rate of 39 per cent.
2018, GSA had identified 712 operators running LTE networks providing mobile and or fixed wireless broadband services in 213 countries worldwide.
GSA, Snapshot LTE Ecosystem December 2017.
GSA, Snapshot Global 5G Status January 18, 2019.
Ericsson, Ericsson Mobility Report November 2017.
Technavio, GLOBAL 5G EQUIPMENT MARKET 20162020 October 2016.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 41
