Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Stakeholder voices A s a key client within our organisation, St. Modwen recognises and rewards true value.
Our long-standing relationship has flourished as we share the same values of working closely at all levels to achieve a common goal of exceeding expectations.
We feel very much part of the team and are completely aligned on aiming to create better places.
Paul Dunning Managing Director, Prosurv Consult Modern Slavery Act SUPPLY CHAIN As part of our ongoing commitment to ensure that modern slavery is not taking place anywhere within our businesses or supply We want to work collaboratively with all our supply chain partners, chains, we have undertaken and continue to undertake further to deliver lasting, successful outcomes and a positive legacy.
actions to build on the positive work we have done since the Its important that we can build and maintain positive relationships Modern Slavery Act came into force.
with the communities we serve and we spend time consulting with As a standard part of our tendering process, we have introduced the wider community to ensure we are considering the future of enhanced procedures requiring all tendering contractors to provide those who live and work there.
a declaration, verifying their compliance with the Modern Slavery Wherever possible, we work with local experts and suppliers and Act.
Master services agreements with all our key consultants have use nearby businesses to source sustainable construction materials been agreed, all of which contain stringent anti-slavery provisions.
that are inherently low in embodied carbon with a high recycled St. Modwen Homes has introduced modern slavery compliance content.
This ensures that we consider carefully the economic, into their pre-qualification process for key trade contractors and social and environmental impact of our work and that we are have updated their trade contract to further enhance their locally appropriate.
Our procurement process is environmentally anti-slavery safeguards.
conscious to minimise the waste sent to landfill.
Work is underway on a Company-wide programme to increase We operate within specific protocols with which our supplier knowledge and training on Modern Slavery Act matters and partners comply, and which ensure high standards of competence, to increase awareness on our sites.
We seek to develop long-term strategic partnerships with our supply chain, which give us a better consistency of approach as well as security of supply.
In turn, our partners have greater visibility of our development pipeline and can thus better manage workloads and resources accordingly.
We aim to achieve a minimum Considerate Constructors score of at least 37 50 on all St. Modwens new build, industrial projects and continue to achieve a minimum Considerate Constructors score of at least 37 50 on all St. Modwen Home schemes.
In 2018, we achieved 35.52 50 for St. Modwen as a whole: for St. Modwen CSR homes, the score is 38 50.
For the purpose of this objective, our new build projects exclude land and infrastructure work.
We are a client partner for Considerate Contractors, instigating best practice and supporting and encouraging young people into rewarding careers in the construction industry.
St. Modwen requires all contractors to verify their compliance with the Modern Slavery Act.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 35 OUR APPROACH CONTINUED Were award winners of the Brownfield Briefing Awards, 2018 for the Best Brownfield Infrastructure Project at Littlecombe.
The judges said: The project focuses on melding new development with the existing town centre and incorporates sensitive design of infrastructure.
Elements included new bridges, complex level changes and reuse of material.
The opening-up of the culverted river to a flood resistant river corridor is a great asset to the development.
A key consideration in all our developments is to include large, ENVIRONMENT landscaped areas to improve the sites biodiversity.
We plant only native species which will thrive in UK conditions and include bird Building and operating sustainable developments is central to our boxes, bat boxes and insect hotels to provide ecologically valuable business model.
By looking at the end to end asset journey this habitats for local wildlife.
This year, we created 82 acres of public green CSR means we design efficient buildings, invest in clean energy and spaces, including parks and wildlife areas, across our sites.
We continually work to adapt In cases where we can add specific value for our customers, we our developments in line with current environmental challenges.
implement measures to target as a minimum BREEAM Very Good We embed low-energy design principles into building development buildings under the New Construction 2018 criteria.
To achieve this from concept stage, put measures in place to reduce carbon means engaging early with the design team and stakeholders to emissions over the lifecycle of a development.
We design resilient incorporate the most beneficial environmental measures.
and intelligent buildings that can adapt to climate change.
Our design standards are continually reviewed to improve and embed Littlecombe, Dursley lessons learnt and evolve to comply with best practice.
During the The Littlecombe development is an on-going regeneration project, financial year, we commissioned a working group of senior leaders located on the outskirts of Dursley in Gloucestershire.
It occupies across St. Modwen to research and develop a strategy to further the site of the former Lister-Petter works and comprises 37 hectares reduce our CO2 emissions per full-time employee for which the of brownfield land.
CSR Company is deemed to be directly responsible by 2020.
We are pleased that in the year, we were winners of the Brownfield We embrace innovative approaches to delivering energy.
At our Briefing Awards for best brownfield infrastructure project.
This award industrial and logistics sites this includes embedded generation, showcases those projects that demonstrate ecological and social battery storage and electric vehicle charging through smart grid best practice with regards to sustainability.
We install smart meters on all new developments The excavation and relocation of the River Ewelme was integral to help our customers track, record, and reduce electricity, gas and to the masterplan of Littlecombe in order to enhance biodiversity water consumption.
As part of our commitment to install smart and local ecosystems as well as creating an excellent visual amenity meters across all of our income-producing properties by 2020, so to the future residents of the town.
far, 198 smart meters have been installed at our existing properties CSR and we are on track to reach the target by 2020.
By integrating infrastructure into the wider landscape and using local stone to clad structures, the new sustainable infrastructure We also consider the use of rainwater harvesting systems in our blends into its environment and forms an attractive landscape new developments to irrigate planting and landscaping and reduce for residents to use and enjoy.
We are pleased that in the year we installed rainwater harvesting systems on 56% by floor area The Local Authority and Environment Agency were a key part of 1 CSR of our speculative, new build, industrial unit developments.
the design process, allowing the structures to be built to adoptable standards but remaining protective of the sensitive watercourse.
Wherever possible, we recycle materials from site and reuse them in landscaped areas and sub-base preparation.
In the financial year, The design of the infrastructure at Dursley is exceptional in how we recycled and re-used 170,000 tonnes of material, in accordance it has connected the fabric of old and new, between the historic with the Specification for Highway Works, to avoid the use of market town of Dursley and the brownfield regeneration site CSR natural quarried materials.
In addition, St. Modwen Homes at Littlecombe.
successfully reduced their waste by 12% on individual sites with It has done so with minimal disruption and tangible amenity CSR 95% of the reduced waste now diverted from landfill.
enhancement while breathing life into the river and reducing 1 For the purpose of this statistic, our speculative programme is defined as the congestion on the narrow streets of the town centre.
The level point when construction commences on a building with no designated occupier.
of experimentation, innovation and refinement seen on this development is rare on smaller complex sites.
The rapid expansion CSR This is one of our CSR objectives.
For more information visit of the development programme currently underway is evidence of www.
co. uk csr the success achieved in delivering the vital infrastructure on this site.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 36 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information As we move into 2019 and beyond, we will build on the progress HEALTH AND SAFETY made in 2018.
We are excited about the opportunities for the Group to work collaboratively to make improvements and continue to live As part of our commitment to ensure the wellbeing of our our value of doing the right thing.
employees, customers, the public, our supply chain and all stakeholders, in the last year we have developed a five-year health and safety strategy which promotes continual improvement and Safety leadership embedding of recently adopted management systems.
The and culture strategy will also grow our safety culture through a safety WE DO THE leadership programme across the Group.
RIGHT THING There are five key elements to the strategy, each of which are linked to our values.
We will commence new activities under each value every year.
This will ensure our strategy is manageable and achievable and, importantly, progress will be visible year on year.
Communication The Safety, Health and Environment SHE strategy will provide and engagement everyone with the tools and training required to take ownership WERE of health and safety across this business.
JOINED UP In the year, we have also worked hard to remain below the UK average accident frequency rate AFR of 0.4 and have exceeded CSR this by scoring 0.15.
This indicates we have maintained a consistent performance following on from 2017 and we have maintained safe sites and workplaces across the Group.
The Asset SHE standards, Management team have performed especially well, experiencing procedures and risk WE DO WHAT zero reportable injuries in the year.
management WE SAY Where we have experienced reportable accidents, these have not been life-changing, but we cannot accept that anyone could be adversely affected while working with us, so our focus for 2019 continues to be on eliminating RIDDOR reportable accidents and targeting zero life-changing injuries.
We have also improved the Data capturing reporting of incidents with a centralised Group-wide approach and reporting WE BUILD for reporting.
QUALITY OUTCOMES We are committed to the training and development of all our colleagues to ensure they are competent to undertake their roles and understand any risks that may affect them.
In the year, 60 employees have carried out training on Construction Design and Management Regulations CDM, 389 employees have completed SHE training a lone worker essentials course and 89 have completed an asbestos and development CSR awareness course.
WE UNLOCK POTENTIAL We are also keen to develop safety leaders in our organisation who can influence not just our own colleagues, but also our supply chain and other organisations working with us.
Our programme for 2018 has been focused not only on safety, but health, wellbeing and environmental risks.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 37 OUR APPROACH CONTINUED Stakeholder voices H aving gone through a lengthy selection process with our professional team, we considered St. Modwen the best organisation to work with as partners over the coming years to manage and construct the Kingsgrove development.
Crab Hill Developments Ltd COMMUNITIES We believe an integral element to a successful development is a flourishing and inclusive community, with a sense of vision and identity.
We create and manage places where communities grow, businesses thrive and people can feel and be at home.
Our approach is to engage with and inspire all communities in which we work.
We actively seek and nurture ongoing relationships with all those who live and work in the vicinity, including schools and wider community interest groups.
We aim to give them an understanding of our purpose, and in turn, seek to better understand their interests and concerns.
Local community engagement As the leading developer on the 227-acre residential scheme at Kingsgrove, Wantage, where a new 1,500-home community will be built, we have worked closely with Oxfordshire County Council Community consultation, Kingsgrove OCC on the design of a new primary school.
The design was St. Modwen consulted the local community on the proposals for the informed by a consultation event in May 2018 followed by a public new school at Kingsgrove, including exhibition held in September 2018.
Set in 2.2 hectares, the final a public exhibition in September 2018. proposed design is a contemporary building and features glass, timber, red brick and pitched roofs.
The proposal also includes playing fields, sports pitches, a playground, a multi-use games St. Modwen Homes has partnered with Burton and South area and car parking.
Every year, we offer work experience placements to students at the college, with 70 students, aged Subject to planning permission being granted, we hope to start CSR between 16 and 18, working with us this year.
building the primary school in summer 2019, with completion and handover to OCC for fit-out in summer 2020 and the school Further partnerships, more recently established, with Chesterfield opening in September 2020, as one of the key community benefits College, Uxbridge College, Weston College, Newport College and that we are delivering as part of the development.
Abingdon & Witney College enable us to provide more work experience placements and lectures.
To ensure we engage with Education as many young adults as we can, work placements have included In the year, we visited a total of 35 schools adjacent to our construction and trade opportunities as well as office-based roles construction sites and have provided information on the relevant and photography and interior design opportunities.
nearby project, careers insights and presentations on the We participate in the Speakers 4 Schools initiative, which links CSR construction process, health and safety.
students from state schools, academies and colleges to insights Through St. Modwen Homes, we have established key partnerships from leading figures.
Our Chief Executive, Mark Allan, is committed with educational institutions to encourage young people to think to speaking at two schools per year and, in 2018, addressed pupils positively about a career in the industry.
from Streetly Academy in Walsall and Bishop Walsh Catholic School in Sutton Coldfield.
CSR This is one of our CSR objectives.
For more information visit www.
co. uk csr St. Modwen Properties PLC 38 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Running to end youth homelessness WW1 centenary In 2018, 46 St. Modwen employees took Stoke-on-Trent City Council unveiled six part in the LandAid 10k and 5k run in galvanised steel silhouettes, depicting Longbridge to end youth homelessness servicemen from the six local towns, in the Midlands.
created by renowned artist Andy Edwards.
Charitable support WW1 centenary For the second consecutive year, in September 2018 we supported, November 2018 marked a very poignant anniversary as the country sponsored and hosted the LandAid Midlands 10k and 5k run in remembered the service personnel who paid the ultimate sacrifice.
The run was a huge success and in total it raised Our strong ties with Stoke-on-Trent saw us pledge 10,000 to over 30,000 for LandAid, the property industry charity helping to support the Stoke-on-Trent Remembers campaign.
As part of end youth homelessness.
The event was also an opportunity for the commemorations, Stoke-on-Trent City Council unveiled six over 200 entrants to gather in Longbridge town centre to take part eight-feet tall silhouettes, made from galvanised steel.
Created in a collective and meaningful cause.
With live music, street-food by renowned local artist Andy Edwards, the silhouettes depict vans and a warm up given by local college students, the event had servicemen from the six towns of Stoke-on-Trent with a passage a community feel about it and was well received by all.
that describes their valiant contributions and experiences in the For further examples of our engagement with communities, conflict.
The silhouettes will be installed in the servicemens please see the case study on Longbridge on page 49. home towns.
Stoke-on-Trent Remembers also encompassed community events, with open days at the restored Bethesda Chapel, an art exhibition entitled For The Fallen at the Potteries Museum and Art Gallery and a concert of celebration on Armistice Day.
For more about our communities, please see our website: www.
co. uk St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 39 NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT We have complied with the new non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The below table, and information it refers to, is intended to help stakeholders understand our position on key non-financial matters.
This builds on the existing reporting we already perform under a number of frameworks.
Reporting requirement Policies and standards which govern Risk management and additional our approach information Environmental statement Partners, see page 34 Environmental matters Waste management policy Environment, see page 36 Control of spills and pollution procedures Health and safety policy Safety, health and environment, see page 37 Employees First aid management procedure Our people, see pages 31 to 33 Safe system of work procedure Starter, mover, leaver process Family policies, including enhanced maternity, paternity, and adoption leave policies Diversity and inclusion policy Bullying and harassment policy Human rights Human rights policy statement Our people, see pages 31 to 33 Anti-slavery and trafficking Statement Supply chain, see page 35 Privacy and data protection policy Audit Committee report, see pages 77 to 85 Information handling policy Information and data protection policy Data retention policy Employer, worker and contractor privacy notice Social matters Charitable giving guidelines Communities, see page 38 CSR strategy and approach Anti-bribery and corruption Anti-bribery and corruption policy Doing the right thing Fraud prevention policy Risk management, see pages 54 to 64 Anti-money laundering guidelines Audit Committee report, see pages 77 to 85 Group whistleblowing policy Risk management policy Description of the business model Our business model, see pages 14 to 15 Our strategy and key performance indicators, see pages 14 to 21 Strategy in action, see pages 22 to 27 Non-financial key performance indicators Our strategy and key performance indicators, see pages 14 to 21 Stakeholder value creation, see pages 28 to 29 Our approach, see pages 30 to 39 St. Modwen Properties PLC 40 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information PORTFOLIO AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW A RESHAPED PORTFOLIO WITH STRONG GROWTH PROSPECTS St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 41 PORTFOLIO AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Looking forward, we will continue to optimise our portfolio to PORTFOLIO OVERVIEW further improve our return prospects but following the large volume of sales over the past 18 months, the pace of disposals is set to slow Investments and disposals from here.
We have only 88m of non-core retail assets left plus a Our portfolio has seen a major transformation during 2018.
We sold further 93m of residual small assets, surplus commercial land and 529m of assets, on average in line with book value, which more non-industrial and logistics assets we deem non-core.
We intend than offset the 191m we invested in acquisitions and developments to complete ongoing works at a few of these properties but plan excluding housebuilding activities.
Since we launched our new to sell all these assets over the next three years.
strategy in June 2017, we have now sold 814m of assets, Whilst we are open to new opportunities, we will remain very representing more than 40% of our initial portfolio.
selective when it comes to acquisitions given the substantial Our largest disposal during the year was the sale of our 45-year opportunities in our existing pipeline.
We continue to plan to grow leasehold interest in the existing 2,005-bed student accommodation the share of income-producing investment assets as part of our at Swansea Bay Campus for 139m in February, followed by the portfolio to c. 60-65% over time 2018: 43% by retaining the forward-sale of our 207-unit PRS development in Uxbridge for majority of our industrial and logistics developments and reducing 75m in March.
In May, we agreed the sale of Longbridge Shopping our exposure to land.
Park for 54m and Wembley Central shopping centre for 36m Portfolio valuation via two separate transactions.
Just before the year end, we sold Adjusted for investments and disposals, our portfolio value Edmonton Green shopping centre for 72m which, combined increased 3.6% during the year and is now valued at 1.4bn.
with the sale of three smaller retail assets, brought our total retail Our industrial and logistics portfolio makes up 33% of this, up from disposals for the year to 177m on average less than 1% below 19% in May 2017.
Our residential investments comprise 43% of our the November 2017 book value of these assets.
portfolio, whilst regeneration projects make up 12%.
Non-core retail In August, we sold a portfolio of 34 small assets for 47m our share, and other commercial assets now comprise only 12% of our so combined with the sale of two separate small assets, total portfolio: split evenly between the two and down from as much proceeds from the sale of retail and small assets were 225m as 34% only 18 months ago.
almost double the 100-150m target we initially set for the year.
Our industrial and logistics portfolio increased in value by 9.2% We have now sold c. 75% of the c. 100m small assets we identified during the year, driven by gains on developments, some 30bps for sale in June 2017.
We also sold 26m other non-core commercial yield compression and 2.3% ERV growth.
In line with our assets and land, on average 11% above book value, and 53m of expectations, retail values softened during 2018, with our residual residential land, slightly above book value.
non-core retail down 10.5% in value, although our regeneration As we saw much better returns from investing our capital in our assets with current retail use were up 3.3%, driven by our Trentham own pipeline than buying assets in the current investment market, Gardens leisure retail investments which continue to perform well.
we made no acquisitions during 2018 other than the drawdown As expected, residential land values were broadly stable, up 1.2%.
of 51m of land for near-term development starts under existing Going into 2019, occupier and investment demand for industrial development agreements, principally at Gatwick, Uxbridge and logistics remains strong.
This has resulted in an increase in and Chippenham.
speculative development in the wider market, but this is largely driven by a small number of large units over 400,000 sq ft.
Beyond 1 2 Amount Initial yield this, speculative supply remains manageable in the context of the m % overall market and as take-up remains strong, supply and demand Acquisitions during 2018 remain balanced.
Following the marked yield compression in recent Residential land 42 N A years, we believe future capital value growth is chiefly reliant on rental value growth.
Commercial land 9 N A Although demand for residential land remains robust, we expect Total 51 N A upside in values to remain limited, as house price inflation is 3 Disposals during 2018 broadly offset by build cost inflation and the majority of our land bank already has planning consent.
The sale of over half our retail Swansea student accommodation 139 5.4 portfolio at less than 1% below book value in 2018 shows there Uxbridge PRS 75 N A is demand for retail assets which are priced realistically, but the Industrial & logistics 11 6.9 reduction in transaction volumes in the wider UK retail market shows this is not the case for all assets.
We therefore expect retail Non-core retail 177 6.2 values will continue to soften in 2019, but, at only 6% of our assets, Non-core other 74 7.8 our exposure to non-core retail is limited.
Residential land 53 N A Total 529 6.1 1 Based on the Groups share of amounts relating to joint ventures.
2 EPRA net initial yield on income-producing assets, excluding land.
3 Excluding land transfers to St. Modwen Homes and completed home sales.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 42 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Portfolio Portfolio Net initial Equivalent Life-for-like 1 1 1 valuation movement yield yield ERV growth m % % % % Industrial and logistics other Industrial and logistics 461 9.2 5.3 7.1 2.3 Non-core retail 87 10.5 6.2 9.9 2.2 Non-core other 93 7.4 6.1 7.0 5.2 Total industrial and logistics other 641 5.7 5.5 7.6 1.0 Residential and housebuilding St. Modwen Homes 390 0.3 Other development 206 2.8 Total residential and houesbuilding 596 1.2 Regeneration Retail 85 3.3 7.5 8.1 2.7 Other 81 5.3 6.1 7.0 2.5 Total regeneration 166 4.3 7.1 7.8 2.6 Total portfolio 1,403 3.6 6.1 7.7 1.4 1 On completed investment assets only, excluding current developments and land.
Operational performance c. 40% relates to recent industrial and logistics developments.
The annualised passing rent on our portfolio, which excludes Most of this completed shortly before the year-end and we expect contracted rent subject to rent-frees, stood at 39.4m at the end of this space to be substantially let during 2019.
We have seen good November 2018, compared to 62.9m at the end of 2017, driven by momentum in improving the occupancy of our existing assets, disposals.
Like-for-like rental income fell by 1.2% over the period, with a 5ppt increase in occupancy on a like-for-like basis and we but this was solely driven by a 1m one-off at Trentham Gardens in signed 3.3m sq ft of new leases and lease renewals during the year, the prior year, excluding which like-for-like rental income increased generating 13.4m of annualised rental income 10.0m our share.
by 1.9%, with growth in industrial and logistics of 9.1%.
Industrial On average, re-lettings and renewals were 25% above previous and logistics now makes up 46% of our overall passing rent, up passing rent and in line with ERV.
The average remaining lease term from 21% a year ago, and this share is expected to grow from here.
to first break of our portfolio decreased from 5.3 years to 4.1 years, largely as the disposal of Longbridge Shopping Park reduced the Overall vacancy is 18.9%, but around a quarter of our vacant space average by 0.8 years.
is deliberately held back for future developments and a further Like-for-like 1 Passing rent ERV Vacancy rental growth m m % % Industrial and logistics other Industrial and logistics 18.2 26.9 21.5 9.1 Non-core retail 6.7 10.0 26.8 6.6 Non-core other 2.5 3.1 21.2 5.9 Total industrial and logistics other 27.5 40.0 22.8 4.9 Residential and housebuilding St. Modwen Homes 1.8 1.8 Other development 1.0 1.4 17.9 Total residential and housebuilding 2.8 3.2 7.7 Regeneration Retail 6.8 7.8 8.8 16.4 Other 2.3 2.3 1.6 5.1 Total regeneration 9.1 10.1 7.1 12.4 2 Total portfolio 39.4 53.3 18.9 1.2 1 Excluding 0.9m of annualised turnover rent at Trentham Gardens.
2 1.9% adjusted for 1m one-off in retail regeneration in prior year.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 43
