STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS REVIEW PRODUCTION WESTAFRICA Tullows West Africa oil assets performed strongly in 2018 and delivered net production of 88,200 bopd.
Tullows West Africa business continues to This includes  insurance underpin the Group with strong production payments of 8,600 bopd received under Tullows corporate business interruption insurance.
Working performance across all our assets.
The TEN interest gas production averaged 1,800 boepd giving fields and theWest African non-operated overall Group net production of 90,000boepd.
business outperformed substantially in 2018 In 2019, overall working interest oil production, and withfurther growth in production to come including  insurance in2019, this business is well-positioned to payments, is expected to increase and is forecast to average between 93,000 and 101,000 bopd.
Working interest gas production from TEN is expected to average 1,000 boepd.
Overall Group net production is therefore expected to be in the range of 94,000 to 102,000 boepd.
WEST AFRICA Ghana Drilling programme Tullow returned to drilling in Ghana in 2018 following the conclusion of proceedings at the ITLOS tribunal in Hamburg in September 2017 and after gaining Government approval of the Greater Jubilee Full Field Development Plan.
Tullow began a new drilling programme in March with the Maersk Venturer and a second rig, the Stena Forth, was contracted during the year to work alongside the Maersk Venturer.
The second rig was contracted for an initial three-well campaign with flexible extension options reflecting conditions in the rig market which continue today.
The Stena Forth began drilling in October 2018 and the additional rig capacity enabled Tullow to carry out simultaneous drilling and completion activity, allowing the tie-in of new wells to be brought forward.
The results from this programme, which was completed within budget, were in line with, or exceeded, pre-drill expectations.
In 2019, Tullow expects to drill and complete sevennew wells across the TEN and Jubilee fields allowing gross oil production from Ghana to rise toaround 180,000 bopd.
Jubilee Gross production for 2018 averaged 78,000 bopd net: 27,700 bopd which increases to 36,300 bopd net after including 8,600 bopd of net productionequivalent insurance payments.
Production from Jubilee was slightly lower than expected.
This wasdue to downtime related to work on the gas Tullows West Africa business compression system in the first half of 2018 and some minor facilities issues towards the end of the continuestounderpin the Group year, which have since been resolved.
Over the withstrong production performance year, two new Jubilee production wells, J51-P and J53-P, were drilled and successfully met all pre-drill across all our assets.
The completion of a water injector, well drilled during the previous campaign, was also Gary Thompson, Executive Vice President, West Africa 24 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts carried out.
These wells were brought on stream in the second half and are accessing highly productive parts of the reservoir.
Tullow expects 2019 average gross oil production from the Jubilee field to increase to around 96,000bopd net: 34,000 bopd.
Tullows corporate business interruption insurance is expected to provide around 1,000 bopd of net  insurance payments, resulting in expected total 2019 Jubilee full-year net production of around 35,000bopd.
Turret Remediation Project The Turret Remediation Project is close to completion.
This pioneering and unique project, which included the first ever remediation of this type at sea, required the FPSO Kwame Nkrumah to be shut down twice in the first half of 2018 for work to stabilise the turret bearing for periods of 19 days and 21 days respectively.
In December 2018, the FPSO was successfully rotated toits new heading of 205 degrees and subsequently spread-moored.
Kweku Awotwi, Managing The JV Partners have also agreed to install a Director Ghana, during Catenary Anchor Leg Mooring CALM buoy for visit to Jubilee FPSO.
offtake from the FPSO and a contract award has been made.
The installation of the CALM buoy is likely to take place in 2020 and is not expected to affect production.
TEN The TEN fields performed well in 2018, with gross Stena Forth drillship, production averaging 64,500 bopd net: 30,400 bopd offshore Ghana.
reflecting good results from the drilling programme.
The first additional Ntomme well, NT05-P, was successfully drilled in the first half of the year and started producing in August 2018.
A second new producer, EN10-P, is currently being completed and is expected to be online in February.
Tullow expects 2019 gross oil production from theTEN fields to average around 83,000 bopd net:39,000 bopd.
Tullow is confident of this growth in production following strong performance in 2018, good results from recently drilled wells in both the Ntomme and Enyenra fields and production testing that has seen the TEN FPSO deliver in excess of its design capacity.
The forecast includes a two-week shut-down of the TEN FPSO for routine maintenance which iscurrently scheduled for the second quarter of 2019.
Gross gas production is expected to be around 2,100 boepd net:1,000 boepd.
Exploration Tullow has successfully pre-qualified for Ghanas maiden licensing round with bids due by mid-May 2019.
The licensing process is expected to conclude by the end of August 2019. www.
com 25 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS REVIEW CONTINUED WEST AFRICA CONTINUED EAST AFRICA Following a trial in the English Commercial Court in May 2018, the court ruled on 3 July 2018 that This year the East Africa team will be driving Tullow was not entitled to terminate its West Leo hard towards two Final Investment Decisions rig contract with Seadrill on 4 December 2016 by on our East African projects which have the invoking the contracts force majeure provisions.
Following advice from counsel, Tullow decided potential to deliver over 50,000 bopd of notto appeal this ruling.
Tullow paid Seadrill netproduction to Tullow by the early 2020s.
atermination fee, other standby fees that accrued We are making good progress in both Uganda in the 60 days prior to termination of the contract and and Kenya and are focused on delivering on interest amounting to $248 million in aggregate.
the growth potential that these projects offer.
Although Tullow regards these as JV Partner costs, Kosmos disputed separately, through an International Chamber of Commerce arbitration against Tullow, its share of the liability c. 20 per cent of any costs related to the use of the West Leo rig beyond 1October 2016.
On 17 July 2018, the arbitration tribunal delivered a final and binding award in favour of Kosmos which determined that Kosmos is not liable for its share of these costs.
As a result of both litigation results, Tullows net exposure in 2018 was a cash outflow of $208 million.
Non-operated portfolio and gas production In 2018, production was strong across the West Africa non-operated portfolio and averaged 21,500 bopd, well ahead of the Groups initial 2018 forecast of 19,000 bopd.
The Equatorial Guinea fields performed particularly well in the first half of the year following a change of operator.
In Gabon, the Simba development in Gabon has been completed and came on stream in January.
Production in 2019 from theWest Africa non-operated portfolio is forecast to be between 22,000 and 24,000 bopd.
Gas production In 2018, full-year net gas production from the TEN fields and the UK averaged 1,700 boepd.
In 2019, Tullow will solely produce gas in Ghana following the cessation of production in Tullows UK assets in 2018.
Decommissioning The decommissioning programme for the remaining Tullow operated wells in the UK North Sea is expected to have been completed by the third quarter of 2019.
Tullow will then undertake final removal and clearance activities to restore the seabed.
Tullow ceased production from its non-operated UK North Sea assets during the third quarter of 2018.
The decommissioning programme for these assets isexpected to be completed by 2025.
In Mauritania, the Chinguetti FPSO non-operated This year the East Africa team was disconnected and demobilised in the first half willbe driving hard towards two of 2018.
The permanent abandonment programme for the wells in the field will start in mid-2019.
Final Investment Decisions in EastAfrica.
Mark MacFarlane, Executive Vice President, East Africa 26 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts KENYA Development The Kenya development plan is progressing well, and the project continues to target a FinalInvestment Decision FID in late 2019 andFirst Oil in 2022.
In February 2018, Tullow announced that following a full assessment of all the exploration and appraisal data, Tullow estimates that the South Lokichar Basin contains 240 560 1,230 million barrels 1C2C3C of recoverable resources from overall discovered oil in place of up to 4billion barrels.
The additional remaining conventional undrilled prospect inventory of the basin is approximately 230 million barrels risked mean recoverable resources, not including further potential in underexplored plays.
Tullow and its JV Partners also proposed to the Government of Kenya that the Amosing, Ngamia and Twiga fields should be developed as the foundation stage of the South Lokichar development.
This Foundation Stage includes a 60,000 to 80,000 bopd Madhan Srinivasan, Head of Development, Tullow Kenya, and Martin Mbogo, Managing Director, Tullow Kenya, at EOPSFirst Oil event, Turkana, Kenya.
Central Processing Facility CPF and an export pipeline to Lamu.
The installed infrastructure from this initial phase is expected to be utilised for the optimisation of the remaining South Lokichar oil fields and future oil discoveries, allowing the incremental development of these fields to be completed at a lower unit cost post First Oil.
Total gross capex associated with the foundation stage is expected to be c. $3 billion.
Early Oil Pilot Scheme EOPS In 2018, the development project gained momentum.
The transfer of stored crude oil from Turkana to Key workstreams relating to Front End Engineering Mombasa by road commenced on 3 June 2018. and Design FEED and the Environmental Social This milestone was marked by a ceremony Impact Assessments ESIAs of the upstream and attended by H. E. President Uhuru Kenyatta, pipeline commenced in mid-2018.
Extended H. E. Deputy President H. E. William Ruto, the injection and production testing also took place Turkana County Governor and Turkana MPs as well with results in line with expectations.
Dynamic data asmany other government ministers and officials.
from these tests has materially assisted with the The first truck arrived at the refinery in Mombasa development plan for the foundation stage.
Key on 7 June 2018, where the oil is being stored for upstream components such as well count, well future export.
spacing and CPF design are now well defined.
The trucks are currently transporting approximately In 2019, several critical tasks must be completed 600 bopd and this is expected to increase to toreach a Final Investment Decision byyear end.
2,000bopd once the EOPS is fully operational in These tasks include completing commercial April 2019.
So far, over 70,000 barrels of oil have framework agreements with the Government been transported to Mombasa.
A maiden lifting of ofKenya and finalising FEED studies in the first Kenyan crude oil is expected in mid-2019.
Tullow quarter of 2019 and concluding agreements over has begun to market Kenyas low sulphur oil ahead land title and water supply with the Government of this first lifting with initial market reactions ofKenya and submitting both the upstream and being very positive.
the mid-stream ESIAs in the second quarter.
com 27 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS REVIEW CONTINUED UGANDA NEWVENTURES Following meetings in January 2019 between the CEOs of both Tullow and Total and H. E. President In 2019, Tullow will drill three wildcat wells Museveni of Uganda, Tullow has agreed the inGuyana.
These are high-potential, high-risk principles for Capital Gains Tax on its $900 million wells in the worlds newest oil hot spot and Uganda farm-down to CNOOC and Total.
The Government and the JV Partners are now engaged weare excited about the opportunity that in discussions to finalise an agreement reflecting ourlicences in Guyana offer.
In addition, this tax treatment that will enable completion wecontinue to work up other drilling prospects ofthe farm-down to take place.
Any Capital Gains in highly prospective areas across Africa and Tax is expected to be phased and partly linked to project progress.
At completion of the farm-down, South America for drilling in 2020 and beyond.
Tullow anticipates receiving a cash payment of $100 million and a payment of the working capital completion adjustment and deferred consideration for the pre-completion period of $108 million.
Afurther $50 million of cash consideration is dueto be received when FID is taken on the development project.
The JV Partners continue to work towards reaching FID for the development project around mid-2019.
During 2018, the upstream and pipeline FEED werecompleted in preparation for the award of Engineering, Procurement and Construction EPC contracts in 2019.
Drilling and well construction designs and contracting activities are complete and contracts are ready to be awarded.
ESIAs for both Tilenga and Kingfisher were submitted to the National Environmental Management Authority for review with approval expected in the first half of 2019.
Land access activities have progressed with the active support of the Government in line with project requirements.
In addition, critical transport infrastructure, including roads and an airport within the development area is being improved by the Government in support of the development.
Project financing for the pipeline is progressing wellwith the development of the financial model ongoing.
In the first half of 2019, the JV Partners anticipate completing key commercial, technical and land agreements with the governments of Uganda and Tanzania as well as the submission ofan ESIA for the pipeline to both governments.
In 2019, Tullow will drill three wildcat wells inGuyana.
These are high-potential, high-risk wells in the worlds newest oil hot spot.
Ian Cloke, Executive Vice President, New Ventures 28 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts AFRICA Cte dIvoire In Cte dIvoire, Tullow began its work programme across its new onshore blocks in April 2018 with afull tensor gravity gradiometry FTG survey covering 8,600 sq km.
This survey was completed in May 2018 and the data is being used to optimise the location of a 2D seismic survey planned to commence in the third quarter 2019.
Tullow continues to reprocess 3D seismic data for the offshore Block CI-524, which sits alongside the maritime border with Ghana, next to Tullows operated TEN fields.
Tullow signed a farm-out agreement for a 30 per cent interest in all seven onshore licences to Cairn Energy Plc.
This farm-out is subject to obtaining Government approval and will leave Tullow with a 60per cent operated interest in each licence with most of the pre-drilling exploration costs carried.
Namibia Oceanic Sirius seismic In September 2018, Tullow drilled the Cormorant-1 vessel, offshore Mauritania.
The well encountered non-commercial hydrocarbons and was plugged and abandoned.
Gas signatures, indicative of oil, were encountered in the overlying shale section, supporting the concept of a working oil system inthe area.
The combination of a simple well design, efficient operations and a farm-out in 2017resulted in net expenditure on this well of less than $3 million.
Data gained from the well, incombination with high-quality 3D seismic data, will be used to evaluate the next steps for the Ocean Rig Poseidon drillship, Groups Namibian acreage in PEL-37.
Tullow has decided to exit block PEL-30 in Namibia.
Mauritania The Comoros In 2018, a 9,300 sq km 3D seismic survey was Tullow announced on 29 November 2018 that it completed over Block C18, in which Tullow holds hadagreed with Discover Exploration Ltd to farm a15 per cent non-operated stake.
Tullows share into Blocks 35, 36 and 37, offshore the Union of ofthe cost was carried under previous farm-down theComoros in the Indian Ocean.
The data is currently being interpreted completion of this transaction, which requires ahead of a drill or drop decision in April.
In Block C3, government approval, Tullow willoperate the three in which Tullow holds a 100per cent operated blocks and hold a working interest of 35per cent.
stake, the Group has been interpreting the 3D The blocks comprise anarea of 16,063sq km with seismic survey captured in 2017 to identify agross unrisked resource potential of up to 7 billion prospects for a potential 2020 well.
A3D seismic survey is planned for the third quarter of 2019.
Zambia In 2018, interpretation of a FTG survey and modelling of passive seismic data recorded in 2017 has indicated that this rift basin may be higher risk than originally anticipated.
Tullow is therefore evaluating its next steps in Zambia.
com 29 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS REVIEW CONTINUED Deck of offshore drillship.
PeruPetro towards execution of these licences.
SOUTH AMERICA InJanuary 2019, a new Supreme Decree was Guyana issued which detailed how oil exploration licences Guyana will be the focus for Tullows exploration are to be awarded in Peru and included clear drilling programme in 2019.
Tullow plans to drill regulations around public consultation.
the Jethro prospect in the second quarter of 2019 Separately, Tullow agreed to acquire a 35 per cent as the first of two planned wells on the Orinduik interest in Block Z-38 through a farm-down from block.
Prospect selection amongst the JV Partners Karoon Gas Australia.
This agreement also is ongoing for the second planned well on the remains subject to government approval.
The success of the neighbouring acreage complements the Groups current position Hammerhead-1 well in August 2018, only 7 km inSouth America and contains several attractive from the Orinduik block boundary, has further prospects and leads for potential drilling in 2020. fide-risked this acreage.
Tullow and its partners arein the final stages of contracting a Drillship Suriname forthe Orinduik drilling programme.
In October, Tullow was awarded Block 62 in which The Carapa prospect will be tested on the Kanuku it has a 100percent operated interest.
This block licence in the third quarter of 2019.
In 2018, Tullow contains similar deep-water plays to Block 47. increased its equity share in the Kanuku licence, Inaddition, Tullow completed a farm-out of a offshore Guyana, from 30 per cent to 37.5 per cent 30per cent interest in the Block 47 licence to through a farm-in deal with Repsol.
Pluspetrol for a carry on a future well.
Work has continued maturing prospects in Block 47 for Jamaica potential drilling in 2020.
In Block 54, Tullow has Interpretation of a 2,200 sq km 3D seismic survey continued to examine results from the Araku well recorded in 2018 continues as Tullow matures ahead of any potential drilling.
prospects that can compete for capital for drilling in 2020.
Uruguay Tullow has decided that it will not enter the next Peru term of the Block 15 exploration licence with In Peru, Tullow agreed the terms to acquire a 100 potential prospects being deemed too high-risk.
per cent stake in offshore Blocks Z-64, Z-65, Z-66, Tullow will exit the licence in March 2019.
However, in May 2018, the Supreme Decrees, authorising PeruPetro, the state regulator, to execute licence contracts for these ASIA blocks, were revoked by the Peruvian Government.
Pakistan Tullow was disappointed by this outcome as In December 2018, Tullow agreed to sell its 30 per cent theGroup complied with all the processes and interest in the Kohlu licence, Pakistan to OPL.
procedures required under Peruvian law to agree Government approval is anticipated in the first new exploration licences.
This is Tullows last remaining Since the revocation, Tullow expressed its continued licencein Pakistan.
interest in the licences and has worked closely with 30 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Project Oil Kenya has the potential to positively change Turkana and the country as a whole.
Key to future success is engagement with the many people affected by this project.
Regina Ekai, Village Socialisation Officer
