Strategic report The Group reports on an IFRS basis and presents its OPERATIONS performance in line with best practice recommended by REVIEW EPRA.
The Operations and Property reviews focus on EPRA measures as these are our key internal measures and aid comparability across the real estate sector.
The increase in net debt was Sales, rental growth and profitability skewed towards the end of the year, driven The key strengths of our operating business are largely by spend on development activities our people, our PRISM operating platform, our which has, in turn, led to an increase to brand and the strength of our relationships with 10.5 million in the amount of interest that is Universities.
We have continued to build on these capitalised into development schemes, up throughout 2018, resulting in a 28% increase in from 7.4 million in 2017.
We expect the level of EPRA earnings to 88.4 million 2017: 70.5 million.
interest capitalisation to remain at around this This growth has again been driven by high level given the ongoing level of development occupancy, rental growth and the impact of activity in 2019 and 2020.
Development precapital recycling, as well as further operational contract and other costs grew to 5.8 million efficiencies and ongoing cost discipline.
2017: 4.6 million, reflecting the levels of site acquisition, the earnings impact of share based Rental income has increased by 17.5 million, up John Blanshard incentives and our contribution to our charitable 10%, as a result of new openings and sustained Chief Customer Officer trust, the Unite Foundation.
rental growth, offset by the impact of disposals made in the year.
Occupancy, reservations The efficiency programme we implemented and rental growth in 2017 has delivered our targeted cost savings Occupancy across Unites portfolio for the of 5 million by streamlining processes and 2018 19 academic year stands at 98% and procedures as a result of our student insight, like-for-like rental growth of 3.2% was achieved PRISM and scale efficiencies.
These savings on our portfolio.
We have maintained the have ensured that we delivered our NOI proportion of beds let to Universities, with 60% margin and overhead efficiency target in of rooms under nominations agreements 2018 whilst enhancing service.
fee income from joint ventures was 15.6 million 2017: 18.4 million, as a result of recurring 76% of these agreements, by income, are management fees of 13.2 million and one-off now multi-year and therefore benefit from fees of 2.4 million 2017: 14.1 million and annual RPI-linked uplifts, up from 71% in 2017.
We have introduced a new target The remaining agreements are single year and to achieve an EBIT margin of 74% by the end of we again achieved a renewal rate of over 95% 2021.
This target replaces previous efficiency on these agreements.
By improving the length targets and the improvement from the current and quality of these agreements, income from level of 71% will be driven by tight cost control nominations agreements has grown by 5.3% whilst growing the scale of the portfolio.
year-on-year as a result of improvements in mix and geographical location, and gives us Finance costs decreased to 40.0 million increasing confidence over our rental growth 2017: 45.2 million.
An increase in net debt at outlook.
Enhanced service levels and our the end of the year of 53 million to 856 million extensive understanding of student needs have 2017: 803 million was offset by a lower average driven the longer-term nature and more robust cost of finance of 3.8% 2017: 4.1% as we have partnerships with Universities.
The unexpired term added new debt facilities at lower average of the agreements is six years, in line with 2017. rates, taking advantage of the historically low Summary EPRA income statement 2018 2017 m m Rental income 188.3 170.8 Property operating expenses 48.0 44.3 Net operating income NOI 140.3 126.5 NOI margin 75% 74% Management fees 15.6 14.1 Operating expenses 21.7 24.6 Finance costs 40.0 45.2 Acquisition and net performance fees 4.3 Development and other costs 5.8 4.6 EPRA earnings 88.4 70.5 EPRA EPS 34.1p 30.3p EBIT margin 71% 68% A full reconciliation of Profit before tax to EPRA earnings is set out in note 2.2 of the financial statements 32 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 UNDERSTANDING OUR CUSTOMERS NEEDS Our highest priority is always the safety of our students.
Each year we evaluate the customer journey, from a first enquiry about booking with us to beyond University.
We gather feedback about how each process works with our students to inform our innovation.
From feedback, we know that in the last year we have had a 33% reduction in call centre calls, and 53% of students opted to check-in online, a new service we introduced in 2018.
This shows that students are increasingly interested in communicating digitally.
We partner with YouthSight, offering insight from 130,000 1630-year-olds, and we conduct annual customer satisfaction surveys, all of which show us what our students require from us, shaping us into the accommodation provider they want.
39% reduction in call centre calls in the past year.
53% of students opted to check-in online, a new service we introduced in 2018.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 33 Strategic report OPERATIONS REVIEW CONTINUED We expect the proportion of beds let to Universities to remain at or around this level in the future.
As part of this commitment, during 2018 we This balance of nominations and direct-let beds provides the benefit of having income secured by continued to invest in our market-leading student Universities, as well as the ability to offer rooms to returning students and to determine market pricing welfare services.
In particular, we focussed on on an annual basis.
making the sometimes challenging transition to University as smooth as possible.
Our uChat feature of the MyUnite app was used by the 2018 19 2017 18 Agreement length Beds income income majority of users of the app, allowing them to Single year 7,543 24% 29% meet their future flatmates before arriving at University: helping to alleviate one of the most 2-10 years 13,437 49% 44% common sources of pre-arrival anxiety.
Our 11-20 years 4,026 14% 14% new online check-in made the sometimes 20 years 4,099 13% 13% fraught experience of arriving and moving in Total 29,105 100 100 as hassle-free as possible and, as our record customer satisfaction score shows, helped Reservations for the 2019 20 academic year Home for Success ensure our students feel welcome.
Once are encouraging, at 75%, in line with the same With the value of Higher Education increasingly students do arrive, we have teams of student point last year, as a result of our continued focus under scrutiny, the role of accommodation in ambassadors, usually second or third-year of working alongside the UKs best Universities, shaping students University experience is students, on hand to answer questions, show the success of our online marketing strategy and increasingly recognised.
Against this backdrop, new arrivals their rooms and provide valuable further progress through our local marketing during 2018 we continued to drive student peer-to-peer support at critical points in their operation in China.
advocacy and our reputation with Universities journey through University.
Our comprehensive through sustained but disciplined investment welcome communications direct students to We have good visibility over rental growth for in our purpose, Home for Success.
Our success information about their new home, including the 2019 20 academic year with the nominations was reflected in record results in our annual local amenities and entertainment, as well as agreements in place, locking in to an uplift of surveys of student satisfaction and University our online Common Room where our teams of 3-4%.
In addition to this, our re-bookers, non-EU reputation respectively.
student writers give peer-to-peer advice such as international and postgraduate students, who tips on budgeting, living with friends, wellbeing have more predictable booking patterns and In building Home for Success, we successfully information and other topics our students have are less affected by UK Government funding, harnessed the power of our PRISM operating highlighted as being useful.
The digital welfare make up a further 30% of our income.
Through system and other proprietary digital platforms guides delivered through the Common Room our utilisation activity, we can generate a further to simultaneously improve our students were viewed by 84% of our students.
3% of income with a high degree of confidence.
experience and drive operational efficiencies.
This leaves only 9% of our income and rental We aim to offer a mid-range price point A recent report by the NUS vividly illustrates growth exposed to less predictable first-time compared to other providers of purpose-built the potential impact of accommodation on UK and EU undergraduate customers.
student accommodation and a high-quality students welfare and wellbeing.
when mental health came under the spotlight, Our strategy of working alongside the UKs best we continued working to ensure both our Universities, together with our operational and Our student proposition brings together properties properties and services are designed to help sales focus, provides us with confidence of again designed for todays student with the services students navigate successfully the challenges delivering rental growth in 2019 20, in the region they want.
Both are delivered by 1,500 highlythat University life can bring.
committed employees with a passion for looking consistently confirms the importance of social after students.
Our status as a Living Wage interaction and integration.
Therefore, using a Employer and the prestigious Investors in People property in Leeds as a test bed, we have piloted Gold Standard accreditation reflects a sustained numerous design innovations to help make social focus on recruiting, retaining and developing the interaction as easy as possible for all students.
Their experience, combined 1,000 members of our teams have received with our long-standing investment in research, training in mental health awareness and active provides a granular understanding of what listening.
Dedicated welfare leads in all our matters most to students and helps us deliver cities and a central team of specialists mean a living environment that enables all students that we are able to work closely with our to get the best out of University.
University partners to identify students who may be struggling and ensure they get the support they need as quickly as possible.
As well as our 24 7 emergency contact centre, we provide links to third-party wellbeing and mental health services, such as Nightline.
34 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 A range of digital and more traditional sales Home for Success and our commitment to channels now enables UK and international students extends to life beyond University.
Our students alike to reserve their room in the way research confirms that employability remains 17,000 that suits them best, dramatically reducing the a key driver of student satisfaction as such average time from booking to completion and during 2018, we stepped up our investment in work experience and making short-term bookings easier.
The My Unite Placer, a new work experience and job-finding graduate roles.
app, which is now used by 89% of our students, app which has been developed as a jointdelivers a wide range of useful pre-arrival venture partnership with the National Centre for information and has helped reduce arrivalUniversities and Business and digital education related calls to our customer care centre by specialists, Jisc.
To date, some 230 employers, some 39%.
A new app-based check-in feature including some of the UKs largest businesses, 95% makes the experience of arriving at University have signed up to the platform, offering over satisfaction rating.
smoother and more efficient for both students 17,000 work experience and graduate roles.
Last October, it was used by 53% of our students as they arrived for the start Home for Success is about helping all young of a new academic year and we aim to roll it people unlock the opportunities that Higher out further in 2019.
Education offers, regardless of their background.
During 2018, we therefore continued to support During the year, we also launched a series IntoUniversity, a national non-profit organisation of activities designed to raise awareness focussed on helping young people from and understanding of University life amongst disadvantaged backgrounds gain access sixth-formers and their parents.
These included to Universities: and the Unite Foundation, a series of branded PR campaigns which used a well-funded charitable scholarship scheme a combination of digital and traditional media for care leavers and young people estranged channels to help young people prepare for from their families.
The Foundation works in University and the pilot of Leapskills, a carefully partnership with 27 Universities, for whom it designed training programme to instil valuable forms an important part of their efforts to widen life skills and emotional resilience.
By the end participation, and in this academic year is of the year, we delivered this programme to providing support for over 200 students.
These 1,000 students in over 40 schools.
We are social investments complement a wide range currently exploring a wider roll-out of the of grass-roots charitable activity, community programme with the development of a engagement and employee volunteering digital variant of the training.
Together with programmes to drive deeper levels of diversity and inclusion and Our investment in technology is also helping reduce waste and energy use across our ensure that we are on hand to help when organisation, they form a key cornerstone of students need us.
In these situations too, our Up to uS responsible business programme.
technology has helped deliver a virtuous circle of improved service and greater efficiency.
For example, during the year we conducted, in many cases via our network of Student Ambassadors, over 100,000 webchats, driving in the process a 39% reduction in calls to our customer service centre and a satisfaction rating of 95%.
Our recently introduced digital platform for the booking, scheduling and monitoring of maintenance requests helped our Estates team deliver a first-time fix in 84% of cases.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 35
