Vesuvius plc 42 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Operating reviews Steel Steel Flow Division Control 2018 Performance Strategic highlights from the year Vesuvius Steel Division Our Steel Flow Control business unit Restructuring programmes and process reported revenues of improvement initiatives reported revenues of 662.6m in 2018, 1,236.7m in 2018, an an increase of 7.9% compared to 2017 During 2018, we continued our focus on on a reported basis, whilst underlying increase of 7.7% compared cost leadership with our manufacturing revenue increased 11.5%.
All regions rationalisation programme in the NAFTA to 2017.
On an underlying outperformed underlying steel production region delivering improvements in our cost basis, Steel Division volume growth in terms of both revenue base through a combination of increasing and volume growth.
The Americas was our plant efficiency and optimising production revenue was up 11.9%.
fastest growing region, with underlying volumes between plants.
revenues increasing 13.3% to 216.2m, This higher growth rate relative to global We also started restructuring programmes against a 3.3% increase in steel production steel production is a result of three factors: in new territories, like Brazil and India volumes.
We outperformed in both where the projects identified are focused 1.
High exposure of Flow Control to North and South America relative to the fastest growing segment of the on industrial efficiency.
steel production, driven by market share steel market gains and selling price increases.
Steel In addition to these initiatives, we targeted production in EMEA increased by 1.4% in process improvements aimed at increasing 2.
Market share gains in Flow Control 2018, and Vesuvius outperformed the the quality and consistency of products, 3.
Selling price increases in both Flow market with underlying revenue up 10.0% for example in China, where we have Control and Advanced Refractories to 266.2m, reflecting both market share increased the level of automation of our mitigated by a decrease in market gains and the effects of increased selling production process.
Our optimisation share for Advanced Refractories in prices to offset raw material and other work performed here has allowed us some regions where priority was given cost inflation.
Underlying revenue to increase cost-efficiency and create to selling price increases to offset increased by 11.5% in Asia-Pacific in capacity to absorb volume growth.
raw material and other cost inflation 2018 to 180.2m, compared to a 5.6% Global mechatronic business increase in steel production volume in the On a reported basis, Steel Division trading region.
Revenue also increased faster than Over the last few years, Vesuvius has profit improved 27.9% year-on-year.
underlying steel volumes in each of our invested in developing a unique On an underlying basis, trading profit key regional markets of China and India.
competency in robotic solutions which increased 32.6%, with return on sales improve the safety and consistency of our increasing by 160 basis points.
customers operations while supporting our sales.
Our unique value proposition 662.6m is the result of integrating Vesuvius consumables and systems, and our Steel Flow Control revenue m world-class knowledge of the continuous 2017: 614.2m casting process.
Several steel makers have been pioneers in adopting this technology, 2018 662.6 delivering process efficiency and removing 2017 614.2 personnel from the harsh environment 2016 513.1 around the caster.
In 2018, we saw an increase in demand for robotics solutions and received orders to convert steel Roel van der Sluis plants in Europe, Brazil and Turkey to this President, Steel technology.
This positions Vesuvius well Flow Control in supporting our customers to face the future challenge of automation and underpins a greater focus on quality.
S ince 1 January 2018, some of the products previously included under the Digital Services business unit have been allocated to Flow Control and Advanced Refractories.
For this reason, we have restated 2017 and 2016 financials to ensure comparability with 2018 performance.
The overall Steel Division figures are unchanged.
O Ou ur r p pe er rfo for rm ma an nce ce 43 BRE AK THROUGH IS A WORD WE ARE LO OKING FOR ON A DAILY BASIS.
As a research engineer, I design the new technologies and products which will be used by our customers tomorrow.
Benjamin Delattre Research Engineer VISO, Feignies, France Vesuvius plc 44 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Operating review Steel Flow Control continued Global digital services offering Technical support Flow Controls global R&D In 2018, we further developed our We continue to develop our technical network is focused around capabilities in digital services, with a support offering, providing our customers focus on providing our customers with a with a complete solution to help them three main R&D centres complete solution for the collection and understand better the flow patterns of in the US Pittsburgh, analysis of data to improve the efficiency steel into the tundish and the mould.
Europe Ghlin and China of their continuous casting processes.
For example, for one European customer Our solution includes, for example, we used our technical capabilities in Suzhou operating under continuous temperature measurement computerised flow modelling to redesign common leadership.
sensors for the tundish and the mould, their tundish and optimised the usage as well as surface quality sensors.
of Vesuvius refractories to allow our Our equipment allows the customer to customer to produce higher quality steel monitor and control their continuous enabling them to supply higher technology casting process, optimising productivity products in a cost-effective way.
and yield whilst also improving the quality Our people and consistency of the steel produced.
We continue our efforts to attract, develop Global mould flux business and retain the best talent worldwide.
During 2018 we have continued to develop We believe in diversity of talent, underlined our flux feeding equipment, increasing the by our focus on ensuring our R&D network level of automation, improving safety is global and our team of P&L managers around the caster and optimising the is as international as possible.
We have consumption of mould flux.
In addition, also focused on our culture, introducing further progress was made in the our new corporate values and organising development of a new type of mould our company around empowered, flux aimed at reducing corrosion of the accountable and results-oriented P&L caster whilst improving steel quality.
managers operating close to our end-markets and customers.
Technological leadership During the year, we accelerated our R&D Roel van der Sluis President, Steel Flow Control effort to support long-term profitable growth.
We launched a new family of 27 February 2019 stirring devices which help our customers to create a homogeneous temperature and composition in the ladle and improve the quality of steel.
Significant progress has also been made in developing our next generation of ladle slide gates.
During the year we also commenced the reorganisation and expansion of our global R&D network, which will be focused around three main R&D centres in the US Pittsburgh, Europe Ghlin and China Suzhou operating under a common leadership.
Steel Flow Controls value-added solutions include: Refractories: Consumable ceramic Digital Services: Process control of the products to contain the flow of molten continuous casting process including steel e. g. ladle shroud and slide mould level control, laser measurements gate refractory of the ladle and continuous temperature measurement devices Systems: Mechanisms using ceramic products that control the flow of Technical support: Teams of experts molten steel e. g. slide gate and available to our customers helping them stopper mechanisms with the design and modelling of the molten steel through the continuous Robotics: Installing and replacing casting process Vesuvius consumables in very harsh environments increasing the safety and consistency of our customers operations
