The Weir Group PLC 34 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Operational Review: Weir Minerals Helping customers solve their challenges Market overview In mining, robust commodity demand and ore Highlights grade declines contributed to ore production growth as customers continued to seek Safety 32 % improvement in Total opportunities to debottleneck and increase Incident Rate year on year, aided by throughput of existing mines.
division-wide safety stand-down and Life Saving Behaviours campaign Increased capital investment was mainly driven by brownfield expansions and optimisation projects Greater sales and engineering presence at customers sites and with a small number of greenfield projects given service centres contributing to over final approval.
The pipeline of opportunities 93m of integrated solutions wins.
continued to grow, although customers remained disciplined about committing to large-scale Launch of Technical Learning greenfield developments as they balanced Programs and regional Mill Circuit University training.
Investment was focused on commodities with the best mediumterm prospects such as copper in Latin America, 1 Ricardo Garib Revenue m and gold and lithium in Australia.
Macro concerns Division President of Weir Minerals around trade wars and protectionism resulted in some commodity price moderation in the Our divisional strategy second half of the year: however, quotation activity remained strong.
In oil sands, production focuses on building, continued to grow strongly with capex also 1,417 13% focused on brownfield projects.
maintaining and In non-mining markets, aggregates demand enhancing deeper remained broadly positive, particularly in Europe 1,2 Operating profit m and the US as investment in infrastructure and customer relationships construction projects continued.
supported by a Operating Review The divisions strategy focuses on building, solutions mindset.
maintaining and enhancing deep customer 250 14% relationships supported by comprehensive onthe-ground presence, a solutions mindset and technology leadership in minerals processing.
Divisional orders by end market Divisional orders by geography Revenue by original equipment aftermarket 73% 25% 72% Mining South America Aftermarket Mining 73% South America 25% Aftermarket 72% Original Equipment 28% Industrial 11% North America 22.7% Oil & Gas 7.1% Australasia 14.7% Power Generation 3.4% Asia Pacic 14.4% Infrastructure 2.7% Africa 12.8% Naval & Marine 2.3% Europe and Former Soviet Union 10% Water & Sewage 0.5% Middle East 0.8% Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 35 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Want to know more about our Weir Minerals business?
weir In 2018, the division intensified its focus on use of smart technology and sustainability.
training and development, particularly sharing This included the expansion of the MelbourneOur strategy in action: product knowledge across customer-facing based Weir Technical Centre which provides Using IoT to transform the teams and developing project management innovative tailings solutions for customers mining industry skills and entrepreneurial leaders, including worldwide.
In addition, the division established a astrengthened comminution leadership team.
strategic cooperation agreement with separation It continued to benefit from earlier investment technology specialists ANDRITZ, providing indeploying more sales and engineering access to proven separation and dewatering experts to customer sites and dedicated more technologies and products, enabling the division management time to visiting customers and to provide a complete package of tailings understanding their needs.
New service centres solutions to customers.
were opened in Africa, Australia, Russia, Peru, To ensure that the division can deliver its USand Canada to enhance the divisions long-term growth potential, it also developed unrivalled global service network.
plans to further optimise its foundry and These actions contributed to an increase in manufacturing footprint.
This included initial orders from the integrated solutions initiative, expansion projects in the UK and Australia and which leverages the divisions broad product theexit from Malaysian foundry operations.
2018 saw the global launch of the Groups portfolio.
In addition, targeted aftermarket and trial Outlook IoT Internet of Things platform, Synertrex.
programs facilitated an increase in market share Assuming the current supportive market for core product lines.
Synertrex is a cutting-edge IoT platform conditions continue, miners are expected which harnesses the latest digital to increase capital expenditure in 2019.
Technology programmes focused on incremental technology to transform productivity, Most expansion activity will be focused on innovation and the development of digital tools to foresee risk and enhance performance.
brownfield with greenfield investment expected improve existing mining processes.
This included Utilising cloud computing, it involves placing to remain a marginal contributor to overall market commercialisation of Synertrex enabled products smart sensors on an array of Weir products improvement, albeit with some increased activity for condition and performance monitoring, roll-out which gather critical operating data for versus 2018.
Global ore production growth is of Cloud for Service to support our service advanced analysis.
The data is transformed expected to continue to support aftermarket organisation and existing installed base, and Global into powerful insights which are relayed demand.
In 2019, reflecting the anticipated Positioning System asset tracking of equipment.
to the customer through a digital interface market context and consistent with this stage The division developed customer-led technology and can help to optimise equipment in the growth cycle, we expect the division to roadmaps concentrated on how it can help performance across an entire circuit.
deliver broadly stable operating margins and good deliver the mine of the future, with customers growth in constant currency revenues and profits.
priorities focused on increased efficiency, 1,2 Number of facilities Revenue Operating profit 2016 1,179m 2016 243m 2017 1,255m 2017 219m 2018 1,417m 2018 250m 177 Total Total incident rate Headcount Average Europe 47 2016 2016 0.66 8,102 Asia Pacic 31 2017 0.58 2017 8,506 Australia 28 2018 0.44 2018 8,562 Africa and Middle East 24 Latin America 24 North America 23 1 Prior years restated at 2018 average exchange rates.
2017 restated for IFRS 15 revenue from contracts with customers.
2 Adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
The Weir Group PLC 36 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Operational Review: Weir Minerals Celebrating 80 years of innovation Warman AH Warman MCR 550 The Warman AH pump is the worlds standard Warman mill circuit duty slurry pumps are for heavy duties.
A wide variety of impellers and designed for the most aggressive duties and shaft seals provide a perfect fit for a wide range provide excellent wear life and reliability.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 37 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Warman WBH 200 Warman HTP 650 The Warman WBH slurry pump range offers The Warman HTP line represents the highest more than 20 enhancements to the , large, lined pumps available art Warman AH slurry pump, including a fully with priority given to increased safety, wear life adjustable and rotatable throatbush.
80 years of the very best In 1938, Charles Warman came up with an idea that would revolutionise the mining industry.
As soon as Warmans pumps came on to the scene, they became the very best money could buy.
Today, the Warman pump has an unparalleled worldwide reputation in slurry pumping, commanding a leading share of the global mining market.
There are few mining sites in the world where Warman pumps cannot be found.
In honour of this legendary brand and innovator, Weir Minerals hosted an event at the end of May 2018 in Kalgoorlie, Western Australia, the birthplace of the first Warman pump.
Throughout the evening, attendees relived the brands history and gained an insight into some of the future innovations planned.
Weir Minerals capability of coming up with superior materials technology and superior designs, underpinned by fantastic service and support to customers, is what keeps the Division one step ahead of its competitors.
The Weir Group PLC 38 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Operational Review: ESCO A world leader in mining machine technology Market overview The division benefited from the same macro Highlights mining trends as Minerals with commodity prices supporting increased ore production.
500th installation of a Nemisys lip Ground Engaging Tools GET on large mining system achieved in 2018 machines are vital to the efficient extraction Increased market share with more than and transport of materials and there was 100 machine conversions delivered strong demand for technologies that increase in 2018 productivity, particularly in copper and gold, Operational improvements included consistent with miners focus on cash generation value chain excellence initiatives and maximising output from existing mines.
which delivered a record on-time Iron ore and coal markets were stable, while delivery performance in North America ongoing production in the oil sands supported consumables demand.
Revenue m Non-mining markets, which represent around a third of divisional revenues, benefited from Jon Owens infrastructure investment in Europe and Division President of ESCO North America.
The division saw 252 attractive regional opportunities and 1 Operating profit m market share gains.
33 Divisional orders by end market Divisional orders by geography Revenue by original equipment aftermarket 57% 52% 95% Mining North America Aftermarket Mining 57% North America 52% Aftermarket 95% Infrastructure 31.7% Original Equipment 5% South America 13.6% Oil & Gas 6.8% Australasia 10.9% Industrial 4.5% Europe and Former Soviet Union 10.4% Africa 7.1% Asia Pacic 3.9% Middle East 2.1% Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 39 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Want to know more about our ESCO business?
weir Operating Review The division delivered annualised cost ESCOs strategy is to extend its market synergies of $15m, with phasing ahead of initial leadership position in GET through technology expectations.
It also identified potential revenue leadership and customer proximity.
This was synergy opportunities for both ESCO and accelerated with the integration into Weir and Minerals of at least $50m, leveraging Minerals the opportunity to further globalise its offering, service capability and ESCOs distribution Timeline: benefiting from the Groups extensive service networks in North America and Europe.
A brief history of ESCO network.
It is also being supported by an Outlook upgraded customer relationship management Looking forward and assuming supportive platform which strengthened sales processes 1910s A company is founded market conditions continue, the division expects and positioned sales teams to better anticipate The ESCO story began as the dream of to deliver good growth in constant currency customer demands.
Portland, Oregon industrialist C. F. Swigert.
Further margin progression will be He saw the need for a local source of The divisions focus on differentiated technology supported by the ongoing delivery of cost and steel castings for his own businesses that drives customer productivity saw good revenue synergies and operational improvements.
and, the growing wood products industry.
market share gains for its Nemisys lip system, The Electric Steel Foundry Company is which completed its 500th installation.
Nemisys founded on July 13th, 1913, which will later can significantly reduce machine downtime with come to be known as ESCO.
proprietary technology that reduces maintenance costs through improved reliability, and faster and safer replacement.
Commercialisation of core 1930s New alloys, facilities and product innovations, such as loss detection and products its tooth removal system, also strengthened After surviving the Great Depression, ESCO the divisions technology leadership while opened locations in Eugene, Seattle, San enabling customers to improve the safety of Francisco, Los Angeles and Honolulu to their operations.
better serve a growing customer base.
The company begins to diversify its product Operational improvements included value chain portfolio and expand into new markets.
excellence initiatives which delivered a record on-time delivery performance, increased forecast 1950s Expansion into the Nuclear accuracy and optimised inventory positioning.
Power Industry To help the division become a zero-harm In the 1950s, the company seized workplace there was investment in Safety, Health the opportunity to participate in the & Environmental programmes at operational sites, promising nuclear power industry.
with further investment planned for 2019.
Sophisticated manufacturing and inspection technology was added which allowed Revenue Number of facilities ESCO to produce very high quality, high specification components for thermal power 2018 252m plants and the US Navy ESCO was only acquired in July 2018 and fully comparable financial data is not available.
1960s 2000s Growth and Profitability In the early 1960s, the patented two-piece, expendable conical tooth system 44 established ESCO as the industrys leading Total innovator in both products and metallurgy.
In the subsequent decades, the company refocused its business model to support the production of Ground Engaging Tools.
Operating profit 2010s Present Day North America 18 2018 33m ESCO celebrated its 100-year anniversary South America 8 ESCO was only acquired in July 2018 and fully comparable in2013 as new product development began Europe 5 financial data is not available.
The Nemisys lip system Africa 5 was the first of several new products to be Asia Pacic 5 introduced.
In July 2018, ESCO is acquired Australasia 3 by the Weir Group PLC.
1 Adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
The Weir Group PLC 40 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Operational Review: ESCO Toplok Wing Shrouds Mechanically attached upper and lower wing shrouds provide optimum bucket protection in severe conditions.
The hinge pin locking system offers easy in-field replacement.
Performance enhancing proprietary technology Nemisys Lip Shroud System Engineered for loader plate lip systems, the streamlined profile promotes bucket filling while providing maximum lip protection.
The integrated hinge pin lock provides the easiest and fastest shroud replacement available.
Nemisys N70 ESCO products are trusted at mines worldwide for improving productivity and safety.
ESCOs Nemisys lip system is engineered to deliver these same benefits.
Replacing the ESCO EverSharp lip system and Posilok Plus tooth system, all Nemisys components have been resized to better match todays machines and feature a streamlined profile for optimised production and machine Nemisys N70 Loader Teeth working cycles.
A selection of abrasion penetration teeth that were The hammerless tooth and shroud systems help reduce developed specifically for wheel loader applications.
maintenance costs through improved reliability, faster and The integrated side lock has field-proven reliability safer replacement, and improved lip coverage.
and allows for faster and easier tooth replacement.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 41 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 ESCO HD Wheel Loader Bucket Custom engineered to match customer application requirements, ESCO wheel loader buckets are precision manufactured out of premium materials.
A top choice for tough mining and aggregate applications.
ESCO Cast Corner Wear Shoe Cast weld-on wear shoes provide excellent protection for larger excavator, loader, face shovel and LHD buckets.
Ideal protection for any 90 corner exposed to high wear.
Nemisys T4 Style Mechanical Adapter System The low profile adapter system allows superior penetration and loading.
The smooth transition wear cap extends adapter wear life without sacrificing performance.
In-field adapter replacement is simplified with no cutting or welding.
A record-breaking year for the ESCODivision Shortly after the acquisition by the Group, the ESCO Division announced it had sold its 500th Nemisys Lip System.
This landmark further cements ESCOs place at the forefront of the GET market and emphasises the Divisions strong performance in these highly abrasive markets.
ESCO also shipped over 4,000 excavator buckets in 2018, marking a company best, and a record year for its construction attachments business.
The major milestone reflects a notable increase of more than 1,000 buckets from last year, and a collaborative, coordinated effort between sales, supply chain, manufacturing, products and engineering.
The Weir Group PLC 42 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Operational Review: Weir Oil & Gas Focusing on technology and customer service Market overview The first half of 2018 saw strong growth in North Highlights American upstream oil and gas markets as oilfield service companies refurbished frack fleets in Safety: TIR improved 11% supported response to increased demand and anticipated by a successful Life Saving Behaviour strong growth throughout the year.
campaign and increasing mentoring Market conditions changed early in the third Improved customer management and quarter as concerns over capacity constraints voice of customer initiatives with the implementation of enhanced Customer inthe Permian basin and the exhaustion of E&P Relationship Management platform.
budgets ahead of schedule led to a reduction in frack fleet utilisation, which fell to approximately Invested in future leaders by expanding 60%.
This led to overcapacity in oilfield services the rotational programme to include individuals from all functions markets that consequently impacted demand for pressure pumping original equipment.
Aftermarket demand was affected by some Revenue m cannibalisation of idle fleets and an extended Paul Coppinger seasonal break, which started at Thanksgiving, Division President of Weir Oil & Gas ahead of normal patterns.
The number of drilled but uncompleted wells grew by 31% in the USA The division is focused but 75% in the Permian reflecting the lack of takeaway capacity.
781 19% on differentiating International markets remained challenging its offering through although they did continue to show some early signs of recovery with project quotation 1,2 Operating profit m innovation and activity increasing.
The division is focused on differentiating its offering through innovation and customer service and in the first half of the year responded quickly 96 8% to strong demand for its solutions, achieving good market share gains in pumps and flow iron.
Divisional orders by end market Divisional orders by geography Revenue by original equipment aftermarket 99% 80% 76% Oil & Gas North America Aftermarket Oil & Gas 99% North America 80% Aftermarket 76% Industrial 0.8% Middle East 9.2% Original Equipment 24% Power Generation 0.2% Asia Pacic 5.6% Europe and Former Soviet Union 3.7% Australasia 0.6% South America 0.5% Africa 0.4% Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 43 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Want to know more about our Weir Oil & Gas business?
weir The latter part of the year was more challenging Outlook as a result of market conditions and the temporary Given recent oil price volatility and capital Our strategy in action: impact on orders of a specific legacy product constraints in North America, operators have Providing the Weir Edge performance issue.
This was fully addressed adopted a cautious approach to activity in 2019 in the fourth quarter by retrofitting current with E&P capex, frack pump horsepower technology into the legacy design.
Investment in additions and well completions expected to research and development supported a range of decline year-on-year.
Although pipeline additions new product introductions including the SPM in the Permian will add substantial takeaway Simplified Frac Iron including the large bore and capacity it is currently expected that this will advances to the SPM Asset Management translate into only a modest pick-up from current Program AMP which can reduce customer activity levels.
Assuming these conditions endure asset tracking time by nearly 90%.
the division expects to see lower constant currency revenues with operating profit expected The division broke ground and will open in the to in the 55m-95m range.
first quarter of 2019 a c. 100,000 square-foot state of the art customer service facility located in the Permian Basin, the United States most active A major oilfield service provider saw oil producing region.
Additionally, its Weir Edge nearly a 50% reduction in valve and seat Service was developed to leverage the divisions costs with the support of the Oil & Gas field-engineering experts in the U. S. who provide Weir Edge Services offering.
The service root-cause analysis and 24 7 technical support company followed traditional maintenance across major shale basins to reduce customers intervals when replacing valves and seats in non-productive time.
Globalisation of the their frack pumps until the field engineering divisions pressure control offering resulted in team from Weir helped them understand large wellhead orders from key Middle East the wear patterns and extended life of operators including ADNOC, DNOC and KOC the SPM Valve 2.0.
By being with the and it continued to strengthen local workforce customer in the field to provide interval development to support its Rig to Grid offering inspections, the Weir team was able to of integrated solutions.
guide the customer to utilize the SPM Operational and system improvements, supply Valve 2.0 for its full extended life thus chain enhancements and investing in its people improving costs of valve and seats by 50%.
continued to increase labour productivity across the division.
1,2 Number of facilities Revenue Operating profit 2016 378m 2016 9 m 2017 656m 2017 89m 2018 781m 2018 96m 48 Total Total incident rate Headcount Average North America 23 2016 0.82 2016 2,192 Asia Pacic 13 2017 0.62 2017 2,795 Africa and Middle East 8 2018 0.55 2018 3,038 Australia 2 Europe 1 Latin America 1 1 Prior years restated at 2018 average exchange rates.
The Weir Group PLC 44 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Operational Review: Weir Oil & Gas More customers choose our pressure pumping solutions than any other Re-engineering the bottom line Given their complexity, upstream challenges normally demand more than stock solutions.
As a company with aproud engineering heritage, Weir is constantly looking at ways to help customers not only solve their problems, but rethink about the ways they can make the greatest impact in the areas that matter most.
Over recent years, we have attempted to re-engineer and re-think our approach to the frack site, an extreme environment that traditionally reveals vulnerabilities in equipment, productivity and safety.
From our One Single Line OSL solution, to our groundbreaking SPM pumps, Weir is constantly looking at ways to solve customers problems in some of the most challenging environments on earth.
From rig to refinery, we have developed new workflows and technologies, Intelligent Systems, RFID inventory controls and more.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 45 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Unitized Lock-Ring Wellhead ULR Upgraded sealing Collaborating closely with customers, Weir has designed Our upgraded sealing offers greater chemical the Unitized Lock-Ring Wellhead ULR to more compatibility and reliability for deeper wells.
effectively minimise the time, risk, and costs associated with surface wellhead installations.
With newly standardised components, the 13 5 8 ULR is compatible with 95% of casing configurations, which means faster deliveries and simplified supply chains.
It also means expanded applications in Canada and Latin America, beyond U. S. land projects.
This latest generation is a thousand pounds lighter than its predecessor, further reducing equipment stress.
The ULR is one in a line of proven, streamlined wellhead systems with customised improvements.
Developed through close collaboration with customers, our second-generation advancements in the ULR are designed to further improve safety, reduce installation time and lower costs while accommodating everdeeper wells.
Production casing hanger System designed for API and ISO quality management system and design standards.
Integral lock-ring seal Assemblies and interference seals replace numerous lock screws, which can be potential leak paths.
Mandrel casing hangers Now with rotating capabilities, the casing hangers now provide the means to run, land, circulate and cement the casing through the rotary table and BOP meaning no cutting, welding or grinding are required.
Well connection technology Our well connection technology allows for greater safety and fast easy alignment through our Weir Quick Connect WQC technology which improves sealing and wear brushing retention while drilling.
Furthermore, the bottom connection provides slipon weld, threading or slip lock interfaces, allowing for customer specific installation requirements.
The Weir Group PLC 46 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Operational Review: Flow Control New strategy yields results Market overview New nuclear developments in the UK and Introduction Revenue m anumber of large nuclear valve orders in Asia supported improved demand for original Weir Flow Control designs and equipment while, with the exception of coal, manufactures valves and pumps power markets also supported continuing as well as providing specialist aftermarket momentum.
Project activity support services to the global power 343 4% in downstream oil and gas also improved generation, industrial, oil and gas and the strong recovery in refinery and other  maintenance continued.
1,2 Strategic Review Following the announcement Operating profit m The division showed encouraging results from thatthe Group intended to sell the its strategy of globalising its sales and marketing Flow Control division, the division capability to fully leverage its valve and pump was classified as held for sale.
It expanded its installed base Previously reported as an individual in attractive long-term nuclear markets in both reporting segment, the division is now 23 407% the UK and Korea.
The division also delivered reported as a discontinued operation a seventh consecutive quarter of year-on-year aftermarket growth as it leveraged its installed base, particularly in downstream oil and gas markets.
Good progress was made in the operational turnaround of the business following the operating losses incurred in 2017.
1 Prior years restated at 2018 average exchange rates.
