33 Principal risks and uncertainties Meggitts risk management framework includes a formal process for identifying, assessing and responding to risk in relation to the groups strategy and business objectives.
Risk management operates at all levels throughout Meggitt, across business lines, geographies and functions.
The Board is responsible for risk management including maintaining the groups risk governance structure and an appropriate internal control framework see page 46.
Types of risk We monitor risk across four broad categories markets, operations, finance and corporate.
The risks outlined below, which are not presented in any order of priority, are those the group believes are the principal ones it faces.
However, additional risks, of which the group is unaware, or risks the group does not currently consider material, could have an adverse impact.
Markets Finance Competition Credit Product demand Exchange rates IT environment Financing Retirement benefits funding Operations Corporate Acquisitions Environmental Contracts Legal and regulatory Equipment fault Organisational structure Supply chain Change in risk in year No change Higher risk Lower risk MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 34 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk description Potential impact Mitigation action Markets Competition We operate in a highly competitive global market that has Protecting our position by maintaining a experienced significant consolidation in recent years.
contracts to competitors, some of whom have greater Maintaining diverse products and operations financial, technological and marketing resources, or being to reduce the effect of action by any single forced to accept lower margins, would have an adverse effect competitor.
Maintaining a competitive manufacturing base with low-cost operations in China, The groups competitive position would suffer were it unable Mexico and Vietnam.
to meet future investment requirements, continue research Maintaining the highest manufacturing and and development or provide cash and equipment incentives quality standards and adhering to individual to original equipment manufacturers.
Such investments, customer certification requirements.
which decrease our cash flow in the short-term, need to be Developing proprietary intellectual property recovered through future revenues.
and products in markets that demand high Losing key intellectual property or failing to enforce its levels of technology, quality and service rights could hinder our development and provide and strong, long-term relationships competitor advantage.
Maintaining a robust intellectual property protection programme.
Ensuring good operational cash flow and available finance.
Organisation structure aligned with customer requirements.
Product demand Military markets currently account for 40% of group Spreading our activities across the civil revenues.
Any reduction in military spending or reordering aerospace, military and energy markets.
of priorities, particularly by the US government Meggitts Generating revenues from original equipment largest end customer, could adversely affect our revenues.
Operating across different geographical A significant or prolonged downturn due to recession, regions.
commodity prices, terrorist attack or aerospace regulations Maintaining, where practical, a flexible would decrease demand for the groups products from civil manufacturing cost base, maximising aerospace customers, which account for 46% of group benefits by sourcing from lower cost revenues.
IT environment Intellectual property and other business data are stored and Monitoring risks and prioritising mitigation transmitted electronically.
Accordingly, the group is exposed actions through an IT security committee.
to the risk of data loss either through third-party breach of our Appointed a group head of IT security.
systems or the unintentional loss of data by employees.
Continually enhancing IT security policies and upgrading and standardising security tools.
The group is implementing a global IT solution SAP across Progressively rolling out SAP under the its sites.
Failure to implement the new system successfully governance of a dedicated steering could lead to loss of data, operational delays and unplanned committee.
SAP has been successfully increases in working capital.
Hosting SAP in two separate locations, each with robust disaster recovery plans.
Operations Acquisitions Meggitt continues to pursue acquisitions as part of our growth Undertaking robust due diligence procedures.
Such acquisitions may not realise expected benefits.
Obtaining representations, warranties and indemnities from vendors where possible.
Appointing full-time integration teams on all major acquisitions.
Implementing comprehensive business integration processes building on the success of previous acquisition integrations.
Contracts Multi-year, fixed price contracts with original equipment Ensuring estimates of cost are based on manufacturing customers expose us to variations in reliable historic data, future productivity production costs.
improvements and, where possible, entering into multi-year, fixed price contracts with The group is subject to the contracting regulations of our major suppliers.
government customers, particularly those of the US Maintaining a comprehensive ethics and government, our largest end customer, which can impose a business conduct programme, including range of sanctions in response to violations.
guidelines for doing business with the US Government and an anti-corruption policy.
Entering into commitments only after rigorous commercial and legal reviews of contract terms.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 35 Risk description Potential impact Mitigation action Operations continued Equipment fault Meggitts products generally operate in extreme Designing manufacturing processes that environments where a serious incident arising from failure ensure stringent quality and reliability could result in liabilities for personal injury or death and standards.
Implementing best practice operational performance standards through an The group may also be subject to material product warranty Operations Excellence Council.
obligations to third parties for equipment it manufactures Protecting the group from potential product and services.
liability claims with liability insurance subject to coverage limits.
Supply chain We rely on our own manufacturing operations and Maintaining significant investment in independent suppliers for key raw materials and components, modernising facilities and improving some of which may be available from a limited number of production processes to develop leading suppliers.
Any disruption to the supply chain could have an manufacturing operations.
impact on our ability to meet customer requirements and Maintaining a supplier risk assessment adversely affect the groups results.
Subjecting robust business continuity plans to regular testing to manage the risk of a loss of a major facility or supplier.
Finance Credit Credit risk exists in relation to customers and insurers.
Maintaining a wide customer base and rigorous credit control procedures.
Maintaining a broad insurer group and monitoring the credit rating of those insurers.
Exchange rates We operate in, and sell products to, a range of countries with Maintaining hedging in excess of 70% of the different currencies, resulting in exchange rate exposure.
next 12 months anticipated transaction Transaction risk arises where revenues are denominated in exposure.
currencies different from those of the costs of manufacture.
Addressing longer-term risk of exposure Translation risk arises on the conversion into sterling of to exchange rate fluctuations by sourcing income statements and net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
goods and services in currencies matching the revenue exposure where cost-effective.
Managing translation risk where possible by matching the currency of borrowings with the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
Financing Meggitts long-term financing is provided by shareholders in Maintaining good relationships with major the form of equity and by banks and other institutions in the shareholders as evidenced by the equity form of debt.
placing of 246 million in January 2011 to support the acquisition of Pacific The ability to raise additional equity finance is dependent on Scientific Aerospace.
general market conditions and being able to convince potential Negotiating debt facility extensions.
During investors of the strategic case for investing in Meggitt.
the year the group successfully refinanced Debt facilities are provided for finite periods of time and a 2012 maturing bank facility with a new need to be renewed periodically, unless repaid from cash five-year $700 million committed revolving generated.
Such renewal could be affected by any structural bank facility.
No further refinancing is issues in the credit markets.
Maintaining a broad and geographically Debt facilities contain covenants which, if breached, could diverse banking syndicate, with good result in the facilities being withdrawn.
Using longer term US private placement funding to reduce reliance on banks.
Basing covenant calculations on frozen GAAP to reduce volatility arising from certain fair value measurements and any future accounting standard changes.
Including covenant clauses that enable net debt and EBITDA to be retranslated to sterling at similar exchange rates to reduce exchange movement volatility.
Monitoring actual and forecast results against covenant ratios regularly.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 36 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk description Potential impact Mitigation action Finance continued Retirement benefits funding The groups post-retirement benefit schemes are currently Closed all defined benefit pension schemes in deficit 319.9 million at 31 December 2011.
The future in the UK and US to new members.
deficit position may be adversely affected by poor investment Reducing future service costs by basing UK performance, changes in corporate bond yields and inflation future accruals on career average salaries rates, greater than anticipated improvements in life and freezing group contributions to postexpectancy and changes in the regulatory environment.
retiree healthcare schemes at 2011 levels.
This would have an adverse affect on amounts recorded Agreeing deficit recovery plans with the in the income statement and the level of future cash trustees based on actuarial advice and the contributions required to be made.
Corporate Meggitts operations and facilities are subject to laws and Designing processes that minimise the Environmental regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and effect of the groups operations on the hazardous substances into air and water, the handling, storage environment.
and disposal of such materials, and other environmental Maintaining a programme of independent matters.
Failing to comply with our obligations potentially third-party audits of our sites.
exposes the group to serious consequences, including fines, Carrying out extensive environmental due other sanctions and operational limitations.
Purchasing environmental insurance for We are involved in the investigation and remediation of all new, and acquired, sites.
current and former sites for which we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under US law.
Legal and regulatory We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business Maintaining a legal and compliance function and provide for such costs.
However, there is a risk that to oversee the management of these risks successful claims or costs could exceed provisions.
For and the appropriate response to any issues example, a number of asbestos-related claims have been as they arise.
To date, the amount Maintaining a comprehensive health and connected with such claims in any year has not been material safety programme across all of our and many claims are covered fully or partly by existing businesses, including third-party audits and insurance and indemnities.
Investing significant resources in The group is subject to the laws and regulations of the implementing best practice trade countries in which it operates, including health and safety, compliance and ethics programmes which environmental, export compliance and government are reviewed quarterly by the Boards Ethics contracting regulations.
In the US, there is a system of and Trade Compliance Committee.
voluntary disclosure to the relevant authorities to deal with any breach of export laws.
Any reported or unreported breach may be investigated and, depending upon its seriousness, result in criminal, civil or administrative penalties, including suspension or debarment.
The US authorities are investigating alleged violations of US export control laws by four US Meggitt subsidiaries and a UK business.
These investigations are likely to lead to financial penalties for which provision has been made and the imposition of corrective measures.
Suspension or debarment and denial of export privileges are also possible.
The aerospace industry is highly regulated so the group would be adversely affected if a material certification, authorisation or approval were revoked or suspended.
Organisational structure Meggitts success depends upon the efforts, abilities, Maintaining development and succession experience and expertise of certain senior and specialist programmes, competitive benchmarked employees.
Failure to retain them or recruit alternatives remuneration packages and good would have an adverse effect.
Strengthening central sales and marketing, The group would be adversely affected by work stoppages operational excellence, IT, legal and or slowdowns at its facilities and those of key customers compliance functions.
As the group continues to grow organically and through Standardising back office functions, acquisition it risks becoming fragmented and unable to provided increasingly through shared execute its strategic objectives.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 37 Contents 38-54 Governance 55-105 Financial statements Statutory financial statements including the independent auditors report 38 Board of directors 39-42 Directors report Group financial statements 43-46 Corporate governance report 55 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC 47-54 Remuneration report 56 Consolidated income statement 57 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 58 Consolidated balance sheet 59 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 60 Consolidated cash flow statement 61-97 Notes to the financial statements Company financial statements 98 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC 99 Company balance sheet 100-105 Notes to the financial statements of the Company 106-108 Supplementary information 106 Five-year record 107-108 Investor information MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
