14 Report of the Directors Directors report The Group continues to examine possible methods of monetising its The Board is also aware of the need for succession planning and interest in both Panorama and Trefi while retaining a royalty.
the associated risks to the Group are under constant review.
Further appointments will be made to the Board as required.
Mining and exploration interests The Groups equity investments in both listed and unlisted mineral Financial instruments exploration and development companies continued to generate The Groups principal treasury objective is to provide sufficient liquidity opportunities for royalty acquisitions during the year.
The Groups to meet operational cash flow and dividend requirements and to allow equity investments remained focused on copper, precious metals, iron the Group to take advantage of new growth opportunities whilst ore and uranium at December 31, 2011.
Where royalty opportunities maximising shareholder value.
The Group operates controlled treasury appeared no longer identifiable within an equity investment, the policies which are monitored by management to ensure that the needs Group disposed of the interest.
Despite difficult equity market of the Group are met as they evolve.
The impact of the risks required conditions during the year the Group was able overall to realise to be discussed in accordance with IFRS 7 are summarised below, while significant profits on these disposals.
detailed discussion and sensitivity analysis relating to these risks is contained in note 3 to these accounts.
Outlook With recent signs of recovery in the US economy and much better Liquidity and funding risk bank liquidity within the troubled Eurozone, mining markets and The objective of the Company in managing funding risk is to ensure commodity prices have improved sharply in the last two months.
that it can meet its financial obligations as and when they fall due.
At This has resulted in a significant increase in the value of the Groups the year end there was no debt outstanding and the Company, with its equity interests since the year end.
Furthermore, with this improving strong balance sheet, had good access to capital markets, if required.
background, the raising of mining finance from conventional lenders Credit risk or equity issues has become less of a challenge for larger mining The Groups principal financial assets are bank balances, royalty companies.
However, in the junior mining sector access to finance instruments held as financial assets, trade and other receivables and still remains challenging.
In this environment, the Group continues investments.
These represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit to identify royalty opportunities and receive numerous enquiries for risk in relation to financial assets.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its other receivables, Key performance indicators including royalty receivables.
It is the policy of the Group to present The Board has identified four main key performance indicators, the amounts in the balance sheet net of allowances for doubtful all of which are financial: receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and the current economic environment.
Where possible i Value of new royalties acquired the Group has registered its interests against the relevant mining titles ii Net asset value for the royalties it has acquired.
In addition, the Group is generally iii Earnings per share entitled to full reconciliations of amounts paid and retains the right to audit the royalty returns and verify the calculations.
iv Dividends per share The Groups credit risk on royalty instruments held as financial In addition to these financial KPIs, the Board also considers noninstruments, has been reviewed and the estimated current exposure is financial factors such as the Groups compliance with Corporate as disclosed in note 17 where the future contractual right to cash flow Governance Standards and environmental considerations relevant from these instruments is reflected in their fair value.
to some of the Groups mining interests.
These factors cannot be efficiently measured so do not form part of the Groups KPIs.
The credit risk on bank deposits is limited because the counterparties have high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating Risks and uncertainties agencies.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit In addition to normal business risks, the Board has identified, inter alia, risk, with exposure spread over a large number of currencies four main macro-economic risks that could affect the Groups and counterparties.
performance:- In 2007, the Group created a derivative financial instrument to i A prolonged, world-wide economic recession provide finance to an unlisted mining development company, which ii Sustained low commodity prices has subsequently listed note 19.
This instrument is convertible into equity in the company or royalties over the companys properties iii A fall in precious metal prices at the Groups option for a period of up to five years.
In the event of iv Currency volatility default the instrument becomes repayable and the Group would rank Measures taken by the Board to manage these risks include:- equally with the companys other unsecured creditors.
The Group undertakes detailed analysis of factors which mitigate the risk of Regular mining project management meetings and discussions default to the Group on a regular basis.
Regular documented project review meetings Foreign exchange risk Substantial cash holdings The Groups transactional foreign exchange exposure arises from A diversified portfolio of projects covering a number of commodities income, expenditure and purchase and sale of assets denominated in and geographical areas foreign currencies.
As each material commitment is made, the risk in relation to currency fluctuations is assessed by the Board and regularly Substantial exposure to gold and other precious metals reviewed.
The Group does not consider it necessary to have a hedging Regular review of sovereign risk programme in place at this time.
Cash being held at a number of banks and stockbrokers in a variety of currencies and short term financial instruments Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
