Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 31 Risks and uncertainties Melrose operates in a wide variety of sectors and countries and is exposed to a range of risks and uncertainties from a strategic, operational, compliance, ethical and financial perspective.
Detailed below are risks and uncertainties that could impact on the Companys performance.
A risk management and internal controls framework is in place within the Group to ensure that such risks and uncertainties can be identified and where possible managed suitably.
Strategic Risk Nature of Risk Mitigating Factors Discovery of unforeseen liabilities Structured and focused due diligence undertaken.
Acquisition of new following acquisition.
Focus on acquisition targets that have strong businesses and Value generation post acquisition does headline fundamentals high quality products, improvement strategies not meet expectations.
leading market share, but are underperforming their potential and ability to generate sustainable cash Need for a greater amount of capital flows and profit growth.
expenditure and working capital to grow the acquired business than Hands-on role taken by Directors and other senior originally forecast.
Development of strategic plans, restructuring opportunities, capital expenditure and working capital management.
Timing of disposal of companies.
Directors are experienced in judging and regularly Disposals reviewing the appropriate time in a business cycle for Long term liabilities retained by the disposal to realise maximum value for shareholders.
Each disposal is assessed on its merits, along with the extent to which indemnities, warranties and guarantees are provided.
Operational Risk Nature of Risk Mitigating Factors Difficult macro-economic conditions, Diverse range of companies operating within the Economic and political risk changing pattern of global demand Group, within a variety of different industries and and political uncertainty.
countries, which reduces macro-economic and political risks.
Regular monitoring of order books and other leading indicators, to ensure the Group and each of its businesses can respond quickly to any adverse trading conditions.
This includes the identification of cost reduction and efficiency measures.
Concentration of customers in certain Diverse portfolio of businesses serving different Customers markets and or countries around the customers and markets.
No reliance on any one world.
customer, or group of customers.
At a business unit level performance could be materially affected by Financial viability of key customers.
the loss of a key customer and regular monitoring is undertaken to reduce such risks.
Active credit management and development of customer relations at a business level.
Monitoring of key markets for early warning of negative commercial trends.
Over reliance on a small number Diverse portfolio of suppliers.
The Company is not Suppliers of suppliers, leading to a lack of reliant on any one supplier, or group of suppliers.
Ongoing assessment of suppliers, including the Production volatility and supply chain monitoring of their financial viability.
If commercially suitable, contract prices are Fluctuations in cost of raw materials.
agreed with raw material suppliers to reduce the effect of short term price fluctuations.
Risks are further reduced by the use of escalation clauses, surcharges and price increases when negotiating contracts, together with the use of matching hedging arrangements.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 32 Annual Report 2011 Risks and uncertainties continued Operational Risk continued Nature of Risk Mitigating Factors Reputational risks from product quality Investment made available to allow for product Product quality issues.
improvements and efficient production processes.
Product liabilities regarding defective Well defined testing procedures together with products.
suitable research and development facilities at key manufacturing locations.
Maintenance of insurance policies to cover product liabilities.
Increased level of competition leading Substantial investment in research and development.
Competitive markets to loss of market share and or reducing Funds made available for both the development operational margins.
of new products and to meet changing customer demands.
Ongoing monitoring of competing markets and products to ensure that potential threats are identified quickly.
Development of close customer relationships, understanding of customer needs and rigorous focus on costs.
Failure of IT systems leading to severe Different IT systems used in each business.
Regular Information technology operational issues.
review of IT policies and procedures within each business, to include disaster recovery planning.
Over reliance on small number of Succession planning within the Group is co-ordinated Loss of key management Directors and other senior managers, via the Nominations Committee in conjunction with within both the Group and individual the Board and includes all Directors and senior businesses.
The Company recognises that, as with most businesses, particularly those operating within a technical field, it is dependent on Directors and employees with particular managerial, engineering, or technical skills.
Appropriate remuneration packages and long term incentive arrangements are offered in an effort to retain such individuals.
Compliance and Nature of Risk Mitigating Factors Ethical Risk Ongoing changes to legal and or Regular monitoring of legal and regulatory matters at Legal, regulatory and regulatory requirements that may both a Group and business unit level.
Consultation intellectual property IP substantially differ from country to with external advisers where necessary.
Development of suitable corporate governance Litigation from third parties.
procedures both at a Group and business unit level.
Infringement or other inappropriate use Protection of rights over trademarks, copyright, of the Groups IP rights by a third party, patents, designs and trade secrets, where necessary.
leading to reputational issues and Internal IP audits are carried out by each Group potential loss of sales.
Reputational risk caused by ethical Group-wide policies are in place to ensure ethical Business conduct breach.
standards are adhered to within the businesses, which include anti-bribery and whistleblowing procedures.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 33 Compliance and Nature of Risk Mitigating Factors Ethical Risk continued Potential risk of injury or damage to Strong approach to managing health and safety.
Health, safety and employees or third parties if policies Employee suggestions actively encouraged.
environmental and procedures are not adhered to.
Group-wide health and safety KPIs designed to Breach of legal and or regulatory overlay the well established business specific KPIs.
Review of health, safety and environmental matters at both Group Board meetings and business level meetings, together with the completion of risk control surveys.
Financial Risk Nature of Risk Mitigating Factors Inability of the Group to meet its finacial Ensure the Company has adequate resources to Liquidity obligations.
meet its liabilities by reviewing its rolling forecasts, ensuring there is sufficient headroom within committed bank facilities to cope with market volatility.
Material fluctuations of interest rates.
The Company enters into a suitable amount of Finance cost interest rate protection to limit this exposure.
Exposure to fluctuations in foreign The Company policy is to protect against the majority Exchange rate currency values.
of foreign exchange risk which affects cash.
Transaction risk when a business is Protection against specific transaction risks are taken disposed and proceeds received in a by the Board on a case-by-case basis.
Pension deficit levels are affected by Each of the Groups three key pension plans are now Pensions changes in asset values, discount closed to new entrants and future service accrual.
rates, inflation and mortality Long term funding plans are agreed with each of assumptions.
these plans and reviewed following completion of actuarial valuations.
Higher deficit levels may increase requirement on the Group to fund the Active management of pension scheme assets.
Further information regarding these three pension plans can be found on page 44 of the Directors report.
Further details in relation to the financial risks are shown within the Finance Directors review on pages 29 and 30.
