Macroeconomic environment Treasury management and currency risk Recruitment activity is largely driven by economic cycles and the levels of business confidence.
It is the Directors intention to continue to finance the activities and development of the Group The Board look to reduce the Groups cyclical risk by diversifying the business by expanding from retained earnings and to operate the Groups business while maintaining a strong balance geographically, increasing the number of disciplines, building part qualified and clerical businesses sheet position.
In a generally benign economic environment, this equates to maintaining the and continuing to build the temporary business.
A substantial portion of the Groups gross profit Groups net cash debt position within a relatively narrow band, with cash generated in excess arises from fees that are contingent upon the successful placement of a candidate in a position.
of these requirements being used to buy back the Groups shares.
In a period of economic If a client cancels the assignment at any stage in the process, the Group receives no uncertainty, a more cautious funding position is adopted, with the Group being managed in a net remuneration.
As a consequence, the Groups visibility of gross profits is generally quite cash position.
short and reduces further during periods of economic downturn.
Cash surpluses are invested in short-term deposits, with any working capital requirements being Competition provided from Group cash resources, Group facilities, or by local overdraft facilities.
The Group The degree of competition varies in each of the Groups main regions.
In the UK, Australia and has a multi-currency notional cash pool between the Eurozone subsidiaries and the UK-based North America, the recruitment market is well developed, highly competitive and fragmented.
The structure facilitates interest and balance compensation of cash The characteristics of a developed market are greater competition for clients and candidates, and bank overdrafts.
as well as pricing pressure.
In the majority of EMEA, Latin America and Asia, the recruitment The main functional currencies of the Group are Sterling, Euro and Australian Dollar.
The Group market is generally less developed, with a large proportion of all recruitment being carried out by does not have material transactional currency exposures, nor is there a material exposure to companies internal resources, rather than through recruitment specialists.
This is changing due to foreign denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency changes in legislation, increasing job mobility and the difficulty internal resources face in sourcing translation differences in accounting for its overseas operations.
Our policy is not to hedge suitably qualified candidates and managing increasing levels of compliance.
If the Group does this exposure.
not continue to compete in its markets effectively, by hiring new staff, opening and expanding offices and continuing the discipline roll-outs, there is a risk that competitors may beat us to key In certain cases, where the Group gives or receives short-term loans to and from other Group companies with different reporting currencies, it may use foreign exchange swap derivative strategic opportunities, which may result in lost business and a reduction in market share.
This risk is mitigated by meetings of the Board, Executive Board and Regional and Country Management financial instruments to manage the currency and interest rate exposure that arises on these loans.
It is the Groups policy not to seek to designate these derivatives as hedges.
Boards where Group strategy is continually reviewed and decisions made over the allocation of the Groups resources, principally people.
Technology Principal risks and uncertainties The Group is reliant on a number of technology systems to provide services to clients and The management of the business and the execution of the Groups strategy are subject to a candidates.
These systems are dependent on a number of important suppliers that provide the number of risks.
The following section comprises a summary of the main risks Michael Page technology infrastructure and disaster recovery solutions.
The performance of these suppliers International plc believes could potentially impact the Groups operating and financial performance.
are continually monitored to ensure business critical services are available and maintained as far People as practically possible.
Due to the rapid advancement of technology, there is a risk that systems could become outdated with the potential to affect efficiency and have an impact on revenue and The resignation of key individuals and the inability to recruit talented people with the right skill-sets client service.
This risk is mitigated by regular reviews of the Groups technology strategy to ensure could adversely affect the Groups results.
This is further compounded by the Groups organic that it supports the overall Group strategy.
growth strategy and its policy of not externally hiring senior operational positions.
Mitigation of this risk is achieved by succession planning, training of staff, competitive pay structures and share plans linked to the Groups results and career progression.
