Principal risks and uncertainties The Group, in common with all businesses, could be affected by risks Risks have been prioritised and additional actions identifi ed for further which could have a material effect on its short-term and longer-term mitigation by management.
A full risk register has been developed for fi financial performance.
These risks could cause actual results to differ ongoing evaluation and mitigation and the following are the key risks, materially from forecasts or historic results.
Where possible, the Group potential impacts and mitigations that are relevant to the Group as seeks to mitigate these risks through its system of internal controls but a provider of software products and associated services.
Please also this can only provide reasonable assurance and not absolute assurance refer to the section on internal controls within the corporate against material losses.
With regard to the Groups objectives, the board and executive Principal risks have been identifi ed in the following fi five categories management team has identifi ed the key risks, and then reviewed Go To Market Models, Employees, Products, Competition and Systems the controls in place for management to mitigate those same risks.
Go to market models Risk A series of measures are in place to direct the salesforce focus towards For the Group to succeed in meeting revenue and growth targets a broad range of customer categories.
These measures include detailed it requires successful go to market models across the full product bid management, tailored quota targets and robust presales portfolio, with effective strategies and plans to grow the application management.
Go to market programmes to support application migration business, exploit channel opportunities and focus the migration sales have been strengthened as a particular area of focus.
salesforce on all types of customer categories not primarily larger value transactions.
In addition, effective go to market models will The Group has introduced programmes to improve existing channels be more successful if accompanied by compelling Micro Focus brand and expand into new routes to market.
The partner certifi cation awareness programmes.
programme is regularly reviewed to retain and recruit top performing partners, and a partner portal has been relaunched to facilitate Potential impact working practices with existing business partners.
Strategic partners, Poor execution of go to market plans may limit the success of the such as systems integrators and key distributors, are served by tailored Group by targeting the wrong customers through the wrong channels review and enablement programmes, while new online routes to and using the wrong product offerings.
market are being introduced, for example a web based sales site.
Mitigation In addition, brand awareness programmes are in place and reviewed Revenue plans are supported by a range of measures to monitor on an ongoing basis to draw on differentiated and consistent PR plans and drive improvements in go to market operating models.
In across key geographies, supported by targeted industry analyst addition to quarterly business reviews with all geographies and relations activities to reach and raise Micro Focus profi le through key monthly reviews with regional vice presidents, the President of Sales marketplace infl uencers.
Brand building is also supported by a growing participates in weekly management team meetings to review sales customer reference programme and online programmes such as performance and go to market priorities.
Customer sales cycles effective search engine optimisation and improved corporate websites.
are reviewed regularly and a bid review process is in place to monitor and maximise customer revenue opportunities.
In addition to sales performance reviews, marketing and product development programmes are assessed regularly to optimise levels of qualifi ed pipeline and ensure that marketing programmes are supported by appropriate product offerings.
Micro Focus International plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information Employees Risk Mitigation The retention and recruitment of highly skilled and motivated The Group has policies in place to help ensure that it is able to attract employees, at all levels of the Group, is critical to the success and and retain employees with the required skills.
These policies include future growth of the Group in all countries in which it currently training, career development and long-term fi financial incentives.
Employees require clear business objectives, and a well Leadership training schemes are in place to support management communicated vision and values, for the Group to achieve alignment development and succession plans.
A renewed vision and corporate and a common sense of corporate purpose among the workforce.
objectives have been shared throughout the organisation and are reinforced through regular employee communications plans and Potential impact performance reviews.
Failure to retain and develop skill sets, particularly sales and R&D may hinder the Groups sales and development plans.
Weak organisational alignment and inadequate incentivisation may lead to poor performance and instability.
Products Risk Mitigation Investment in research and innovation in product development is For the year ending 30 April 2012 product development plans have essential to meet customer and partner requirements in order to drive been approved with additional investment frameworks under ongoing revenue growth and corporate performance.
In addition, the ability assessment in response to marketplace trends and customer feedback.
to cross sell the Micro Focus product set is an opportunity to exploit With regard to cross selling, sales teams receive training to cover additional customer opportunities.
selling techniques for the full portfolio of products, and sales incentives have been improved to encourage enhanced collaboration across Potential impact product sets.
Insuffi cient focus on key R&D projects may damage the long-term growth prospects of the Group.
Poor cross selling of Micro Focus products could reduce the prospects for additional revenue streams going forward.
Competition Risk Mitigation Comprehensive information about the markets in which Micro Focus Group product plans contain analysis of competitive threats and operates is required for the Group to effectively assess competitive risks subscriptions to industry analyst fi rms are leveraged to better and perform successfully.
understand market dynamics and competitor strategies.
In addition, customer contact programmes help provide competitive intelligence.
Potential impact Failure to adequately understand the competitive landscape and thereby identify where competitive threats exist may damage the successful sales of Group products.
Systems and infrastructure Risk Mitigation Adequate investment is required to develop effective systems Group policies are in place to review the ongoing additional investment and infrastructure that will support the ambitions of the Group.
required to enhance key IT systems and processes.
Management Management information must be of suffi cient quality to allow information draws on comprehensive product reports and functional effective and timely decision making.
plans to extract the key metrics needed to manage the Group at a corporate, regional and product level.
Potential impact Following the integrations of seven acquisitions during the last fi five years, ineffective Micro Focus systems and infrastructure could lead to an unstable platform for the Groups future success, and deliver inadequate management information.
Micro Focus International plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
