Risks and uncertainties This section highlights the principal risks that affect the Company, together with the key mitigating activities in place to manage those risks.
This does not represent a comprehensive list of all of the risks that the Company faces, but focuses on those that are considered currently to be of most concern.
The processes that are used to identify and manage risks are described in the Internal Control and Risk Management statement on pages 21 and 22.
Actively managing potential risks Risk management process Overall Board responsibility by Risk and Assurance Functions Regular risk workshops by business function Risks identified, assessed and prioritised Risks mapped to controls currently in place Residual risks prioritised for mitigation Confirmed with Executive and Board Existing controls enforced and tested Controls identified Remedial action plans implemented Suggested action plans agreed to bridge gaps Executive held accountable Options for controls identified and costed Plans approved by Executive and Board Market risks Risk description Mitigating activities Consumer taste and Social and demographic changes are driving the long-term On a regular basis, a brand strategy team meets involving marketers, brand management growth in eating-out while at the same time leading to a operators and finance as part of a structured programme to improve steady decline in the sales of on-trade drinks without food.
continuously existing brands and to develop new customer offers.
This These changes, together with other developments in process is co-ordinated with the capital expenditure programme to ensure consumer taste may reduce the appeal of Mitchells & that investment is taking place in support of customers changing needs.
Butlers brands to its customers, especially if the Company fails to anticipate and identify these changes and respond The Company uses an online guest satisfaction survey to collect to them adequately and promptly.
This feedback together with the results of research studies is monitored and evaluated by a dedicated customer insight team to ensure that the relevance to their customers of the Companys brands is maintained.
Pricing and market External influences, such as changes in the general Mitchells & Butlers business is focused on the long-term potential of the changes economic climate or competitor activity, could have a eating-out market.
The Company owns sites across the UK with a wide detrimental effect on customers spending patterns and spectrum of customer offers targeted at different consumer groups and therefore the Companys revenue, profitability and leisure occasions.
This range allows the Company to respond to changes consequently the value of its assets.
in consumer expenditure either by flexing our offerings or by substituting a different brand at a particular location.
This activity is supported by dedicated Pricing and Revenue Management and Asset Planning teams which analyse and evaluate a range of information including that in respect of competitors.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 10 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Operational risks Risk description Mitigating activities Investments in Mitchells & Butlers strategy is to increase significantly its The Companys dedicated acquisitions and asset planning team employs a acquisitions and number of restaurants to drive further scale advantage and rigorous project appraisal process in respect of investments, using external conversions provide strong incremental returns.
However, it may not be advisers where necessary.
Post-investment performance of acquired or possible to identify and acquire suitable sites on acceptable converted sites investments is monitored in detail.
terms and investments may not perform as anticipated.
People planning and Mitchells & Butlers business has a strong customer focus, Remuneration packages are benchmarked to ensure that they remain development and as such it is important that it is able to attract, retain, competitive and a talent review process is used to provide structured develop and motivate the best people with the right succession planning.
A long-term incentive plan is in place to align capabilities throughout the organisation.
The Company also makes significant investment in training to ensure that its people have the right skills to perform their jobs successfully.
Furthermore an employee survey is conducted annually to establish employee satisfaction and engagement and compare it with other companies as well as previous annual surveys.
Where appropriate, changes in working practices are made in response to the findings of these surveys.
Energy price increases Mitchells & Butlers is a large commercial user of gas and The energy procurement strategy seeks to reduce the risk of cost increases electricity.
There is a risk that costs increase because of and uncertainty over energy prices by a rolling programme of short and global increases in demand and uncertainty of supply in medium-term purchases against forecast requirements.
A dedicated energy management team is responsible for optimising energy usage across the organisation by promoting energy efficient working practices via training and educational programmes and by the installation of energy efficient equipment.
Cost of goods price Increases in the price of goods for resale as a result of Mitchells & Butlers leverages its scale to drive competitive cost advantage increases increases in global demand and uncertainty of supply in and collaborates with suppliers to increase efficiencies in the supply producing nations can have a significant impact on the cost chain.
The fragmented nature of the food supply industry on the world base consequently impacting margins.
commodity markets gives the Company the opportunity to source products from a number of alternative suppliers in order to drive down cost.
The Company continually evolves the composition of menus and retail prices in order to optimise value to the customer as well as profits for the Company.
Mitchells & Butlers relies on its food and drink supply chain The Company has in place crisis and continuity plans that are tested and Business continuity and and the key IT systems underlying the business to serve its refreshed regularly.
crisis management customers efficiently and effectively.
Supply chain interruption, IT system failure or crises such as terrorist activity or the threat of disease pandemic might restrict sales or reduce operational effectiveness.
Finance risks Risk description Mitigating activities Borrowing covenants There are risks that borrowing covenants are breached The Company maintains headroom against these risks.
The finance because of circumstances such as: team conducts daily cash forecasting with periodic reviews at the Treasury Committee, the roles of which include ensuring that the Board Treasury Policy is adhered to, monitoring its operation and i A change in the economic climate leading to reduced agreeing appropriate strategies for recommendation to the Board.
cash inflows, or In addition, regular forecasting and testing of covenant compliance ii A material change in the valuation of the is performed and frequent communication is maintained with the property portfolio.
Pension fund deficit In March 2011 the defined benefit section of the pension Mitchells & Butlers maintains a close dialogue with the Trustees of the plan ceased future accrual for active employees.
However, pension schemes and three of the 12 Trustees are appointed by the scheme members retain their benefits accrued prior to Company.
In addition to the regular service contributions, the Company March 2011.
There is a risk that the pension fund deficit has already made significant additional contributions to reduce the increases because of poor investment performance, lower funding deficit.
As a result of the triennial valuation conducted last year long-term bond yields or increased life expectancy, leading the Company agreed to increase annual additional contributions from to unexpected increases in funding requirements by the 24m to 40m.
The funding levels and contribution requirements will Company.
The triennial actuarial valuation carried out as at be reviewed again at the next triennial valuation as at March 2013.
31 March 2010 resulted in a deficit of 400m.
Regulatory risks Risk description Mitigating activities Health and safety A major health and safety failure could lead to illness, Mitchells & Butlers maintains a robust programme of health and safety injury or loss of life or significant damage to the Companys checks both within its restaurants and pubs and throughout the supply or a brands reputation.
The dedicated Safety Assurance team uses a number of technical partners including food technologists, microbiologists and allergy specialists to ensure that our food procedures are safe.
Regular independent audits of trading sites are performed to ensure that procedures are followed and that appropriate standards are maintained.
Food suppliers are required to meet the British Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety and are subject to regular safety and quality audits.
Comprehensive health and safety training programmes are in place.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 11 In this section Governance 13 Board of Directors 14 Directors report 18 Directors responsibilities statement 19 Corporate governance statement 23 Audit Committee report 25 Report on Directors remuneration At Vintage Inns discover real ales, real fires and pub food as hearty and warming as the welcome, with beautifully kept beer gardens Brands perfect for soaking up the Great British summer.
people trust Mitchells & Butlers plc 12 Annual report and accounts 2011
