Risk management and internal control The DLC executive committee, mandated by the Boards, control capability is assured through board and executive has established a Group-wide system of internal control to committee challenge and appropriate management manage Group risks.
The DLC audit committee has oversight selection and skills development.
of the Group-wide risk management system and of those Continuous monitoring of risk and control processes across risks which fall outside the remit of the DLC sustainable all key risk areas provides the basis for regular reports to development committee, which oversees all sustainability management, the DLC executive committee and the Boards.
risks and the management thereof.
The Group-wide system, Further detail on the speci c sustainability risks and material which complies with corporate governance codes in South issues identi ed by Mondi are included in the sustainable Africa and the UK, supports the Boards in discharging development review 2011. their responsibility for ensuring that the wide range of risks associated with Mondis diverse international operations is Principal risks and uncertainties effectively managed.
It is in the nature of Mondis business that the Group is exposed to risks and uncertainties which may have an Risk management impact on future performance and financial results, as The Boards risk management framework addresses all well as on its ability to meet certain social and signi cant strategic, financial, operational and  objectives.
related risks which could undermine the Groups ability to achieve its business objectives in a sustainable manner.
On an annual basis, the DLC executive committee and The risk management framework is designed to be exible, Boards conduct a formal systematic review of the most to ensure that it remains relevant at all levels of the business signi cant risks and uncertainties and the Groups responses given the diversity of the Groups locations, markets and to those risks.
These risks are assessed against preproduction processes: and dynamic, to ensure that it remains determined risk tolerance limits, established by the Boards.
current and responsive to changing business conditions.
In addition, the DLC audit committee reviews each of the principal risks in detail over the course of the year.
Additional Clear accountability for risk management in the day-to-day risk reviews are undertaken on an ad-hoc basis for signi cant activities of the Group is a key performance criterion for the investment decisions and when changing business Groups line managers, who are provided with appropriate conditions dictate.
support through Group policies and procedures.
Risk management is embedded in all decision-making The Group believes that it has effective systems and controls processes, with holistic risk assessments conducted as in place to manage the key risks identi ed below within the part of all investment decisions.
The requisite risk and risk tolerance levels established by the Boards.
Principal risk Context Mitigation Mondi operates in a The markets for paper and packaging products Mondi is exible and responsive to changing highly competitive are highly competitive.
market and operating conditions and the Groups environment geographical and product diversi cation provide Prices of Mondis key products have experienced some measure of protection.
substantial uctuations in the past.
Furthermore, product substitution and declining demand in certain markets, coupled with new capacity being introduced, may have an impact on market prices.
A downturn in trading conditions in the future may have an impact on the carrying value of goodwill and tangible assets and may result in further restructuring activities.
24 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 24 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 24 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM Principal risk Context Mitigation Cost and Fibre wood, pulp, recovered paper is Mondis The Groups focus on operational performance, availability of a most important raw material, comprising relatively high levels of integration and access to TM sustainable supply approximately one-third of total input costs.
its own FSCcerti ed virgin bre in Russia and of bre Increases in the costs of any of these raw South Africa, serve to mitigate these risks.
materials, or any difficulties in procuring a It is the Groups objective to acquire bre wood, sustainable supply of wood, pulp or recovered pulp and biomass from sustainable sources with paper in certain countries, could have an internationally credible certi cation and to avoid adverse effect on Mondis business, operational any illegal or controversial supply.
Foreign currency The location of a number of the Groups signi cant The Groups policy is to hedge balance exposure and operations in a range of different countries results sheet exposures against short-term currency exchange rate in foreign currency exposure.
Furthermore, the Groups geographic volatility movements and high degrees of volatility may diversi cation provides some level of protection.
impact on the financial performance and position of the Group.
The most signi cant currency exposures are to the South African rand, Russian rouble, Czech koruna, Polish zloty, Swedish krona and Turkish lira.
Investments in The Group operates in a number of countries with The Group has invested in a number of countries certain countries differing political, economic and legal systems.
In thereby diversifying its exposure to any single may be adversely some countries, such systems are less predictable jurisdiction.
The Groups diversi ed management affected by than in countries with more developed institutional structure ensures that business managers are political, economic structures.
The current macroeconomic able to closely monitor and adapt to changes in and legal uncertainties in the Eurozone have heightened the environment in which they operate.
The Group developments in the political and economic risks in this region.
continues to actively monitor its exposure to the those countries Signi cant changes in the political, economic or Eurozone environment.
legal landscape of any country in which the Group is invested may have a material effect on the Groups operations in that country.
Employee The complexity of operations and geographic Appropriate reward and retention strategies are attraction, retention diversity of the Group demands high-quality, in place to attract and retain talent at all levels of and safety experienced employees in all operations.
Mondi has a policy of working towards zero harm.
Incidents are fully investigated, remedial actions taken and early warning indicators used to direct preventative work.
Mondi adopts internationally recognised safety and health management systems across all its operations.
Capital intensive Mondi operates large facilities, often in remote Mondis management system ensures ongoing operations locations.
The ongoing safety and sustainable monitoring of all operations to ensure they operation of such sites is critical to the success of meet the requisite standards and performance the Group.
A structured maintenance programme is in place under the auspices of the Group technical director.
Emergency preparedness and response procedures are in place and subject to periodic drills.
Mondi has adequate insurance in place to cover material property damage, business interruption and liability risks.
Mondi Group 25 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 25 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 25 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM DIRECTORS REPORT Risk management and internal control continued completion by business unit management of a six-monthly Internal control internal control assessment, con rming compliance with The Boards are responsible for establishing and maintaining Group policies and procedures, detailing controls in an effective system of internal control.
This system operation and listing any weaknesses: of internal control, embedded in all key operations, is assurance activities covering the key business risks designed to provide reasonable rather than absolute summarised and reported annually to the Boards, the assurance that the Groups business objectives will be DLC audit committee and the DLC sustainable achieved within risk tolerance levels fide ned by the Boards.
development committee: and Regular management reporting provides a balanced annual risk-pro ling by local businesses and the Group assessment of key risks and controls and is an important to identify, monitor and manage signi cant risks, with the component of the Boards assurance.
results discussed at business reviews and internal control, The finance heads of the business units provide sixaudit and risk meetings.
monthly con rmation that financial and accounting control frameworks have operated satisfactorily.
The Boards also Accountability and audit receive assurance from the DLC audit committee, which The Boards are required to present a balanced and derives its information in part from regular internal and understandable assessment of the Groups financial external audit reports of the Groups risk and internal control.
position and prospects, which are provided in the joint Actions are taken to correct internal control fide ciencies as chairmens statement, chief executives review, chief financial they are identi ed.
of cers report and business review.
The responsibilities of the directors and external auditors are set out on pages 82 The Groups internal audit function is responsible for to 85. providing independent assurance to the DLC executive committee, the DLC audit committee and the Boards on Whistle-blowing programme the effectiveness of the Groups risk management process and for evaluating the internal control environment to The Group has a whistle-blowing programme called ensure controls are adequately designed and are operating Speakout.
The programme, monitored by the DLC audit ef ciently and effectively.
committee, enables employees, customers, suppliers, managers or other stakeholders, on a con dential basis, to Key elements of the Groups system of internal control are: raise concerns about conduct which is considered to be a clearly-fide ned organisation structure with established contrary to Mondis values.
It makes communication channels and reasonable division of responsibilities: available to any person in the world who has information about unethical practice in the Groups operations.
During 2011, a simple and focused business strategy, restricting 47 reports were received covering a number of areas.
Reports potential risk exposure: were kept strictly con dential and referred to appropriate line Group financial, business conduct, operating and managers or other more senior personnel for resolution.
administrative policies and procedures which incorporate statements of required behaviour: Going concern a continuous review of operating performance: The Groups business activities, together with the factors a comprehensive reporting system, including monthly likely to affect its future development, performance and results, annual budgets and periodic forecasts, monitored position are set out in the business review.
The financial by the Boards: position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and approval by the Boards of all major investments, with borrowing facilities are described in notes 22, 37 and 38 to proposals being subject to rigorous strategic and the financial statements.
In addition, notes 37 and 38 to the commercial examination: financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies a centrally co-ordinated internal audit programme, using and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk internal and external resources to support the Boards in management objectives: details of its financial instruments and ensuring a sound control environment: hedging activities: and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
26 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 26 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 26 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM Mondis geographical spread, product diversity and large customer base mitigate potential risks of customer or supplier liquidity issues.
Ongoing initiatives by management in implementing pro t improvement initiatives which include plant optimisation, cost-cutting, and restructuring and rationalisation activities have consolidated the Groups leading cost position in its chosen markets.
Working capital levels and capital expenditure programmes are strictly monitored and controlled.
The Group meets its funding requirements from a variety of sources as more fully described on page 128.
The availability of some of these facilities is dependent on the Group meeting certain financial covenants, all of which have been complied with.
Mondi had E889 million of undrawn committed debt facilities as at 31 December 2011 which should provide suf cient liquidity for the Group in the medium term.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, including an assessment of the current macroeconomic environment, particularly in Europe, indicate that the Group should be able to operate well within the level of its current facilities and related covenants.
The directors have reviewed the overall Group strategy, the budget for 2012 and subsequent years, considered the assumptions contained in the budget and reviewed the critical risks which may impact the Groups performance.
After making such enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the integrated report and financial statements.
tet i, Czech Republic Mondi Group 27 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 27 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
