Previous Page View Contents Next Page 20 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Principal Risks and Uncertainties The tables below summarise the material financial and operational risks to the Group and how the Group seeks to mitigate them in the day-to-day running of the business.
Financial risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Significant worsening in Financial institutions may reduce the quantum of The Group continues to focus on building strong credit markets lending and tighten their acceptance criteria for relationships with providers to ensure the Group is able customers seeking to obtain credit.
This may reduce to provide solutions to the needs of providers and to Group revenue.
Providers may increase their focus maximise the opportunities for providers to acquire on customer retention rather than acquisition.
customers in a cost effective manner.
This may reduce commissions available to price comparison websites.
Reduction of providers Providers may consolidate, withdraw their products The Group continues to focus on building strong from price comparison websites or reduce their relationships with providers to ensure the Group is able customer acquisition activity via price comparison to provide solutions to the needs of providers and to websites.
This may reduce competition for business, maximise the opportunities for providers to acquire customer choice, Group revenue and the customer customers in a cost effective manner.
proposition of price comparison websites.
Investment in new areas Significant investments in new products Investments in new areas typically leverage existing and services or new geographies fails to expertise and experience built up over many years.
Capital requirements are relatively low and investment is managed in stages such that it is not finally committed until there is good visibility of a return.
Financial services and The business model in financial services or other The Group has a team of regulatory specialists who other markets regulation lines of business may be compromised by changes work with the business to ensure that it remains to existing regulation or the introduction of compliant with existing regulation and informed of new regulation.
The Group has embraced regulation to date and shares the vision of the regulators generally to make the market more transparent to the end customer.
Economic environment Reduction in visitors and revenue from a recession The Group continues to focus on building a wide range as customers seek to reduce levels of discretionary of market leading services to meet customers needs.
Customers seeking to reduce levels of discretionary expenditure will also be looking to obtain best value from compulsory products and services.
The diversification of the Group both in the number of verticals that it operates in and the range of products and services it provides in each vertical should lessen the impact of a recession upon the Group although it cannot entirely mitigate against it.
Previous Page View Contents Next Page Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 21 Annual Report 2011 Operational risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Competitive environment Loss of market share and erosion of margins from The Group continues to focus on building market increased competition.
leading products to improve its proposition to customers.
This includes investment in customer retention tools and technology including CRM initiatives which deliver additional features and functionality to customers.
Brand perception Reduction in customer loyalty with existing customers Continued investment in television advertising and reputation and an inability to attract new customers if the reinforced through press activity will maintain the business fails to maintain its position as a leading price Group in customers minds.
Rigorous checking of comparison website or if its reputation is negatively the website through audit and review will maintain the impacted by any event, such as the loss or misuse of accuracy of the information displayed.
Rigorous use customer personal data.
of internal controls and testing of the Groups systems will ensure the integrity and robustness of the Groups systems.
Additional investment in initiatives increases transparency to the customer helping to protect brand values.
Business continuity, Failure to provide adequate service levels to customers The Group maintains two separate data centres with capacity and functionality or maintain revenue generating services.
n 1 redundancy in relation to its core infrastructure of IT and systems to ensure that service is maintained in the event of a disaster at the primary data centre.
Developed software is rigorously tested and the Group operates a robust release process which mitigates the likelihood of software being released into a live environment without being fully tested.
Loss of key management Loss of key management resulting in a lack of Existing key management and new hires are tied in necessary expertise or continuity to execute strategy.
through attractive equity incentive packages and rewarding career structures.
In addition, succession plans have been developed for key members of the management team which are regularly reviewed.
Reliance on search Reduction in gross margin through reduction The Group will continue to invest in sustainable search engine natural listings in revenue derived from search engine engine optimisation activities which adhere optimisation activities.
