Overview Business review Governance Financial statements RisK MAnAGeMent the Group has an established risk Management of business risk is an integral with Group policies.
Key risks and management methodology together with a part of delivering performance and is the issues are reported to the Board via the comprehensive internal control framework responsibility of all managers.
some specific Risk Management committee and the and appropriate assurance processes.
the risk areas of risk for example supply chain are executive committee.
management processes are forward-looking in assessed and managed through steering groups.
the identification, management and mitigation the risk management decision-making and the following key risk areas are those that of business risks that could impact the Groups reporting procedures are integrated into the Group feels could have the most serious immediate and long-term performance and formal business reporting up to the Board.
adverse effect on its performance and value.
whilst they will not fully eliminate risks, reputation.
the relative importance of some they will facilitate mitigation to an acceptable Assurance of the effectiveness of risk of these risks has changed during 2011 as level within the context of the business management processes, procedures and business conditions change.
where necessary, environment in which the Group operates.
internal control continues to be monitored by monitoring and controls to manage risk have the Audit committee.
divisional management been adjusted to ensure that the risks continue attend the Audit committee at least annually to be managed within acceptable limits.
to report on internal control and compliance RISk MITIGATION Strategy and strategic planning risks Obstacles to delivery of strategy the Board approves and monitors strategy, consulting external advisers and experts when necessary.
within its delegated authority, the executive Ability to exploit new business opportunities.
committee and divisional management implement strategic plans and Ability to deliver anticipated benefits from investments.
delivering the benefits of acquisitions and disposals.
Balancing cyclical business sectors to smooth results.
Businesses are spread geographically, with reduced reliance on cyclical markets.
where the Group chooses to continue to operate in cyclical markets, it selects industries with different cycles to reduce the impact on Group results.
Processes are in place to ensure a structured approach to strategy, three-year plans, budgets, investment approval as well as monitoring and reporting performance.
Acquisitions and disposals are managed through an established process with appropriate monitoring and reporting.
External risks Changing political, economical and social environment Risk mitigation and contingency planning minimised the negative impact of the 2011 events on the Group.
this includes the types of risks that have manifested themselves in 2011, Key risks and events are regularly tracked at a Business, divisional and Group for example Arab spring, Japanese earthquake and tsunami and china level with contingency plans adjusted to manage the changing situation.
Many of these events impacted local markets and some had a worldwide impact on supply chains and markets.
current eurozone issues Mitigation plans are in place to manage the financial and business impact of the eurozone crisis and any large currency swings.
these include not only cash and banking but also operational issues in the businesses.
Changing global financial environment Financial and treasury controls limit exposure to foreign currency, interest rate, credit and liquidity risk.
the Group, like its peers, is exposed to the risks presented by the ongoing state of the financial markets, the banking sector and the challenge Our pension funds are managed using independent, competent trustee to the euro.
the Group maintains a carefully managed debt facility to ensure that its debt ratio is within acceptable market tolerances.
48 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements RISk MITIGATION Market dynamics and competition Maintaining technology and innovation lead the divisions monitor technology, business developments and future regulation to ensure that they are in a strong position to optimise future events.
R&d investment is maintained in new improving technologies through As some of our business opportunities are in substitute materials, the Groups research and development facilities.
we are frequently in competition with existing technology producers or other innovators.
As many of the Groups products are designed for a specific customer, they are developed in tandem with them to maintain leading-edge solutions.
Operational risks Treasury risks through the treasury function there are strict controls on the selection of banks and cash management.
Additional actions have been taken to the uncertainty in the financial markets and the banking sector impact respond to the eurozone crisis.
foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks as well as the risk of bank failure impacting the Groups cash.
Supply chain exposures including raw materials dual sourcing of materials or strategic stocks.
supply chain risks include internal risks within the Group, especially where Key risk areas identified, managed and monitored.
some sites supply and contribute to the profitability of several businesses.
supply chain steering Group monitors risks throughout the Group.
Key processes and equipment assessed.
Risks mitigated to an acceptable risk level using improved procedures, protection and controls.
Natural or man-made catastrophes impacting operations and there is an ongoing risk management process together with external experts business continuity to identify and assess key risk areas.
Risk is mitigated through improved processes and protection is installed where needed fire protection, the Groups facilities and processes are exposed to a number of potential equipment controls, natural hazard protection, etc.
catastrophes including fire and explosion that are inherent to the industry.
in addition, some sites are exposed to natural hazards such as windstorm, crisis management and business continuity plans are in place and tested.
flooding and earthquake, that are inherent to their geographical location.
A major incident could impact the continuity of the business.
Recruiting, maintaining and motivating high-quality staff the Group maintains human resource policies and processes to manage the risks relating to its people.
these cover areas including reward and As many of the Groups processes require a high degree of skill, loss of these recognition, health and safety, talent management, including succession employees to other markets or competitors would impact the businesses.
planning, skills assessment and development, performance management and employee consultation.
similarly, loss of key persons in commercial or management areas could also impact profitability.
Product safety and liability Many products designed to customers specifications.
where necessary products are tested and certified to meet Products used in applications for which they were not intended.
Materials that require special handling.
Quality control processes on materials and finished products.
Potential liability from product quality, performance, service, safety.
Monitoring of legislation and regulation to manage future risk issues.
Compliance and ethics risks Changes to or non-compliance with laws and regulation the Group monitors changes in legislation and regulation, pro-actively modifying existing controls and compliance frameworks and providing Unethical behaviour including bribery, corruption, anti-trust, human rights, etc.
the Group operates in countries where bribery, corruption, and anti-trust are known risks.
the Group has a Responsible Business Programme dealing with most areas of ethics, compliance and regulation.
the increasing volume and scope of legislation and regulation complicate the business environment and increase non-compliance risk and the the Groups ethical standards are defined and driven by the Group ethics associated penalties.
Policy and an external hotline is maintained in countries in which we operate.
in 2011 controls and training were reviewed and upgraded to support worldwide compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
where the Group is occasionally subject to legal action, we maintain adequate provisions see notes 21 and 25 on pages 126 and 127.
Environment, health and safety risks Further detail of the programmes in place to manage these risks are included on pages 37 to 40.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 49
