Financial review Risks and risk management Risks Risks and risk management 37 The Group has a well established The Audit Committee: Management governance structure that has has specific responsibility for reviewing Take mitigating actions and implement responsibility for the internal control the effectiveness of the Groups internal systems to manage the likelihood and systems and reviewing their effectiveness.
control and risk management systems: impact of the risk.
Identify an individual The risk management process: with responsibility for each risk.
is responsible for the identification, provides a framework to identify, assess assessment and management of risk, Monitoring and control and manage risks, both positive and including actions taken and processes Risks are considered on a monthly basis negative, to the Groups overall strategy adopted to do so: at divisional level and formally updated and the contribution of its individual twice a year.
Management is encouraged reviews and approves all financial component divisions: to review the risk registers from other information published by the Group: and divisions to identify common issues and gives business unit management formal reviews the internal audit programme, potential solutions.
tools to identify and manage risks in their considers major findings of the internal Each divisional register, including the day-to-day operations: audit investigations and reviews Group function register, is consolidated allows Group Executive management managements financial reporting into a Group risk register.
to identify and manage the risks that are and risk management.
likely to have a more significant impact The Group Executive Committee reviews Risk review process on the financial results and strategy and the Group Risk Register twice a year, Each division, plus the Group function, is share common issues and solutions followed by the Group Audit Committee.
required to make a formal review of risks to across the Group: and The Audit Committee reports in turn to the their business objectives, assess the impact main Board.
allows the Board to fulfil its governance and likelihood of the risk occurring and put responsibilities by making a balanced in place mitigating actions, processes and The internal audit function has and understandable assessment of systems to manage the risk.
responsibility for the monitoring of the risk the operation of the risk management management and internal control systems.
Risks process and its outputs.
Internal Audit report to management Identify risks to business objectives on and the Audit Committee on the extent Responsibilities and actions a bottom up basis: risks are described to which internal controls are adequately The Board: and categorised into Operational, Strategic designed and implemented.
has overall responsibility for the Groups and Financial risks in order to help define system of internal control and for their precise nature and potential impact reviewing its effectiveness: on the business.
maintains full control and direction Assessment over appropriate strategic, financial, Assess and quantify the potential impact operational and compliance issues: and on business objectives and determine the likelihood of the risk occurring.
This is has put in place an organisational done on a before and after basis, where structure with formally defined lines the impact of management controls is of responsibility, delegated authorities assessed in relation to the probability and clear operating processes.
Risk assessment and review The Group has a well established Risk Assessment Review governance structure that has responsibility for the internal control systems and reviewing their effectiveness.
Group Executive Identify Committee Assess Review Audit Committee Mitigating actions PLC Board Risks 38 Principal risks and uncertainties Outlined below are risks that have the potential to affect the Groups performance in a material way, which are monitored through the risk management processes.
Principal risks of 2011 During 2011, the Group focused on the following key areas of risk: Risk Assessment Management Year on year change Economic conditions Revenues in the Bus, Coach and The Group seeks to mitigate these risks and austerity Rail businesses in the UK and Spain through proactive cost control, revenue may be affected by lower passenger management systems, the careful Difficult economic conditions currently demand: there is also some positive economic modelling of new and existing exist in Europe and North America.
risk that the Group would benefit from contracts, including sensitivities around Whilst some of the Groups businesses the prospect of modal shift towards its expected growth rates, and through have naturally defensive characteristics, forms of transport.
In North America for sharing risk with contracting parties.
some of the more discretionary parts of example, school boards may reduce the business may be adversely affected their transportation budgets, or look by reduced economic activity.
to shift provision to contractors like National Express.
In Spain, the Group has continued to grow revenue and profit in conditions of sustained high unemployment and low GDP growth.
Political and regulatory Changes in political and regulatory The risk is reduced by maintaining close environments can have a significant relationships with key stakeholders and The Groups businesses are subject impact on regulated public transport ensuring that the economic advantages to numerous laws in the jurisdictions operators, from adding significant cost of our business models are fully in which they operate, regulating the to changing the fundamental nature of understood and considered.
operation of concessions, safety a market.
For example, changes in UK procedures, equipment specifications, government policy will result in material employment requirements, decreases in subsidies paid in 2012 environmental procedures and for fuel and senior citizen discounts.
Changes to the UK Rail franchising regime are also expected.
Ongoing risks The following risks are key ongoing risks within the business: Risk Assessment Management Year on year change Fuel cost Fuel costs constitute approximately 9% The Group seeks to mitigate risks of of the Groups costs and, consequently, increases in fuel costs by entering All of the Groups businesses are to the extent that price increases cannot into fuel swaps and forward purchase exposed to fuel costs primarily Ultra be passed on to customers, increases contracts in line with the Groups Low Sulphur Diesel for buses and in fuel costs will affect profitability.
hedging strategy discussed on page 36. coaches.
Fuel prices are subject to significant volatility due to economic, political and climate circumstances.
Insurance and claims There is a risk that a successful claim or Throughout the business a strong series of successful claims may result in safety culture prevails, led by the Board The Groups policy is to self-insure substantial higher charges to profit and Safety & Environmental Committee.
a number of potential claims within cash outflow than expected.
Where claims arise, they are managed its business.
by experienced claims handlers and professional advice is obtained in order to evaluate and minimise costs to the Group.
It has also reduced selfinsurance values and increased external market coverage.
Financial review Risks and risk management 39 Risk Assessment Management Year on year change Credit risk Payment terms and cash collections Receivables in each business are in North America are extremely good.
closely monitored, based on robust and As contractual operations, the North In Spain, during 2011 one principal thorough documentation: provisions American and Spanish businesses are urban council became slower to pay are then made where appropriate on exposed to the risk that customers are outstanding debts, prompted by issues a prudent basis for a certain level of either late or unable to pay sums owed related to local and federal elections, non-collection.
This provision increased to the Group.
as well as financial constraints.
The during the year to reflect the overall total days outstanding balance is not balance increase.
Additional contractual significantly higher than normal levels.
terms for interest accrual and repayment of outstanding balances were agreed with the major debtors.
We also anticipate the new federal government will provide credit funding to assist some degree of clearance of long term debt.
Currency The potential impact is limited to the The Group uses limited overseas debt translation of cash flows and balance and currency swaps to reduce the The Groups exposure to overseas sheet assets and liabilities.
The Group impact and mitigate the risk.
In addition, earnings through its Spanish and North currently pays interest on mainly Sterling Management has flexibility to adjust American operations creates a risk denominated debt.
During 2011 currency its Group capital allocation decisions that movement in exchange rates fluctuations were relatively small.
to focus on its highly cash generative may adversely impact translation of UK businesses.
The Board has also profit and cash flows together with considered options for the Group in Group gearing.
the event of a break up of the Eurozone and policies are in place to minimise exposure to this possibility.
Risk Assessment Management Year on year change Contractual An inherent risk in contract bidding is The Group seeks to mitigate the risk that bid assumptions might prove to be through careful economic modelling of Much of the Groups business is incorrect.
If the Groups significant bid new contracts, and by sharing revenue secured through winning contracts and assumptions prove to be incorrect, this risk with the awarding body: for example concessions, particularly in its North could have an adverse effect on results with the DfT in UK Rail.
American school bus business, in Spain of the operations and the Groups and in UK Rail.
