24 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Risk management at NWR impact and likelihood and the status Risk management Principal risks and of mitigation measures.
At a subsidiary approach uncertainties level, all relevant detailed information related to the specific risks is collated and maintained to ensure appropriate NWRs system of risk management ensures Set out below are the principal risks monitoring and mitigating action, where an effective approach to identifying and uncertainties relating to the Group required.
risks and mitigating their impact on the together with the primary source, the achievement of company objectives.
Risks potential impact on the business and Risk evaluation are controlled and managed within the the mitigation measures.
We evaluate annually identified risks based relevant operational areas in which they on possible economic and non-economic occur.
It is the responsibility of every NWR Market risks impact and likelihood.
The adequacy and entity to actively manage its own risks.
effectiveness of internal controls are Local management is responsible for Economic environment uncertainty assessed as part of each evaluation.
identifying, assessing and mitigating risks Source with the support of risk managers, The global economic situation remains Risk response and to report to NWRs Audit and Risk subject to significantly abnormal levels Based on the risk evaluation, the Groups Management Committee on decisions of volatility based on historic performance risk managers, in cooperation with relevant made and actions taken.
The Groups and the economies of the CEE region regional management teams formulate Risk Management function is responsible are exposed to this unstable situation.
required responses and ensure that for supervising this process, monitoring The main factor directly influencing the right risk owners within the Group the key risks and managing them NWR is the Groups exposure to the steel are involved in the development and directly where relevant.
implementation of necessary response management function is responsible measures.
Examples of these responses for the implementation of appropriate Impact are set out in detail below.
structures and the co-ordination of risk Worsening economic conditions globally management activities across the Group.
and in the CEE region in which we operate Risk reporting have a significant negative impact on the All progress on risk identification, Risk management approach steel industry, and thus may affect the evaluation and response is documented demand for coal and coke products.
and monitored by the Group Risk Manager This may in turn have a negative impact on in cooperation with the Entity Risk NWRs revenues.
Identify Evaluate Managers, and is supervised by the Board risks risks with the assistance of the Audit and Risk Mitigation Management Committee composed of We closely follow all economic Bessel Kok Chairman, Hans-Jrg Rudloff, developments, both worldwide and in the Steven Schuit and Barry Rourke.
region, to ensure that we are prepared to Monitor take any necessary steps.
NWR cooperates risks Risk management update closely with its suppliers and customers to On an ongoing basis, current activities ensure flexibility and to minimise impact.
and processes in the area of risk management are evaluated to identify Report Respond Throughout and after the economic any necessary implementation of new downturn of 2008 09, NWR developed on risks to risks risk analysis and management measures.
increased structural efficiencies which All implemented responses are regularly resulted in greater operational flexibility monitored and action is taken as to manage its investment schedule, necessary.
Risk identification costs and cash flow in order to improve A consistent approach to risk identification resilience to challenging economic Further information on NWRs approach is key to effective management.
We have a prudent gearing to risk management can be found in the risks are documented by the Group Risk policy, strong liquidity and a sound Corporate Governance section on page 60 Manager in the Group Risk Register.
funding profile whereby there is no onwards of this report and in the Group Updated regularly, this information short-term need for refinancing given Risk Management Policy on our corporate includes the factors influencing the risks, that the first maturing part of current website www.
the respective risk owners, potential financing occurs in 2015.
