75 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Internal audit Audit Committee, the connection between For further details on risk management, The Group internal audit function was the ARMC and the Audit Committee of including the Directors review of the established in November 2008.
The OKD provides for adequate monitoring and effectiveness of internal controls, please Groups internal auditor is responsible communication.
see Risk management on pages 24 to 27 for developing and overseeing the and 80. implementation of consistent internal Risk management, internal control auditing policies across the Group, and compliance Whistleblower Procedure delivering the audit plans and audit The ARMC is responsible for overseeing The Companys Whistleblower Procedure assignments, preparing internal audit Group risk management and reviewing is appended to NWRs Code of Ethics charters and reporting on Group risk the internal control and risk management and Business Conduct and enables management and internal control.
This supports the Board in employees to express, on a confidential Groups internal auditor functionally discharging its responsibility for ensuring basis, concerns over the conduct reports to the ARMC and its Chairman that the wide range of risks associated of Directors, officers, management in particular and administratively to with the Groups operations are effectively and other employees.
These include NWRs Chief Financial Officer.
The Groups managed to safeguard shareholders suspicions of criminal offences, violation internal auditor reports the main findings investments and the Groups assets.
of law, intentionally wrongful behaviour, of the completed audits and the status of manipulation of information and their implementation to the ARMC.
NWRs risk management policy, which misconduct.
The Whistleblower Procedure applies to all Group entities, sets out will be used to report suspected breaches The ARMC assesses the performance the high level objectives of the Groups of the Business Integrity Policy.
The of the Groups internal auditor on an risk management, risk evaluation, Company Secretary acts as confidential annual basis.
adviser for NWR and its subsidiaries and The risk management policy can be found is responsible for investigating reports At OKD, the internal audit function is on the NWR website at of suspected irregularity.
The ARMC is performed by an internal audit team, http: www.
eu en responsible for establishing and reviewing which assesses whether the internal corporate-governance policies.
the Whistleblower Procedure and is control, risk management, and governance informed of reported cases through regular processes are adequate and effective.
The ARMC was kept updated with reports from the Company Secretary.
In The head internal auditor reports internal information relating to, and reviewed with 2011, no reports were received or reported audit findings and recommendations a particular focus, the following risks to the ARMC.
The ARMC, however, reviewed to the senior management team and relating to the Group for 2011: the reports received from certain Group the Audit Committee of OKD.
The head subsidiaries, in particular OKD.
internal auditor also submits annual health and safety: reports on the activities of the internal pricing: The Whistleblower Procedure can be found audit team to the Audit Committee, the licensing: on the NWR website at Board of Directors and the Supervisory reputational: http: www.
The head internal auditor corporate social responsibility: corporate-governance policies.
has access to all necessary organisation machinery availability: and units and their management and the right budgeting and controlling.
The ARMC believes that it carried out all to request information and explanations, the responsibilities set out in its charter and has unfettered access to the Audit The risk assessment and reporting criteria and finds the charter adequate.
Committee and Supervisory Board of OKD.
are designed to provide a consistent, The internal audit team works closely with Group-wide perspective of the key risks.
Remuneration Committee Report the Groups internal auditor.
Internal audit In connection with the successful in OKK and NWR KARBONIA is carried out The ARMC has a crucial role in opining reincorporation of NWR NV in the UK, the by the Group internal audit function with on and making proposals to the Board on Remuneration Committee of NWR NV was the support of designated officers.
all matters where a potential conflict of abolished and following a resolution of interest exists between NWR, its Directors, the Board adopted on 8 April 2011, the The internal audit functions at NWR and its controlling shareholder and other Remuneration Committee of NWR RC OKD have aligned audit processes on both shareholders.
In 2011, the ARMC examined was established, as of 6 May 2011, as levels and supervised implementation a number of potential cases of conflict of a committee of the Company.
On 8 April 2011, of their audit recommendations.
As the interest, especially in connection with the the Board also adopted the RC charter and ARMCs Chairman is a member of OKDs UK redomiciliation.
appointed the RC members and chairman.
