80 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Corporate Governance identifying and nominating for the The charter of the NC is available on NWRs complaints are now dealt with by an approval of the Board, candidates to website at www.
The fill Board vacancies and evaluating Audit and Risk Management Committee the balance of skills, knowledge, Accountability monitors, through reports received from experience and diversity on the Board, Conflicts of interest the Company Secretary, the effectiveness and, in light of this evaluation preparing The Corporate Governance Policy sets of the procedure.
Further details can be a description of the role and capabilities out the rules for dealing with conflicts found in the report of the Audit and Risk required for a particular appointment: of interest.
Directors are required to Management Committee on page 75. reviewing the results of the Board immediately report any conflict of performance evaluation process that interest or potential conflict of interest The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct relate to the composition of the Board: that is of material significance to the and the Whistleblower Procedure, as and Senior Independent Director, and shall well as the Business Integrity Policy are making recommendations to the provide all relevant information, including available on NWRs website at Board on re-election by shareholders information concerning a related party.
of Directors under the annual If the Senior Independent Director has re-election provisions of the UK a conflict of interest or potential Risk management and internal controls Corporate Governance Code and conflict of interest that is of material The Board has overall responsibility for the retirement by rotation provisions significance, he should immediately the Groups system of internal controls in NWRs Articles of Association.
report to the Board and provid all and risk management policies and is relevant information.
also responsible for reviewing their Activities undertaken during the year effectiveness.
The Board is supported In 2011, the NC met in September.
The NC The Audit and Risk Management Committee in this area by the work of the Audit and reviewed the outcome of the Executive is responsible for making recommendations Risk Management Committee.
Directors evaluation and discussed the to the Board on potential conflicts of interest For further details see the Audit and Risk various options regarding succession and related party transactions.
Directors, to Management Committee Report on pages planning in respect of the Chairman whom the conflict of interest issue relates, 72 to 74 During 2011, the Directors have of the Board and other Directors.
The do not take part in the assessment by the continued to review the effectiveness of NC reviewed the appointment of a new Audit and Risk Management Committee of the system of controls, risk management Company Secretary and the best approach whether a conflict of interest exists.
and the Groups high-level internal controls to corporate and social responsibilities.
These reviews have included In its session in March 2012, the NC Code of Ethics and Business Conduct an assessment of internal controls, and concluded that each Director makes an In addition to its Corporate Governance in particular, financial, operational and effective and valuable contribution to the Policy, NWR has adopted a Code of Ethics compliance controls and risk management meetings of the Board and the committees and Business Conduct, which governs the and their effectiveness, supported on which they sit, and that they behaviour of all officers and employees by management assurance of the demonstrate commitment to their roles.
of NWR and its subsidiaries.
Appended maintenance of controls, and report from to it is the Whistleblower Procedure, Group Internal Audit and from the external The NC fully supports the Chairman of which is a reporting mechanism enabling auditor on matters identified in the course the Board in his commitment to making employees to express concerns to the of its statutory audit work.
The system of sure that the Group accesses the widest Boards Chairman, Senior Independent internal control is designed to manage possible diversity of skills and talents, Director and the designated officer in rather than eliminate the risk of failure not only at the Board level, but throughout relation to the conduct of NWR, its officers to achieve business objectives and can the Group.
Together with Chairman of and employees.
To confirm its commitment only provide reasonable not necessarily the Board, the NC promotes and purses to the high standards of conducting absolute assurance of effective operation recruitment and appointment of male and business and combating fraud and bribery, and compliance with laws and regulations.
female candidates purely on the basis of the Board has also adopted the Business the business needs, skills and abilities, Integrity Policy.
Underpinning these reviews is an annual in a clearly non-discriminatory manner.
process by which responsible senior The core operations of NWR have management personnel confirm The NC is of the view that its composition implemented a corresponding procedure.
the adequacy of the systems of internal is appropriate and that its members have To increase the effectiveness of financial and non-financial controls, carried out all duties and responsibilities this system, OKD has modified its compliance with Group policies and set out in its charter.
whistleblower procedure so that relevant laws and regulations and that they
