Principal risks The operation of a public company involves a number of risks and uncertainties across a full range of commercial, operational and and uncertainties financial areas.
The principal risks and uncertainties that have been identied as being capable of impacting the Groups performance over the next financial year are set out below.
Impact Mitigation Economic environment There is a link in our business between Should there be a further significant the demand for our products and services economic downturn the exible nature and the levels of economic activity in the of the Groups business model enables countries in which the Group operates.
vehicles to be placed with other The high level of operational gearing in customers.
Alternatively, utilisation can our business model means that changes be maintained through a combination in demand can lead to higher levels of of a decrease in vehicle purchases and variation in profitability.
increase in disposals, which although affecting short term profitability, The construction industry and other key generates cash and reduces debt levels.
markets of the Group have been particularly sensitive to the downturn An economic downturn also presents in the economic climate which has led opportunities to increase rentals to to a decline in the number of vehicles customers wishing to benefit from the rented in recent years.
Groups exible renting solutions, either due to a lack of available finance or The underlying macro-economic an unwillingness to commit to long conditions have also increased the risk term rental.
of customer failure, particularly in Spain, which may lead to the occurrence of No individual customer contributes increased bad debt charges.
more than five per cent of total revenue generated, and ongoing credit analysis The Group generates a large proportion is performed on new and existing of revenue from customers in the customers to assess credit risk.
construction industry but is seeking to diversify its customer base across a range of market segments.
Vehicle holding costs The overall holding cost of a vehicle is Risk is managed on new pricing by affected by the pricing levels of new negotiating xed pricing terms with vehicles and the disposal value of manufacturers a year in advance.
Flexibility is maintained to make purchases throughout the year under The Group purchases substantially all of variable supply terms.
its eet from suppliers with no agreement for the repurchase of a vehicle at the end Flexibility in our business model allows of its hire life cycle.
The Group is therefore us to determine the period over which exposed to uctuations in residual values we hold a vehicle and therefore in the in the used vehicle market.
event of a decline in residual values we would attempt to mitigate the impact An increase in the holding cost of by ageing out our existing eet.
vehicles, if not recovered through hire rate increases, would affect profitability, shareholder return and cash generation.
Competition and hire rates The Group operates in highly competitive The Group is now more strongly focused markets with competitors often pursuing on maximising return on capital and so aggressive pricing actions to increase hire hire rates are not being reduced below volumes.
The market is also fragmented certain hurdle rates.
In co-ordinating this with numerous competitors at a local and policy with eet management, utilisations national level.
are being maintained at higher rates.
As our business is highly operationally Our current pricing strategy is focused on geared, any increase or decrease in hire charging the correct price for the service rates will impact profit and shareholder provided and all ancillary services offered returns to a greater effect.
which will attract customers for whom exible rental is the most appropriate solution but not necessarily the cheapest.
This means that the Group will be better positioned against solely price led competition going forward.
18 Principal risks and uncertainties Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 Impact Mitigation Access to capital The Group requires capital to both replace Financial covenants are reviewed on a vehicles that have reached the end of monthly basis in conjunction with cash their useful life and for growth in the ow forecasts to ensure ongoing eet.
Additionally, due to the level of the compliance.
If there is a shortfall in Groups indebtedness, a significant cash generated from operations and or proportion of the Groups cash ow is available under its credit facilities required to service its debt obligations.
the Group would reduce its capital In order to continue to access its credit requirements.
facilities the Group needs to remain in The Group believes that its existing compliance with its financial covenants facilities provide adequate resources throughout the term of its facilities.
Current bank facilities are due to mature in September 2014 with other facilities The impact of access to capital on the having varying maturity dates up to April wider risk of going concern is considered 2019.
There is a risk that the Group on page 17. cannot successfully extend its facilities past this date.
Failure to access sufficient nancing or meet financial covenants could potentially adversely affect the prospects of the Group.
IT systems The Groups business involves a high Prior to any material systems changes volume of transactions and the need being implemented the Board approves a to track assets which are located at project plan.
The project is then led by a numerous sites.
member of the executive team, with an ongoing implementation review being Reliance is placed upon the proper carried out by internal audit and external functioning of IT systems for the effective consultants where appropriate.
Any interruption objective is always to minimise the risk to the Groups IT systems would have a that business interruption could occur materially adverse effect on its business.
as a result of the system changes.
Additionally, the Group has an appropriate business continuity plan in the event of interruption arising from an IT systems failure.
Change management The UK and Spain businesses are currently The Board and its advisors conducted undertaking restructuring programmes detailed reviews of the restructuring which seek to improve the operational strategy before it commenced, and efficiency of the Group, with the aim of each project is subject to an ongoing increasing returns to shareholders and assessment at Board level.
The placing the Group in a better position restructuring strategies have been for future expansion, or to be more communicated to all employees.
resilient to any further downturns in the Risks arising through the process are economic environment.
continually monitored and mitigating actions are taken when required.
If these programmes are not executed effectively, the Group will not be in a position to achieve its objectives, and profitability and shareholder returns will be impacted.
19 Principal risks and uncertainties Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011
