50 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Our risks and uncertainties The Board sets the tone for risk management within the The NWG Board requires all Group and determines the appropriate risk appetite.
subsidiaries within the Group to The Board monitors the management of fundamental risks and approves major decisions affecting the identify and assess the impact Groups risk profile.
Senior management implements of risks to their business using policies on risk management and internal control.
For each For NWL, the management team reviews the approach risk identified, the model records to risk management in detail every year and the Audit the uncontrolled magnitude and Committee considers the outcome.
The management team reviews the significant risks every month and a likelihood of the risks occurring full review of the model for emerging significant risks is as well as the controls in place carried out quarterly.
Any issues that arise from these to mitigate those risks before management team reviews are reported by the CEO to the board.
The Boards view of acceptable Apart from NWL, none of the subsidiaries has risks considered to be significant to the Groups short and risk is based on a balanced view long term value.
of all of the risks in the operating The system of internal control incorporates risk environment.
It aims to ensure management.
It encompasses a number of elements an appropriate balance between that together facilitate an effective and efficient risk aversion and opportunities.
operation, enabling the company to respond to a variety of risks.
These elements include: Policies and procedures Attached to fundamental risks are a series of policies that underpin the internal control process.
Written procedures support the policies where appropriate.
Business planning and budgeting The business planning and budgeting process is used to set objectives, agree action plans and allocate resources.
Progress against meeting business plan and budget objectives is monitored regularly.
Risk register The risk register identifies key risks, each with a risk owner who is responsible for evaluating the risk on a regular basis.
As a way of ensuring that risk management is embedded into the business, the risk owners have the management of these risks as a personal KPI.
Strategic risk model Risks that are known but not yet well defined enough for the likelihood and consequence to be reasonably foreseen are included in a strategic risk model.
51 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Audit Committee Ernst & Young, the objective of which was to provide The Audit Committee reports to the Board on internal NWL management and the Audit Committee with controls and alerts the Board to any emerging issues.
a view of the different assurance functions within In addition, the Audit Committee oversees internal audit, the company and the extent to which they provide external audit and management, as required, in its assurance that the control activities are operating.
An assurance map now forms a permanent part of the process and, for each risk, highlights who provides Last year, the Audit Committee commissioned an assurance that the control activities are in place and additional risk and assurance mapping report from operating effectively.
Risk description Mitigation measures Funding and liquidity risk The financial ratios, financial results, liquidity position and credit ratings are described in the financial performance section on pages 16 to 21.
In addition, note 20 to the financial statements, on pages 118 to 123, includes details on the Groups strategy and treasury operations for managing its capital: its exposures to liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and counterparty risk: and details of its financial instruments.
The Board reviews the treasury strategy periodically and approves specific proposals.
Unfavourable changes to We play a leading role in the policy debate, through Water UK, direct lobbying and forging positive the regulatory structure, relationships with relevant parties.
We respond positively to consultation papers.
as a result of the Water White Paper Unfavourable changes to the We play a leading role in consultation groups with Ofwat and other stakeholders.
We respond regulatory structure or price positively to consultation papers.
setting mechanism by Ofwat Impact of the transfer of An internal project team has been established to understand and prepare the business for the private drains and sewers is transfer.
We maintain sound financial documentation to support a future claim for tariff increases in greater than anticipated order to recover additional costs borne.
We maintain close liaison with the rest of the industry and have had constructive dialogue with Ofwat regarding the process.
Unexpected shift in climate We have processes in place to anticipate and plan for the impact of climate change.
While these change impact have long time horizons, they are reviewed regularly to ensure that any changes are identified early.
Loss of supply due to failure In most cases, duplicate mains and diversion of supplies would limit supply consequences.
Comprehensive plans exist to provide a minimum emergency service to customers until repairs are This covers catastrophic completed, including mutual aid arrangements with other water companies.
A proactive inspection failure that is greater than regime is in place along with longer term reviews of network resilience.
the response capability of the company Sewer flooding failures A sewer flooding group, comprising stakeholders from various teams, is responsible for managing the process, flood reporting, network capacity studies and prioritisation of investment to reduce risk.
Significant additional capital expenditure has been invested to address affected properties.
The recently constructed rain radar station for the region is now operational and provides improved data.
However, controls are not yet sophisticated enough to predict or prevent consequences of severe rainfall.
Pesticides lead to prescribed Undertakings have been agreed with the DWI to carry out certain actions to mitigate pesticide concentration or value issues metaldehyde and clopyralid.
While specific treatment processes, such as carbon dosing, failure and possible are undertaken at treatment works, proactive catchment management is also being carried out.
enforcement action This involves working with farmers, regulators and other stakeholders to advise on improved storage and application techniques for such pesticides.
This is a more sustainable solution than the alternative of constructing major new treatment processes.
Loss of income through It is not possible to directly influence industrial volumes, however, our account managers liaise closure of large customers closely with significant customers to provide support where possible.
or lower industrial volumes Incident at Bran We have a number of contracts to treat industrial waste streams at our Bran Sands works.
The Sands waste water liability under each contract is capped except, in certain cases, where NWL is in willful breach.
treatment works causes A site-specific management regime is in place incorporating additional monitoring and a greater business interruption amount of standby assets.
Risk of increasing pension The defined benefit scheme was closed to new entrants, benefits restructured and employee contributions resulting contributions increased in 2008.
Advance contributions have been made to the scheme, including from increasing longevity deficit funding allowed in the final determination.
The scheme Trustee determines investment policy and the impact of and monitors performance of investment managers.
Triennial actuarial valuations of the scheme economic conditions are carried out, with the latest currently underway.
on investment returns Health and safety Our health and safety policy and safety management system define clear arrangements and prosecution responsibilities for implementation and management throughout the Company.
This is audited as part of our quality and environmental management system.
Visible high level support for health and safety is provided by the Board and management team.
Long term plans and targets are set to promote continuous improvement.
