18 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties Identifying and monitoring risks the group faces a number of risks and uncertainties that may have an adverse impact on the groups operation, performance or future prospects.
it is important for the board to effectively manage risks and opportunities in seeking to achieve the groups objectives.
the directors have overall responsibility for risk management and internal control systems.
the groups system of risk management is described in the statement of corporate governance.
the risks and uncertainties described below represent those which the directors consider to be the most significant in achieving the potential success of the groups strategy.
however, these principal risks and uncertainties do not comprise all of the risks associated with the group and are not set out in any order of priority.
additional risks and uncertainties currently not known to the directors and or which the directors believe to be less material, may also have a material adverse effect on the groups business, financial condition or future prospects.
the relevant mitigating factors are also described below.
Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Strategy expansion of CfC1 and a critical part of the groups strategy is to management seek to manage the timing, expand its operations in the uK by further integration and testing of CfC1 capacity projects construction developing CfC1 and building CfC2 at dordon, so as to minimise operational disruption.
the of CfC2 warwickshire to significantly increase its capacity group has employed additional labour at CfC1 to service customers.
the group is currently to protect customer service levels during work undertaking several capacity enhancing projects to install further capacity.
this increased labour in CfC1 which are highly complex and can result is expected to be phased out as the installation in operational difficulties whilst they are being works are completed.
tested and integrated into the current operation.
additional capacity projects will be needed in Construction of CfC2 is ongoing.
the group the future to realise CfC1s full capacity.
while has a detailed plan for the management and projects are undertaken these could have a resourcing of the CfC2 project and the directors negative impact on the operational efficiency of have oversight of the project to ensure that it CfC1, customer fulfilment, delivery timeliness and can stay on schedule and within budget.
the ultimately the groups financial performance.
the directors are confident that the business systems groups ability to develop CfC1 and replicate of CfC1 can be replicated and enhanced in CfC2 its business model in CfC2 cost-effectively and and in any further CfCs in the future within the in a timely fashion will depend upon a variety parameters of the capital expenditure budget set of factors, notably: the groups ability to hire for the CfC2 project and that it can continue to and train employees to operate the CfCs: successfully complete and integrate projects to management resources: the groups ability to expand CfC1.
write additional complex software systems to operate the CfCs: the groups ability to roll out the business systems and infrastructure: the retention of reliable developers: and the availability of appropriate equipment and the contractors to design and install such equipment.
expansion of non-food part of the groups strategy is to significantly the initial expansion of the non-food range will expand its non-food product range.
demand be into product categories that are adjacent product range from its customers for many categories of nonto the existing Ocado product range, such as food products is relatively untested and significant kitchenware, which the directors anticipate can customer demand will be needed in order to be largely supported by the groups existing deliver the groups anticipated growth in noninfrastructure and systems and expect will require food sales.
the groups capability to develop the limited capital expenditure.
the group has non-food business cost-effectively and in a timely and will continue to retain, recruit and train the fashion in the medium term will depend on its necessary employees to manage the non-food ability to develop and integrate the necessary business and has some plans for implementing the infrastructure and business systems needed to necessary business systems and infrastructure to support the targeted diverse and large non-food support the longer-term extension of the nonproduct range.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 principal risks and uncertainties Stock code: OCDO www.
com 19 Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Operational single CfC the group is dependent on the continued the group has some documented disaster operation of CfC1 and to a lesser extent, the recovery procedures which are aimed at spokes in order to satisfy customer orders.
any minimising certain possible disruptions to the disruption such as a result of an it failure or a business.
in early 2012, the group achieved the fire to the operation of CfC1 in particular, or a insurance industry recognised highly protected spoke may therefore have an adverse effect on risk status.
CfC1 is protected by fire and the groups financial position or affect the ability security systems and has a full contingency plan of the group to economically deliver products to to manage power outages.
the group also has certain customers.
insurance policies in place which cover business interruption to certain maximum levels.
in addition, the eventual operation of CfC2 will limit, in part, the effect of any failure at CfC1.
spokes are able, to some extent, to serve geographies of neighbouring spokes.
Relationships with third parties relationship with Ocados reputation and brand is based, at least the group has a successful relationship with in part, on its relationship with waitrose.
if waitrose which is now in its twelfth year.
the waitrose the sourcing agreement with waitrose were sourcing agreement with waitrose will continue to end or if waitrose were unable to source this relationship until at least 2017. the group products for the group, Ocado would need to is not particularly dependent on the waitrose engage additional personnel to: i find or create supply chain as about 84% of products are replacement own-label products: and ii find delivered directly to CfC1 by the relevant appropriate suppliers and negotiate equivalent supplier or manufacturer.
Other than with regard to non-grocery products, Ocado has about 620 Ocado own-label products the sourcing agreement with waitrose contains and will further extend this range.
the sales of provisions which restrict the extent to which Ocado own-label products is closely monitored Ocado can source products other than from to ensure that the limits in the sourcing waitrose, and the extent to which Ocados range agreement are not exceeded.
the directors of Ocado own-label products may be expanded.
do not believe that the restrictions on Ocado own-label products will have a significant impact on the growth of the business or their intended expansion of the range of products stocked by Ocado.
the group is reliant on waitrose for its sourcing the group has reviewed the most significant and pricing of much of the groups product range of waitroses supplier arrangements to give it including accurately estimating and passing on the oversight of the supplier support payments and groups share of supplier bonus and overrider their allocation between waitrose and Ocado for payments.
if the parties terminate the sourcing agreement after certain competitors of waitrose or John lewis gain control of the Company, Ocado is obliged to pay waitrose a maximum fee of 40 million.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 principal risks and uncertainties Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 20 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk area Potential impact Mitigation IT systems and security and intellectual property it systems the group relies to a very significant degree the group has an it strategy that is aimed at on the efficient and uninterrupted operation ensuring plans are in place to have information of the internet and its it and communications systems and new technology that provide the systems.
the groups business model relies on capabilities necessary for the group to maintain the complex integration of the groups webshop, the integrity and reliability of its business.
the mobile apps, the highly automated CfC1, material group has disaster recovery plans to maintain the handling equipment and the order fulfilment and integrity of its it infrastructure.
the groups it delivery operations.
Operational problems in systems are housed in a purpose-built data centre the groups core systems and technologies such and it has a separate disaster recovery location as computer server or system failures, network which houses standby servers for all of the critical outages, software performance problems or systems and live replica data storage systems.
all power failures can result in customer orders critical communication links between CfC1 and being unable to be captured on the groups the disaster recovery location are provided via website or processed through CfC1, or errors two diversely routed fibre optic cables and the and delays in their delivery.
group is provided with internet connectivity simultaneously by two major internet service providers.
it security if any compromise in the groups it security the group uses encryption and authentication measures or payment processing systems were technology to provide the security necessary and fraud to occur, the groups reputation may be harmed to effect the secure transmission of information and it could lose its customers.
the group relies from its customers, such as card payments and to on third parties to provide payment processing reduce possible fraud.
the groups customers services and is exposed to typical fraud risk confidential data is protected by both physical in relation to card payments.
the group is and systems controls.
the groups webshop is also subject to it regulations and compliance regularly tested for vulnerability by third parties requirements.
from inside and outside the Ocado network.
relevant accounting, it and other procedures and controls at all levels are clearly set out and some of which are audited across the business to reduce the risk of fraud.
Ocado took significant steps in 2011 in its payment Card industry data security standards pCi compliance plan by moving all credit and debit card processing to a pCi compliant external payment service provider.
intellectual property the business, it systems, bespoke software in order to minimise the disclosure of intellectual and intellectual property are not protected by property outside the organisation, the group rights patents or registered design rights which means chooses to rely on copyright, confidentiality and that the group cannot inhibit competitors from licence agreements with its employees, customers, entering the same market if they develop similar suppliers, consultants and others to protect its technology independently.
in addition, third intellectual property rights, rather than take other parties may independently discover Ocados trade protective measures.
secrets and proprietary information or systems.
com 21 Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Financing funding for capital the groups 100 million credit facility may the group is able to manage whether any such be terminated by the lenders if the sourcing termination rights will arise under the sourcing expenditure agreement with waitrose is terminated for any agreement and hence any potential impact on reason.
the debt facility with the exception of the change of control termination right described above.
liquidity to manage the working capital needs of the the group maintains a mixture of short and business and to finance the groups expansion medium-term debt and lease finance arrangements plans, the group is reliant on being able to that are designed to ensure that it has sufficient arrange and maintain sufficient financing and to available funds to finance its operations.
the board comply with their conditions once established.
monitors rolling forecasts of the groups liquidity requirements based on a range of conservative the most material of the groups facilities is its growth scenarios to ensure it has sufficient cash to 100 million credit facility.
a material reduction meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient in forecast ebitda could lead to a breach of headroom on its committed borrowing facilities covenants under this facility which would put the at all times so that the group does not breach group in default of this facility and would allow borrowing limits or covenants where applicable the lenders to terminate the facility.
this would on any of its borrowing facilities.
as part of this jeopardise the groups expansion plans and the board continues to monitor the timing and would threaten the groups ability to continue as amounts of uncommitted expenditure on capital a going concern.
expenditure on these capital projects and other discretionary expenditure can be delayed if the group is performing at the lower end of the range of these scenarios.
under all the above scenarios the directors have a reasonable expectation that the existing facilities provide sufficient funding for the group to operate as a going concern and to continue with many of its plans to expand the business.
the group regularly reports to and meets with its key lenders to ensure that they are fully informed of the current business performance and future financing requirements of the group.
exchange rate, interest any depreciation of sterling in relation to the the group has a policy, controlled by the treasury euro could increase the sterling equivalent of the committee and monitored by the board, to rate and commodity price paid for the machinery used in CfC2 and hedge certain foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations to expand the capacity of CfC1 which is mostly exposures through the use of derivative financial purchased from suppliers located in countries instruments and fixed and floating instruments.
that have adopted the euro.
fluctuations in the there are approval parameters for hedging cost of commodities affect the prices that the arrangements and a policy to monitor and review group pays for its grocery products and in the hedging arrangements including short and longcase of diesel to deliver to customers, and often term foreign exchange rates, interest rates and these cost increases are absorbed by the group.
fluctuations in interest rates will impact the finance costs to the business.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 Corporate social responsibility report Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 22 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Staff staff retention and the group is reliant on its key management the directors continue to keep management in particular, and staff for the operation of and staff remuneration and incentivisation under recruitment its business and expansion of the business, review to ensure it remains competitive and notably CfC2.
the groups ability to recruit, motivating.
the group has a written management retain and motivate suitably qualified and succession plan for all key roles and made experienced staff is important for the groups development plans for management.
the relationship between the group and its workforce will be influenced by the the business has had good relations with its union of shop, distributive and allied workers workforce to date.
the Ocado Council provides usdaw.
usdaw participates in the the forum to discuss the terms and conditions of groups employee representative body, the employment for the workforce and provide for Ocado Council, since being formally recognised further engagement with staff.
by the group in november 2011 in respect of the groups hourly paid staff in relation to pay, working hours and holidays.
Risks relating to the industry Competition and the the trend in uK food retailing of moving from the the directors believe that the online grocery traditional grocery market to the online grocery market will continue to grow rapidly in the uK, online grocery market market may not continue in part because of particularly as the number of people shopping changing economic conditions.
online has continued to increase.
the group may be adversely affected via loss of Ocado has a business model which is predicated market share or by diminution of its gross margin on offering our customers a superior service through price competition by the entrance of in terms of product quality and convenience, new competitors in the online grocery market reliability and accuracy of delivery, as well or if the traditional grocery retailers, including as environmental efficiency.
the directors waitrose, invest heavily in their online operations.
believe that continuing to improve the groups proprietary intellectual property and bespoke it systems including the groups webshop and mobile apps, the stock management systems, the customer delivery system and the van routing system means that the group is able to maintain its market leading online grocery offer.
uK and global economic the groups performance may depend on factors the group regularly reviews its approach outside the control of the group which impact to pricing, marketing and product range for conditions on uK consumer spending and demand, including appropriateness to market conditions and to economic and financial conditions.
the difficult adapt to customer feedback and pricing initiatives economic environment in the uK is likely to of its competitors.
the group intends to result in increased retail price competition in the significantly expand its product range including uK grocery market and lower product margins non-grocery and Ocado own-label ranges and because of increased promotional activity which is trialling various customer retention and pricing will mean that maintaining the groups gross initiatives in order to help meet its gross margin margins will be very challenging.
current economic conditions may lead to a reduction in the groups sales or sales growth rate.
com 23 Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Regulation and safety health and safety law a violation of health and safety laws relating to the groups health and safety department the groups operations or construction of CfC2 maintains and monitors procedures, which are or expansion of CfC1 could lead to injury to aligned with the relevant regulations and industry employees, negative publicity and reputational standards.
the groups staff are trained in safe damage, fines, costly compliance procedures workplace practices.
the group has safety and in very serious circumstances, a temporary procedures and reporting structures for the shutdown of all or part of the business, or a delay CfC2 construction project.
product safety the group is subject to a wide variety of there is an established legal and regulatory team regulatory requirements including those in in place to monitor developments and to ensure relation to the manner in which it sources, stores, that all existing regulations are complied with.
handles and sells products such as meat and fish the group has a food technology department to customers and relating to the operating of its which monitors the groups facilities, its vans physical facilities.
any regulatory investigation or and its procedures to ensure quality standards belief that the products including Ocado ownand compliance with applicable food law and label products supplied by the group caused which liaises with the waitrose food technology illness or injury to customers or others could department.
adversely affect the groups reputation with existing and potential customers and its financial performance.
government regulation a change in regulations relating to the internet the group has an established governance process and online retail operations, consumer protection in place to monitor regulatory developments and laws, the processing of customer data, the to ensure that all existing regulations are complied environment such as carrier bags, or the sale, with.
the groups delivery routing software and licensing or storage of products could adversely customised vans which are specifically designed affect the manner in which the group currently to improve load-carrying capacity help maximise conducts its business or the groups operational the operational efficiency of the groups delivery costs.
regulations govern the weight limits of the infrastructure within the scope of the existing loads that each delivery van and lgv can take regulatory requirements.
and the number of hours that drivers can work on consecutive days, which constrain the potential delivery efficiency of the business.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 Corporate social responsibility report Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance
