Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 26 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management Ophir operates in the inherently risky upstream oil and gas sector and effective risk management is an essential process for the Group to deliver its strategic and operational objectives.
Ophir is committed to maintaining Responsibility for identifying and a balanced portfolio and to managing risks lies with Ophirs managing risks in a proactive and Executive Directors, Senior effective manner.
The key elements Management Team and Country Ophir risk management Managers.
The Executive Directors processes are: continually monitor the Groups Risk assessment risk exposures and report to the Risk analysis and evaluation Audit Committee and Board of Risk mitigations Directors on a six monthly basis, or Risk monitoring and reviewing more frequently as required.
Communication and consultation The principal risks of the Group are summarised as follows: Type Risk Mitigants Political risk The Group maintains a balanced asset portfolio across different jurisdictions Strategic in a region where the Group is most accustomed to operating.
The Group strives continually to maintain positive relationships in all host countries that it operates.
Ophir aims to work to the highest industry standards with all regulators and compliance with the Companys licence and PSC obligations is closely monitored.
Reliance on Ophir is reliant on a small team of experienced oil and gas professionals key personnel for its operational success.
In order to retain, motivate and recruit suitably qualified employees it ensures its remuneration packages are competitive.
It has established a longterm incentive programme for executives and deferred share plan for staff.
Investment The Group and its advisors are experienced within the industry in which it decisions operates and complete a proper review against the Groups strategy and investment criteria.
Full due diligence is undertaken upon all potential new entries.
The current portfolio is closely monitored.
Type Risk Mitigants Drilling The Group maintains clearly defined operational procedures that should Operational operations risk always be followed.
The contracting and procurement process ensures suitably qualified contractors are employed.
Regular training in the processes and continual monitoring of adherence are undertaken.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 27 Type Risk Mitigants HSE The Group maintains a comprehensive system of HSE procedures that Operational incident risk should always be followed.
The systems are overseen by the HSE continued Committee which regularly meets to review and monitor compliance.
Comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessments are performed.
Oil spill and emergency response plans are in place, regular training in the procedures occurs.
Discovery The Group has a technically and regionally experienced management risk and and geoscience team who have a proven track record of success.
success rate To reduce risk, substantial technical analysis is undertaken to evaluate and manage opportunities.
All exploration and appraisal programmes are consistently reviewed and monitored before being recommended to the Board for approval.
Insurable risks Comprehensive insurance programmes are maintained in accordance with industry standards.
Availability Regular market review of services and rig availability occurs.
Experienced of rigs and advisors are used to ensure a rapid response to opportunities and an services ability to close binding agreements quickly.
A dedicated drilling project manager and C&P manager ensure a clear contracting strategy and project plan are produced early in the procurement planning stage.
Type Risk Mitigants Counterparty The Group closely monitors all trade debtors which are subject to internal Financial credit risk credit review.
Liquidity risk The Group has a formal annual budget process and regularly forecasts cash requirements to ensure underlying liquidity requirements are met.
Actual vs budget analysis reporting occurs monthly and is monitored by senior management and reported to the Board.
Interest rate The Group reports and manages its business in US Dollars.
Cash balances and foreign are primarily held in US Dollars to provide a natural hedge.
Small balances exchange are retained in other currencies for operating and administrative needs.
risk The Group holds cash balances in short-term deposits: there were no hedges in 2011.
Type Risk Mitigants Sovereign risk The Group recognises that there is an inherent political risk associated with External the countries in which it operates.
The Group regularly monitors and reviews all jurisdictions in which it operates.
The Groups personnel are experienced within the industry and maintain close relations on the ground within each jurisdiction.
Legal, Ophirs activities are subject to various different jurisdictional laws, tax regulatory or regimes and regulations.
The Group employs suitably experienced and litigation risk qualified staff and advisors who can assess, and where necessary respond to external risks.
The Groups key policies and procedures have considered requirements of the UK Bribery Act.
The Group maintains a Business Code of Conduct and ensures proper training for employees occurs.
Investor and The Group fosters strong relations with the local communities and host stakeholder country governments in jurisdictions that it operates.
It continually sentiment interacts with all relevant stakeholders.
The Company maintains regular dialogue with all key shareholders.
The Company has established investor relations and a corporate affair function during 2012 and ensures all material information is released to the market on a timely basis.
