OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 33 Principal risks and uncertainties Our principal risks and uncertainties are outlined We conduct regular risk reviews to identify risk below.
These are the most significant risks that may factors which may affect our business and financial adversely affect our business strategy, financial performance and to assist management in prioritising position or future performance.
The risk assessment their response to those risks.
Our Group internal process evaluates the probability of the risk audit and risk assurance function facilitates risk materialising and the financial or strategic impact of reviews with each business, shared service operations the risk.
Those risks which have a strong probability and corporate functions, identifying measures and and significant impact on strategy, reputation or controls to mitigate these risks.
These reviews are operations or a financial impact greater than designed so that the different businesses are able 40million are identied as principal risks.
The risk totailor and adapt their risk management processes assessment and reporting criteria are designed to to suit their specic circumstances.
Management provide the board with a consistent, Group-wide isresponsible for considering and executing the perspective of the key risks.
The reports to the board, appropriate action to mitigate these risks whenever which are submitted every six months, include an possible.
It is not possible to identify every risk that assessment of the probability and impact of risks could affect our businesses, and the actions taken materialising, as well as risk mitigation initiatives and tomitigate the risks described below cannot provide their effectiveness.
absolute assurance that a risk will not materialise and or adversely affect our business or financial performance.
PRINCIPAL RISKS IMPACT AND PROBABILITY EDUCATION REGULATION TECHNOLOGY AND FUNDING CHANGES BRAND REPUTATION PERCEPTION ECONOMIC UNCERTAINTIES INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY DATA PRIVACY RIGHTS BREACH TESTING FAILURES EMERGING MARKETS ACQUISITION INTEGRATION PROBABILITY IMPACT 34 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks Mitigating factors Technology changes Our education, business information and book publishing We are transforming our products and services for the businesses will be impacted by the rate of and state of digital environment along with managing our print inventories.
technological change, including the digital evolution and Our content is being adapted to new technologies across our other disruptive technologies.
businesses and is priced to drive demand.
We develop new distribution channels by adapting our product offering and We operate in markets which are dependent on investing in new formats.
We continue to monitor contraction Information Technology IT systems and technological in the consumer book market to minimise the downturn change.
We mitigate these IT risks by establishing strong IT policies and operational controls, employing project management techniques to manage new software developments and or systems implementations and have implemented an array ofsecurity measures to protect our IT assets from attacks orfailures that could impact the condentiality, availability orintegrity of our systems.
Education regulation and funding Our US educational solutions and assessment businesses In the US we actively monitor changes through participation and our UK training businesses may be adversely affected inadvisory boards and representation on standard setting by changes in government funding resulting from either committees.
Our customer relationship teams have detailed general economic conditions, changes in government knowledge ofeach state market.
We are investing in new and educational funding, programs, policy decisions, innovative ways to expand and combine our product and services legislation and or changes in the procurement processes.
to provide a superior customer offering when compared to our competitors, thereby reducing our reliance on any particular funding stream in the US market.
We work through our own government relations team and our industry trade associations including the Association of American Publishers.
We are also monitoring municipal funding and the impact on our education receivables.
In the UK we maintain relationships with those government departments and agencies that are responsible for policy andfunding.
We work proactively with them to ensure our training and apprenticeship programmes meet existing and newgovernment objectives at the right quality.
Economic uncertainties Global economic conditions may adversely impact our The Groups approach to funding is described on page 29 and financial performance.
the Groups approach to the management of financial risks is set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
A significant deterioration in Group profitability and or cash ow caused by prolonged economic instability could reduce our liquidity and or impair our financial ratios, and trigger a need to raise additional funds from the capital markets and or renegotiate our banking covenants.
We generate a substantial proportion of our revenue in foreign currencies, particularly the US dollar, and foreign exchange rate uctuation could adversely affect our earnings and the strength of our balance sheet.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 35 Principal risks Mitigating factors Intellectual property rights If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property We seek to mitigate this type of risk through general vigilance, and proprietary rights our competitive position and results co-operation with other publishers and trade associations, may be adversely affected and limit our ability to grow.
advances in technology, as well as recourse to law as necessary.
Data rights management standards and monitoring programs have been developed.
We have established a piracy task force to identify weaknesses and remediate breaches.
We monitor activities and regulations ineach market for developments in copyright intellectual property law and enforcement and take legal action where necessary.
Emerging markets Our investment into inherently riskier emerging markets We draw on our experience of developing businesses outside is growing and the returns may be lower thananticipated.
our core markets and our existing international infrastructure to manage specic country risks.
We have strengthened our financial control and managerial resources in these markets to manage expansion.
The diversication of our international portfolio, and relative size of emerging markets in relation to the Group, further minimises the effect any one territory could have on the overall Group results.
Data privacy breach Failure to comply with data privacy regulations and Through our global security we have established various data standards or weakness in internet security result in privacy and security programmes.
We constantly test and amajor data privacy breach causing reputational damage re-evaluate our data security procedures and controls across to our brands and financial loss.
all our businesses with the aim of ensuring personal data is secured and we comply with relevant legislation and contractual requirements.
We pursue appropriate privacy accreditations, e. g. TRUSTe Privacy and Safe Harbor Seal.
We regularly monitor regulation changes to assess impact on existing processes and programmes.
Testing failures A control breakdown or service failure in our school We seek to minimise the risk of a breakdown in our student assessment businesses could result in financial loss and marking with the use of robust quality assurance procedures and reputational damage.
controls and oversight of contract performance, combined with our investment in technology, project management and skills Our professional services and school assessment development of our people.
businesses involve complex contractual relationships with both government agencies and commercial In addition to the internal business procedures and controls customers for the provision of various testing services.
implemented to ensure we successfully deliver on our contractual Our financial results, growth prospects and or commitments, we also seek to develop and maintain good reputation may be adversely affected if these contracts relationships with our customers to minimise associated risks.
and relationships are poorly managed.
We also look to diversity our portfolio to minimise reliance on any single contract.
Acquisition integration Failure to generate anticipated revenue growth, synergies We perform pre-acquisition due diligence and closely monitor and or cost savings from acquisitions could lead to the post-integration performance to ensure we are meeting goodwill and intangible asset impairments.
Any divergence from these plans will result in management action to improve performance and minimise the risk of any impairments.
Executive management and the board receive regular reports on the status of acquisition performance.
Brand reputation perception Our business depends on a strong brand, and anyfailure We mitigate this risk through the development of comprehensive to maintain, protect and enhance our brand would hurt processes to enable our business units toeffectively manage our ability to retain or expand our business.
relationships with stakeholders, customers, communities and employees.
We establish anongoing process to understand and evaluate potential brand threats and monitor and evaluate information about our brand across media sources.
