GOVERNANCE Risk and uncertainties Perform considers good risk management fundamental to achieving its objectives, protecting its reputation and delivering added value.
Macro risk Summary Description Mitigation Rights Competitors may outbid the Group for certain Continue to develop relationships with key inflation and rights or push up renewal costs.
rights-holder stakeholders and continue to renewals offer attractive commercialisation options to Certain content holders such as sports bodies rights holders.
Rights cost inflation to be closely may decide to commercialise their own content monitored, and, where possible, to be passed rather than selling it on which could increase on to customers.
competition price for available rights.
With less content the Group may face decreasing demand for its products whilst more expensive rights may reduce the Group's margin.
Internet The delivery of the Group's products and services These factors are largely out of Management's infrastructure are dependent on third-party internet service control although Management will continue to not maintained providers continuing to expand high speed monitor internet access, infrastucture and costs internet access and maintain reliable networks with closely.
Changes in access fees may adversely impact the ability and or willingness of users to access the Group's content.
Macro The Group's revenue streams are dependent These factors are largely out of Management's economic on the disposable income of its customers control although Management consider the difficulties and the overall macro economic environment Group's revenue streams to be sufficiently in particular for online advertising and diverse and global that any economic slowdown sponsorship.
Current economic difficulties in one particular economy or region should not could adversely impact the Group's results.
have a material impact on the Group's results.
Government Any adverse government regulations of the Management closely monitor and review current and regulation internet could impact the Group's results.
upcoming internet regulations and do not currently of the internet consider there to be a material risk given the geographical and product diversity of the Group's revenues.
Piracy of If live sport is made available via pirates, Management monitor illegal use of sports sports rights demand for the Group's products may decline.
content closely and the appropriate legal In addition if the Group's content is made developments.
Management do not consider avilable other than in accordance with the this currently represents a material risk to the rights-holder contracts then the Group may Group but will continue to monitor this closely face liabilities penalites to the rights-holders.
Dependency Any long-term postponement or cancellation These factors are largely out of Management's on scheduling of any sports league season may impact the control although Management consider the of live sport Group.
Group's revenue streams to be sufficiently diverse and global that any issue with one particular sport would not have a material impact on the Group's results.
36 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Risk management and responsibility The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk management process and reviews its effectiveness annually.
However, on a day to day basis, senior management is responsible for providing visible leadership as to the management of risk and ensuring that it is integrated as appropriate into the Groups activities.
The following table identifies the most significant risks identified by the Board: Operational risk Summary Description Mitigating actions Infrastructure As the Group continues to grow it will need to Management regularly review the adequacy to support continue to support its systems, infrastructure of the Group's support functions and ensure growth and back-office.
appropriate resource and capability to support the Group's growth.
Technology The Group is highly reliant on its technology The Group has put in place appropriate business failure platform and certain other operational IT continuity processes, disaster recovery systems systems.
If these systems were damaged or and security measures to protect against interrupted there could be significant costs and network and IT system failure or disruption.
disruptions to the products services offered by Management closely monitors performance the Group.
of the platform and key systems both housed internally and externally and addresses any issues immediately.
Unprotected If the Group does not adequately protect Management consider that the Group currently customer data customer account information there is a legal has appropriate security controls in place to risk to the Group.
protect such data although these are closely monitored by Management regularly.
Finance and legal Summary Description Mitigating actions Protection The Group's ability to compete may be harmed The Group carefully words external contracts of intellectual if it is not able to protect its intellectual property so as to protect its intellectual property rights.
Its ability to compete could also be All contracts are reviewed by either the Group's rights harmed if it is unable to use all intellectual in-house legal team or external advisors.
The Group property needed for its business.
monitors use of its intellectual property.
Foreign A significant portion of the Group's revenues Management prepare cashflows by currency exchange risk and costs are in Euros and Dollars so the and attempt, where possible, to naturally Group could potentially be exposed to adverse hedge the Group's cashflow.
Management will movements in those currencies.
carefully monitor the Group's cashflow and consider alternative arrangements in the event that there is a material unhedged exposure.
Tax risk Adverse changes in taxation could affect Management work closely with the Group's the Group's results and the Group could be external tax advisors, Grant Thornton, on an exposed to various tax risks in various countries.
ongoing basis, to mitigate its tax risks.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 GOVERNANCE Risk and uncertainties continued Business Summary Description Mitigating actions Products The Group needs to develop and upgrade the Continue to closely monitor the digital sports become functionality of its products and services and rights and media industries and encourage technologically to adapt to new business environments and and reward initiative and enterprise across the obsolete competition.
The Group needs to develop new whole Group.
There is a continued focus on new products and services to keep up to date with products and a dedicated Managing Director of developments in the digital sports rights and the Group' s Direct-to-Consumer has recently media industries.
Unsuccessful The Group's growth is dependent on expanding Management perform appropriate commercial geographic its products and services into new business diligence before launching a new product expansion and geographic areas.
There are no assurances territory and ensure that appropriate levels of that these new areas will be profitable.
staff are in place to appraise and manage new products and territories.
Dependency The Group is dependent on Watch&Bet for Management closely monitor and review on online a significant proportion of its revenues.
Any the online gaming industry and regulation and gaming significant adverse regulations introduced in do not currently consider there to be a material the gaming industry could impact the Group's risk.
The Group has diverse geographical results.
revenues and continues to diversify its portfolio of products.
Retention The success of the Group depends in part Management have recently implemented a of key to its ability to continue to attract, retain and Performance Share Plan to incentivise certain employees motivate highly skilled employees.
key senior staff over the longer term 3 years.
Unsuccesful Merger and acquisition activity may be Management performs an appropriate level or costly M&A unsuccessful or costly.
of diligence and business planning on any activity acquisition to ensure incremental shareholder value is generated.
A Head of Corporate Development was appointed in April 2011 to lead M&A activity.
38 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
