Overview Strategy and KPIs Performance Governance Financials Other information Principal Risks The Groups financial and operational performance is subject to a significant number of risks.
These risks are subject to continual assessment by management to mitigate and minimise their effect on our business.
There are also many risks which are outside of our control which can affect our business.
Theprincipal risks facing our business are: Risk Impact Mitigation The Board has adopted its new strategy as The Groups strategy is agreed by the Board Strategy itbelieves it is the one most likely to add the at anannual strategy meeting and thereafter greatest value for shareholders and stakeholders.
regularly reviewed at Board meetings and by It is possible that, with time, factors become the executive Directors.
The Board engages known that indicate that the strategy currently withmanagement and employees to ensure the being pursued is not the most effective or strategy is communicated and understood and efficientand that alternative strategies may be that all employees have a clear understanding more appropriate.
ofthe potential benefits and risks of thestrategy.
The housebuilding industry is sensitive to We minimise the level of speculative build National changesin unemployment, interest rates and undertaken by closely controlling our work and regional consumer confidence.
Further deterioration in in progress levels.
We carry out extensive due economic economic conditions may significantly decrease diligence prior to our land investment decisions conditions demand and pricing for new homes, which could tocapture best margins.
have a material effect on our business revenues, margins and profits and result in theimpairment of asset values.
Any further restrictions in the market availability We ensure construction is matched to our level of Mortgage of mortgages for our customers could reduce sales.
We can use shared equity to enable buyers availability demand for our homes and affect revenues, with small deposits to purchase ourhomes.
Our business is subject to extensive and complex We operate comprehensive management systems Regulatory laws and regulations principally relating to to ensure regulatory compliance and reduction compliance planning, the environment and health and safety.
in reputational risk, particularly relating to the Our obligations tocomply with legislation can health and safety of our workforce, customers and result in delays causing us to incur substantial visitors.
We hold a landbank sufficient to provide costs and prohibit or restrict land development security of supply for short term requirements.
Non compliance could also result in damage to the Companys reputation.
Our ability to continue to manage our business The Group actively maintains an appropriate Capital may depend on our ability to access capital on mixture of medium and long term debt facilities requirements appropriate terms.
Wecould be adversely affected and bonding lines to ensure sufficient funds and by a change in our creditrating or disruption in bonding are available to support operations.
the capital markets resulting incredit facilities not The Group regularly reviews its forecast capital being available.
We also require access to bonding requirements to ensure these facilities are facilities to secure planning, road andsewer sufficient to support anticipated demands.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2011 25
