Key performance indicators Petrofac Financial review Annual report and accounts 2011 47 Key risks 01 22 50 5 5 65 107 153 Key risks The key risks that could lead to a significant loss of reputation or prevent us from delivering our five-year strategic plan are summarised here, along with our approach to mitigating these risks.
Details of how our risk framework has evolved during the year are included in the Board Risk Committee Report on pages 86 to 89.
Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Sovereign, country and financial market Over exposure to single Formal exposure limits are not set, but our Executive Management See pages 18 to 21 for details market country higher-risk and the Board consider our concentration risk when they review ofhow our ECOM and IES jurisdictions entry into new projects.
Excessive concentration on a We take all reasonable measures to reduce and limit particular market or geography ourcommercial exposure through the use of, forexample, may have a significant impact outofcountry arbitration, advanced payments andcareful cash on the delivery of our five-year management.
Specic consideration of this riskisa feature of strategicplan.
theGroup Risk Committee and the Board RiskCommittee.
Counterparty failure We aim to minimise our cash ow exposure on contracts and where See our Sovereign and we deploy capital alongside our services, such as in Integrated FinancialMarket Risk Policy Financial or commercial Energy Services, we will only do so where we are comfortable with available on our website: exposure from the failure of key the counterparty risk and the contractual termsand conditions.
com financial institutions, customers, governancedownloads partners or subcontractors.
With respect to financial counterparty risk, weregularly monitor ourexposure and ensure that our financial assets are spread acrossa large number of creditworthy financial institutions.
OurSovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy requires that material financial counterparty risk is only held withcounterparties that are rated by Standard and Poors as Aorbetter or equivalent rating from Moodys.
Liquidity risk We manage liquidity risk by ensuring that we maintain an adequate See note 34 to the financial level of liquidity in the form of cash, readily available short-term statements There is a risk that we are investments or committed credit facilities at all times.
unable to meet our financial obligations as they fall due.
Business disruption We monitor carefully the changing landscape of political risk, Despite the unrest in the Middle particularly for countries that are regarded as high-risk.
This is also East and North Africa during We are exposed to potential reviewed regularly by the Board and the Board Risk Committee.
2011, our activities suffered regime change and civil minimal disruption see page 86 politicalunrest, civil war or For high-risk countries our management will also seek to manage for details.
sanctions thatcould affect our exposure in individual contracts, when agreeing terms and ouroperations.
Commodity or currency The majority of our revenues are denominated in US dollars or See note 34 to the financial currencies pegged to the US dollar.
In contracts priced in US statements for details of our oil significant movements in dollars or currencies pegged to the US dollar where the Group &gas derivative instruments exchange rates could impact isprocuring equipment or incurring costs in other currencies, andforeign currency exposures our financial performance.
weaimto hedge fully transactional exposures using forward andhow they are managed.
Oil & gas prices may have an currency contracts.
Over the medium term, growth impact on the level of new Offshore Projects & Operations revenues and costs are principally in the Integrated Energy investment in the industry denominated in sterling.
Our policy is not to hedge the sterling Services division is expected andmay affect demand for protsgenerated by these activities as they are substantially tobe primarily driven by Risk ourservices.
matched by the sterling costs of our corporate ofce and other Service Contracts and The financial performance of UK-based activities.
Production Enhancement Integrated Energy Services Contracts, where we have no As detailed in the operating environment section, we expect ismore leveraged to the direct oil & gas price exposure.
demand for our services to remain robust and not be materially priceofoil & gas through impacted by short-term uctuation in oil & gas prices.
Under our Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy we aim to hedge, on a rolling annual basis, thenet profit exposure resulting from 75% of our low-estimate ofhydrocarbon production.
We will not undertake hedging until adevelopment has achieved steadystate production.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fi Financia i ll p performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements Petrofac 48 Annual report and accounts 2011 Key risks continued Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Operational and contractual Loss of major customer We monitor the total value of contracts by customer to ensure relationship thatwe are not overly dependent upon any one customer.
Over exposure to any one Furthermore, we have a formal programme to ensure that we customer could have a maintain a regular dialogue with our major customers at a senior significant impact if we were to level to understand their future plans and to understand any lose that customer relationship.
concerns they may have with regard to our performance.
See pages 20 and 21 for details Competition As noted in the operating environment section, we expect the of how we plan to deliver demand for our services to remain robust over the long term, There is a risk that we lose our Integrated Energy Services.
albeitwe face significant competition in many of our markets.
market position in a strategic geography or market.
Ourve year strategic plans assume that a high level of competition continues, however, our geographic and service expansion, including the provision of Integrated Energy Services, has helped togrow the size of the addressable market for our services, andweremain confident that we will more than double our 2010 recurring Group earnings by 2015.
Major environmental, asset Our strong culture of health, safety and environmental awareness Recorded incident data integrity or accident event iscentral to our operational and business activities, our system of demonstrates our ongoing business management and our delivery of quality and business improvement in managing A serious environmental, asset excellence.
As we enter new geographical markets, sometimes health, safety and environmental integrity or health and safety withnew customers and partners, and assume responsibility for risks see pages 60 to 63 for incident on any of our projects new infrastructure, it is particularly important that our focus on details.
has the potential to cause theseissues is maintained.
Our financial exposure to a significant significant commercial and environmental, asset integrity, or health and safety incident is reputational damage.
generally mitigated through our commercial arrangements and insurance programme, although such an incident may have an adverse impact on our reputation.
Contractual performance We have a strong track record of successful project execution which See our Operational and reects our rigorous approach to risk identication and mitigation, Contractual Risk Policy Our financial performance from tender to project completion.
available on our website: couldbe signicantly affected www.
com by the performance of a Our progress made on key projects is formally reported to the governancedownloads relatively small number of Boardand senior management who also receive a detailed risk largecontracts.
Our design integrity assurance process involves therobust challenge of design specications, whether or not theyaredened by the customer, including peer assessment.
Weundertake ongoing reviews of integrity risk throughout the life of a project.
Our subcontractor risk management strategy involves the retention of competent subcontractors with a track record of delivery.
Wehave a number of strong subcontractor relationships with proven high quality companies that we seek to work with whereverpossible.
We seek to avoid the acceptance of any liabilities that are unquantifiable or for which we could not reasonably be regarded asresponsible, including losses of a consequential nature.
Wemonitor the adequacy of insurance provision and the extent to which we can bear the financial consequences of a catastrophe.
Organisational We remain confident that our policies to promote and reward See Our people on page 57 to and succession onmerit, targeted, but extensive, employee share ownership, 59 for progress during 2011. management and technical training programmes and access to The availability of skilled international labour markets, in particular the Middle East, Indian personnel, particularly at a subcontinent and Asia, a portfolio of world-class projects and senior level, remains one of the exciting prospects for continued growth will enable us to attract most significant challenges andretain the necessary skilled personnel to undertake our facing the oil & gas industry.
Key performance indicators Petrofac Financial review Annual report and accounts 2011 49 Key risks 01 22 50 5 5 65 107 153 Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Ethical, social and regulatory Major breach of our Code We take appropriate measures to understand the social risks and See our Ethical, Social and of Business Conduct impacts of our business activities and take steps to mitigate these Regulatory Risk Policy risks by engaging with, supporting and investing in the local available on our website: Relating to working with communities affected by our operations.
com communities, workforce assurancesthat all third parties over whom we have responsibility governancedownloads relations, etc.
orwho are acting under our direction conduct their business with usin a manner that is consistent with the principles set out in our Ethical, Social and Regulatory Risk policy and in our Code of Business Conduct.
Major regulatory breach, Management takes a risk-based approach to due diligence and See page 64 for details of our including bribery and riskassessment and has increased the level of due diligence compliance and training corruption undertaken in respect of new contracts in pre-dened high-risk programme in relation to countries, including commissioning independent investigation anti-bribery and corruption.
We recognise the potential whereappropriate.
financial and reputational risk that could result from a breach of local or international laws, particularly in respect of behaviour relating to bribery andcorruption.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fi Financia i ll p performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
