Principal Risks and Uncertainties There is an ongoing process in place for identifying, evaluating The Groups risk management and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has operated throughout the financial year.
This process framework is designed to support the involves quarterly assessment of the Groups risk register by process for identifying, evaluating and the Audit Committee.
In line with best practice the register includes an assessment of the impact and likelihood of each managing risk.
The risk framework, risk together with the controls in place to manage the risk.
which is the responsibility of the The Groups risk management framework is designed to Finance Director, governs the support this process and is the responsibility of the Finance Director.
The risk framework governs the management and management and control of both control of both financial and non-financial risks.
Internal audit is undertaken by an independent firm of chartered accountants who develop an annual internal audit plan having reviewed the Groups risk register and following discussions with external Auditors, management and members of the Audit Committee.
During the period the Audit Committee has reviewed reports covering the work undertaken as part of the annual internal audit plan.
This has included assessment of the general control environment, identification of control weaknesses, quantification of any associated risk together with a review of the status of actions to mitigate these risks.
The Audit Committee has also received reports from management in relation to specific risk items together with reports from external Auditors, who consider controls only to the extent necessary to form an opinion as to the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
24 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 A. G. BARR offers a range of brands that it manufactures The Treasury Committees remit focuses on the unpredictability and distributes through a cross section of trade channels of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential related and retailers.
Performance is monitored closely by the board adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
This includes monitoring and tracking of metrics which review brand equity strength, In addition to financial risks the Groups results could be together with monitoring of financial performance.
Changing materially affected by: consumer preferences are reviewed annually by the board with reference to external research.
Risks Relating to the Group t A decline in the sales of certain key brands Within the Group there is a clearly defined and communicated t Adverse publicity in relation to the Group or its brands Corporate Social Responsibility Policy.
Quality standards, t Consolidation or reduction of the customer base both at our sites and those of suppliers, are well defined, t Failure or unavailability of the Groups operational implemented and measured.
infrastructure t Interruption in, or change in the terms of, the Groups supply The Group operates within the boundaries of compliance in of packaging and raw materials the areas of legislation, health and safety and ethical working t Failure in IT systems standards and these are continually reviewed by the board t Inability to protect the intellectual property rights associated and management committee.
The Group proactively engages with current and future brands with the relevant authorities including the British Soft Drinks t Litigation or changes in legislation including changes in Association and the General Counsel of Scotland to ensure accounting principles and standards it fully participates in the future development and compliance of legislation.
Risks Relating to the Market t Changes in consumer preferences, perception or Assets within the Group are proactively managed whether purchasing behaviour this be intangible brand assets, plant and equipment, t Poor economic conditions and weather people or IT systems.
Robust disaster recovery and incident t Changes in regulatory requirements management plans exist and are formally tested.
Contingency t Actions taken by customers measures are in place and are regularly tested.
Intellectual t Actions taken by competitors property rights associated with current and future brands are proactively protected by our legal team, through trademark registration and legal enforcement when required.
The Groups activities also expose it to a variety of financial risks which include market risk including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Financial risks are reviewed and managed by the Treasury Committee whose remit and authority levels are set by the board.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25 Corporate Social Responsibility BARR on the box Growing Audiences Our sponsorship of the popular STV magazine show The Barr brand continued to make The Hour is proving to be a wise investment, helping excellent progress in the period contribute to a 22% sales building on the prior years strong increase this year.
sales performance as the brand moves into new geographies and new channels outside of its Scottish heartland.
Building on last years 33% increase in sales the Barr brand grew a further 22% this year.
