Business review Risks and risk management Effective risk identification and management Risk management is one of the key functions of the Managing our risks well is critical to the longAudit and Risk Committee.
Strategic risks are identified term sustainability and success of the Company.
by the Board based on a detailed understanding of the We believe that delivery of sustainable value to Company, its markets and the legal, social, political, our stakeholders should be based on effective economic, technological, environmental and cultural risk identification and an appropriate response environments in which we operate.
Our risk identification system considers not only single, mutually exclusive to each risk.
risks, but also multiple linked and correlated risks.
Risk management process Polymetals risk management process is designed to Risk matrices are used to record, prioritise and track minimise the potential threats to achieving our strategic each risk through the risk management process.
The process incorporates the following stages: are regularly reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee.
i dentify and document risks: Risk assessment assess, quantify and classify Once identified, potential risk factors are assessed to each risk: consider the impact consequences the event or events develop and implement risk mitigation control may have on achieving objectives and the likelihood strategies: and probability of the event see table on top of page 61. monitor, report and review risk.
Together these create a risk profile.
The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board sets the Risk response agenda for the risk management policies and procedures When the appropriate ranking has been identified, a of the Group and is responsible for reviewing their response to each risk is formulated and implemented.
Its duties include the review of: Management assesses the effects of a risks likelihood and impact, as well as costs and benefits.
A response policies and overall process to identify and assess is then evaluated, that brings the risk within acceptable business risks and manage their impact on the tolerance levels.
Company and the Group: regular assurance reports from management, internal Monitoring and reporting audit, external audit and others on matters related Ongoing monitoring processes are embedded in to risk and control: and Polymetals business operations.
These track the the timeliness of, and reports on, the effectiveness effective application of internal control and risk of corrective action taken by management.
management policies and procedures, including internal audit and specific management reviews.
Risk matrices Risk identification are used to re-evaluate and adjust controls in response An awareness of risk is embedded within the Group and to changes in Companys objectives, business and the is grounded in our strong ethical values and proactive external environment.
Our risk management philosophy is driven by the Companys Board of Directors and runs Management is responsible for the implementation of through all our management, employee and connected effective follow-up procedures to ensure appropriate stakeholder activities from developing strategy actions occur in response to changes in risk and to day-to-day operations.
60 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Impact Financial Consequences US$50m US$50m-US$10m US$10-US$5m US$5m-US$0.1m US$0.1m Catastrophic Major Moderate Minor Insignificant Significant impact on Major impact on strategy Serious impact Minor impact on strategy Minimal impact strategy or operational or operational activities on strategy or or operational activities on strategy or activities Major stakeholder operational activities Limited stakeholder operational activities Multiple significant concern Moderate stakeholder concern Low stakeholder concern stakeholder concern concern Likelihood Probability Likely Occurs less than once a Possible Could occur or may Unlikely Has happened at some Rare Is highly unlikely that it Almost certain Occurs one or year and is likely to reoccur within reoccur at some point within 10 time or could happen within 20 could occur in the next 20 years more times per year and is likely five years years years to reoccur within one year Residual risk level High Medium Low Risk category Risk description and potential effect Risk response Gold and silver price volatility can result in material The Group monitors gold and silver prices on an ongoing 1 and adverse movement in the Groups operating basis.
There are market signs which support analyst and Market risk results, revenues and cash flows.
investor confidence in the current levels of gold and silver prices.
The Group has therefore decided not to hedge Movement in gold equivalent price for all metals gold prices in order to maximise the benefits from the produced of 10% will cause EBITDA to increase positive price trends.
decrease 19% in accordance with Group budgeted figures for 2012.
The risk of failure to meet the planned production Annual, quarterly and monthly production budgeting and 2 programme.
subsequent monthly control against budget is designed Production risks to mitigate the risk.
The effectiveness and efficiency Failure to meet production targets may adversely of the production process is ensured by the Groups affect operating performance and financial results engineering team senior management.
The risk of lower than expected metal grade or An approved production programme includes increased 2.1 dilution is caused by complex mining and geological volume of operational prospecting works, such as in-fill Production risk conditions, mainly at underground mines.
drilling and grade control sampling.
low grade potential dilution of ore The Company operates in remote locations that To mitigate the logistics risk the Group invests 2.2 require complex and significant transportation of considerable amounts into construction and maintenance ore and gold silver concentrates, most of which is of permanent and temporary winter roads at exploration Production risk ore and conducted by third party contractors.
The Group exercises effective targets may not be reached if any element of the control over the whole logistics chain, including selection concentrate logistics chain is disrupted.
shipping The Groups production activity depends heavily on The Group has implemented and constantly improves 2.3 the effectiveness of supply chains.
These might be the supply chain system to closely link the production Production risk negatively affected by complex logistics to remote demand of resources with inventory levels, optimise the locations and delays in construction and delivery number of order placements and ensure the in-time supply chain risks of purchased mining and processing equipment inventory and equipment delivery to production sites.
Recoveries at the Groups processing plants may not To mitigate the risk the Group invests considerable 2.4 reach planned levels due to complex technological amounts in ore quality assessment procedures and Production risk properties of ore processed.
seeks to control ore quality by formation of ore stacks with the required characteristics.
low recovery rate Failure to meet return required from the major capital The Groups engineering team is responsible for the 3 expenditure projects, such as building new mines oversight of capital expenditure projects, including Production risk and processing facilities or production capacity project support, coordination of service organisations, construction and increase renovation at existing mines, as a result of contractors, constructors and cooperation with failure to meet project delivery timeline and budgets regulatory bodies.
renovation which can adversely affect the Groups financial Significant parts of exploration and development projects results, cash flow position and increase capital costs.
are performed by the Group in-house by Polymetal Engineering, a subsidiary company with significant Most significant ongoing projects include launch expertise and track record of designing and of Amursk POX facility and construction of commissioning mines and processing plants.
On complex projects, such as construction of the Amursk POX plant, the Group employs world class consultants with recognised international experience.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 61 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review Risks and risk management Effective risk identification and management continued Risk category Risk description and potential effect Risk response Operating in developing countries, such as Russia Polymetal has a successful track record of operating 4 and Kazakhstan, has a risk of changes in tax and in both Russian and Kazakh jurisdictions, having Legal risk other legislation which may occur from time to time.
developed its own expertise in corporate, tax, The most sensitive areas are regulation of foreign licensing and other legal areas.
investments, private property and environmental protection.
The Groups financial and legal teams monitor current legislation and proposed changes and incorporate In the recent years, however, both Russian these into the practice.
and Kazakh governments have become more predictable in implementing new regulations Corporate and operating management teams are and taxes, demonstrating consciousness of responsible for meeting the legal requirements in the investment climate.
Head office and on-site legal teams guarantee appropriate controls over compliance issues.
The Group invests considerable amounts in Rigorous due diligence procedures are applied to the 5 gold mining assets and operations in the Russian evaluation and execution of all acquisitions to assess Mergers and Federation and Kazakhstan.
There is a risk of failure the consequences of the acquisition, based on to achieve expected benefits from any acquisition economic, ecological, political and social factors.
acquisitions in the case of adverse changes in assumptions or inaccuracy of estimates made, or where the Board and or shareholder approval is required for information used for decision making was any acquisition.
Failure to deliver expected benefits from an acquisition can results in adverse financial performance, lower planned production volumes or problems with product quality.
Environmental damage may arise from operations, The Group has implemented a number of initiatives 6 including air and water pollution from toxic waste.
to monitor and limit the impact of its operations Environmental Waste storage and recycling is subject to on the environment.
These include external expert risks government regulation.
Potential impacts assessment of pollution generated and adoption of include fines and penalties, statutory liability for industry best practice on the corporate level policies environmental rehabilitation and other financial and procedures.
Refer to page 69 of this report.
consequences that may be significant.
Operating in Russia and Kazakhstan involves some The Group actively monitors political developments 7 risk of political instability, which includes, but is on an ongoing basis.
Political risk not limited to, changes in government, negative policy shifts and civil unrest.
These may have an We aim to maintain open working relationships with adverse effect on the Groups market value and local authorities in the countries where we operate.
Currency risk arises as the Groups revenue Natural hedging is used to reduce the risk exposure: 8 is linked to London Bullion Market Association revenue is matched with US Dollar denominated debt.
Currency risk LBMA gold and silver fixings and denominated in US Dollars.
The expenses are mostly incurred Flexible budgeting is used to monitor the effect and denominated in Russian Rubles.
of exchange rate fluctuations on the Groups financial results.
62 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Residual risk level High Medium Low Risk category Risk description and potential effect Risk response Failure to retain key employees or to recruit new A working conditions improvement programme 9 staff mainly at the Groups mining and processing is in place.
Human resources facilities may lead to increased staff costs, interruptions to existing operations and delay Remuneration policies are designed to incentivise, in new projects.
motivate and retain key employees.
Lack of skilled and knowledgeable staff at remote There is an increased focus on health and safety locations may occur due to extreme weather refer to page 68 of this report and there is active conditions.
promotion of a positive corporate culture within the Group.
Inability to raise sufficient funds to meet current The Groups Treasury function is responsible for 10 operating or ongoing financial needs, to develop ensuring that there are sufficient funds in place, Liquidity risk new projects and growth.
including loan facilities, cash flow from operating activities and cash on hand to meet short-term business requirements.
Long-term credit lines are used to finance new projects and organic growth.
In 2011, the Group moved to the LSEs main market, raising additional US$768 million during its IPO.
Part of the IPO proceeds will be used to reduce the current net debt level.
Exploration and development are capitaland The Group invests considerable amounts in focused 11 time-intensive activities and may involve a high exploration projects to obtain sufficient information Failure to meet degree of risk.
They are, however, necessary for about the quantity and quality of expected reserves the future growth.
Failure to discover new reserves and to estimate expected cash flows.
The Groups exploration of sufficient magnitude could adversely affect the team of mining and engineering specialists has a objectives Groups medium and long-term growth prospects.
track record of successful greenfield and brownfield exploration leading to subsequent development of exploration fields into commercial production.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as Based on analysis of the current economic situation, 12 significant part of the Groups debt portfolio the Group has decided to accept the risk of floating Interest rates comprises US Dollar denominated floating interest rate rather than hedge it or borrow at fixed rate borrowings.
However the Group does not rule out the possibility of fixing the interest rate on its borrowings in the future, should assessment of the ongoing economic situation suggest this may be profitable.
The Group is exposed to potentially high rates of As part of the budgeting process, the Group estimates 13 inflation in the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan.
possible inflation levels and incorporates them into Inflation risk Higher rates of inflation may increase future cost planning.
operating costs and have a negative impact on financial results if there is no related depreciation of the local currency against US Dollar or an increase in LBMA gold and silver fixings.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 63 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
