Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 Risks and Uncertainties introduction The Principal Risks and uncertainties facing the Group are summarised below.
The disclosure of risks and uncertainties in the table below reflects the ethos of the Company to also look for the opportunities presented when addressing significant risks.
The Principal Risks are formally reviewed in total, twice per year by the Board.
However, updates in terms of emerging risks orsignificant actions undertaken are addressed as and when required at Board meetings.
Management reviews strategic, operational, and financial and compliance risks in regular focused forums during the year, for example, quarterly business reviews with each of the businesses: monthly business agenda reviews with the senior business and functional management: six weekly operations forums, covering major programmes and projects: and at other key executive management meetings.
Risk Ranking Risks and uncertainties Mitigating actions Opportunity Competitive advantage in the We have an accelerated software development approach which The continued investment in and development of web functionality webchannel is not maintained ensures speed-to-market for additions and improvements to our providesvalue to customers and meets their developing 1 webfunctionality.
We continue to plan our long term development requirements.
Forexample the launch of our online rapid prototyping ofourfuture online environment.
service, the first stageof us creating our virtual ecosystem for EDEs.
We have also created a Web Advisory Board, including external subjectmatter experts, to provide advice and guidance to the Board andeCommerce team on the core areas of our eCommerce strategy.
insufficient progress with strategic We have a fully integrated multi-channel sales and marketing plan We are leveraging the combination of commerce, community and implementation atnewark aimed ataddressing the needs of our EDE customers.
The US ourelement14 brand in the US to win market share and attract EDEs 2 element14 transactional site was launched in February 2010 to address to ouronline environment.
Indeed our progress in this area continues the EDE marketsector and drive adoption of the web as a key channel.
and aswe exited the year EDE accounted for 40.0% of our North American salesand eCommerce accounted for 36.9% of sales.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 48 Financial Review continued Risk Ranking Risks and uncertainties Mitigating actions Opportunity Recruitment, development Our high potential talent is identified and nurtured through agreed The creation of a high performing actively engaged team which will orretention of talentedpeople development plans including a comprehensive mentoring consequently lead to improved business performance.
By focusing 3 programme as well as a focus on succession planning for our ontraining and development, customer relationships, leadership, keyleadership positions.
social responsibility, and communications, the number of employees We actively measure the retention of talent within our organisation who are actively engaged at Premier Farnell has increased by three which provides us with the ability to track trends and act with the percentage points over financial year 2010, to 80%.
In the last two years we have embedded core skills training including leadership development and sales effectiveness programmes.
We conduct annual employee engagement surveys to enable progress ofour people actions to be monitored and areas of improvement identifiedand actions put in place.
Our reward schemes are continuously evaluated to drive and rewardperformance and ensure retention of key talent.
As we drive significant change throughout the organisation our competency development and evaluation processes are focused onencouraging change agility, particularly as we emerge from globalrecession.
Through the strengthening of our diversity and inclusion team, theGroupsfocus on employee individuality, diversity and creativityhas significantly increased.
Ongoing succession planning is in place for our senior leadershipteam.
Development of talent through transfer across the business throughinternational assignments.
Foreign exchange exposure Net operating assets are reviewed by currency on a quarterly basis to uS and Euro Zone andaligned with net debt.
We conduct ongoing sensitivity analysis 4 andconsiderwhen and what financial instruments to put in place tominimise ourexposure to transactional currency flow.
Our treasury policy and procedures are subject to regular review and audit.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49 Risk Ranking Risks and uncertainties Mitigating actions Opportunity Competitive pressures We continue to focus on product, margin and our high service We are implementing new strategic initiatives to build customer proposition todrive profitable growth.
We have business intelligence loyalty aswell as initiatives targeted towards vertical market 5 processes to maintain our awareness of market developments and segments, helping todelineate a differentiating proposition for competitor actions and our market share for the Group and at a ourkey customer base.
Wecontinue to invest in and focus on innovation to build customer loyalty.
Significant failure orinefficiencies Business continuity plans are kept under review for all our locations.
We have implemented improved workflows and operational inoursystems andinfrastructure Asan example of these contingencies, we have the ability to switch efficiencies as well as provided increased capacity and invested 6 order fulfilment in Europe between our Leeds and Lige distribution incapability.
All of these allow the greater support of customers centres.
Contingency plans are in place for our US warehouse and future requirements, suppliers future needs and the ability to management systems.
Wehave maintained an ongoing review of our leverage information as an asset.
We will investin our back-office systems to support our single front-end web platform over the next three to five years.
legal risks We have exposure to a number of countries and their respective legal The increase in environmental legislation for electronics, like the compliance requirements are addressed through a variety of controls.
introduction of REACH for example, allows us to provide real value 7 Tradecompliance is a specific significant requirement which is toour key customers through our legislative expertise.
controlled through an experienced specialist team, automated screening enablers andongoing training of our sales teams.
Brand implementation Successful implementation of the element14 brand in Asia Pacific has Implementation of the element14 brand provides a positive statement provided learnings which will be applied for the phased implementation on the strategic intent of the Company and the propositional 8 across the Group, including a clear focus on supplier engagement and enhancements which provide value to our suppliers and customers.
As the Group nears its target of 70% of sales coming via eCommerce, online marketing benefits associated with a single global brand are significant.
Change programmes donot We continue to challenge the way we operate and have ongoing plans We are continually improving our customer experience through deliver targetedbenefits to improve platforms, systems and processes.
All our programmes enhanced systems and processes underpinning our multi-channel, 9 have the appropriate governance, with direct sponsorship of CEO, high service offering.
CFO and COO forall major change programmes and with clear benefit realisation implementation plans.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 50 Our customers are important to us: understanding their needs and their evolving environments is what drives our strategy customer loyalty Delighting customers withevery interaction Our customers are important to us: understanding their needs implementing net Promoter Score a differentiated customer experience and their evolving environments is what drives our strategy, Providing our business with targets to give our employees clarity Customer experience is highly correlated to loyalty, which is ouroperations and our profitable growth.
towhat we are trying to achieve is intrinsic to Premier Farnells affected by a vast proportion of our people.
As a framework for measuring customer experience and wellcontinue to listen to what our customers are telling us and will As we continue to transform our business, it is fundamental that loyalty within our base, in 2010, we implemented Net Promoter begin to communicate this feedback more widely internally so that ourcustomers remain at the heart of that change, at every level Score NPS globally and associated regional NPS goals NPS our people understand how they each affect customer loyalty.
is a simple measure of customer service excellence, that works Having worked on the customer loyalty and lifetime partnership To this end, in 2010 we launched a global programme, pooling by asking customers to score us 110 on their likelihood to 1,000 day programme since its conception my passion for helping talentfrom a diverse global team, to focus on creating even more recommend us to others.
Now embedded across all businesses, customers has grown enormously.
For me the reward of working loyalty and building lifetime partnerships with our customers.
Its we survey a sizable proportion of purchasing customers daily on this programme is in the value of creating a customer-centric objective is to generate sustainable profitable growth by creating toobserve the likelihood of whether customers will recommend organisation that benefits our people, our customers and our loyal customers that select Premier Farnell as their first choice usto a friend or colleague.
It is a litmus test on our overall bottom line.
distributor and are so delighted with the experience that they businessperformance.
recommend Premier Farnells services to their peers and colleagues.
Would I recommend the work and objectives of Premier Farnells For the year ahead the customer loyalty and lifetime partnerships Lifetime Partnership programme to a friend or colleague?
The strategic direction of the programme is aligned to balancing programmes have defined a clear set of NPS targets for each of our Absolutely.
getting the basics right of our high service proposition and further businesses, solidifying Premier Farnells focus towards becoming adding differentiation to the customer experience.
This involves leaders in the NPS space for business-to-business organisations.
energising our entire organisation to create a culture where integrating customer feedback customers truly come first through an empowered and engaged The data and customer feedback captured as a result of NPS is workforce that together, recognise individual impact on customer helping us to understand our key loyalty drivers and also any reason experience and are working towards making a difference.
why customers are not happy with our services.
So insightful is this Ultimately, this will provide an enhanced service for our information that it is allowing us to act and hone our proposition customersthat earns and maintains their lifelong loyalty and through delivering immediate operational improvements for our supports our sustainable, profitable growth as customers customers, while also helping guide our decisions when considering buy moreproduct, purchase more often and refer peers longer term service enhancements.
The impact of integrating customer feedback can be seen in how customer feedback has shaped the way in which we now measure internal service levels.
This change has ensured our customers expectations on service delivery are met across all operations, which have already positively impacted our NPS.
In addition, this data has also contributed to pilot initiatives designed to provide a differentiated customer experience that earns their lifetime loyalty.
Kelly Walker And finally, NPS has enabled us to define a closed loop process Senior Marketing Executive foreffectively responding to customer feedback.
See more case studies online: http: annualreport2011.
