Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 45 Robin Allan 52, joined Premier from Burmah Oil in July 1986, working initially as a geologist.
After technical and new venture roles he spent six years in South East Asia, initially managing Premiers Asian existing and new venture business and later becoming Premiers Country Manager in Indonesia.
He became a member of the Premier Board in December 2003 as Director of Business Development.
Mr Allan returned to Asia in 2009 as Director Asia, and manages the Asian portfolio from the Singapore office.
Joe Darby 63, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in September 2007.
Mr Darby has over 40 years of experience in the energy sector, including eight years with Shell Petroleum before becoming Managing Director of Thomson North Sea Ltd.
He has held a number of senior roles, including Chief Executive with LASMO plc.
Mr Darby is a non-executive director of Alkane Energy plc, and has held non-executive roles at Nordaq Energy plc, British Nuclear Fuels plc, Mowlem plc and Centurion Energy Inc.
He was Chairman of Mowlem plc 2005-2006 and Faroe Petroleum plc 2003-2007.
Mr Darby is Premiers senior independent non-executive director and is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Tony Durrant 53, joined Premier in June 2005.
After qualifying as a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen, he joined Lehman Brothers in London, initially as an oil sector analyst.
He joined the investment banking division of Lehman in 1987 and from 1997 was a Managing Director and Head of the European Natural Resources Group.
In this role, he managed both client relationships and numerous transactions for a variety of European and North American clients.
He joined the Premier Board in July 2005 as Finance Director.
Neil Hawkings 50, joined Premier in May 2005 after more than 20 years with ConocoPhillips where he worked in a variety of engineering, commercial and management roles around the world, undertaking assignments in the UK, Dubai and Indonesia.
He joined the Premier Board in March 2006 as Operations Director.
Jane Hinkley 61, joined Premiers Board in September 2010 as a non-executive director.
Ms Hinkley is a qualified chartered accountant with executive experience primarily in international shipping.
She has held managing directorships at Navion Shipping AS and Gotaas-Larsen Shipping Corporation.
She has been an independent director on the board of Teekay GP LLC, an international provider of marine transportation services for LNG, LPG and crude oil, since 2005 and also previously held the position of non-executive director of Revus Energy ASA, a Norwegian exploration and production company.
Ms Hinkley is the Chairman of Premiers Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
David Lindsell 64, joined Premiers Board in January 2008 as a non-executive director.
He was a partner at Ernst & Young LLP for nearly 30 years and has extensive experience across a range of industry sectors, with a strong knowledge of the oil and gas sector.
Mr Lindsell is currently a non-executive director of Drax Group plc and is Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Mr Lindsell is the Chairman of Premiers Audit and Risk Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Simon Lockett 47, Chief Executive, joined Premier in January 1994 from Shell and has worked in a variety of roles for Premier, including the management of investor relations, as Commercial Manager in Indonesia and as Country Manager in Albania.
He became a member of the Premier Board in December 2003 as Operations Director.
He was appointed Chief Executive in March 2005.
Mr Lockett is a member of Premiers Nomination Committee.
Andrew Lodge 55, has been Exploration Director of Premier since April 2009.
Prior to joining Premier, Mr Lodge was Vice President Exploration at Hess, where he was responsible for Europe, North Africa, Asia and Australia for nine years.
Previously, he was Vice President Exploration, Asset Manager and Group Exploration Advisor for BHP Petroleum, based in London and Australia.
Prior to joining BHP Petroleum, he worked for BP as a geophysicist.
Mr Lodge is a non-executive director of Egdon Resources plc.
Professor David Roberts 68, joined Premier in June 2006 as a non-executive director.
Professor Roberts has over 30 years experience in all aspects of exploration worldwide and extensive knowledge of deep water areas, sedimentary basins, stratigraphy and prospect assessment.
He spent 22 years with BP in a number of technical roles, including Global Exploration Adviser and Distinguished Exploration Adviser.
Professor Roberts is a non-executive director of Medserv plc and has established his own geoscience consultancy.
He is a visiting professor and fellow of Royal Holloway, University of London, the University of Southampton and IFP School in Paris.
Professor Roberts is a member of Premiers Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Michel Romieu 72, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in January 2008.
Mr Romieu has over 30 years experience in the international energy sector, including 25 years with the Elf Group, where he held several senior positions including Chief Executive of Elf UK and the groups gas division.
He was elected President of the UK Offshore Operators Association for the year 1995, and held the position of Director for Gas of CRE, the French energy regulator, from 2000 to 2003.
He has established his own consultancy specialising in providing advice to the gas industry, and is a lecturer at the French Petroleum Institute.
Mr Romieu is also President of Uprigaz.
He is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk and Nomination Committees.
Mike Welton 65, joined Premiers Board in June 2009 as a non-executive director and became Chairman in October 2009.
Mr Welton is a director of Morrison Utility Services and High Speed Two, the government-owned LLC set up to examine high speed rail connections between London and the West Midlands.
He sits on the advisory board of Montrose Associates.
Mr Welton was previously Chairman of Southern Water Services Ltd 2008-2012, Hanson plc 2005-2007, the Turkish British Business Council and the UK Governments Railway Sector Advisory Group.
He was also Chief Executive of Balfour Beatty plc 1999-2004.
Mr Welton is the Chairman of Premiers Nomination Committee.
Directors Report: Governance 46 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The company is required to make certain statements relating to the way it is governed as laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This report describes the manner in which the company has applied the main principles of governance set out in Section 1 of the Code and complied with the detailed Code provisions.
It is the Boards view that the company has fully complied with the Code throughout 2011, except where reported below.
While the Board supports the value of the Code, it does not believe that good governance can be defined merely in terms of compliance with a set of rules.
The Board is committed to high standards of governance at the board and aims to create a culture which demands the same commitment and performance in all our business activities.
This is enshrined in our Code of Conduct which was updated and rolled out to our employees in 2011.
The Board The role of the Board One major purpose of the Board is to ensure that the companys strategic objectives are properly pursued and that the major business risks are actively monitored and managed.
This goes beyond regulatory compliance and puts the interests of our shareholders as the Boards primary focus.
The Board is responsible for overall group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditures, the overall group debt and equity structure and consideration of significant financing matters.
The Board has continued to focus its efforts in 2011 on strategic issues which will create shareholder value, monitoring performance against agreed objectives and planning future business opportunities.
Board composition The Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, four other executive directors and five independent nonexecutive directors.
Biographical details of each, including membership of Board committees are set out in the Board of Directors section of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Details of the executive directors service contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are laid out in the Remuneration Report.
Chairman and Chief Executive The Chairmans role is part-time and he is a non-executive director.
His key responsibility is the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
Between Board meetings the Chairman is responsible for ensuring the integrity and effectiveness of the Board Executive relationship.
This is effected through meetings, as well as contact with other Board members, shareholders, joint venture partners and host governments.
The Chief Executives role is the operational management of the business, developing strategy in consultation with the Board and then implementing such strategy.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy and resources, including key appointments and standards of conduct.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to challenge independently and constructively the performance of the executive management and to monitor the performance of the management team in the delivery of the agreed objectives and targets.
In meeting this responsibility, the Chairman and the non-executive directors meet periodically without the executive directors present, and the non-executive directors meet once a year without the Chairman.
We require that our non-executive directors are free from any relationship or circumstances that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board considers each of the non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a specified time of three years subject to annual re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a director.
The terms and conditions of their appointment are made available for inspection.
Letters of appointment do not specifically set out expected time commitment as this may vary considerably.
However, all nonexecutive directors undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them and any significant commitments are disclosed to the Board prior to appointment.
Changes to such commitments are disclosed to the Board on an ongoing basis.
B Bo oa ar rd d c co om mp po os siit tiio on n B Bo oa ar rd d e ex xp pe erience rience Length of tenur Length of tenure e O Oiill & & G & Gas E En ne er rg gy y 0 - 3 ye 0 - 3 ye 3 years Exe Exec c cu ut tive 18% 18% d diir re ecto ctors 27% 55% 45% 55% F Fiin na a an nc ce 4 - 6 ye 4 - 6 ye 6 ars N No on n n- -e ex xecutive 27% d diir re ecto ctors 55% Oth Other er industry 7 - 10 ye 7 - 10 y 0 y ars Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 47 The Board continued Senior independent director Mr Joe Darby is the companys senior independent non-executive director.
He is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman or Chief Executive.
Appointments and development Premier is an international business which has to manage a variety of political, technical and commercial risks.
It is therefore important that the Board contains the appropriate mix of skills and experience to meet these challenges.
To this end, the Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
In selecting new directors, the Nomination Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
How the Board operates The Board meets at least eight times each year and, in addition, a regular update conference call takes place in the months when no formal meeting is scheduled.
The agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Board members receive a monthly report of the companys activities which incorporates an update on progress against objectives and the management of business risks.
The Board has a formal schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, a copy of which can be found on the companys website www.
The schedule is reviewed by the Board regularly.
Key matters reserved are the consideration and approval of: Corporate strategy Overall direction and strategy of the business New country and or business entry Acquisition or disposal of interests Finance Group debt and equity structure Budget Expenditure Major capital expenditure and budgets Development plans and projects Major acquisition Risk management Recognising high-impact business risks and risk mitigating strategies Internal control systems in respect of finance, operations and health, safety, environment and security HSES Corporate governance The groups corporate governance and compliance arrangements Succession planning Appointment and removal of directors and officers of the Board and appointments Appointment and removal of external auditors, brokers and advisers to the company Delegated authorities Board committees The Board has established Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Each committee has formal terms of reference approved by the Board which can be found on the companys website www.
The Company Secretary provides advice and support to the Board and all Board committees.
Board committees are authorised to engage the services of external advisers as they deem necessary.
