PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties On behalf of and in consultation with the Board of Directors, the Group Risk Committee is responsible for identifying, assessing and prioritising all material risks facing the Group and ensuring, where possible, that appropriate action is taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The table below highlights the major risks identified which may affect the Groups ability to deliver its strategy and the measures taken to address them.
Risks Description of risks Measures to reduce the risks Market risks Political and The Group conducts a substantial The Group has a diverse geographic portfolio, however, in economic stability proportion of its operations outside the developing its corporate strategy and in order to help mitigate UK in emerging markets which have the risk that could arise in any one particular territory, the significant capacity for profitable growth Board seeks to maintain an appropriate balance both between but which also have an increased risk mature and emerging markets and, within the developing of political and economic instability.
world, between its operations in different territories.
In addition, the Group has extensive and long established experience in all key markets and the Board continually monitors those markets to ensure that any specific risks or opportunities may be identified and addressed as they arise.
Demand risks Demand for the Groups products may Extensive knowledge of the Groups selected markets is a core be adversely impacted by changes strategic pillar and the Group actively monitors the needs and in consumer preferences.
aspirations of consumers on a regular and ongoing basis and is continuously developing new products to satisfy them.
The The increasingly competitive environment Group will continue to invest in selected brands and selected and continued growth of discounters markets in order to drive profitable sales growth and the Board could adversely impact the rate of believes that competition is healthy as it encourages and sales growth and profit margins.
motivates the Groups operations across the world to do their best to serve the interests of consumers and our brands.
Raw materials In common with other companies within its The Group takes measures to protect against the short-term impact sector, the Groups profitability is affected of these fluctuations and shortfalls: however, failure to recover by price and supply fluctuations in raw higher costs or shortfalls in availability could have a negative materials used in the manufacture of its impact on profits.
The Group continually monitors the price and products.
Key items, such as oils and fats, availability of materials against forecast demand to ensure that packaging materials and energy are subject there are adequate resources to continue in production throughout to fluctuations in price and availability.
the world and continues to refine its raw material forecasting processes and to strengthen its procurement capabilities.
24 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Risks Description of risks Measures to reduce the risks Financial risks Foreign currency The international nature of the Groups The Group requires its operating units to hedge their material and treasury risk activities gives rise to both transactional transaction exposures on sales and purchases conducted exchange rate risk with the main exposure in currencies other than their functional currencies.
The relating to US Dollar trade balances Group does not actively hedge its translation exposures and translation exposure when the as these are of an accounting rather than a cash nature: results, assets and liabilities of foreign however, the international spread of the Groups operations subsidiaries are translated into Sterling.
itself reduces dependence on individual currencies.
The Group maintains a centralised treasury function which operates on a non-speculative basis in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors and reviewed during the year by the Board and the Audit Committee.
The aim of this function is to mitigate the effects of any adverse movements in exchange rates and interest rates on the Groups financial results and to support operating units in treasury matters.
Operational risks Staff retention and The Group recognises that in order The Board believes that there is in place an attractive recruitment to deliver sustained strong results it employment proposition across the Group which will continue requires the right calibre of people at to attract capable recruits and that key management and all levels of the business.
In particular, personnel are sufficiently well recognised, incentivised and the Group must compete to recruit challenged in order to retain them as far as possible.
and retain capable individuals within the business including training them in the skills and competencies which are required to deliver profitable growth.
Reputation risks Should the Group fail to meet high product Product safety, social, environmental and ethical standards continue safety, social, environmental and ethical to be the cornerstones on which our business is based.
They are standards in all operations and activities, key focus areas for the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee there is the risk that its corporate reputation CSR Committee, a standing sub-committee of the Board, which could be damaged, leading to the rejection has during the year developed and implemented principles and of our products by consumers, damage policies in respect of each.
Should any issues arise in these areas, to brands and diversion of management the Group has processes in place to enable a quick response.
time into rebuilding our reputation.
