Business review Risks and uncertainties The understanding and effective management of the risks that face QinetiQ is fundamental to its success and is an integral part of managing the business.
The identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting of risks The Group Risk Register is reviewed by the Executive Team on are processes carried out at a Group, business and project level a monthly basis and considers: and are included as part of the business performance review the authority, resources and coordination of those involved in process.
Risks are assessed according to the likelihood of the the identification, assessment and management of significant events occurrence and its impact, both from a financial and risks faced by the organisation: non-financial standpoint.
The Group Risk Register includes an the response to the significant risks which have been identified analysis of the potential exposures and severity of each risk as a by management and others: function of the likelihood and impact of the risk, the assumptions the monitoring of reports from Group management: and underlying each risk and the mitigating actions required to manage the risk.
the maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk.
The risk register is reviewed by the Board and, in addition, the risk owners present an update of current status and mitigating actions by rotation throughout the year.
Risk Potential impact Mitigation A change in demand Current plans of both US and UK Governments QinetiQ has capitalised on increased UK and US from reduced military are to reduce involvement in Afghanistan in the Government spending on technology in support operations in Iraq coming years.
A significant shift in policy by either of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Notably, and Afghanistan the Administration in the US or the Government QinetiQ has experienced strong demand for in the UK, which results in a significant reduction Unmanned Ground Vehicles and survivability in the number of forces personnel present in Iraq products across the duration of both campaigns.
and Afghanistan, may have a materially adverse However, the focus on operational support in impact on the Groups financial performance.
defence, on both sides of the Atlantic, has given rise to a decline in defence expenditure in other areas, such as services to improve procurement efficiency and innovative research.
The Group mitigates this by maintaining a market focus and competitive positioning in adjacent markets, including defence services which are not directly conflict-related : aerospace, security and intelligence, providing a degree of portfolio diversification.
A change in either US The Strategic Defence and Security Review in the The Group is focused on a range of markets in or UK Government UK, and the financial burden on both UK and US defence, security and intelligence, providing a spending on defence Government budgets from the recent economic degree of portfolio diversification.
The Group will and security downturn, will lead to reduced spending in the continue to review trends in defence, aerospace markets in which the Group operates.
In particular and security expenditure in order to align the the UK is reducing its defence budget by 8% in business with those trends.
The UK Government is real terms by FY2015 and, additionally, seeking to investing an additional 650m in cyber capability remove significant over-heating in its equipment which offers some opportunity to the Group.
Any reduction in Government defence and security spending in either the UK or the US could have an adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
20 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Risk Potential impact Mitigation Changing in the timing The amounts payable under some Government The contract and orders pipeline is regularly of contracts contracts can be significant and the timing of reviewed by senior operational management.
receiving orders could have a material impact on the Groups performance in a given reporting period.
Funding of the defined The Group operates a defined benefit pension The performance of the pension scheme is benefit pension scheme scheme in the UK.
Presently there is a deficit reviewed regularly by Group management in between the projected liability of the scheme conjunction with the schemes independent and the value of the assets held by the scheme.
External actuarial and investment advice The size of the deficit may be materially affected is also taken on a regular basis to ensure that the by a number of factors, including inflation, scheme is managed in the best interests of both investment returns, changes in interest rates the Group and the schemes members.
The most and improvements in life expectancy.
An increase recent triennial funding valuation of the scheme, in the deficit may require the Group to increase as at 30 June 2008, resulted in a deficit of the cash contributions to the scheme which 111.3m.
The Group and trustees have agreed a would reduce the Groups available cash for ten-year recovery period to make up this deficit.
The next funding valuation of the scheme is at 30 June 2011.
Policies or attitudes The Group provides services to defence customers The Group takes proactive steps to manage any may change towards that meet their needs as part of the defence potential OCI and to maintain its ability to provide Organisational Conflicts supply chain and also as technical advisor through independent advice through its consulting and of Interest OCI its consultancy services.
The future growth of systems engineering activities.
In the UK, a formal the business could be compromised should the compliance regime operates with the MOD to current attitudes to policies adopted by our key monitor and assess potential OCI as part of the customers change.
Tax liabilities may QinetiQ is liable to pay tax in the countries in External advice and consultation is sought on change as a result which it operates, principally in the UK and the US.
potential changes in tax legislation in both the of changes in tax Changes in the tax legislation in these countries UK and the US.
This enables us to plan for and legislation could have an adverse impact on the level of tax mitigate potential changes in legislation.
paid on the profits generated by the Group.
Fixed-price contracts Some of the Groups revenue is derived from The nature of much of the services provided contracts which have a fixed price.
There is a risk under such fixed-price arrangements is often that the costs required for delivery of a contract for a defined amount of effort or resource rather could be higher than those agreed in the contract than firm deliverables and, as such, the risk of cost due to the performance of new or developed escalation is mitigated.
The Group ensures that its fixed-price bids and projects are reviewed for products, operational overruns or external early detection and management of issues which factors, such as inflation.
Any significant increase may result in cost overrun.
in costs which cannot be passed on to a customer may reduce the profitability of a contract or even result in a contract becoming loss-making.
Highly-competitive The aerospace, defence and security markets QinetiQ seeks to focus on areas within these markets marketplace overall are highly competitive.
The Groups in which its deep customer understanding, domain financial performance may be adversely affected knowledge, technical expertise and platform should it not be able to compete in the markets independence provide a strong proposition and in which it aims to operate.
a significant advantage in competitive bidding.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Business review Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Potential impact Mitigation Inherent risks from QinetiQ operates internationally.
The risks While the core activities of the Group are confined trading in a global associated with having a large geographical to the UK and the US, the Group continues to marketplace footprint may include: regulation and explore potential client relationships across the administration changes, changes in taxation globe.
These new relationships are assessed policy, political instability, civil unrest, and cultural for their inherent risks using our International and terms of reference differences leading to lack Business Opportunity Management process of common understanding with customers.
Any before being formally entered into.
such events could disrupt some of the Groups operations and have a material impact on the Groups future financial performance.
A material element The Long-Term Partnering Agreement LTPA The Group continues to achieve customer of the Groups revenue is a 25-year contract to provide a variety of performance and satisfaction levels, and and operating profit evaluation, testing and training services to the significantly exceeded the agreed minimum is derived from MOD.
The original contract was signed in 2003. performance rating of 80% in 2010 2011. one contract The LTPA operates under five-year periods with specific programmes, targets and performance measures set for each period.
On 3 March 2008, the Group signed up to a second five-year period of the LTPA with the MOD.
The first break point is in 2013.
In the current year, the LTPA directly contributed 11% of the Groups revenue and supported a further 6% through tasking services using LTPA managed facilities.
The loss, cancellation or termination of this contract would have a material, adverse impact on the Groups future reported performance.
Failure to comply with The Group operates in a highly-regulated The Group has procedures and, where laws and regulations, environment and the majority of its revenues appropriate, training in place to ensure that it particularly trading are generated from sales within the UK and the meets all current regulations.
Local management restrictions and US.
The Group is subject to numerous domestic continuously monitors local laws and regulations, export controls and international laws, including import and and policies are in place for the appointment export controls, financial and fiscal laws, health of advisors to support business development.
and safety, environmental, money laundering, Professional advice is sought when engaging in anti-bribery, etc.
Failure to comply with particular new territories to ensure that the Group complies with local and international regulations and regulations could result in a combination of requirements.
In the US, the Group undertakes fines, penalties, civil or criminal prosecution, work that is deemed to be of importance to US and suspension or debarment from Government national security, and arrangements are in place contracts, as well as reputational damage to insulate these activities from undue foreign to the QinetiQ brand.
Any one of these influence as a result of foreign ownership.
The could have a material impact on the Groups Group has procedures in place to ensure that financial performance.
these arrangements remain effective and to respond to any changes that might occur in US attitudes to foreign ownership of such activities.
The terms of reference of the Compliance Committee have been expanded to review the effectiveness of the compliance risk frameworks.
Failure of information The Group operates in a highly-regulated The information systems are designed with technology systems information technology environment.
The data consideration to single points of failure and and breaches of held by QinetiQ is highly confidential and needs the removal of risk through minor and major data security to be totally secure.
A failure of systems could system failures.
The business maintains business impact contract delivery leading to a loss in continuity plans covering both geography e. g. sites 22 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Risk Potential impact Mitigation Failure of information customer satisfaction.
A breach of data security and business units as well as technical capability technology systems could impact our customers operations and of staff.
These plans cover a range of scenarios and breaches of have a significant reputational impact, as well as which include loss of access to information data security the possibility of exclusion from some types of technology systems.
The plans are tested at continued Government contracts with a detrimental impact appropriate intervals.
Data security is assured on the Groups financial performance.
through a multi-layered approach, providing a hardened environment including robust physical security arrangements, data resilience strategies the application of security technologies as well as comprehensive internal and external testing of potential vulnerabilities.
In addition the systems are monitored and managed on a 24x7 basis.
Exchange rate The Group is exposed to volatility in exchange The Group actively hedges all significant movement rates due to the international nature of its transactional foreign exchange exposure as operations: this includes a translational impact described in the notes to the financial statements on the key financial statements as a result of the and has adopted hedge accounting.
The Groups Group reporting its financial results in sterling.
objective is to reduce medium-term volatility to The Group has limited transaction exposure as cash flow, margins and earnings.
The Group its revenues and related costs are often borne protects its balance sheets and reserves from in the same currency, principally US dollars adverse foreign exchange movements by financing or sterling.
acquisitions in North America with US dollardenominated borrowings, partially mitigating the risk as US dollar earnings are used to service and repay US dollar-denominated debt.
Raising external The Group relies on the proper functioning of The Group maintains a prudent level of committed funding and volatility the credit markets which could have an impact funding facilities: a new five-year multi-currency in interest rates on both the availability and associated costs of facility totalling 275m was signed in February financing.
The Group is exposed to interest rate 2011 provided by its relationship banks.
The risk derived mainly from long-term indebtedness Group also uses fixed-rate debt instruments and related to borrowings which have been issued issued to US private placement investors with at floating interest rates.
Realisation of value The funded research and development work The Group invests in the development of from intellectual that the Group undertakes for defence and other intellectual property only where it believes property may customers creates intellectual property that the there is a realistic market opportunity for the be delayed Group retains and can utilise for commercial technology.
The performance of intellectual applications.
The uncertainty that exists over new property realisation programmes is monitored technologies and markets may result in delays, to increase support for successful prospects and failure to realise value from intellectual property, reduce expenditure where realisation appears or the need for a higher level of investment for less likely.
The Group uses external experts the opportunity to be realised.
The additional and financial backers as partners in a variety of investment requirements may have to be funded structures to enhance the performance of certain from the Groups own capital resources which intellectual property realisation projects.
may have an adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
Acquisition of The Group has the ability to acquire other The risks are mitigated through the due diligence businesses businesses and companies.
These acquisitions and internal approvals processes.
In addition, the may not perform in line with expectations, usual contractual protections are included in the thereby having a detrimental impact on the purchase agreements signed with the vendors.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23
