Audit Committee Report continued activities of management in their efforts to control issues of risk Risk management and assess whether these activities are sufficient for the mitigation The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent and management of risk.
This document will be tabled for review of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic by the audit committee at least on an annual basis.
The board believes in the maintenance of sound risk management and internal control systems.
The executive as part of their oversight of the groups activities attend the various operational monthly meetings.
While at the Risk is managed by means of the risk management triangle shown executive committees weekly meeting, general managers report below.
The board, at the pinnacle of the triangle, has reserved on their weekly output and the critical issues affecting their specific for its approval the management of risk.
The board considers the operations.
All of the actions, mentioned above, act in a way to groups strategic plan annually or when issues may arise which reduce the risk exposure of the group.
could affect parts of the plan.
In addition, at its quarterly meetings the board considers the companys five-year plan, group valuation As part of the preparation of the companys Annual Report on and the corporate models being updated for this purpose.
The Form 20-F, which is filed with the United States Securities and audit committee requested at its May 2011 meeting that the Exchange Commission SEC, the substantial risk factors are again financial director, executive management and the internal audit identified and set out highlighting to the market those aspects manager refresh the group risk control framework.
Out of this which could have a material effect on the companys business.
exercise a new Risk Register was established which allowed the audit committee and board to better understand, analyse and The board has identified various risk factors which it considers assess the key risks facing the group and whether these risks were either individually or in a combination as having the potential to appropriately managed.
This Risk Register has been populated have a material adverse effect on its business.
Full details relating in discussion with senior management using the existing risk to these risk factors as well as those relating to our industry matrix, while a universal risk prioritisation and rating scale, against can be found in our Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the which all the risks have been graded and prioritised, has also been SEC, a copy of which is contained on the companys website developed.
The format assists management in identifying and www.
In this report, the board has assessing the key risk facing the business.
Some of the features itemised several key risks, including the Key Performance Indicators of the Risk Register include the risk area, the actual risk, detail regarding responsibility, the inherent risk assessment, controls KPI, and how these are being managed see facing page.
and mitigation being in place: residual risk assessment.
The inherent risk assessment features two key components, the first being a measure of probability and the second a measure of the impact were such a risk to arise.
The audit committee accepted that the Risk Register was a dynamic document used by Board Charter bOard management in undertaking Group strategy 5-year plan and valuation their duties, while at the same Annual Report and Form 20-F time allowing the internal audit function the opportunity to review and evaluate the Quarterly reports Risk evaluation and assessment audit cOMMittee Annual insurance review Internal audit reports executiVe Quarterly operational board meetings cOMMittee and Monthly management meetings ManageMent Treasury committee meetings Weekly executive committee meetings Environmental, health and safety committee meetings RISK MANAGEMENT TRIANGLE 118 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
