FInancIal REVIEW 48 PRINCIPAL RISKS principal risks Reed Elsevier has established risk management practices that performance.
Our risk management and internal control are embedded into the operations of the businesses, based on processes are described in the Structure and Corporate the framework in internal control issued by the Committee of Governance section.
A description of the business and a Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
discussion of factors affecting performance is set out in the Chief The principal risks facing Reed Elsevier, which have been Executive Officers report and Business Review.
Financial risks considered by the Audit Committees and Boards, are described are discussed in the Chief Financial Officers report and in note 18 below.
It is not possible to identify every risk that could affect our to the combined financial statements.
Our approach to managing businesses, and the actions taken to mitigate the risks described environmental and other non financial risks is set out in the below cannot provide absolute assurance that a risk will not Business Review and the separate Corporate Responsibility materialise and or adversely affect our business or financial Report.
Important specific risks identified include: ExtERnal RIsks Risk description and impact mitigation Economy and Demand for our products and services may be Our businesses are focused on professional markets market impacted by factors such as the economic environment which have generally been more resilient in periods conditions in the US, Europe and other major economies, and of economic downturn.
We deliver information government funding.
solutions, many on a subscription basis, which are important to our customers effectiveness and efficiency.
Intellectual Our products and services are largely comprised of We actively engage in developing and promoting the property rights intellectual property content delivered through a variety legal protection of intellectual property rights.
We rely on trademark, copyright, patent and businesses, subscription contracts with customers other intellectual property laws to establish and protect contain provisions as to the use of proprietary content.
our proprietary rights in these products and services.
We are also vigilant as to the use of our content and, There is a risk that our proprietary rights could be as appropriate, take legal action to challenge illegal challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented which distribution sources.
may impact demand for and pricing of our products and services.
data resources A number of our businesses rely extensively upon We seek as far as possible to have proprietary content.
content and data from external sources.
Data is Where content is supplied to us by third parties, we seek obtained from public records, governmental to have contracts which provide mutual commercial authorities, customers and other information benefit.
We also maintain an active dialogue with companies, including competitors.
The disruption or regulatory authorities on privacy and other data related loss of data sources, because of changes in the law or issues, and promote, with others, the responsible use because data suppliers decide not to supply them, could of data.
adversely affect our products and services if we were unable to arrange for substitute sources in a timely manner or at all.
paid Our scientific, technical and medical STM primary We engage extensively with stakeholders in the STM subscriptions publications, like those of most of our competitors, community to better understand their needs and deliver are published on a paid subscription basis.
While we adopt a number of publishing continuous debate in the government, academic models and continue to experiment, through the and library communities, which are the principal principal paid subscription model we encourage the customers for our STM publications, regarding submission of research output by scientists without the whether such publications should be funded penalty of publishing cost.
We focus on the integrity and instead through fees charged to authors and from quality of research through the editorial and peer review governmental and other subsidies or made freely process: we invest in efficient editorial and distribution available after a period following publication.
If these platforms and in innovation in platforms and tools to methods of STM publishing are widely adopted or make content and data more accessible and actionable: mandated, it could adversely affect our revenue and we ensure vigilance on plagiarism and the long term from paid subscription publications.
indd 48 08 03 2012 07:50 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 49 stRatEgIc RIsks Risk description and impact mitigation customer Reed Elseviers businesses are dependent on the We are focused on the needs and economics of our acceptance of continued acceptance by our customers of our customers and seek to provide content and innovative products products and services and the value placed on them.
solutions that help them achieve better outcomes and Failure to meet evolving customer needs could impact enhance productivity.
demand for our products and consequently adversely affect our revenue.
competition Our businesses operate in highly competitive To remain competitive we continuously invest markets.
These markets continue to change in significant resources in our products and services, response to technological innovations, changing and the infrastructure to support them.
We gain legislation, regulatory changes, the entrance of new insights into our markets, evolving customers needs competitors and other factors.
Failure to anticipate and opportunities, the potential application of new market trends could impact the competitiveness of our technologies and business models, and the actions products and services and consequently adversely of competitors, and these insights inform our market affect our revenue.
acquisitions We acquire businesses to reshape and strengthen our Our acquisitions are made within the framework of our portfolio.
If we are unable to generate the anticipated overall strategy.
We have a well formulated process for benefits such as revenue growth, synergies and or reviewing and executing acquisitions and for managing cost savings associated with these acquisitions this the post acquisition integration.
This process is could adversely affect return on invested capital and underpinned with clear strategic, financial and ethical financial condition.
We closely monitor the performance of acquisitions.
opERatIonal RIsks Risk description and impact mitigation technology Our businesses are increasingly dependent on We have established procedures for the protection of failure electronic platforms and networks, primarily the our technology assets.
These include the development internet, for delivery of products and services.
They of business continuity plans, including IT disaster could be adversely affected if our electronic delivery recovery plans and back-up delivery systems, to platforms and networks experience a significant failure, reduce business disruption in the event of a major interruption, or security breach.
data security Our businesses maintain databases and information We have established data privacy and security online, including personal information.
We test and re-evaluate our procedures our data security or failure to comply with applicable and controls with the aim of ensuring that personal legislation or regulatory or contractual requirements data is protected and that we comply with relevant could damage our reputation and expose us to risk of legislation, regulatory and contractual requirements.
loss or litigation and increased regulation.
supply chain Our organisational and operational structures have We select our vendors with care and establish service dependencies increased dependency on outsourced and offshored level agreements that we closely monitor, including functions.
Poor performance or failure of third parties through key performance indicators and targeted to whom we have outsourced activities could adversely supplier audits.
We have also developed business affect our business performance, reputation and continuity plans to reduce disruption in the event of financial condition.
indd 49 08 03 2012 07:50 FInancIal REVIEW 50 PRINCIPAL RISKS FInancIal RIsks Risk description and impact mitigation pensions We operate a number of pension schemes around the We have well established professional management world, the largest schemes being of the defined benefit of our pension schemes and we focus on maintaining type in the UK, the US and the Netherlands.
The assets appropriate asset allocation and plan designs.
We and obligations associated with defined benefit pension review our funding requirements on a regular basis with schemes are particularly sensitive to changes in the the assistance of independent actuaries and ensure that market values of assets and the market related the funding plans are sufficient to meet future liabilities.
assumptions used to value scheme liabilities.
Adverse changes to inter alia asset values, discount rates or inflation could increase future pension costs and funding requirements.
tax Our businesses operate worldwide and our earnings are We have clear and consistent tax policies and tax subject to taxation in many differing jurisdictions and at matters are dealt with by a professional tax function, differing rates.
We seek to organise our affairs in a tax supported by external tax advisors.
We maintain an efficient manner, taking account of the jurisdictions in open dialogue with the relevant tax authorities and are which we operate.
However, tax laws that apply to Reed vigilant in ensuring that we comply with tax legislation.
Elsevier businesses may be amended by the relevant authorities or interpreted differently which could adversely affect our reported results.
treasury The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements Reed Elseviers approach to funding and management are expressed in pounds sterling and are subject to of interest rate and foreign currency exposures is movements in exchange rates on the translation of the described on pages 46 and 47.
The approach to the financial information of businesses whose operational management of financial risks is described in note 18 currencies are other than sterling.
The US is our most to the combined financial statements.
important market and, accordingly, significant fluctuations in the US dollar exchange rate could significantly affect our reported results.
Macro economic, political and market conditions may also adversely affect the availability of short and long term funding, volatility of interest rates, currency exchange rates and inflation.
REputatIonal RIsks Risk description and impact mitigation Ethics As a world leading provider of professional information The Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business Conduct solutions to the Science, Medical, Risk, Legal and is provided to every employee and is supported by Business sectors we are expected to adhere to high training on specific topics.
It encompasses such topics standards of independence and ethical conduct.
as fair competition, anti-bribery and human rights and A breach of generally accepted ethical business it encourages open and principled behaviour.
We also standards could adversely affect our business have well established processes for reporting and performance, reputation and financial condition.
Our major suppliers are required to adopt our Supplier Code of Conduct.
Environmental Reed Elsevier and its businesses have an impact on We are committed to reducing these impacts by limiting the environment, principally through the use of energy resource use and by efficiently employing sustainable and water, waste generation and, in our supply chain, materials and technologies.
We require our major through our paper use and print and production suppliers and contractors to meet the same objectives.
Failure to manage our environmental We seek to ensure that Reed Elseviers businesses are impact could adversely affect our reputation.
compliant with all relevant environmental regulation.
