Financial statements Notes to the parent company accounts 1.
Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivatives and are in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and standards in the UK and comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Principal accounting policies Investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
In the opinion of the directors the value of such investments are not less than shown at the balance sheet date.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost where hedge accounting is not applied : any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Where fair value hedge accounting is applied, the borrowings are subsequently revalued at each balance sheet date and the difference is offset against the fair value movement of the derivative the hedging instrument in the profit and loss account.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the company has a continuing right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date under both its committed bank credit facility and Euro Medium Term Note programme.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the taxable profits and results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all the available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable profits which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Neither is deferred tax recognised on overseas profits where there is no commitment to remit those profits to the UK.
Deferred tax is measured at the average rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a nondiscounted basis.
Pension commitments Rentokil Initial plc is the sponsoring company of a multi-employer defined benefit pension scheme, Rentokil Initial Pension Scheme RIPS.
An actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme is carried out every three years.
The most recent actuarial valuation was at 31 March 2010.
It was carried out using the projected unit credit method and the principal assumptions made by the independent professional actuary are disclosed in the consolidated financial statements of Rentokil Initial plc.
As the company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities in RIPS, it treats the scheme on a defined contribution basis, in accordance with FRS 17, Retirement Benefits.
Financial instruments and risk management The company and groups policy in respect of financial instruments and risk management are disclosed in the Accounting Policies section of the consolidated financial statements.
Disclosures have been made on financial instruments as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the company purchases the companys equity share capital Treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the companys equity holders.
105 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
