Business review Risks and uncertainties delegating authorities to ensure that decisions are always made Risk management approach at the appropriate level in the organisation taking into account The identification and management of risk is fully integrated the level of risk involved financial and non-financial into the groups strategy development and into the day-to-day promulgating the Code of Conduct which defines how operational execution of the strategy by the divisions.
Ensuring employees, and others who act on behalf of the company, must that risks are identified and managed effectively is a part of every behave when dealing with colleagues, suppliers, customers managers and supervisors job through leadership of the teams for and other stakeholders.
This includes approval of policies, which they are responsible.
procedures and processes that underpin the Code of Conduct The board has overall responsibility for the groups risk and are designed to ensure that the group meets its legal and management approach, which includes: regulatory obligations reviewing and approving the groups overall strategy, including defining the groups overall risk appetite.
This implicitly involves Assurance and re-assurance identifying the risks that may prevent the group from achieving The Group Risk Committee, chaired by the CFO, has oversight of its objectives and ensuring that these risks are mitigated or the groups risk and control framework, reviews the risks that the managed to an acceptable level group faces and the effectiveness of internal controls.
It comprises regular reviews of business progress.
This includes updates representatives from finance, IT, HR and the Corporate Secretary.
on the risks that the business is facing, and challenging Specific programmes are used to support implementation of management to obtain assurance that these risks are being the Code of Conduct and underlying policies, national laws and effectively managed regulations.
In some cases dedicated specialists ensure that review of managements approach to identifying and managing standards are set and complied with, for example in Health and risk including approval of the group risk register Safety, IT Security, Pensions and Tax.
More broadly, computerevaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls, including based training is used to ensure that expected standards of financial, operational and compliance controls behaviour are widely disseminated and adopted across the group, for example to ensure compliance with competition law evaluation of the effectiveness of internal and external audit and anti-corruption anti-bribery legislation.
delegation of authority to the Chief Executive and Independent re-assurance of the effectiveness of risk management Chief Financial Officer to make commitments on behalf and internal controls across the group is provided to the Chief of the company Executive and the board by Group Internal Audit.
Some of the above responsibilities are delegated to the Audit Committee, the full remit of which is described on pages 34 to 36.
Principal risks The Chief Executive and his leadership team are responsible for The groups overall risk management approach, defined above, is day-to-day identification and management of risk, which includes: designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance at all setting targets and objectives for their respective teams and levels of the group that risks are properly identified and are being divisions in line with the agreed group strategic direction effectively managed.
This includes the provision of appropriate monitoring of business performance through monthly mechanisms to ensure that issues and concerns relating to risk and quarterly meetings with divisional and functional can be escalated up through the organisation, confidentially if leadership which include reviews of financial performance, necessary.
non-financial metrics, latest financial forecasts and progress The principal risks that are most relevant to the group are as follows: in delivering the projects to drive operational excellence and achieving profitable growth and cash flows in the face of a capability improvement weakening of the economies in which we operate, particularly compilation and regular review of the group risk register which Europe defines the key risks that the company faces in delivery of its managing the number, scope, complexity and interdependency strategy and ensures that the options to manage or mitigate of many initiatives necessary to deliver improved capabilities the risks are appropriate of our people, excellence across the groups operations and ensuring that the business maintains sound systems of internal outstanding service to our customers control, and that appropriate assurance mechanisms are in place to confirm that these internal controls are working effectively.
This includes controls relating to the preparation of financial statements, operational controls and controls to ensure that the business meets its legal and regulatory obligations, e. g. in health and safety, tax, employment, etc.
15 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
