34 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report key risks enterprise risk management Rexam risk management process The enterprise risk management function reports directly to Effective management of risk is essential to thechief executive.
The function servesto further improve the integration and efficiency of our riskmanagement framework and, the achievement of our business objectives in doing so, to address the increased demands and requirements from external and internal stakeholders.
It draws together our risk and to the protection of our people, assets based responsibilities andenhances the good risk management and reputation.
Identifying, assessing process and practicesalready in place across the Group.
andmanaging risks is integral to the way This section describes our well established risk management process including the enhancements made during 2011, we runour business.
It is part of our focus andoutlines the main factors that may affect the implementation and execution of our strategy.
onoperational excellence and best Rexam objectives performance which are key priorities for The purpose of the Rexam risk management process known internally as theARC process is to support achievement of Rexams theGroup.
The various risks attached to our overall objective to deliver shareholder value.
Although risk can activities are consistently assessed, recorded never beeliminated, the process aims to identify and set appropriate mitigation responses for the key risks faced by Rexam.
and reported in a visible, structured and Theapproach is based around the ISO 31000 risk management process and on both the bottom up and top down assessments continuous manner to ensure necessary ofstrategic, financial and operational risks.
risk identification The first stage of our risk management process is to identify the risksfaced by Rexam.
This is initially a bottom up process with business units and functions undertaking a biannual process of riskidentification.
Risk workshop sessions, current risk registers, intelligence on risks identified by other companies and a risk categorisation check list are used to structure and support the process.
The enterprise risk management function leads and supports the process but is also there to challenge the findings.
Executive directors and other senior leaders are closely involved atcritical stages in the process.
They review, challenge and debate Rexam risk management process the risks identified from a top down perspective.
The resultant output is a list of risks faced by Rexam for each business unit and Rexam objectives function the risk register.
risk identi cation risk assessment risk mitigation risk reporting risk monitoring development 35 risk assessment The next stage involves the assessment of each identified risk on theregister in terms of its likelihood of occurring, and the impact Rexam risk management tool heat map matrix onRexam if the risk does occur.
Performing an assessment of impact likelihood and impact at both a gross and net level before and of risk after the effect of mitigation enables us to identify the key material risks for each business and function and consider the effect of current Major mitigations on reducing risk.
To aid assessment we use specific tools, such as the Heat Map Matrix and Radar, to illustrate the impact and likelihood of different risks, and to show their trend over time.
Signi cant Images of these tools are shown below for illustrative purposes Moderate Rexam risk management tool radar Minor Risk 1 Risk 10 Risk 2 Insigni cant Rare Unlikely Moderate Likely Almost certain Risk 3 Risk 9 likelihood of risk occurring Very high High Medium Low Risk 8 Risk 4 risk mitigation response Once risks have been assessed an appropriate mitigation response Risk 7 Risk 5 is determined for each risk identified.
The mitigation response will Risk 6 depend upon the impact and likelihood assessment and, for example, may consist of a control action or insurance.
The risk Year 1 Year 0 mitigation response reduces either the likelihood of the risk occurring or the impact on Rexam if the risk does occur or both.
risk reporting When we have assessed the risks and the responses have been determined, each business unit and function provides a risk report to the enterprise risk management function.
These reports are considered together and a Group level risk register is produced showing the key risks to Rexam and key mitigation responses.
Ownership of each key Group risk is allocated to a member of theexecutive leadership team.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 36 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report key risks risk monitoring The Group level risk register is monitored by the board through amonthly report which updates on the trend of the key risk and behaviour based safety programme mitigations.
During 2011 this monthly report was enhanced by theaddition of key risk indicators to support the monitoring of risk The behaviour based safety programme BBS was devised to trends.
The executive leadership team, the audit and risk committee encourage Rexams plant employees to focus on safety during their daily activities.
During 2011 we enhanced the safety and the board all review the output from the risk management bingo initiative which was designed to recognise employees process on a periodic basis.
The audit and risk committee also and plants that were actively participating in the good reviews the overall risk management process itself.
Its main objective was to reinforce mitigation activities for key identified risks are used as an input Rexams commitment to its employees safety, and highlight todetermine coverage under the annual internal audit plan.
howimportant each persons behaviour is in preventing accidents.
2011 was the year when the plants that use it really development got to see the results of a well implemented BBS programme.
We are looking continually to improve our risk management Theemployees level of engagement and safety awareness process.
During 2011, a project to determine future development washigher than ever, which enabled some plants to achieve opportunities considered external best practices and the following outstanding performance.
In total more than 70% of our sites didnot have a lost time accident in 2011. were implemented: heat map matrix In the Jacare beverage can plant in South America, BBS is a This tool was developed along best practice lines into a 5 by 5 tool that promotes a change in culture and motivates employees to protect themselves and their peers.
Pointing out unsafe impact and likelihood matrix.
The risk assessment process groups behaviour isimportant, but recognising safe behaviour risks into four areas of very high, high, medium and low and strengthens our vision of safety, said Rui Cesar Silva, the matrix uses a colour coding to illustrate this at both a gross and ProductionManager, Jacare.
The new matrix also considers risks with non financial impact, such as reputational and health and safety, The overall BBS programme has ambitious targets and toavoid solely focusing on the financial impact of risks.
innovations for 2012 and will be strengthened across Rexam.
risk descriptions The way risks are described within the process was made consistent and a requirement to describe risk drivers and consequences was added.
This aids analysis and also the creation of mitigation plans by considering the factors driving risks.
risk mitigations actions form legislative risk monitoring tool The risk mitigation section of the process was developed to support improved tracking and follow up of mitigations by The legislative framework of the countries in which we operate business units and functions to ensure they are in place and and sell products is evolving constantly as new governments havingthe required effect.
areelected and the profiles of different issues are raised.
Fromexperience, we know that a small percentage of any newlegislation could have an impact on our business, through increased costs or changes to markets.
The main risk to the business is legislation that is primarily focused on our products ie packaging, but legislation that is designed to address other issues can have an indirect effect on ourmarkets eg taxes on certain food and drink products.
In 2011 our Beverage Can Europe & Asia sector established ateam from across our European operations which monitors proposed changes to existing legislation and proposed new legislation to assess its impact on our business.
This enables ustounderstand and reduce the risks associated with any proposed changes to legislation and focus resources to mitigate these potential risks where appropriate.
In 2012 this approach will berolled out across Rexam.
37 to manage and mitigate the risk.
Each risk is specifically owned summary of key Group risks bya member of the executive leadership team.
The tables do not provide an exhaustive analysis of all risks affecting the Group.
Notall of the factors listed are within the control of the Group and Set out in the tables below in no particular order is a summary other factors besides those listed may affect the performance of ofthe key risks for the Group as a whole.
Some risks may be unknown at present and other financial and economic situation has heightened many risks and risks, currently regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be exposed new ones, the challenge remains the same in terms of material in the future.
Further information on the process by which identifying the most relevant risks, assessing their impact and risk is managed and reported is covered in the risk management importance and developing appropriate methods to eliminate and internal control section inthe corporate governance report ormitigate them.
The tables provide brief descriptions of the key types of risk to which the Group is exposed and identifies, in each case, their potential impact on the Group and the principal processes in place risk description key mitigation Economic downturn The risk of economic downturn in Rexams In line with the strategic priority of best performance, key markets and its impact upon demand Rexam closely manages capital investment and for consumer packaging.
This risk has isfocused on maximising utilisation of its assets.
trended higher through 2011 following Furthermore, in response to the increasing trend concerns over growth and debt levels in ofthisrisk, we use scenario planning within our Western economies leading to reduced budgeting andplanning processes to help identify GDP growth forecasts.
mitigation actions which would be implemented should this riskincrease further.
Aluminium and other Aluminium is our most significant raw material In beverage cans, almost all of our aluminium ingot inputcostincreases cost.
Resin is also important to us and we needs are on a pass through basis or hedged.
In the purchase steel for our European beverage Americas businesses, we charge the majority of our canoperation.
High volatility ininput prices customers on a pass through basis while in Europe 75% may have a material impact on our results.
of our supply costs are on this basis.
To mitigate the risk Oneconsequence of a substantial rise could on the remaining aluminium ingot exposure, we hedge be achange in demand for our products as the aluminium cost and associated currency customers adjust their packaging mix and the requirements.
The pass through and hedge risk materials they use.
This risk has trended higher management applies to metal ingot but not the can sheet through 2011 as, despite easing somewhat in which is covered by long term supply contracts.
the final quarter, commodity prices have been We purchase aluminium and steel from asmall number higher overall in 2011, thus flowing through of regional and global suppliers with whom we have into inflationary pressure.
long term relationships and contracts.
Inplastic packaging, over 80% of the resin costs are onapass through basis which includes resin escalator deescalator provisions that allow change in our selling price as resin prices change.
Where possible, we also hedge some of our resinexposure.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 38 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report key risks risk description key mitigation National political and The risk of political or economic instability Emerging market risks are assessed in detail economic stability within a region that Rexam operates in and bymanagement when considering investment its impact on performance.
Rexam operates opportunities and setting financial policies and in countries and regions with diverse procedures.
These risksare then regularly reviewed economic and political conditions and aspart of the ongoing management of our business.
Our expansion in emerging Wealso take external advice on specific matters and markets, as well as the regional political uselocal external advisors.
We will continue to carry instability and civil unrest seen through outreviews of key risk areas both internally and with 2011, means that the trend of this risk external expert support.
Competitive The risk of adverse commercial impact upon Many of our largest customers have traded with us for environment trends Rexam from customer and competitor activities.
manyyears, during which time we have built up a strong This risk can be driven by dependency on key interdependency and sense of partnership and added customers, competitor activity, price pressure production capacity to strengthen our footprint.
relationships and investments increase the likelihood of retaining customers.
We continue to focus on providing value adding service and innovation as well as competitive performance which are key parts of ourstrategic focus ofstrengthening our customer relationships.
Changes in packaging The risk of changing legislation impacting Rexam continually monitors changes or proposed legislation and regulatory the markets in which Rexam operates.
changes in laws or regulations that may adversely environment Packaging will continue to be a focus for affectour business if implemented arbitrarily.
This is government legislators working within done through established and effective membership of thesustainability agenda.
Changes in relevant trade associations, by direct collaboration with packaging legislation and regulation governmental and non governmental organisations and affecting producer responsibility for through our own efforts which include a new legislative recycling, recycled content, carbon risk monitoring tool that was introduced in 2011 as footprint and landfill taxation represent described on page 36.
This ensures the best possible anincreasing trend risk.
chance of shaping a constructive outcome which isnotdetrimental to Rexam or our stakeholders.
the risk council A key development action in 2011 was the creation of the Risk Council.
The team meets quarterly and consists of a senior management representative from each of Rexams business units along with key people from the enterprise risk management and internal audit functions.
Theteam is responsible for supporting the development and implementation across the Group of agreed enhancements in enterprise risk management and to facilitate best practice sharing and implementation of processes, tools, mitigation plans and controls.
The team also oversees and supports the Rexam risk management process with the representative from each of the business units leading the risk management work in their respective area.
This enhanced governance structure has helped us to integrate and develop risk management across the business, forexample bysupporting and implementing the developments inthe risk management process and sharing best practice mitigations such asthe legislative risk monitoring tool see page 36.
39 risk description key mitigation Counterparty failure Risk of counterparty failure for example A range of financial counterparties are used and bank, insurer, customer or supplier resulting wehave strict limits on our exposure to each of them.
in financial exposure for Rexam.
The current These limits are determined by a range of qualitative more challenging macroeconomic andquantitative measures that are embedded into our environment increases the risk of treasury system such that any breaches are automatically counterparty failure.
The limits are automatically updated by factors such as credit rating change and also reviewed regularly for any qualitative changes.
The risk of insurer failure ismonitored by our insurance broker and reported regularly.
Customer credit limits are imposed and theircredit risk, as well as that of suppliers, is reviewed andmonitored.
In addition, we have procedures across the business to manage workingcapital tightly.
Changes in consumer The risk of changing consumer trends resulting We continue to monitor market and consumer trends tastes, nutritional in a shift in demand away from products aswell as political developments through our own and preferences, health forwhich Rexam manufactures packaging.
external business intelligence services and through our related concerns and Drivers of this risk can include lifestyle involvement in national and international packaging environment related andtaste change, nutrition and health associations in the countries and regions where concerns considerations or environmental concerns.
Pension deficit Risks relate to cash contributions, charges Rexams retirement benefit risk management is overseen tothe income statement and balance by the retirement benefits committee RBC which sheetvolatility.
ischaired by the finance director.
The RBC reviews allproposed new promises for and improvements to retirement benefits.
Managing pension deficit volatility on the balance sheet and general derisking of funded plans, which includes equity, interest rate and inflation risk are undertaken by pension plan fiduciaries in consultation with the RBC.
Cash contributions are paid having regard for regulatory requirements in the countries in which the respective plans operate.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 40 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report key risks risk description key mitigation Business interruption Every business faces the potential risk of As part of our strategic focus on operational excellence, itsoperations being impacted by disruption Rexam has established protocols and procedures across due to loss of supply, industrial disputes, the Group as a whole such that plans are in place to failures with technology, physical damage ensure business continuity in our operations.
Strong as a result of fire, flood or other such event.
relationships with customers and suppliers mean that, where possible, there are arrangements in place to ensure alternative sources of supply or production for critical product lines.
Rexam also has insurance in place to cover losses associated with interruption to business for a limited period as a result of property damage orsupply failure.
Environmental, fire, The risk of a significant environmental We carry out regular environment, health and safety health and safety contamination, fire or health and safety EHS audits in cooperation with internal and external issue at one of our locations which can specialists to drive the plants to best practice.
The audit havean impact on the safety of our approach was developed through 2011 to provide the employees, or on our financial situation or basis for delivering a more sustainable and robust our reputation.
improvement of EHS management systems and performance at all sites.
In addition we introduced a high standard fire safety andproperty protection audit supported and performed by AXA Matrix, an independent provider of such services.
41 risk description key mitigation Supply of faulty or Rexams reputation as a business partner relies Within our strategic focus on operational excellence we contaminated products heavily on its ability to supply quality products have strict control measures and externally accredited on time and in full.
The consequences of not systems in place to ensure that the safety and quality of being able to do so could be severe.
Such our products are maintained.
Rexam also has insurance consequences might include adverse effects in place to cover legal liabilities to third parties onconsumer health, loss of market share, associated with product liability.
financial costs and loss of turnover.
Tax risks In an increasingly complex international tax We seek to plan and manage our tax affairs efficiently environment, some uncertainty is inevitable inthe jurisdictions in which we operate.
Tax planning in estimating our tax liabilities.
willcomplement and be based around the needs of our operating businesses.
We exercise our judgement in assessing the required level of provision for tax risk and allocate resources appropriately to protect our position.
Fraud, bribery, internal The risk of an internal control failure such The Rexam Code of Conduct provides a framework control failure asa Rexam employee committing fraud forall of our policies at Group, sector and individual orbribery.
Training is also carried out in key areas such as the antibribery policy, to ensure that employees are aware of their responsibilities.
A Group control framework, setting out key financial controls to be applied across theGroup, is being developed for implementation in 2012 in order to ensure consistency and further enhance the control environment.
Rexams Raise Your Concern helpline also allows employees to raise anonymously any concerns regarding behaviour that does not conform with Rexampolicies.
Funding Risks related to the cost and availability of funds Rexams financial risk management is based upon sound to meet our business needs, movements in economic objectives and good corporate practice.
Rexam interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates negotiates funding requirements in a timely manner ensuring as well as commodity prices.
Improvement in appropriate headroom is secured to mitigate availability risk.
balance sheet metrics through 2011 means this Derivative and other financial instruments are used to risk has a reducing trend, but it remains a key manage exposures under conditions identified by the board risk for Rexam.
and monitored by its finance committee.
In response to the current instability in Europe a euro crisis committee has been established to monitor risks, create contingency plans and take actions as appropriate.
Further details of our financial risks and the way in which we mitigate them are set out in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 4 42 2 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report sustainability Rexam Healthcares core expertise lies in injection moulding andhigh speed automated assembly incompliance withGood Manufacturing Practice.
4 43 3 44 products This section provides a review of our 47 operations sustainability performance in 2011.
49 people Itexplains our approach to and progress inthis area, and details our commitments, measures and targets going forward.
fin fia nn ac nic aila sl tsattaetm em en etn sts g go ov five er rn na an nc ce e s su us st ta aiin na ab biilliit ty y b bu usi sin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w o ov five er rv viie ew w
