Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors Rio Tintos business units and functions assess the potential economic impact.
Risks may materialise individually, simultaneously and non-economic consequences of their respective risks using the or in combination and could significantly affect the Groups: framework defined by the Groups Risk policy and standard.
Principal risks Short, medium and long-term business and prospects: and uncertainties are identified when the Risk management committee, Earnings and cash flow: business unit or function determines that the potential consequences are materially significant at a Group level or where the risk is connected and Overall financial results and product demand: may trigger a succession of events that, in aggregate, become material to Current asset values: the Group.
Once identified, each principal risk and uncertainty is reviewed Future asset values and growth potential: by the relevant internal experts and by the Risk management committee.
Safety plus long, medium and short-term health: The following describes all known principal risks and uncertainties that Environmental effects: or could materially affect Rio Tinto.
There may be additional risks unknown Group or business unit reputation.
to Rio Tinto and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, which could turn out to be material.
The risk factors outlined below omit the The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection management detail on how each is managed and mitigated, or how some with any forward looking statements in this document and the cautionary risks could result in either a positive upside or negative downside statement on the inside front cover.
External risks Commodity prices and global Commodity prices and demand are cyclical and strongly influenced by world economic conditions.
The Groups demand for the Groups products normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices and not to enter into price hedging arrangements.
are expected to remain uncertain.
Persistent economic imbalances that have led to recent volatility in commodity prices and demand may continue.
Past strong demand for the The Group is heavily reliant on the China market and a major economic downturn in China, or if Chinese customers Groups products in China source products from elsewhere, would have effects across all of the Groups products.
The basis on which the Group could be affected by future prices iron ore in Asia is evolving and sales to other iron ore customers may be influenced by any changes.
Rio Tinto is exposed to The great majority of the Groups sales are denominated in US dollars, which is also the currency used for holding fluctuations in exchange rates.
surplus cash, financing operations, and presenting external and internal results.
Although many costs are incurred in US dollars, significant costs are influenced by the local currencies of the countries where the Group operates, principally the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and euro.
The normal policy is to avoid hedging of foreign exchange rates and so the Group is vulnerable to appreciation in the value of other currencies against the US dollar, or to prolonged periods of exchange rate volatility.
Political, legal and commercial The Group has operations in jurisdictions where governments and communities are seeking a greater share changes in the places where in mineral wealth.
In some jurisdictions commercial instability can arise from a culture of bribery and corruption.
Some operations are conducted under specific agreements with respective governments and associated acts of parliament.
In several countries land title and rights to land and resources including Indigenous title may be unclear.
Political and administrative change, policy reform, and changes in law or government regulation can result in expropriation, or nationalisation.
In its operations and development projects, Rio Tinto is exposed to: Renegotiation, unilateral variation or nullification of existing agreements, leases and permits.
Changes in government ownership of operations.
Significant restoration and environmental clean-up costs.
Currency and foreign investment restrictions.
Changes in taxation rates, regimes or international tax agreements.
Limitations to power, water, energy and infrastructure access.
Political instability and uncertainty or government changes to the fiscal terms covering the Groups operations may discourage future investments.
Community disputes in the Some of the Groups current and potential operations are located in or near communities that may regard the countries and territories in operation as being detrimental to their circumstances.
Community expectations are typically complex with the which the Group operates.
potential for multiple inconsistent stakeholder views that may be difficult to resolve.
Stakeholder opinion and community acceptance can be subject to many influences, for example, related industries, operations of other groups, local, regional or national events in other places where we operate.
In the extreme, our operations may be a focus for civil unrest or criminal activity.
10 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Overview Strategic risks The Group may be unable Rio Tinto has embarked on a substantial growth programme of capital investment in greenfield and brownfield to maintain the planned rate projects to bring on new capacity and to extend the life of existing operations.
These projects form a portfolio that of growth due to possible is actively managed.
However, the ability to achieve the expected growth schedule and objectives is dependent on constraints on the rate many interconnected elements.
Should some of our plans fail to materialise as expected, the planned rate of capital of capital expenditure.
expenditure may not be achieved.
The Groups exploration and Rio Tinto identifies new orebodies and mining properties through its exploration programme, and develops development of new projects or expands other operations as a means of generating shareholder value.
Exploration is not always successful might be unsuccessful, and there is a high degree of competition to develop world-class orebodies.
Some competitors, who have access expenditures may not be fully to significant resources, may be motivated by political or other non-economic factors.
The Group may not be able recovered and depleted ore to source or maintain adequate project financing: or may be unable to find willing and suitable joint venture partners reserves may not be replaced.
to share the cost of developing large projects.
Rio Tinto may fail to make Business combinations entail a number of risks including the effective integration of acquisitions to realise or successfully integrate synergies, significant one-time write-offs or restructuring charges, and unanticipated costs and liabilities.
acquisitions, or to complete The Group may also be liable for the past acts, omissions or liabilities it has acquired that are unforeseen divestment agreements.
The Group may also retain unforeseen liabilities for divested entities if the buyer fails to honour all commitments.
Financial risks The Groups reported results An asset impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected events or changed expectations about could be adversely affected the future.
In accordance with IFRS, the Group does not amortise goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets but by the impairment of assets tests it annually for impairment: such impairments cannot be reversed.
The Groups liquidity and cash The Groups ability to fund planned expenditure such as capital growth, mergers and acquisitions, innovation and flow expectations may not be other obligations may falter if its cash position proves inadequate.
Our ability to weather a major economic shock realised as expected, inhibiting for example in the eurozone could be compromised by insufficient cash reserves, a reduction in the value of existing planned expenditure.
reserves, or restricted access to our cash reserves.
General cost inflation in the Recently, many input costs in the resources sector have risen at a disproportionate rate, adversely affecting the resources sector is affecting both economics of current operations and increasing the cost of our capital expansion projects.
Many key costs are linked operations and projects, resulting to commodity prices and in the case of capital expansion projects the time lag between incurring project costs and in significant pressure on capital receiving revenue can result in additional exposure to commodity markets.
Failure to contain costs may have an and operating costs.
adverse impact on our operating margins and the viability of our capital expansion projects.
Operational risks Estimates of ore reserves are There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves including subjective judgments and based on uncertain assumptions determinations that are based on available geological, technical, contract and economic information.
Previously that, if changed, could result in valid assumptions may change significantly with new information, which may result in changes to the economic the need to restate ore reserves.
viability of some reserves and the need for them to be restated.
Labour disputes could lead Some of the Groups employees, including employees in non-managed operations, are represented by labour unions to lost production and or under various collective labour agreements.
The Group may not be able satisfactorily to renegotiate agreements increased costs.
when they expire and may face tougher negotiations or higher wage demands.
In addition, labour agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage.
Some of the Groups technologies The Group has invested in and implemented new technologies in both information systems and operational are unproven and failures could initiatives, some of which are unproven and their eventual viability cannot be assessed with certainty.
The actual adversely impact costs and or benefits of these technologies may differ materially from expectations.
The Group may be exposed Rio Tinto operates within a complex supply chain depending on suppliers of materials, services, equipment, to major failures in the supply infrastructure, and on providers of logistics.
Significant supply chain failures for whatever reason could have chain for specialist equipment an adverse effect on the Groups business.
Joint ventures, strategic The Group participates in several joint venture and partnership arrangements, and it may enter into others, all of partnerships or non-managed which necessarily involve risk.
Whether or not the Group holds majority interests or maintains operational control operations may not be successful in its joint ventures, its partners may: and may not comply with the Have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with, or opposed to, those of the Group.
Exercise veto rights to block actions that the Group believes are in its or the joint ventures best interests.
Be unable or unwilling to fulfil their obligations under the joint venture or other agreements, such as contributing capital to expansion or maintenance projects.
Where these joint ventures are controlled and managed by others, the Group may provide expertise and advice but has limited control over compliance with its standards and objectives: such that partners may take action contrary to the Groups policies with respect to its investment.
com 11 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risks continued The Groups operations are 1.
Natural disasters and events vulnerable to a range of Mining, smelting, refining and infrastructure installations are vulnerable to natural events including earthquakes, interruptions, not all of which drought, flood, fire, storm and the possible effects of climate change.
are covered fully by insurance.
Sustained operational difficulties Operating difficulties are many and various, ranging from unexpected geological variations that could result in significant ground or containment failure to breakdown of key capital equipment.
Reliable roads, rail networks, ports, power generation and transmission, and water supplies are required to access and conduct our operations.
The Group transports a large proportion of its products by sea.
Limitations, or interruptions in transport infrastructure, including as a result of third parties gaining access to our integrated facilities, could impede its ability to deliver products.
An extensive information technology infrastructure forms the backbone of many operations.
An extended failure of critical system components or malicious actions, including resulting from a cyber-security attack, could result in significant environmental incident, commercial loss or interruption to operations.
Major operational failure The Groups operations involve chemicals and other substances under high temperature and pressure, with the potential for fire, explosion or other loss of control of the process, leading to a release of hazardous materials.
This could occur by accident or a breach of operating standards, and could result in a significant incident.
The Groups insurance does not cover every potential loss associated with its operations and adequate coverage at reasonable rates is not always obtainable.
In addition, insurance provision may not fully cover its liability or the consequences of any business interruption.
Any occurrence not fully covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on the Groups business.
Sustainable development risks Increased regulation Rio Tintos operations are energy intensive and depend heavily on fossil fuels.
Worldwide, there is increasing of greenhouse gas emissions regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, tighter emission reduction targets and progressive introduction of carbon could adversely affect the pricing mechanisms.
These are likely to raise worldwide energy, production and transport costs over the next Groups cost of operations.
The Group depends on the The Groups ability to maintain its competitive position is dependent on the services of a wide range of highly continued services of key skilled and experienced personnel available in the locations where they are needed.
Failure to recruit and retain personnel.
key staff, and the inability to deploy staff worldwide, where they are most needed, could affect the Groups business.
Similar constraints may be felt by the Groups key consultants, contractors and suppliers with effects on its expansion plans.
The Groups costs of close down, Close down and reclamation works to return operating sites to the community can be extensive and costly.
reclamation, and rehabilitation Estimated costs are provided for, and updated annually, over the life of each operation but the provisions might could be higher than expected.
prove to be inadequate due to changes in legislation, standards and the emergence of new reclamation techniques.
In addition, the expected timing of expenditure could change significantly due to changes in the business environment that might vary the life of an operation.
Regulations, standards and The resources sector is subject to extensive health, safety and environmental laws, regulations and standards stakeholder expectations in alongside community and stakeholder expectations.
Evolving regulation, standards and stakeholder expectations health, safety, environment and could result in litigation or, in extreme cases, threaten the viability of an operation even where the underlying community evolve over time and dispute is not material to the Group.
unforeseen changes could have an adverse effect on the Groups business and reputation.
12 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Performance Performance Contents Performance Sustainable development 14 Independent assurance report 19 Aluminium 20 Copper 22 Diamonds & Minerals 24 Energy 26 Iron Ore 28 Business Support & Operations 30 Exploration 30 Other Business Support & Operations 30 Technology & Innovation 31 Financial review 32 Five year review 39 Acquisitions and divestments 40 Capital projects 41 riotinto.
