business and financial review continued principal risks and uncertainties Our risk profile evolves as we move through the economic cycle.
Set out below are the principal business risks that impact our business and operations today.
Risk description Potential impact Strategy for mitigation Economic conditions The construction industry, from which we earn Prudent management through the different the majority of our revenue, is cyclical with phases of the cycle.
construction industry cycles typically lagging Flexibility in the business model maintained the general economic cycle by between six to ensure adaptability whatever the economic and 18 months.
Thus, while the US economy environment.
is showing signs of improvement, our end markets are still declining and we may not see Capital structure and debt facilities arranged a significant improvement in our demand until in recognition of the cyclical nature of our markets improve.
Competition The already competitive market could become Create commercial advantage by providing even more competitive and we could suffer the highest level of service, consistently and increased competition from large national at a price which offers value.
competitors or small companies operating at a Excel in the areas that provide barriers to local level resulting in reduced market share and entry to newcomers: industry-leading lower revenue.
application of IT, experienced personnel and a broad network and equipment fleet.
Regularly estimate and monitor our market share and track the performance of our competitors to ensure that we are performing effectively.
Financing Debt facilities are only ever committed for a Maintain conservative 2-3 times net debt to finite period of time and we need to plan to EBITDA leverage which helps minimise our renew our facilities before they mature.
were unable to complete this, there would be Maintain long debt maturities currently five a default at maturity which could give lenders years following Marchs ABL refinancing.
the right to assume control of our business or to liquidate our assets in order to recover their Use of asset-based senior facility means none loan.
Our loan agreements also contain of our debt contains quarterly financial conditions known as covenants with which covenants when excess availability $479m at we must comply.
Business continuity We are heavily dependent on technology for the Robust and well-protected data centres with smooth running of our business given the large multiple data links to protect against the risk number of both units of equipment we rent and of failure.
of customers we deal with over the course of a Detailed business recovery plans which are year.
A serious uncured failure in our point of tested periodically.
sale IT platforms would have an immediate impact on our business, rendering us unable Separate near-live back-up data centres which to record and track our high volume, low are designed to be able to provide the transaction value operations.
necessary services in the event of a failure at the primary site.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 27 Risk description Potential impact Strategy for mitigation People Retaining and attracting good people is key Provide well-structured and competitive to delivering superior performance and reward and benefit packages that ensure our customer service.
ability to attract and retain the employees we need.
Excessive staff turnover is likely to impact on our ability to maintain the appropriate quality of Ensure that our staff have the right working service to our customers and would ultimately environment and equipment to enable them impact our financial performance adversely.
to do the best job possible and maximise their satisfaction at work.
Invest in opportunities for our people to enhance their skills and develop their careers to the mutual benefit of both them and the Group.
Health and safety Accidents happen which might result in injury Maintain appropriate health and safety to an individual, claims against the Group and policies and procedures to reasonably guard damage to our reputation.
our employees against the risk of injury.
Induction and training programmes reinforce health and safety policies.
Programmes to support our customers exercising their responsibility to their own workforces when using our equipment.
Compliance with laws and regulations Failure to comply with the frequently changing Maintaining a legal function to oversee regulatory environment could result in management of these risks and to achieve reputational damage or financial penalty.
Group-wide ethics policy and whistle blowing arrangements, by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about any alleged improprieties.
Policies and practices evolve to take account of changes in legal obligations.
Training and induction programmes ensure our staff receive appropriate training and briefing on the relevant policies.
Competition law and the new UK Bribery Act were a particular focus this year.
Environmental We could fail to comply with the numerous Policies and procedures in place at all our laws governing environmental protection and stores regarding the need to adhere to local occupational health and safety matters.
These laws regulate such issues as wastewater, Procurement policies reflect the need for the stormwater, solid and hazardous wastes and latest available emissions management and materials, and air quality.
Breaches potentially fuel efficiency tools in our fleet.
create hazards to our employees, damage to our reputation and expose the Group to, amongst Monitoring and reporting of carbon emissions.
other things, the cost of investigating and remediating contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we send hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment regardless of fault, and also fines and penalties for non-compliance.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
