STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The assessment and management of risk is the responsibility of the Board, and the development and execution of a comprehensive and robust system of risk management has a high priority in Rotork.
This is based on an established process for the identification and management of risk, first at divisional board level, and then for the Group as a whole.
Rotork works within the governance framework set out in our corporate governance statement, see page 38.
The Boards role in risk management Testing the controls through management updating and implementing appropriate involves promoting a culture that review and internal audit: controls to manage the identified risks.
emphasises integrity at all levels of business We are therefore confident that we have a Forming a conclusion on the effectiveness operations.
This includes ensuring that risk methodology for ensuring that the Groups of the control environment in place.
management is embedded within the core approach to dealing with individual risks is processes of the Group, determining the robust and timely.
The major risks affecting the Group are first principal risks, and ensuring that these identified and considered by the divisional are communicated effectively across the We identify three main risk areas: boards during their regular meetings.
Once businesses and setting the overall policies FINANCIAL issues that could affect the a risk has been identified it is allocated for risk management and control.
finances of the business both externally to one of the directors to ensure the from matters initially outside of our risk is appropriately considered and the The Group Finance Director is responsible control, and from the perspective of risk managed.
Risks are categorised by for risk management within the Group internal controls and processes: likelihood and potential impact on the and leads the development of the risk business, and once the assessment matrix STRATEGIC risks that potentially could management process and the tools used.
is completed by each division, the risks affect the strategic aims of the business, The Board approves appetite for risk at are then aggregated and re-evaluated in or those issues that could affect the both Group and divisional level and the relation to the Group as a whole.
Identified strategic objectives that the Group is consequential actions in terms of mitigation risks are discussed, and the progress addressing: where possible and appropriate.
reviewed at both Rotork Management OPERATIONAL risks arising out of the Board and divisional board meetings operational activities of the Group relating The processes of risk management within during the year.
Senior management, in to areas such as logistics, procurement, the businesses involve: association with the full Board of Directors, product development and interaction with Identification and regular assessment meet twice a year to consider the Group commercial partners.
of individual risks at both subsidiary and risk matrix and progress with mitigating divisional level: actions.
The external Auditor is invited to The top 11 risks identified in the risk Reviewing previously identified risks and attend one of the meetings each year.
management process are categorised by the effectiveness of mitigation where the three main risk areas identified above appropriate: This is an ongoing process involving regular and are listed in the table below.
Potential assessment of the risks, with clear and Design of controls to mitigate identified impact and mitigation, where possible, is consistent procedures for monitoring, risks: shown for each risk identified.
FINANCIAL RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Volatility of exchange rates.
Significant fluctuations in exchange A clear treasury hedging policy rates could have an adverse impact addresses short-term risk and this on Rotorks reported results.
works together with the natural hedging provided by the geographical spread of operations, sourcing and customers.
Political instability in a key end-market.
Disruption of normal business activity The wide geographic spread of Rotorks would impact our sales in that country operations and customers diminishes and might ultimately leads to loss of any the impact of any one market.
assets located in that country as well.
Losses arising from complex and Assuming contractual liabilities which are Rotork has policies in place for the extended scope contracts where risks not covered by insurance could expose authorisation of significant contracts.
could be assumed which are beyond the Rotork to significant financial costs.
Regular training is given at various levels terms covered by insurance.
of the Group on Rotork policies and insurance conditions.
ROTORK P. L. C. 26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 STRATEGIC RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Competition on price as a result of Where a competitor decides to use cost Rotork already has a direct presence, in an existing competitor moving to savings to reduce their selling prices, terms of production, sales and service manufacture in a lower cost area of this could lead to a reduction in the support, in the major low cost locations.
Rotork might need There is a constant drive to maintain to respond to a change in market price differentiation from the competition both levels whilst still maintaining the price in terms of the quality of our products premium currently enjoyed for some and of the service we provide.
Not having the appropriate products, In order to be able to compete on a Development of products to meet either in terms of features or costs.
project, our products must meet both required specifications is an ongoing the necessary specification and pricing activity as is the drive to take cost out of level.
A failure on either count could our products to meet target pricing levels.
Lower investment in Rotorks traditional A reduction in capital or maintenance Identification of new markets market sectors.
expenditure in one of Rotorks key takes place in each location and is market sectors would result in a smaller coordinated at divisional level.
This is addressable market, which in turn could supported by product development and lead to a reduction in revenue from that innovation to address new markets and sector.
new applications in existing markets.
Rotorks reputation for innovation is Investment in Research & Development one of the elements which underline continues to grow each year across the the Groups position in the industry.
Aside from specific projects, Customer perceptions of Rotork would setting aside time for innovation and be adversely affected over time if sharing ideas is an important means of competitors were seen to be taking fostering new ideas.
Recruiting talented the lead in product development.
engineers and then investing in their development and training supports these activities.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Quality and application failures in a Actuators are used in applications where Product design and development is hazardous area and or causing an their failure could result in environmental supported by extensive life cycle and environmental impact.
This could lead to financial performance tests and are subject to penalties as well as the loss of a internal quality control procedures.
customer and damage of reputation.
Major in field product failure arising from Replacement of defective components A comprehensive set of quality control a component defect or warranty issue or complete units would give rise to a procedures operates over suppliers.
which might require a product recall.
direct financial cost but there would also These include supplier visits, audits and be a reputational risk.
a scorecard system to measure their performance.
Failure of a key supplier or tooling failure Where customer delivery expectations Dual sourcing for key components at a supplier causing disruption to are not met, this could lead to financial wherever possible with regular planned manufacturing.
penalties and damage customer monitoring and replacement of tooling relationships.
Failure of an acquisition to deliver the Whilst growth opportunities, cost savings During the due diligence process growth or synergies anticipated, due and synergies are identified prior to and preparation of the 100 day plan, to incorrect assumptions or changing completion, these may not always be consideration is given to the composition market conditions, or failure to integrate delivered at the levels anticipated or to and skills of the management team.
an acquisition to ensure compliance the timetable expected.
Training and support is provided by a with Rotorks policies and procedures.
variety of Rotork personnel to ensure effective integration and communication of Rotorks policies and procedures, whilst monitoring delivery of the financial plan.
ROTORK P. L. C. 27 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
