20 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Principal risks Focused on managing our risks The principal risks facing the group and considered by the board are detailed below.
The groups well-developed risk management process is described in the corporate governance section while financial risks are discussed in the Chief Financial Officers review and in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
Principal risk Context Specific risks we face Possible impact Mitigation Associated strategic priorities Industry consolidation The global brewing industry is expected to Failing to participate in value-adding transactions Lower growth rate, Potential transactions are subject to rigorous analysis.
Only opportunities Creating a balanced and continue to consolidate, albeit more slowly Paying too much to acquire a business profitability and financial with potential to create value are pursued.
attractive global spread of thaninthe past.
There will continue to be Not implementing integration plans successfully returns Proven integration processes, procedures and practices are applied to businesses opportunities to enter attractive growth markets, ensure delivery of expected returns.
Constantly raising the to realise synergy benefits from integration and Activities to deliver synergies, embed best operating practices and profitability of local businesses, toleverage our global scale.
leverage scale are in place, monitored closely and continuously enhanced.
sustainably Change in consumer Consumer tastes and behaviours are constantly Failing to ensure the strength and relevance Market positions come under Ongoing evaluation of our brand portfolios in every market to ensure that Developing strong, relevant preferences evolving and competition is increasing and ofour brands pressure: lower top line they target current and future opportunities for profitable growth.
brand portfolios that win in the becoming more sophisticated.
Failing to keep improving our commercial growth rates and profitability Building our brand equities through innovation and compelling marketing local market capabilities to deliver brand propositions that programmes.
Constantly raising the meet consumer, shopper and customer needs Continued enhancement of the SABMiller Marketing Way which sets out profitability of local businesses, the best practice approach for our commercial processes.
sustainably Focus on monitoring and benchmarking commercial performance and Leveraging our skills and global developing the critical commercial capabilities that are required in order scale to win in local markets.
Management capability We believe that our people are our enduring Failing to identify, develop and retain a sufficient Lower long-term profitable Further develop the groups leadership talent pipeline through our Developing strong, relevant advantage and therefore it is essential pipeline of talented managers for the present growth GlobalTalent Management model and strategic people resourcing.
brand portfolios that win in the thatwedevelop and maintain global andfuture needs of the group Sustaining a strong culture of accountability, empowerment and local market management capability.
Constantly raising the profitability Standardisation of key processes and best practices across the group of local businesses, sustainably through the roll-out of the SABMiller Ways.
Leveraging our skills and global scale Regulatory changes With increasing debate over alcohol consumption Regulation places increasing restrictions on Lower growth, lower Rigorous adherence to the principle of self-regulation backed by Creating a balanced and in many markets, the alcohol industry is coming theavailability and marketing of beer profitability and reduced appropriate policies and management review.
attractive global spread of under increasing pressure from regulators, NGOs Tax and excise changes cause pressure on contribution to local Constructive engagement with government and all external stakeholders businesses and tax authorities.
pricing communities in some on alcohol-related issues.
Developing strong, relevant countries Investment to enhance the economic and social impact of our brand portfolios that win in the businesses in local communities and working in partnership with local local market governments and NGOs to combat alcohol abuse.
Constantly raising the profitability of local businesses, sustainably Volatility in the price of Prices of our key raw materials remain highly Failing to manage price volatility Lower profitability and Developing a strategic sourcing and procurement capability.
Constantly raising the raw materials volatile and the level of volatility is increasing.
Not obtaining an adequate supply of brewing and occasional supply disruption Further developing our understanding of raw material price risks and profitability of local businesses, packaging raw materials at competitive prices ourrisk management approach.
sustainably Contractual agreements with suppliers covering multiple time horizons, Leveraging our skills and global combined with an active hedging programme.
scale Programmes to support development of local sourcing for certain key commodities, such as barley, in Africa, India and Latin America.
Economic environment The global economic recovery remains uneven.
Our marketing, operating and financial responses Lower growth rates and Regular management forecasts and reviews that focus on the Creating a balanced and Uncertainty around consumer disposable income may not be timely or adequate to respond to profitability actionsrequired to deliver the desired performance during the attractive global spread of for beer other beverages due to continuing high changing consumer demand balanceof the year.
businesses unemployment, rising food prices and increasing Maintaining and extending our local industry leadership positions Developing strong, relevant energy costs.
through a focus on local execution, appropriate investments in our brand portfolios that win in the brands and development of commercial capability.
local market Continued focus on improving productivity, reducing costs and Constantly raising the profitability effectivecapital and cash flow management.
of local businesses, sustainably Delivering business The group is executing a major business Failing to derive the expected benefits from Increased programme costs, Senior leadership closely involved in monitoring progress and in Constantly raising the transformation capability programme that will simplify theprojects currently under way delays in benefit realisation, makingkey decisions.
profitability of local businesses, processes, reduce costs and allow local Failing to contain programme costs or ensure business disruption Structures in place to track both costs and benefits.
sustainably management teams to focus more closely execution is in line with planned timelines Rigorous programme management and governance processes with Leveraging our skills and global ontheir markets.
dedicated resources and clear accountability.
indd 20 07 06 2011 10:08 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 21 Kozel First brewed in Central Bohemia, Velkopopovick Kozel is a traditional lager with a well balanced smooth taste brewed with exactly the right ratio of caramel malt and Zatec hops.
The craftsmanship of Kozel brew masters is enjoyed throughout the world.
Origin: Czech Republic First brewed: 1870 www.
cz Principal risk Context Specific risks we face Possible impact Mitigation Associated strategic priorities Industry consolidation The global brewing industry is expected to Failing to participate in value-adding transactions Lower growth rate, Potential transactions are subject to rigorous analysis.
