Performance Principal risks and uncertainties Risks can materialise and impact on both the achievement of business priorities and the successful running of Sages business A key element in achieving our business priorities and maintaining services to customers is the management of risks.
Sages risk management strategy is therefore to support the successful running of the business by identifying and managing risks to an acceptable level and delivering assurances on this.
External business factors Products and services Loss of key management Intellectual property As a technology company, operating in many different There is a risk to Sages reputation and future ability to grow While Sage operates in a decentralised culture, with many Sage relies on intellectual property laws, including laws on Description Description countries throughout the world, there is a risk that Sage does as a business if poor quality products and services are different operating companies across the globe, there is a risk copyright, patents, trade secrets and trademarks, to protect not appropriately respond to external business factors, such released to customers.
This risk relates to both traditional as with any other business, relating to key man dependency our products.
Despite laws and regulations being in place, as changing business needs, changing technologies, on-premise products and services and online, customer and loss of key management.
unauthorised copies of software still exist.
The internet competitor activities, compliance and regulatory requirements facing products and services.
In addition, for online customer provides new methods for illegal copying of the technology and the economic environment.
facing products and services, Sage must ensure that it used in Sages products and services.
adequately protects and secures customers data.
There is a potential for an adverse impact on business Sages reputation and competitive advantage could be Loss of key knowledge or personnel could result in an inability Illegal or unauthorised copies of Sages software could be sold Potential impact Potential impact performance if external business factors are not appropriately jeopardised if a poor quality product or service was released for Sage to operate effectively and maintain a competitive without our knowledge, impacting financial results and Sages responded to.
Such adverse impacts could affect the to customers.
The impact of Sages products and services on edge.
Loss of key management could result in important, reputation.
competitive position and revenue, make demands on its customers ability to do business increases the severity of sensitive information leaving the Group.
employees and cause financial penalties to be incurred.
The change in the product and services landscape in terms of online customer facing products and services and the need to ensure reliability and availability also increases the severity and potential impact of the risk.
We continue to build strong customer relationships, develop Sage has detailed product and service release and quality Sage has detailed key man dependency identification While relying, as other companies do, on the laws and Mitigation Mitigation and expand our product and services offering and seek control procedures which are adhered to in advance of a processes and detailed succession planning processes in regulations in existence, Sage continually polices the organic and acquisitive growth opportunities.
We develop product or service release.
Sage also has detailed quality place to mitigate against the risk of loss of key personnel.
unauthorised use of its products.
Sage also ensures the appropriate strategic direction and maintain knowledge of assurance processes and initiatives relating to the level of secure storage of source code throughout the Group.
industry developments to ensure a proactive response to service provided to customers.
Our defensive business model and the significant percentage of our revenue which is recurring, give comfort and support against economic exposure.
Our Group-wide compliance programme seeks to ensure that local, national and international regulatory requirements are identified and complied with.
A detailed quarterly forecasting process helps to ensure robust and realistic challenge to financial performance.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements E M T I A T I u G l A A T V E E The processes to identify and manage the principal risks to Principal risks the success of the Group are an integral part of the internal control environment.
Internal control and risk management To see how our internal control and risk management processes and responsibilities work, see our corporate governance report.
See page 51 External business factors Products and services Loss of key management Intellectual property As a technology company, operating in many different There is a risk to Sages reputation and future ability to grow While Sage operates in a decentralised culture, with many Sage relies on intellectual property laws, including laws on Description Description countries throughout the world, there is a risk that Sage does as a business if poor quality products and services are different operating companies across the globe, there is a risk copyright, patents, trade secrets and trademarks, to protect not appropriately respond to external business factors, such released to customers.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 21 y A F n I T A n l y E S d E I
