Internal Control and Risk Management INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The identification and management of both strategic and Identification and control of risk operational risk across the SDL Group is essential to ensure performance against objectives and deliver shareholder The Executive Directors are directly involved in value.
The consequence, probability of occurrence and management of risk and effective systems are in place reputational and financial impact of each risk is considered to identify operational risk.
These systems depend on and mapped according to its significance to the Groups robust and stable operating procedures which are well objectives.
disseminated and understood by all involved.
There is formal and effective control over the following decision The Board believes that by managing risk in a dynamic parameters by the Executive Directors: way which is truly embedded into our operations we can provide a reasonable and not absolute assurance against There are delegated expenditure controls in place on material misstatement or loss.
We can also be reasonably both financial quantum and duration of commitment confident that we can manage risk in a way that risk will that require sign off at various levels in the not detract from delivery of our critical strategic objectives.
organisation including the CEO and CFO.
These cover We are committed to continuous improvement and both operating and capital expenditure.
development of our risk management processes.
There is a system of reserved powers where matters cannot be decided at operating segment level and The Board discharges its risk management processes must be referred to Group Executive Management.
through its executive management structure.
The Group produces carefully considered budgets for each operating segment of its business where Management Structure key actions to enable delivery are clearly defined and prioritised.
Group functional plans are also in There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision place that must clearly link to operational priorities.
by the Board: a formal schedule of these is on the This cohesive planning process gives a clear view of companys website.
Executive directors have responsibility key deliverables and critical dependencies that span for specific parts of the Groups affairs and these are across functions or operating segments, maximising clearly defined.
There is a formal Executive Committee collaboration in delivery.
consisting of the Chief Executive Officer CEO, the Chief Payment processes are appropriately controlled and Financial Officer CFO, business segment CEOs, the segregation of duty is prioritised so that excessive Chief Technology Officer CTO and the Chief Information concentration of authority does not reside in any one Officer CIO which meets regularly to discuss strategic individual.
and operational matters and associated risks to delivery All acquisition related decisions are confined to of strategy.
the Board and must be referred to the Executive Chairman, CEO, and CFO by operating segment The Group also has formal structures in place in the management.
There is appropriate and regular cascade of relevant information to employees which is logically cascaded The SDL Board reviews the risk register at least once a year.
The CEO personally gives monthly In addition in-depth reviews of specific items of risk are updates on business performance to approximately conducted as required by the Board throughout the year.
A comprehensive Whilst overall responsibility for risk management lies with knowledge series initiative has also been developed the Board, the identification, management and reporting that informs employees about group processes as of risk is delegated to the Audit Committee.
well as fundamental information about SDL and its businesses.
Should these risks occur there are policies, decision All property decisions, whether lease or purchase processes and escalation procedures in place throughout require group approval.
the business units designed to mitigate the effects.
All technology roadmap decisions require group approval.
60 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The hiring process uses an in-house recruitment Formal segmental management teams are in place professional and all key strategic hires are carefully that are complementary to the Group Executive Team profiled against clearly established competency and who control operational execution and collaboration skill set needs to ensure recruitment and retention of across the Group.
There is a formal system of accounting policies in high quality personnel.
place that are compliance validated in site visits and There are salary frameworks and hiring approval group audit and available to all in the finance function frameworks in place.
These policies are rolled out There are established protocols for contract sign through formal communication sessions.
off and execution and a formal set of acceptable There is a full system of key account management conditions in place for legal contract sign off that teams in place.
These controls, checks and balances provide strong operational linkage to risk management processes.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Description Risk Mitigation 2011 Activity Management of Inconsistent The Group endeavours to provide HR organisation model reviewed for succession and leadership, relevant experience for future growth and capability.
3 transition processes, inadequately trained senior or key roles, competitive and Group key staff or employee remuneration structures, talent management attrition that prevents including long and short term and succession delivery of strategic incentives, and ensures that planning business objectives.
there are open and transparent assessments, development plans and promotion opportunities that encourage employees to want to build long term careers with SDL.
System interruption A significant The Group focuses on business Third party suppliers contingency and business unplanned outage continuity planning and security and back up processes reviewed.
continuity planning that causes a major of its data centre and hosting and policies for business continuity facilities.
Business continuity Crisis simulation exercises run in dealing with business issue.
planning embraces home 2011. interruption working options for those that can work from home Business invoked contingency plans and considers alternative and successfully after tsunami and distributed locations in the event earthquake in Japan and secured that a significant office is taken normal operations.
There is strong emphasis and focus in business continuity plans on how to restore normal operations as quickly as possible.
Planning helps to safeguard SDLs reputation as well as ensuring the company meets regulatory and contractual obligations.
61 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Internal Control and Risk Management Description Risk Mitigation 2011 Activity Data protection, data Loss of data or leak of Solutions for specific situations SDL achieved certification to ISO loss and data security critical data.
are being incorporated into a IEC 27001 for the UK.
systematic process which: Examines SDLs information security risks, threats, vulnerabilities and impacts: Addresses unacceptable risks with a comprehensive policy on control or other form of risk treatment: and Adopts an overarching management process to ensure that the information security controls continue to meet the business information security needs on an ongoing basis.
Compliance Risk Changes made to Regular reviews ensure Setting appropriate standards laws, regulations or compliance with group policies of behaviour is essential to standards worldwide and applicable laws, regulations compliance.
During 2011, the could adversely and standards.
Changes in refreshed Code of Conduct was impact the groups legislation are monitored with the rolled out to staff which linked capability or the help of the Groups financial and directly into our knowledge series marketability of our legal advisors where necessary.
initiative which is designed to give products.
all employees deep understanding of the SDL Group, its business and its processes.
The updated Code of Conduct considers and responds to matters raised in the UK Bribery Act.
Contract Customer and The Legal function ensures that The Group has strengthened Management and supplier contractual customer contracts are carefully its Legal function in 2011 with Litigation Control risk exposure.
prepared, reviewed, negotiated appointments to the UK and USA and approved in line with internal teams.
policies that have an escalation framework in place for referral to senior management.
STRATEGIC RISKS Acquisitions Realising the benefits The group has clearly defined In May 2011 the Group acquired of an investment criteria for suitable acquisition Calamares Holding BV, a video depends upon targets and substantial due asset management company achieving planned diligence, including detailed based in the Netherlands.
In performance of the review of business plans, is carried January 2012 the Alterian group acquired businesses out before any acquisition is was acquired.
The integration of after acquisition and made.
The group has extensive Calamares is complete and formal successful integration experience of integrating implementation of the Alterian into the group.
acquisitions and captures this integration plan is underway.
62 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Description Risk Mitigation 2011 Activity Maintaining The Group fails to The Group invests in research The Group has a rolling programme Technology develop products to and development and has using outside intellectual Leadership and keep up with current well integrated and planned property counsel to ensure that Intellectual Property market trends innovation roadmaps and its intellectual property rights Matters or is exposed to stringent delivery checkpoints.
are appropriately protected by intellectual property law.
and associated investment needs are extensively reviewed for each twelve month period and formally approved.
FINANCIAL RISKS Liquidity Risk Cash reserves and The Group is highly cash There is a continuing emphasis on working capital are generative.
The methodology for effective billing and credit controls not sufficient to dealing with liquidity risk through which are fully integrated with repay debts as they strong generation of free cash business operations.
flow is dealt with on page 57 in 3 the Financial Review.
Counterparty Risk The principal risk is The mitigating strategy for this Further monitoring and appropriate exposure to RBS.
risk is covered on page 57 in the dialogue has taken place with RBS Financial Review.
and facility conditions have been maintained without operational consequence to SDL.
Interest Rate Risk Profit and loss There were no borrowings in and cash effect of 2011.
The mitigating strategy for increased interest this risk is covered on page 57 in rates on group the Financial Review.
Compliance is monitored actively Financial Reporting Inadequate systems The operational process for via site visits and the frameworks System lead to incomplete or control over financial reporting is are controlled and reviewed each delayed reporting.
led by the Chief Financial Officer, year to generate progressive who works through the Finance tightening and continuous Leadership Team to ensure there improvement and to respond to are a full suite of policies and any risk management priorities procedures in place that are or emerging standards.
Full effectively communicated and audit packages are produced disseminated to the operating for each operating unit which units in SDL.
comprehensively explain delivered results and these are quality reviewed by the International Controllers team.
There is full and transparent reporting to the Audit Committee of control program findings and reporting here is fully at the direction of the Audit Committee according to its needs.
63 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
