Section 3 | Our performance Principal risks and uncertainties Serco has a well-established and embedded system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, designed to safeguard shareholders investments and our assets and reputation.
The Board has overall responsibility for our internal control and in the Group as a whole with the aim of safeguarding system and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has delegated to our shareholders investments and our assets and reputation.
management the implementation of policies on risk and control.
At each level within our business, risk management processes reflect the nature of the activities being undertaken and the Risk management is fundamental to how we manage the business.
business and operational risks inherent in them, and therefore We have developed robust systems and processes to identify and the level of control considered necessary to protect our interests manage the key risks facing each of our businesses and the Group and those of our stakeholders.
as a whole, and all parts of the business have appropriate risk and crisis management plans that meet defined policy standards.
These controls and processes fall into four main areas: Identification, Assessment, Planning and Control, and Monitoring, Whilst divisional boards review quarterly the risks they face, the so that we: Group Risk Management Committee GRMC, a formal committee of the Executive Committee, meets quarterly to provide governance identify business objectives that reflect the interests of all and oversight of risk across the Group.
The Board receives a stakeholders, and the risks associated with the achievement quarterly report on the GRMCs assessment of the principal risks of these objectives facing the Group and the action being taken by management to mitigate risks that are outside of the Groups risk appetite.
regularly assess our exposure to risk, including through the regular measurement of key risk indicators Our risk management policies, systems and processes conform to the requirements of the Combined Code and form part of the control and reduce risk as far as reasonably practicable Serco Management System SMS.
or achievable through cost-effective risk treatment options Such systems and processes, however, can only be designed to identify new risks as they arise and remove those risks that mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business are no longer relevant.
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance, against misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that Riskidentification this process has been in place for the year under review and up In identifying the potential risks associated with the achievement to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
of our business objectives, we consider both external factors arising from the environment within which we operate, and internal risks Our approach to risk within the Serco arising from the nature of our business, its controls and processes, Management System and our management decisions.
The SMS sets out policy standards, systems and processes that identify, review and report risks at all levels of our business 72 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Once identified, we document risks in risk registers, which are Our risk monitoring process therefore regularly monitors changes maintained at a contract, business unit, programme, divisional and to our business and the external environment, to ensure that we Group level.
These risk registers change as new risks emerge and respond appropriately to reduce the impact of emerging risks.
existing risks diminish, so that the registers reflect the current key risks.
We review risk registers at least quarterly and more frequently Principal risks as required.
The GRMC reviews the Group risk register quarterly The Group risk register identifies the principal risks facing the ahead of formal review by the Board.
business, including those that are managed directly at Group level.
They are managed through a formal process.
Risk assessment We assess the potential effect of each identified risk on the The Groups key stakeholders include, but are not limited to, achievement of our business objectives and wider stakeholder shareholders, customers, suppliers, staff, trade unions, government, interests.
To do so, we use a risk scoring system based on our regulators, banks and insurers.
The way we operate as a responsible assessment of the probability of a risk materialising and the effect company recognises the interests of the community in areas such if it does.
This is assessed from three perspectives: as social, environmental and ethical impact, as described under Corporate Responsibility on pages 66 to 69. the risks significance to the achievement of our business objectives The most significant risks relate to our reputation, and to operational and financial performance.
A number of our risks reflect social, the risks significance to society, including its impact on public environmental and ethical issues, but these do not currently safety and the environment, and represent significant threats to achieving our strategic objectives.
our ability to influence, control and mitigate the risk.
Summarised on the following pages are the key risks we have identified that could have a material impact on our reputation, Analysis of our key risks allows us to assess the probability of our operations or our financial performance.
disruption to our business objectives, and highlights critical areas that require management attention.
We also have material investments in a number of joint ventures, where we have joint control over management practices.
Our Risk planning and control representatives within these companies ensure that their processes We assign each identified and assessed risk to a risk owner, who and procedures for identifying and managing risk are appropriate is responsible for controlling and managing it and developing a and that internal controls exist and are regularly monitored.
robust and effective plan to reduce or mitigate the risk.
Risk owners are required to report to the GRMC or, as appropriate, the Board on We keep reputational and emerging risks under active review and specific risks.
Either may ask for additional information or request inform the Board of changes.
Emerging risks cover longer-term an audit to provide additional assurance.
risks that could represent a threat to our activities but which are not yet sufficiently defined to be included as active risks.
Risk reduction involves taking early management action to remove or reduce identified risks before they can affect the contract or Managing and mitigating risk project.
We consider options to eliminate, reduce or control the Our risk management process enables us to understand our risks as part of the risk identification and analysis process.
While operational risk can never be eliminated, we endeavour to minimise the impact by the consistent Risk mitigation involves us identifying appropriate measures, implementation of the SMS, ensuring that appropriate infrastructure, including contingency plans, to reduce the severity of the impact controls, systems, staff and processes are in place.
of the risks, should they occur.
This includes developing crisis management plans in response to risks whose potential impact Some of our key management and control techniques defined warrants a specific management process.
in the SMS are set out below: The SMS requires every contract to develop a risk management our operating processes fully reflect the principles of clear plan reflecting assessed risks and supported by appropriate delegation of authority and segregation of duties measures and contingency plans to mitigate the impact of the risks.
our GRMC meets quarterly to ensure that risks, internal control Risk monitoring and business assurance are effectively managed and reviewed Changes in our external environment, internal structures and management decisions may all affect the nature and extent comprehensive business review processes ensure we meet of the risks to which the Group is exposed.
customer expectations, regulatory requirements, and performance criteria including operational effectiveness, investment returns, cash flow requirements and profitability Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 73 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance Principal risks and uncertainties we monitor and regularly review key performance indicators.
The Head of Internal Audit is responsible for delivery of the These include analysis of business performance and variances assurance strategy, ensuring our assurance programme remains from plan, occupational health and safety incidents, and error aligned to test the key controls managing the Groups risks.
and exception reporting Internal audit is delivered at three levels across the business: selective recruitment, succession planning and other human Group internal audit resource policies and practices ensure that staff skills are aligned with Sercos current and future needs functional internal audit, and we maintain insurance policies against losses arising from divisional internal audit.
circumstances such as damage or destruction of physical assets, theft, legal liability for third-party loss and professional The Head of Internal Audit leads the Group internal audit advice.
We review the adequacy of our insurance cover at programme, which is independently delivered by KPMG LLP.
regular intervals Its findings are reported directly to the Group Audit Committee.
In addition to the audits conducted by KPMG, the Head of our Investment Committee meets regularly to ensure appropriate Internal Audit supplements the programme by conducting periodic governance and the management of risk associated with larger special reviews as requested by the Serco Group plc Board or higher risk bids, acquisitions, disposals and areas of or Executive Committee.
significant capital expenditure The functional internal audit programme supplements the Group we apply robust project management and change internal audit programme.
It addresses finance processes and implementation disciplines to all major projects including new controls, through a centrally provided audit programme delivered contract transitions, acquisitions, new technology applications, by divisional management on a peer to peer basis, as well as audit change programmes and other major initiatives programmes completed by Group functional specialists covering health, safety and environment, and IT systems and security the Directors Report describes our approach to health, safety policy compliance.
Qualified and experienced staff in each business unit provide advice and support on health, In addition to these programmes, each operating division maintains safety and environmental issues and undertake regular audits a divisional risk register, from which we develop a divisional internal audit programme.
This programme selects a number of contracts we have safety specialists in our aviation, rail, defence, nuclear for review based on certain key risks.
These reviews are completed and marine businesses who report to the Board and maintain through a self-assessment programme focused on testing the and further develop the very high standards expected in controls which manage and mitigate these key risks.
Divisional these industries audit committees, which track and report on the progress of the divisional internal audit programme, meet three times a year.
the Chief Information Officer is responsible for ensuring that systems and processes are in place to ensure the The Head of Internal Audit oversees the internal audit process, as confidentiality, integrity and availability of sensitive information well as acting as the conduit for sharing best practice and flagging and the associated information systems that support our emerging risks to ensure each part of the business benefits from business activities the wider scale of the Groups assurance activity.
our Ethics Committee has responsibility for the review of ethical In addition to internal audit, many parts of our business are subject issues that may arise from our current and future activities to other reviews of their controls by third parties, including industry regulators, ISO Standards, customers and other external audits.
the Company Secretary manages a confidential reporting This third-party scrutiny significantly increases the scope of auditing service, to which staff can report illegal, dangerous, dishonest or conducted across the Group each year.
This process was enhanced and relaunched at the end of 2010 The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary are being taken to remedy the failings and weaknesses which it has we have crisis and business continuity plans in place to manage determined to be significant from its review of the internal controls crisis events, both within divisions and the Group.
The Board confirms that it has not been advised of material weaknesses in financial reporting as part of the review Internal audit of the internal control system.
An integral part of risk management is assurance that the controls identified to manage risks are operating and effective.
74 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Market risks Risk Significant change in Government policies, expenditure levels and budgetary constraints Description Comment Impact Mitigation As a major proportion of Sercos customers are governments and Reduction in market Business strategy governmental agencies, a substantial part of the business is dependent opportunities Diverse business across on government policies, budget priorities and regulatory or political Changes to terms of existing geographies and markets constraints, in particular those regarding maintaining and improving or new contracts External Affairs monitor public infrastructure, which could have a significant impact on the size, Failure to meet growth political landscape and scope, timing and duration of contracts and orders under them and or profit expectations government activities therefore on the level of business that we may win.
As such, these Business significantly focused businesses are susceptible to changes in government, government on developed markets with policy, budget allocations and the political environment, primarily in strong and established legal the UK and the US.
Any reduction in such government expenditure systems providing protection and funding could result in a suspension, cancellation, termination or to changes in contract terms non-renewal of contracts.
Revenues may also be adversely affected by changes to the UK Governments or US Governments policy in respect of outsourcing.
Risk Failure to win a strategic or significant bid or rebid Description Comment Impact Mitigation Failure to win material bids or renew material contracts could restrict Failure to meet growth Business Lifecycle Governance growth opportunities for the future or have an adverse impact on or profit expectations process embedded in SMS Sercos business, financial condition and results of operations.
Further, Significant financial loss Governance structure managed a significant number of Sercos contracts with the UK Government, or cost overrun through Investment Committee, the US Government and other public sector customers, including Damage to reputation programme and project boards, renewals and extensions of previous contracts, are awarded through resulting in loss of existing divisional and contract boards formal competitive bidding processes.
Competitive bidding processes or new business Business strategy and present a number of risks, including substantial cost and management Impact on strategic objectives targets managed through time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not internal boards be won.
In addition, there is often a long period between a successful Regular review and monitoring competition tender offer and entering into definitive contractual of risk registers documentation and financial close, and in some cases financial close Gate review and formal may not occur.
sign-off process Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 75 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance Principal risks and uncertainties Operational risks Risk Any harm to the Companys reputation could adversely impact business Description Comment Impact Mitigation The Company is dependent on maintaining its reputation in each Failure to meet growth Robust bidding and contract jurisdiction in which it operates in order to maintain and grow its or profit expectations review process including business.
It is exposed to the risk that litigation, misconduct, operational Significant financial loss financial, technical and failures and negative publicity could harm its reputation.
In addition, or cost overrun commercial reviews the Companys reputation could also be adversely affected if its services, Loss of contract revenue Governance structure managed or the services performed by its subcontractors, do not perform as related to operations and through Investment Committee, expected.
Any harm to its reputation could have a material adverse service charges programme and project boards effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.
Inability to attract the and divisional boards human and financial capital Business strategy and targets necessary to grow or expand Regular review and monitoring into new markets of risk registers and operational Damage to reputation performance indicators resulting in loss of existing Customer engagement or new business and employee engagement Impact on strategic objectives strategies Relationship management and communication with external stakeholders Gate review and formal sign-off process Quality management systems Risk Failure of significant programmes, including operating within agreed fixed costs Description Comment Impact Mitigation Serco has a number of complex programmes which it is contracted Failure to meet growth Robust bidding and contract to deliver for the customer.
These are often let on a fixed price basis or profit expectations review process including irrespective of the actual costs incurred, and therefore if costs exceed Significant financial loss financial, technical and the contract ceiling the Company may not be able to obtain full or cost overrun commercial reviews reimbursement.
Further, some projects require delivery in accordance Loss of contract revenue Governance structure managed with specified milestones on agreed dates.
Significant adverse financial related to operations and through Investment Committee, consequences can be imposed where milestones are not met or a service charges programme and project boards, project is not delivered on time.
The length and complexity of such Damage to reputation divisional and contract boards projects mean that management estimates can be particularly difficult resulting in loss of existing Robust cost accounting to make and could turn out to be inaccurate.
or new business Internal audit Impact on strategic objectives Business strategy and targets Regular review and monitoring of risk registers Gate review and formal sign-off process Quality management systems Risk Lack of preparedness for the 2012 London Olympics Description Comment Impact Mitigation In summer 2012, London will be hosting the 2012 Olympics which will Damage to reputation Steering Committee be Britains largest peacetime logistical exercise.
In a relatively short resulting in loss of existing established several months ago time frame, it is anticipated that over 11 million game spectators and or new contracts to monitor track guide risks almost 300,000 athletes, officials, media and other Games Family Failure to meet customer Programme Office established members and workforce will descend upon the city.
The majority of performance and service to identify and work all risks spectators will take public transport, walk or cycle to the Games and level requirements across all contracts activities.
Although Serco are not providing specific support directly to Escalation of cost leading Risks have been identified the Olympics, at least 23 of our current contracts have potential moderate to profit erosion across each contract and to very high impact.
The top three contracts with very high potential Disruption to contract delivery are being vetted impact are: DLR, London Cycle Hire and Traffic Streets.
in the event of a terrorist attack Support is being provided for at the Games planning and implementation where gaps are identified Planning and scenario testing schedules in place in directly impacted contracts Development of mitigation strategies and contingency plans 76 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Risk Failure to deliver operational efficiency Description Comment Impact Mitigation To deliver our commitments we must ensure that we have efficient Erosion of profit Business strategy and operations.
Our operational efficiency programme facilitates delivery Impact on competitiveness supporting plans of business transformation, operational change and sustainable margin Damage to reputation Internal governance structure improvement.
Failure to deliver may impact our ability to deliver resulting in loss of existing Business review business commitments.
or new business Internal audit Failure to meet LEAN Continuous Improvement customer expectations programme and business strategy Quarterly management reporting Risk Major information security breach Description Comment Impact Mitigation Serco must comply with restrictions on the handling of sensitive Loss of service to Security and information information including personal and customer and provide for secure our customers systems policies, systems transmission of such information.
This is a heightened risk, particularly Damage to reputation resulting and embedded with respect to government contracts, due to the sensitive and in loss of existing or new governance structure confidential nature of government data.
Despite controls to ensure the business disqualification Think Privacy campaign to confidentiality of such information, Serco may breach restrictions or be from future tenders, contract raise staff awareness, provide subject to attack from computer programs that attempt to penetrate its termination, etc.
training, promote incident network security and misappropriate confidential information.
Impact on strategic objectives reporting and strengthen Costly to rectify and control processes potential for dilution User and data management of shareholder returns including data encryption, Criminal and civil action information classification, Contract and business external identity management, data accreditations withdrawn cleansing and access controls Significant media attention strong authentication, and future scrutiny passwords etc.
Regular risk reviews ISO 27000 certification Internal and external audit Risk Major IT failure or prolonged loss of critical IT systems Description Comment Impact Mitigation The IT Strategy is focused on standardising common processes, Damage to reputation Information systems policy, establishing common business systems and enabling ways of working by resulting in loss of existing systems and embedded providing and embedding tools that support what we do.
Within this the or new business governance structure Company has defined enterprise applications.
These are key information Impact on strategic objectives Data recovery capability technology-based business systems within Serco.
They include SAP for Inability to meet contract designed into systems Finance, Procurement and Human Resources: Payroll, Risk Management, requirements or perform and periodically tested Safety Assurance, email, intranet and Nimbus Control for Process core business processes Design out single points Excellence systems.
Failings in the systems have the potential to Costly to rectify and of failure seriously impact the management of the business.
potential for dilution Server and system of shareholder returns performance monitoring Significant media attention and reporting and future scrutiny Capacity management Data back-up and business continuity plans in place Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 77 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance Principal risks and uncertainties Governance risks Risk Significant incident of bribery or corrupt practice Description Comment Impact Mitigation Serco operates in international markets, which brings with it inherent Legal action and fines against Policies and systems risks including bribery and corruption, particularly in certain developing the Company embedded in SMS nations.
Serco operates in a number of countries which are recognised Debarment from tender lists Code of Conduct as having a higher bribery and corruption risk.
Increasing legislation Damage to reputation Ethics Committee significantly increases the consequences of bribes and other corrupt resulting in loss of existing Speak Up process practices.
As we expand into new services and geographic markets that or new business Ethics and compliance are considered a higher risk in the context of corrupt practices we must Significant media attention programme and training ensure our policies and procedures are fully and effectively applied.
and future scrutiny Risk assessment Third-party contracts Risk Major accident or incident Description Comment Impact Mitigation It is possible that a major catastrophic event, such as a major train Deaths or serious injuries Robust management systems derailment or air traffic accident, could occur at one of the projects in to employees or third parties subject to external, regulatory relation to which Serco has provided professional design, construction, Major environmental damage and internal audit engineering or support services.
Such a catastrophic event could result Severe financial impact fine System certification and in the personal injury or death of one or more employees of the Company, by regulators, suspension regulatory approval employees of other subcontractors working on the project or members of operating licence, Formal oversight through of the public, significant, actionable environmental harm, and or extensive compensation, clean up, etc.
GRMC, Health, Safety and damage to third-party property.
In the event that such a catastrophic Loss of business Environment Oversight Group, event is found or perceived to be caused by the negligence of Serco, disqualification from divisional and internal boards it could subject the Company to claims for personal injury, wrongful future tenders, contract Crisis management and death, property damage by customers, subcontractors, governments, termination, etc.
business continuity plans employees or members of the public, which could lead to the payment Contract and business external in place of extensive damages and result in significant adverse publicity and accreditations withdrawn Insurance reputational harm.
Such adverse publicity and reputational harm could Significant media attention and Strategy, objectives, targets lead to a loss of business.
future scrutiny and regular reporting Criminal and civil action against Formal assurance structure Company or individuals operating within defined competencies Staff induction and training 78 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Risk Significant changes in energy and carbon costs and reporting requirements Description Comment Impact Mitigation We must understand our environmental impacts, manage them and Legal action and fines Environmental policy measure our performance to demonstrate improvement.
Fuel poverty is against the Company and systems impacting energy prices.
We have seen increases in energy costs and Significant financial loss Environment Oversight Group expect these to rise further in the future.
We need to make sure we are Debarment from tender lists Aspects and impacts managing our consumption to minimise the cost and reduce our carbon Damage to reputation assessment emissions.
We also need to recognise and respond to increasing resulting in loss of existing ISO 14001 legislation and reporting requirements.
or new business Carbon Trust Standard Significant media attention Reporting methodology and future scrutiny and systems Environmental strategy objectives and targets Risk Compliance with complex laws and regulations Description Comment Impact Mitigation Serco must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, Substantial monetary damages Policies and systems administration and performance of government contracts that affect and or criminal violations embedded in SMS how it does business and may impose added costs.
Further, it is required Damage to reputation Code of Conduct to obtain environmental and safety permits from various government resulting in loss of existing Risk assessment authorities which require periodic renewal or review of their conditions.
or new business Third-party contracts Failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and Debarment from tender lists System certification and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination Significant media attention regulatory approval of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to its reputation, suspension of and future scrutiny Internal board and payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business governance structure with governments.
Staff induction and training Internal compliance programmes Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 79 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance Principal risks and uncertainties People risks Risk Failure to attract and retain senior management and other key employees Description Comment Impact Mitigation The success of the Company depends on the efforts, abilities, experience Increased cost in recruitment People policies and and expertise of the senior management teams and on recruiting, activity and time taken to systems, strategy and targets retaining, motivating, effectively communicating with and developing fill roles supported by governance highly skilled and competent people at all levels of the organisation.
Instability and loss of structure, including There can be intense competition for personnel from other companies business continuity Remuneration Committee and organisations and there may at any time be shortages in the Dilution of brand and values Succession planning availability of appropriately skilled people at all levels within Serco.
Reduced employee Leadership model Further, the Company cannot guarantee the retention of such key engagement through loss Annual external independent executives and technical personnel.
The failure of the Company to retain of compelling leadership remuneration review and or recruit additional or substitute senior managers and or other Strengthen competitors Job structure and key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business.
loss of leaders to them grading system Impact on business Talent database and leadership risk of not achieving level development programme of planned growth Employment engagement strategy, including annual staff survey Risk Failure to manage union industrial relations Description Comment Impact Mitigation A significant number of Sercos employees are members of trade unions Failure to deliver contractual Policies and systems in the UK and a number are members of trade unions in the US and requirements embedded in SMS other countries.
These include operations where a failure to manage Instability and loss of Industrial relations strategy relationships may result in industrial action by Serco staff in high-profile business continuity Industrial Relations business operations, i. e. where there will be significant reputational Dilution of brand and values Working Group damage, client or media attention.
Some sectors of the business are Reduced employee Stakeholder management subject to union recognition agreements.
The Company maintains a engagement of key relationships number of relationships with trade unions and staff through work councils Damage to reputation Annual external independent and other bodies.
resulting in loss of existing remuneration review or new business Job structure and Significant media attention grading system and future scrutiny Employment engagement strategy 80 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Finance risks Risk The impairment of goodwill could adversely impact reported results Description Comment Impact Mitigation Goodwill accounts for just over one-third of Serco Groups recorded total Inability to meet profit Internal board and assets as at 31 December 2011.
Serco evaluates goodwill for impairment expectations governance structure annually, or more frequently when evidence of potential impairment Damage to reputation and Strategic plans exists.
Any decrease in expected cash flows or a deterioration in market shareholder confidence Business plans conditions could require Serco to record impairment charges that could Impact on strategic objectives Business Lifecycle have a material impact on the financial position and results of operations.
Governance process Financial review and reporting Risk Additional funding requirements for pension schemes Description Comment Impact Mitigation Serco operates defined benefit pension schemes for qualifying Inability to meet Obtain actuarial assessment employees of its subsidiaries in the UK and other European countries.
profit expectations of scheme liabilities In addition, we have interests in joint ventures, which operate defined Reduction in cash availability Appropriate investment benefit schemes for qualifying employees.
The nature of a defined management and independent benefit scheme means that the funding levels of the schemes are subject measurement of asset returns to factors outside Sercos control, including the introduction of new Ensure robust monitoring via legislation, which could create or impact a deficit in the scheme at future HR policy, systems and actuarial valuations.
If the deficit in the scheme increases at future governance structure including actuarial valuations, the Group may be required to make additional cash review by the Audit and contributions to the schemes in the future, preventing the use of cash Remuneration Committees for other purposes, which could have a material impact on the Groups and Board of Pension Trustees business, financial condition and results of operations over the long term.
Risk Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that are not effectively hedged Description Comment Impact Mitigation The international nature of Sercos business means it is exposed to Material effect on the Groups The Group hedges short-term fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in relation to various future results of operations transaction risks that are currencies, primarily the US Dollar, the Australian Dollar and the Euro, and financial position material in value arising from the translation of earnings.
In addition, some of Sercos Management of translational bank debt is denominated in currencies other than pound Sterling.
risk by the part currency matching of borrowings with the net assets of overseas subsidiaries Risk Fluctuations in interest rates Description Comment Impact Mitigation Historically, Serco has financed its operations partly through draw down Inability to meet profit Fixed rate debt instruments of funding facilities.
Adverse movements in interest rates could therefore expectations and associated and interest rate derivatives that impact profitability and net assets.
impact on net assets swap floating for fixed rates Impact on competitiveness Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 81 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
