Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Risk management Smith & Nephew is focused on managing the principal risks facing the Group.
As an integral part of planning and review, Group management management and any mitigating actions being taken.
As and management of each of the business segments seek to appropriate, the Risk Committee may re-categorise risks identify the risks involved in the business, the probability of or require further information or mitigating action to be those risks materialising, the impact if they do materialise and undertaken.
The Risk Committee reports to the Board on the actions being taken, and to be taken, to manage and an annual basis detailing all principal risks categorised by mitigate those risks.
Internal audit reviews and reports on the potential financial impact on profit and share price.
In addition, effectiveness of the operation of the risk management process.
the risks considered to be most significant to the Group are The Group Risk Committee meets twice a year to review the reported to the Board on a regular basis.
These reports include major risks identied by the business segment and Group details of new, key or signicantly increased risks, the senior Risk Context Specic risks we face The medical devices industry has a rapid rate of new product Competitors may introduce a disruptive technology, Disruptive introduction.
The Group must be adept at monitoring the or obtain patents or other intellectual property landscape for technological advances, make good investment rights, that affect the Groups competitive position technologies acquisition choices, have an efficient and valuable product Lack of innovation due to low R&D investment, development pipeline and secure protection for its intellectual R&Dskills gap or poor product development property.
execution Failure to successfully commercialise a pipeline product, failure to receive regulatory approval, or changes in consumer demand In most markets throughout the world, expenditure on medical Reduced reimbursement levels and increasing Government action, devices is controlled to a large extent by governments, many of pricing pressures which are facing increasingly intense budgetary constraints.
Reduced demand for elective surgery pricing and Funds may be made available or withdrawn from healthcare Increased focus on health economics budgets depending on government policy budgetary and other Changes in medical device tax policy reimbursement considerations.
The Group is therefore largely dependent on Competitors with higher market share governments providing increased funds commensurate with the and lower costs pressure increased demand arising from demographic trends.
Reimbursement rates may be set in response to perceived economic value of the devices, based on clinical and other data relating to cost, patient outcomes and comparative effectiveness.
Unexpected events could disrupt the business by affecting Catastrophe could render one of the Groups Supply, system and either a key facility or system or a large number of employees.
production facilities out of action The business is also reliant on certain key suppliers of raw A significant event could impact key leadership site disruption materials, components, nished products and packaging or a large number of employees materials.
Issues with a single source supplier of a key component and failure to secure critical supply A severe IT fault could disable critical systems The medical device industry is highly regulated.
National Non-compliance with regulatory policies and Product regulation, regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex series standards could result in fines, penalties, and of laws and regulations that govern the design, development, prosecutions.
compliance and approval, manufacture, labelling, marketing and sale of Product recalls, lost sales and inventory write-offs healthcare products.
Such controls have become increasingly Third party liability claims litigation stringent and costly to comply with and the Group believe this Damage to reputation trend will continue.
They also review data supporting the safety and efcacy of such products and regulatory requirements may entail inspections for compliance with appropriate standards, including those relating to Quality Management Systems QMS or Good Manufacturing Practice GMP regulations.
Business practices in the healthcare industry are subject to Violation of healthcare, data privacy or antiCompliance increasing regulation and review by various government corruption laws could result in fines, loss of authorities.
In general, the trend in many countries is towards reimbursement and impact reputation.
with laws and higher expectations and increased enforcement activity by Serious breaches could potentially prevent the governmental authorities.
The Group is also subject to Group from doing business.
regulations increased regulation of personal information.
Expansion into emerging markets could also pose additional compliance risks.
12 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Strategy, KPIs & Risk management management who have primary responsibility for managing and results of operations to differ materially and adversely from each of these risks along with selected actions they have put expected and historical levels, and how these risks relate to in place to mitigate such risks.
In addition, the Board considers the Groups strategic priorities.
A more detailed discussion of risk as part of the development of strategy.
the Groups risks and uncertainties can be found in the Risk factors section on pages 16 to 18.
In addition, other factors not listed here, that Smith& Nephew cannot presently identify or There are known and unknown risks and uncertainties relating does not believe to be equally significant, could also materially to Smith& Nephews business.
The table below provides an adversely affect Smith& Nephews business, financial position overview of what the Board considers to be the most significant or results of operations.
risks that could cause the Groups business, financial position Possible impacts include Mitigation Link to strategic priority Loss of market share, profit R&D Model: increasing productivity, prioritisation and allocation of funds Innovate for value and long-term growth Increasing R&D investment in order to enhance clinical capability, invest in biomaterials, stregthen intellectual property rights and support an Emerging Market portfolio Simplify and improve Business development to augment the portfolio our operating model Speed to market of new products Supplement the organic growth through acquisitions Loss of revenue, profit Enhanced expertise supporting reimbursement strategy and guidance Simplify and improve and cash ows Develop innovative economic product and service solutions for both Established and our operating model Emerging Markets Incorporate health economic component into design and development of new products Established Markets Optimise cost to serve to protect margins and liberate funds for investment Streamline cost of goods sold and inventory Loss of revenue, profit Ensure crisis response business continuity plans at all major facilities and for key Simplify and improve and cash ows products our operating model Audit programme for critical suppliers and second sources for critical components Regular review of supply contracts with supplier consolidation and vertical integration Established Markets where beneficial IT disaster and data recovery plans are in place and support overall business continuity plans Loss of revenue, reduction Enhanced leadership and resources Simplify and improve in share price and negative Standardise the Groups management review practice our operating model impact on brand reputation Maintain internal auditing programmes to assure compliance Group-wide robust validation practices to drive true production line performance and Innovate for value dependability Group-wide objectives for quality, operational and process yield improvements Loss of profit and reduction Board and Executive oversight committees supported by Compliance experts and Simplify and improve inshare price infrastructure our operating model Code of Conduct Global Policies and Procedures GPPs providing controls for significant compliance risks Emerging Markets Training and e-resources to guide employees and third parties with compliance responsibilities Established Markets Monitoring and auditing programmes to verify implementation and compliance Independent reporting channels for employees and third parties to report concerns with condentiality 13 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
