Business Review Our business, marketplace and other factors that could affect us continued products do not remain competitive with those of competitors, the Risk factors Groups revenue could decline.
There are known and unknown risks and uncertainties relating to The Group maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory Smith& Nephews business.
The factors listed below could cause the resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in Groups business, financial position and results of operations to differ excess of current carrying costs.
Marketplace changes resulting from materially and adversely from expected and historical levels.
In addition, the introduction of new products or surgical procedures may cause other factors not listed here that Smith & Nephew cannot presently some of the Groups products to become obsolete.
The Group makes identify or does not believe to be equally significant could also estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these materially adversely affect Smith & Nephews business, financial products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories position or results of operations.
based on historical experience, expiration of sterilisation dates and Highly competitive markets expected future trends.
If actual product life cycles, product demand or The Groups business segments compete across a diverse range of acceptance of new product introductions are less favourable than geographic and product markets.
Each market in which the business projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be segments operate contains a number of different competitors, including required.
significant product innovations, technical advances or the intensication of price competition Dependence on government and other funding by competitors could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
In most established markets throughout the world, expenditure on Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and medical devices is ultimately controlled to a large extent by other resources than Smith & Nephew.
These competitors may be able governments.
Funds may be made available or withdrawn from to initiate technological advances in the eld, deliver products on more healthcare budgets depending on government policy.
The Group is attractive terms, more aggressively market their products or invest larger therefore largely dependent on future governments providing increased amounts of capital and research and development into their businesses.
funds commensurate with the increased demand arising from demographic trends.
There is a possibility of further consolidation of competitors, which could adversely affect the Groups ability to compete with larger Pricing of the Groups products is largely governed in most established companies due to insufficient financial resources.
If any of the Groups markets by governmental reimbursement authorities.
Initiatives businesses were to lose market share or achieve lower than expected sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sales growth, there could be a disproportionate adverse impact on the sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, Groups share price and its strategic options.
excise taxes and competitive pricing, are on-going in markets where the Group has operations.
This control may be exercised by Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the determining prices for an individual product or for an entire procedure.
basis of quality, service and price.
There has been some consolidation The Group is exposed to changes in reimbursement policy, tax policy in the Groups customer base and this trend is expected to continue.
and pricing which may have an adverse impact on sales and operating Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or profit.
In particular, changes to the healthcare legislation in the US are customers could lead to downward pressure on prices and or a decline due to impose significant taxes on medical device manufacturers from in market share in any of the Groups business areas, which could 2013.
There may be an increased risk of adverse changes to adversely affect Smith & Nephews results of operations and hinder its government funding policies arising from the deterioration in macrogrowth potential.
economic conditions in some of the Groups markets.
Continual development and introduction of new products The Group must adhere to the rules laid down by government agencies The medical devices industry has a rapid rate of new product that fund or regulate healthcare, including extensive and complex rules introduction.
In order to remain competitive, each of the Groups in the US.
Failure to do so could result in fines or loss of future funding.
business segments must continue to develop innovative products that World economic conditions satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost or other advantages.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain Demand for the Groups products is driven by demographic trends, process.
A potential product may not be brought to market or not including the ageing population and the incidence of osteoporosis and succeed in the market for any number of reasons, including failure to obesity.
Supply of, use of and payment for the Groups products are also work optimally, failure to receive regulatory approval, failure to be inuenced by world economic conditions which could place increased cost-competitive, infringement of patents or other intellectual property pressure on demand and pricing, adversely impacting the Groups ability rights and changes in consumer demand.
The Groups products and to deliver revenue and margin growth.
The conditions could favour technologies are also subject to marketing attack by competitors.
larger, better capitalised groups, with higher market shares and margins.
Furthermore, new products that are developed and marketed by the As a consequence, the Groups prosperity is linked to general economic Groups competitors may affect price levels in the various markets in conditions and there is a risk of deterioration of the Groups performance which the Groups business segments operate.
If the Groups new and nances during adverse macro-economic conditions.
16 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Business Review During 2011, economic conditions worldwide continued to create affect the results of operations.
Physical loss and consequential loss several challenges for the Group, including deferrals of joint insurance is carried to cover such risks but is subject to limits and replacement procedures, heightened pricing pressure, significant deductibles and may not be sufficient to cover catastrophic loss.
declines in capital equipment expenditures at hospitals and increased Management of orthopaedic inventory is complex, particularly uncertainty over the collectability of European government debt, forecasting and production planning.
There is a risk that failures in particularly those in certain parts of southern Europe.
These factors operational execution could lead to excess inventory or individual tempered the overall growth of the Groups global markets and could product shortages.
have an increased impact on growth in the future.
Each of the business segments is reliant on certain key suppliers of raw materials, components, nished products and packaging materials.
Political uncertainties These suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to The Group operates on a worldwide basis and has distribution the Groups standard of quality requirements.
If any of these suppliers is channels, purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 countries.
unable to meet the Groups needs, compromises on standards of quality Political upheaval in some of those countries or in surrounding regions or substantially increases its prices, Smith & Nephew would need to may impact the Groups results of operations.
Political changes in a seek alternative suppliers.
There can be no assurance that alternative country could prevent the Group from receiving remittances of profit from suppliers would provide the necessary raw materials on favourable or a member of the Group located in that country or from selling its cost-effective terms at the desired quality.
Consequently, the Group may products or investments in that country.
Furthermore, changes in be forced to pay higher prices to obtain raw materials, which it may not government policy regarding import quotas, taxation or other matters be able to pass on to its customers in the form of increased prices for its could adversely affect the Groups turnover and operating profit.
In addition, some of the raw materials used may terrorist activities or other conict could also adversely impact the Group.
become unavailable, and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain suitable and cost-effective substitutes.
Any interruption Currency uctuations of supply caused by these or other factors could negatively impact Smith Smith & Nephews results of operations are affected by transactional & Nephews revenue and operating profit.
exchange rate movements in that they are subject to exposures arising from revenue in a currency different from the related costs and The Group uses a variety of information systems to conduct its expenses.
The Groups manufacturing cost base is situated principally manufacturing, supply and selling operations.
An unrecoverable fault in in the US, the UK, China and Switzerland, from which nished products one of these systems could disrupt trading in certain markets and are exported to the Groups selling operations worldwide.
Group is exposed to uctuations in exchange rates between the US The Group is in the process of outsourcing to third parties or relocating Dollar, Sterling and Swiss Franc and the currency of the Groups selling to lower cost countries certain of its manufacturing and other operations, particularly the Euro, Australian Dollar and Japanese Yen.
As a result of these transfers, there is a risk of disruption to the US Dollar, Sterling or Swiss Franc should strengthen against the supply.
Euro, Australian Dollar and the Japanese Yen, the Groups trading margin could be adversely affected.
Attracting and retaining key personnel The Group manages the impact of exchange rate movements on sales The Groups continued development depends on its ability to hire and and cost of goods sold by a policy of transacting forward foreign retain highly skilled personnel with particular expertise.
This is critical, currency commitments when rm purchase orders are placed.
In particularly in general management, research, new product addition, the Groups policy is for forecast transactions to be covered development and in the sales forces.
If Smith & Nephew is unable to between 50% and 90% for up to one year.
retain key personnel in general management, research and new product development or if its largest sales forces suffer disruption or The Group uses the US Dollar as its reporting currency and the US upheaval, its sales and operating profit would be adversely affected.
Dollar is the functional currency of Smith & Nephew plc.
The Groups Additionally, if the Group is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a revenues, profits and earnings are also affected by exchange rate talented, competitive workforce, it may not be able to meet its strategic movements on the translation of results of operations in foreign business objectives.
subsidiaries for financial reporting purposes.
See Financial position, liquidity and capital resources on page25.
Proprietary rights and patents Due to the technological nature of medical devices and the Groups Manufacturing and supply emphasis on serving its customers with innovative products, the Group The Groups manufacturing production is concentrated at 11 main has been subject to patent infringement claims and is subject to the facilities in Memphis, Manseld and Oklahoma City in the US, Hull, potential for additional claims.
Warwick and Gilberdyke in the UK, Aarau in Switzerland, Tttlingen in Germany, Alberta in Canada and Suzhou and Beijing in China.
If major Claims asserted by third parties regarding infringement of their physical disruption took place at any of these sites, it could adversely intellectual property rights, if successful, could require the Group to 17 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview Business Review Our business, marketplace and other factors that could affect us continued expend time and significant resources to pay damages, develop particular importance is the requirement in many countries that non-infringing products or obtain licences to the products which are the products be authorised or registered prior to manufacture, marketing or subject of such litigation, thereby affecting the Groups growth and sale and that such authorisation or registration be subsequently profitability.
Smith & Nephew attempts to protect its intellectual property maintained.
The major regulatory agencies for Smith & Nephews and regularly opposes third party patents and trademarks where products include the Food and Drug Administration FDA in the US, appropriate in those areas that might conict with the Groups business the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the UK, interests.
If Smith & Nephew fails to protect and enforce its intellectual the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan and the State Food property rights successfully, its competitive position could suffer, which and Drug Administration in China.
At any time, the Group is awaiting a could harm its results of operations.
number of regulatory approvals which, if not received, could adversely affect results of operations.
Product liability claims and loss of reputation The trend is towards more stringent regulation and higher standards of The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices entail risk technical appraisal.
Such controls have become increasingly of product liability claims or recalls.
Design and manufacturing defects demanding to comply with and management believes that this trend with respect to products sold by the Group or by companies it has will continue.
In the US, many of the Groups products are brought to acquired could damage, or impair the repair of, body functions.
The market following pre-market notication to the FDA under Section Group may become subject to liability, which could be substantial, 510 k of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, with a request that FDA because of actual or alleged defects in its products.
In addition, product clear the product as being substantially equivalent in terms of safety defects could lead to the need to recall from the market existing and effectiveness to a previously approved device.
The FDA is products, which may be costly and harmful to the Groups reputation.
considering changes in the 510 k clearance process that might There can be no assurance that customers, particularly in the US, the lengthen or modify the path to clearance in some circumstances.
Groups largest geographical market, will not bring product liability or Regulatory requirements may also entail inspections for compliance related claims that would have a material adverse effect on the Groups with appropriate standards, including those relating to Quality financial position or results of operations in the future, or that the Group Management Systems or Good Manufacturing Practices regulations.
All will be able to resolve such claims within insurance limits.
manufacturing and other significant facilities within the Group are subject to regular internal and external audit for compliance with Regulatory compliance in the healthcare industry national and Group medical device regulation and policies.
Business practices in the healthcare industry are subject to regulation Payment for medical devices may be governed by reimbursement tariff and review by various government authorities.
In general, the trend in agencies in a number of countries.
Reimbursement rates may be set in many countries in which the Group does business is towards higher response to perceived economic value of the devices, based on clinical expectations and increased enforcement activity by governmental and other data relating to cost, patient outcomes and comparative authorities.
In the UK, a new Bribery Act was passed in 2010 and effectiveness.
They may also be affected by overall government became effective in 2011, increasing the risk for companies that allow budgetary considerations.
The Group believes that its emphasis on improper conduct on their behalf.
While the Group is committed to innovative products and services should contribute to success in this doing business with integrity and welcomes the trend to higher environment.
standards in the healthcare industry, the Group and other companies in the industry have been subject to investigations and other enforcement Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could have a activity that have incurred and may continue to incur significant number of adverse consequences, including withdrawal of approval to expense.
See Legal proceedings on page 28.
Under certain sell a product in a country, temporary closure of a manufacturing facility, circumstances, if the Group were found to have violated the law, its fines and potential damage to company reputation.
ability to sell its products to certain customers could be restricted.
Other risk factors Regulatory approval Smith & Nephew is subject to a number of other risks, which are The international medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory common to most global medical technology groups and are reviewed requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances as part of the Groups risk management process.
and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that should be allotted to such development.
National regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the design, development, approval, manufacture, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare products.
They also review data supporting the safety and efcacy of such products.
Of 18 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011
