Risk management Smiths is exposed to a wide range of risks in running its businesses.
The Company and its divisions consider these risks on a regular basis and seek to put in place appropriate risk management processes, policies and other measures, including insurance where appropriate.
However, there can be no assurance that these measures will be Economic outlook effective in any particular case.
If any of these risks, or other unforeseen Risk risks, materialise, they could have a significant adverse effect not only on our business and financial condition but also on our reputation Smiths operates in more than 50 countries and is affected by global and the trading prices and liquidity of our securities.
This could lead economic conditions, particularly in the US.
Our business is also to a loss for investors of part of or, in a worst case scenario, all of their affected by government spending priorities, in particular in the US investment.
and UK, and the willingness of governments to commit substantial The Groups process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant resources to homeland security and defence.
business risks is reviewed by the Audit Committee and monitored by Current global economic and financial market conditions, and the Group Internal Audit Department.
During the year, we undertook the potential for a significant and prolonged global recession, an additional corporate risk review, to augment our divisional risk may materially and adversely affect the Companys performance management review processes.
An outline of this years review process and financial condition.
A recession may also materially affect its by the Board and Audit Committee is set out in the Statement of the customers, suppliers and other parties with which it does business.
independent non-executive directors, on page 75.
A description of the Adverse economic and financial market conditions may cause our Companys internal controls and risk management processes is given customers to terminate existing orders, to reduce their purchases in the Corporate governance statement, on page 70. from Smiths, or to be unable to meet their obligations to pay Further information is provided below on our principal risks and the outstanding amounts due to Smiths.
These market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments mitigating activities in place to address them.
The Group is exposed to a larger number of risks than those listed.
However, we have made to Smiths or to change the credit terms they extend to us.
a conscious effort to disclose those risks that have been debated at Potential impact recent Board or Audit Committee meetings and are of most concern to the business at this time.
A significant and sustained economic downturn, or any similar event, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups operational performance and financial condition.
Risk management The Group has a diversified portfolio of businesses that mitigates against exposure to any one country or sector.
The divisions regularly monitor their order flows and other leading indicators, where available, so that they may respond quickly to a deterioration in trading conditions.
In the event of a significant economic downturn, there may be opportunities to identify and implement cost reduction opportunities to offset the impact on margins from a deterioration in sales.
52 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Financial risks foreign exchange, funding, tax and insurance Risk Foreign exchange: Exchange rate fluctuations have had, and could continue to have, a material impact on the reported results.
Smiths is exposed to two types of currency risk: transaction and translation.
Funding: Smiths ability to refinance its borrowings in the bank or capital markets is dependent on market conditions and the proper functioning of financial markets.
Tax: The Groups future profitability, particularly if in the US where there are higher rates of corporation tax, may cause the headline tax rate to increase over time.
Changes in tax and fiscal regulations and transfer pricing rules in the countries in which we operate could affect the Group, particularly at times when public sector debt is high, as could the uncertainty surrounding the basis of taxation of foreign profits under the UKs controlled foreign companies regulations.
Global supply chain concentration of manufacturing Insurance: Smiths cannot be certain that it will be able to obtain Risk insurance on acceptable terms or at all.
Furthermore, Smiths cannot be certain that its insurance will cover losses arising from Smiths business depends on the availability and timely delivery of events or that insurers will not dispute coverage.
In addition, even if raw materials and purchased components, and could be affected our coverage is sufficient, the insurance industry is subject to credit by a disruption to its supply chain.
In particular, we rely on sole risk, particularly in the event of a catastrophe or where an insurer suppliers to provide raw materials or components for some has substantial exposure to a specific risk.
Potential impact The Groups manufacturing facilities are exposed to a number of natural catastrophe risks, which, like other external events such Foreign exchange: The Groups reported results will fluctuate as as terrorist attacks or a disease pandemic, could have significant average exchange rates change.
The Groups reported net assets adverse consequences.
Smiths is also affected by the social, will fluctuate as the year-end exchange rate changes.
economic, regulatory and political conditions in the countries where it operates, which are often unpredictable and outside its control, Funding: The Group may be unable to refinance its debt when due.
Tax: Taxation costs could rise and earnings per share could deteriorate, which could affect the Groups market valuation.
Potential impact The concentration of manufacturing in lower cost countries, in Insurance: If insurance cover is inadequate or does not pay out as expected, Smiths could be exposed to an unexpected material cash particular in Mexico and China, increases the length of the supply chain and means that an adverse event could have more significant outflow, which may impact on the Groups liquidity and or share price.
consequences for our ability to supply customers on time.
Risk management A longer supply chain also affects transport costs, which could Foreign exchange: The Groups hedging strategy, whereby larger be exacerbated by energy cost inflation.
transactions are hedge accounted, mitigates the risk to profitability to some extent.
Net investment hedging of overseas assets of Risk management approximately 50% through borrowing in non-sterling currencies Business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in place mitigates the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on net assets.
and tested for critical locations, to reduce the impact of an event.
Funding: The Groups debt maturity is staggered so that the Single source supplier risks are identified and, where possible, refinancing risk is minimised.
As at 31 July 2011, we had an key materials or components are dual sourced to mitigate the undrawn revolving credit facility of $800m.
Tax: The Groups taxation staff coordinate tax management The Group regularly evaluates its key sites for a range of risk to mitigate possible increases in the effective tax rate.
Regular factors using externally benchmarked assessments, and takes reporting to the Board of tax risks and exposures provides good action to improve these ratings, where appropriate.
Smiths has business interruption and property damage insurance.
Insur ance: Insurance risk is spread across a number of carriers to minimise individual insured risk and counterparty risk.
Go to page 50 for more information 53 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Risk management continued Government customers Risk We derive a significant proportion of our revenues in mature Western economies.
Additionally, over 40% of the Groups revenues are from governments and their agencies or are influenced by government regulation.
Smiths Detection, Smiths Medical and Smiths Interconnect frequently tender for government contracts.
The timing of contract awards and payments under these contracts may be uncertain and uneven over a given financial year.
Any significant disruption or deterioration in relationship with these governments could result in fewer contracts and lower revenues.
Potential impact At a time when government finances are under pressure, these Acquisitions and disposals headwinds may lead to slower growth across the business.
Risk A decrease in spending by key government customers could materially affect the Groups results and financial condition.
The success of the Groups acquisition strategy depends on identifying targets, obtaining authorisations and having the necessary Delays in awarding government contracts can affect the Groups financing.
Even if an acquisition is completed, the acquired products sales, margins and cash conversion in a particular reporting period.
and technologies may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investment than anticipated.
Risk management Smiths may not be able to integrate the businesses that it acquires.
The Group has a diversified portfolio of businesses that mitigates If integration is unsuccessful, anticipated benefits are not realised against exposure to any one country or sector.
or trading by acquired businesses falls below expectations, it may Some of our government-related business has a services or be necessary to impair the carrying value of these assets.
consumables component, which can be more resilient during In recent years, Smiths has disposed of a number of businesses, an economic downturn.
including its Aerospace operations, where it has given indemnities, The Group has enhanced its government relations function warranties and guarantees to counterparties.
Smiths is also party to so that it can inform policy and maintain close relationships a number of contracts relating to formerly owned businesses which with customers.
This supports the monitoring of lead indicators it has not yet novated to the purchasers of these businesses.
and helps us to position our businesses appropriately for the Potential impact economic cycle.
The Groups return on capital employed may fall if acquisition hurdle rates are not met.
Information technology The Groups financial performance may suffer from goodwill Risk or other acquisition-related impairment charges.
Smiths information systems, personnel and facilities are subject Insufficient allowance for indemnities and warranties given to security risk.
Smiths is dependent on information technology at disposal may affect our financial position.
systems for both internal and external communications and for the day-to-day management of its operations.
Risk management Potential impact We perform comprehensive strategic and financial reviews of all opportunities.
Detailed due diligence and integration work Any disruption to the information systems could have significant is undertaken and reviewed in accordance with Group policy.
adverse consequences for the Groups operations or its ability to trade.
Due diligence includes an assessment of the acquisition targets talent and competencies.
We also consider the integration process Risk management and management.
Extensive controls and reviews are undertaken to maintain The Board only authorises acquisitions after completion of due the integrity and efficiency of IT infrastructure and data.
diligence, and approval is subject to meeting the capital allocation There are also processes to deal with significant IT security and other financial hurdles set by the Board.
The Board regularly reviews post-acquisition performance and integration.
The Executive Committee and Board review the acquisition pipeline.
There are monthly reviews with strategy leads for each division.
On disposals, the Company seeks to minimise its exposure to indemnities and warranties and any that are provided are reviewed on a regular basis.
54 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Compliance with legislation and regulations Risk There is a risk that Smiths may not always be in complete compliance with laws, regulations or permits, for example concerning environmental or safety requirements.
Smiths operates in highly regulated sectors.
Smiths Detection, Smiths Interconnect and Smiths Medical are particularly subject to regulation, with certain customers, regulators or other enforcement bodies routinely inspecting the Groups practices, processes and premises.
Due to their products security functions, Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect are subject to numerous export controls, technology licensing and other government regulations.
In addition, new legislation, regulations or certification requirements may require additional expense, restrict commercial flexibility and Pension funding business strategies or introduce additional liabilities for the company Risk or directors.
There also appears to be a growing trend for legislation that could be described as protectionist, which may affect our At 31 July 2011, Smiths has legacy defined benefit pension plans, businesses.
with aggregate liabilities in excess of 3bn.
While on an accounting basis the reported net deficit is relatively modest, changes in Potential impact discount rates, inflation, asset returns or mortality assumptions Smiths could be held responsible for liabilities and consequences could lead to a materially higher deficit.
For example, the cost arising from past or future environmental damage, including of a buyout on a discontinued basis, and therefore using more potentially significant remedial costs.
There can be no assurance conservative assumptions, is likely to be significantly higher that any provisions for expected environmental liabilities and than the accounting deficit.
remediation costs will adequately cover these liabilities or costs.
In addition, there is a risk that the plans assets, such as investments Should a regulators approval process take a particularly long time, in equity and debt securities, will not be sufficient to cover the value of those benefits.
our products may be delayed in getting to market, which could lead to a loss of revenue or benefit a competitor with a similar product.
Potential impact Failure to comply with certain regulations may result in significant The implications of a higher pension deficit include a direct financial penalties, debarment from government contracts and or impact on valuation, credit rating and potential additional funding reputational damage.
requirements at subsequent triennial reviews.
Contingent payment commitments made in the 2009 triennial valuation may also be Risk management more likely to crystallise.
Environmental, health and safety data are reported to the Quarterly In the event of a major disposal that generates significant cash Business Reviews, Executive Committee and the Board, along with actions to improve performance over time.
proceeds that are returned to shareholders, the Group may be required to make additional cash payments to the schemes or Smiths Medical has dedicated staff who maintain close contact with provide additional security.
the US Food and Drug Administration and other key regulators.
Risk management All divisions have trade compliance advice and training.
This All major schemes US UK have been closed to future accrual.
includes training on the Groups Code of Business Ethics and assessments to support compliance.
Agreed funding plans are in place with the major UK schemes Divisional and Group General Counsel monitor legislative changes following the last triennial reviews.
The Group seeks a good working assisted by Government Relations staff and report and monitor relationship with the trustees through regular update meetings.
This may require modifications to our supply There are plans in place to reduce the mismatch between assets chains and customer arrangements.
classes and liabilities, as relative outperformance of the assets versus liabilities is achieved, although there is no downside protection in place should this not occur.
Pension matters are regularly reported to the Board.
Go to note 10 on pages 108-111 for more information 55 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Risk management continued Product liability and litigation Technology and innovation Risk Risk In the ordinary course of its business, Smiths is subject to litigation Developing new products and improving existing products is critical such as product liability claims and lawsuits, including potential to our business and competitors may innovate more effectively.
class actions, alleging that the Groups products have resulted The emergence of a disruptive technology could have an impact or could result in an unsafe condition or injury.
on a major cash-flow contributor to the Group over time.
In addition, manufacturing flaws, component failures or design The speed of innovation in certain markets may lead to shorter defects could require us to recall products.
Many of our products product lifecycles, increasing the need for innovation.
are used in critical applications where the consequences of a failure could be extremely serious and, in some cases, Additionally, the entry of new competitors, the consolidation of potentially catastrophic.
existing competitors and changed or irrational competitor behaviour could all significantly affect the Groups business.
Products sold to the aviation, security, healthcare, energy and consumer domestic industries are particularly critical in nature.
Potential impact Furthermore, over half the Groups sales are in the US, where there The failure of the Group to develop its products and services, or more is potentially increased litigation risk.
effective innovation by a competitor, could have a materially adverse affect on sales growth.
Potential impact Risk management Any liability claim against Smiths, with or without merit, could be costly to defend and could increase our insurance premiums.
The Group has a diversified technology portfolio in a range Some claims might not be covered by our insurance policies, of sectors and geographies.
either adequately or at all.
Our continued investment in R&D supports new product and An adverse event involving one of our products could damage our service development.
reputation and reduce market acceptance and demand for all of The Group looks to expand the addressable markets of its key our products.
businesses by building capabilities in adjacent markets, through Risk management organic investment and targeted acquisitions.
Quality assurance processes are embedded in our manufacturing locations for critical equipment, supporting compliance with Talent and succession planning industry regulations.
Risk A global best practice programme is underway to enhance product The loss of key personnel, or the failure to plan adequately for quality processes across the Group.
This is sponsored by the succession or develop new talent.
Executive Committee and leverages the ongoing work in Smiths Medical and John Crane.
Competition for personnel is intense and Smiths may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, particularly The divisions have procedures for dealing with product liability engineering professionals.
In addition, certain personnel may be issues and potential product recalls.
These procedures are required to receive security clearance and substantial training to being informed by crisis management planning workshops work on certain programmes.
The loss of key employees, Smiths and rehearsals.
inability to attract new or adequately trained employees, or a delay The Group has insurance cover for product liability.
The US Safety in hiring key personnel could seriously harm the Groups business.
Act provides legislative protection for certain Smiths Detection Potential impact products in the US: and we support efforts to implement similar legislation in other markets.
May impact the reputation of the group, or lead to a disruption in the leadership of the business.
Any litigation is managed under the supervision of the Groups General Counsel.
We have detailed action plans to manage actual Over time, our competitive advantage is defined by the quality of or threatened litigation.
our people should we fail to attract, develop and retain key talent, in time our competitive advantage will erode, leading to weaker Go to page 51 and note 23 on pages 124-125 growth potential or returns.
Risk management Each division or function holds talent and succession plan reviews at least annually.
These plans are reviewed by the Nomination Committee.
Remuneration packages, including variable and long-term elements of the compensation arrangements are evaluated regularly against market practice.
Go to pages 60-61 for more information 56 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
