Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Assessment and feedback Analysis, monitoring and feedback RISk mAnAgement HOW We mAnAge RISk dIReCtly AFFeCtS HOW We dO buSIneSS Long term shareholder value is dependent on the success of the Groups activities, which are there is an ongoing directed towards the search, evaluation and process to identify, development of oil and gas resources.
Exploration monitor and mitigate risk for, and development of, hydrocarbons is speculative and involves a significant degree of risk How it works involving multiple factors.
Critical to ensuring the Board of ongoing success of the Company in applying its Directors three core strategic objectives of recognising opportunity, capturing potential and realising value is the identification, assessment and mitigation of Audit the various risk factors.
Committee Consequently, SOCO has a formal process in place to identify and mitigate risks applicable to an upstream oil and gas business.
The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for risk management with the Audit Committee providing detailed oversight.
The Board has designated the Chief Financial Officer as the executive responsible for the Companys risk management function.
He is supported in this task by the Vice President Operations and Production and the Group Chief Financial Exploration Manager.
Vice President Exploration and Officer Production There is an ongoing process to identify, monitor and mitigate risk throughout the year with any new or changes to existing risks considered at each Group Exploration Audit Committee meeting.
Annually, the Audit Manager Committee undertakes a rigorous and detailed risk assessment wherein the Groups risk profile, including the mitigation measures in place to reduce risk to acceptable levels, is considered.
This risk assessment is then presented to the Directors for full Board approval.
Operations Risk management and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed below.
Further commentary on these and additional risks can be found in Notes 3 and 4 to the financial Local statements.
The Groups risk management policies Managers and procedures are further discussed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 54.
Headquarters Operational Risk There are inherent risks in conducting exploration, drilling, and construction operations in the upstream industry.
The level of risk is potentially impacted by harsh geographical conditions and associated resource availability and costs.
SOCO SOCO International plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Identification and mitigation: Reporting and consultation Reporting and consultation Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information RISk mAnAgement continued seeks to mitigate its operational risks through the or social instability and where local attitudes to risk application of industry best practice procedures differ compared with nations with more established throughout its operations.
Mitigation may also be or developed economies.
Accordingly, the Group achieved by transferring risk, for example, by may be exposed to specific risks in relation to entering into partnerships or farm-outs and by social and environmental factors as well as health maintaining minimum standard industry insurance.
and safety matters, including security, and The Board of Directors does not believe that it is attempts to mitigate such risks by actively practical or prudent to obtain third-party insurance engaging with local communities and governments, to cover all adverse circumstances it may using specialist consultants and by maintaining encounter as a result of its oil and gas activities.
Further However, the Board believes that SOCOs details of how SOCO addresses these risks can comprehensive property, control of well, casualty, be found in the Sustainable Development Report liability and other policy cover conforms to industry on pages 36 to 41. best practice.
As such, it provides substantial protection against typical industry operational risks.
Political and Regional Risk The Board believes it has struck an appropriate Many of the Groups projects are in developing balance between exposure and coverage.
countries or countries with emerging free market systems where the regulatory environment may not Empowerment Risk be as mature as in more developed countries.
The Groups international portfolio comprises oil There may be a high level of risk in relation to and gas ventures in widespread, often remote compliance with and interpretation of emerging locations with government and industry partners.
hydrocarbon law, taxation and other regulations.
Conduct of operations requires the delegation of a SOCO seeks to minimise such risks by using degree of decision making to partners, contractors in country professional advisors and by and locally based personnel.
As operator in a engaging directly with the relevant project, SOCO can directly influence operations authorities where appropriate.
Where SOCO is a co-venturer of the Groups interests are in it seeks to maximise its influence through active regions identified as potentially Critical to ensuring the participation with management, including direct more susceptible to business secondments, and application of internal control interruptions due to the ongoing success of the best practice under a procedural framework.
consequences of possible Company is the identification, unrest.
The Group assesses assessment and mitigation Reserves Risk such risks before beginning of the various risk factors.
As discussed in Note 4 to the financial statements, operations in any particular area the Company uses standard recognised evaluation and has deemed these risks techniques to estimate its proven and probable oil commercially acceptable.
However, such techniques have does not currently carry political risk inherent uncertainties in their application.
As the insurance or associated business Company has projects with booked reserves in the interruption insurance coverage to early stages of production or development, upward mitigate such risks.
However, it periodically or downward revisions to reserve estimates will be assesses the cost and benefit of both and future made when new and relevant information circumstances may lead the Group to acquire such becomes available.
Health, Safety, Environment and Social Risks Business Conduct and Bribery Risk The Group operates in an industry sector with SOCO operates both in an industry sector and in inherent high risks associated with health, safety certain countries where the promotion of and the environment.
Additionally, it operates in transparent procurement and investment policies is regions where there is a greater risk of economic perceived as having a low priority and where SOCO International plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RISk mAnAgement continued customary practice may fall short of the standards Over time, during periods when the Group sees expected by the UK Bribery Act.
The Group seeks an opportunity to lock in attractive oil prices, it to mitigate these risks by ensuring that it has may engage in limited price hedging.
appropriate procedures in place to eliminate bribery and that all employees, agents and other Foreign Currency Risk associated persons are made fully aware of the Generally, it is the Companys policy to conduct Groups policies and procedures with regard to and manage its business in US dollars.
Cash ethical behaviour, business conduct and balances in Group subsidiaries are primarily held in transparency.
US dollars, but smaller amounts may be held in GB pounds or local currencies to meet immediate Running in parallel with the Groups general risk operating or administrative expenses, or to comply management process, the Audit Committee has with local currency regulations.
The Company may established a detailed bribery risk assessment and take short term hedging positions to protect the mitigation reporting procedure.
Bribery risks are value of any cash balances it holds in non-US monitored throughout the year along with dollar currencies.
The Group seeks to minimise the implementation of procedures to mitigate any new impact that debt financing has on its balance sheet risks identified.
by negotiating borrowings in matching currencies.
The Groups convertible bonds are denominated Reputational Risk in US dollars.
The Group operates in locations where social and environmental matters may be highly sensitive both Liquidity and Credit Risk on the ground and as perceived globally.
This can The Group carried significant cash balances potentially lead to a reputational risk which may throughout the year thereby increasing its exposure influence various Group stakeholders.
However, to liquidity and credit risk.
To mitigate these risks SOCO works closely with all of its stakeholders and to protect the Groups financial position cash including local communities, governments and balances are generally invested in short term, non-governmental organisations to ensure that non-equity instruments or liquidity funds, not during operations any disturbance is minimised exceeding three months forward.
Investments are and that on completion of the Groups activities the generally confined to money market or fixed term local population and environment will be left in, at deposits in major financial institutions.
least, as good a state as when SOCO first arrived.
See the Sustainable Development Report on pages 36 to 41 for further information.
Commodity Price Risk The Group does not maintain any fixed price, long term marketing contracts.
Production is sold on spot or near The Directors believe that term contracts, with prices fixed at the Group is well placed to the time of a transfer of custody or manage its financial and on the basis of an average market price.
Although oil prices may operating risks successfully.
fluctuate widely, it is the Groups policy not to hedge crude oil sales unless hedging is required to mitigate financial risks associated with debt financing of its assets or to meet its commitments.
Accordingly, no price hedging mechanisms were in place during the year.
SOCO International plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
