14 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Principal Risks and Uncertainties The group has a well-established process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks which forms a part of the groups system of internal controls as described in the Directors Report on page 44.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation 1.
Strengthening market positions through innovation New product development In order to strengthen our market positions and sustain Reduced profitability Significant investment levels in research and competitive advantage, the group invests significantly in and cash flow development, maintained at around 7% of sales research and development.
The development of new Loss of market share Project management disciplines are applied in technologies and products involves risk including: product development programmes Failure to recoup investment in Working closely with customers to ensure that we The product being more expensive or taking longer to innovation develop solutions tailored to their specific needs develop than originally planned New product developments are based on standard The market for the product being smaller than originally platforms, customised through high added-value envisaged applications engineering The product failing to reach the production phase Extensive customer involvement during product development and prior to product launch through beta evaluations Intellectual property Our business is focused on the design and manufacture of Reduced profitability Procedures in place requiring all of our businesses to: technologically advanced products and applications.
and cash flow maintain a watching brief on new applications Significant investment in research and development is made Loss of market share undertake specific reviews prior to commencing towards this end.
As a consequence, we own and protect Failure to recoup new product development, acquisitions or licenses patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyright information investment in register intellectual property where appropriate and intellectual property licenses.
innovation Maintain a portfolio of intellectual property assets The risk therefore exists that this intellectual property may such that no single patent, trade secret or trademark be infringed by third parties or that we may inadvertently is sufficiently important to present a material risk to infringe third-party rights.
the success of the company 2.
Increasing regional expansion with a focus on emerging markets Political and economic risks We operate in a range of end user markets around the Reduced profitability Maintaining a broad spread of markets, products world and may be affected by political, economic or and cash flow and customers limits risks associated with any given regulatory developments in any of these countries.
Material territory adverse changes in the political and economic environments Ensure we remain structured in such a way that in the countries in which we operate have the potential to enables us to take prompt action in the event of any put at risk our ability to carry out our strategy.
material change in the trading environment Monitor market intelligence Specifically, the group has reviewed its potential exposures to the Ensure we maintain a strong balance sheet and current macro-economic uncertainty relating to the Eurozone financial position economies.
We believe that the broad spread of markets in which we operate substantially limits the risk associated with additional instability in any given territory.
Whilst the group had sales into Europe of approximately 381 million in 2011 34% of total group sales, sales into Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain represented just 5% of total sales for the year approximately 57 million.
The group does not have any significant operations or supply chain dependencies within these countries.
Similarly, the group does not have any significant liquidity or funding risk in relation to these countries.
Laws and regulations Reduced sales, Strong internal control framework, policies and We operate in a large number of jurisdictions and, as a consequence, we are subject to numerous domestic and profitability and cash culture international regulations and restrictions.
These include laws flow Formal export controls compliance procedures in and regulations covering product safety, export controls, Reputational damage place, including strict product classification and anti-bribery, competition and false accounting.
transaction screening protocols Diversion of management resources Ethics training provided to all employees Any failure by the group or its representatives to comply with to address any Regular monitoring of compliance relevant laws and regulations could result in civil or criminal resulting investigation liabilities leading to significant fines and penalties or the disqualification of the group from participation in governmentrelated contracts for a period of time.
In the event of a failure to comply with export control regulations, the group could also be exposed to restrictions being placed upon its ability to trade.
21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 All significant risks are evaluated with reference to the groups achievement of its strategic objectives as outlined on page 12.
The key potential risks and uncertainties facing the groups ability to deliver its strategy, together with mitigating actions, are described below.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation 3.
Growing existing businesses through acquisition Acquisitions A key element of our strategy is to grow the business Failure to achieve the Rigorous financial and legal assessment of target portfolio through acquisition of stand-alone or bolt-on benefits outlined in the businesses businesses which complement or extend the range of business case Strict authority levels which, subject to size, involve products and applications we can provide.
Reduced profitability review by the Board for such transactions and cash flow Comprehensive representations and warranties in Integrating both the operations and personnel of acquired Unforeseen liabilities purchase agreements businesses can be a complex process.
Potential risks Extensive integration planning and execution therefore exist that the planned benefits from the acquisition may not be achieved as a result of problems Regular review against the business case for the encountered in integrating the acquired business, incorrect acquired businesses assumptions in the original business case, changing market Post-acquisition control reviews conditions or deficiencies arising in the due diligence process.
Further, the company could be exposed to past acts or omissions of the acquired business.
Building our presence in key strategic growth areas, both organically and through acquisition Competitive activity The nature of the marketplaces in which we operate Loss of market share Maintain market-leading positions through means that all of our businesses are exposed to risk significant investment in research and development Reduced profitability from competitor activity.
and cash flow Diversified portfolio of products and markets limits the overall risk from any single competitor Maintain ability to react quickly to changes in customer and market demand Maintain a watching brief on new competitor activity 5.
Focusing on operational excellence Supply chain dependencies and disruption The company is exposed to the risk that some of the Inability to fulfil Strategic sourcing teams source lower-cost components it sources, particularly for custom-built items customer orders components across a range of markets or older components, are provided by a single supplier and resulting in lost sales Alternative sources of supply actively sought to are therefore vulnerable to interruption of supply.
and reputational reduce dependency upon single-source suppliers damage Safety stock levels established for critical components The company also manufactures components, from Increased costs reduce Business continuity plans and disaster prevention proprietary technologies, at a number of locations.
profitability measures in place for all material manufacturing Our ability to supply products to our customers Loss of market share locations could be adversely impacted by a disaster or other disruptive event at any of these sites.
Business interruption insurance Strong contract review process Any interruption to the companys supplies or related increase in costs may result in an adverse effect on the business financial position and future performance.
Fluctuations in exchange rates Because of the global nature of our business, we have Unexpected variations Forward contracts cover up to 75% of forecast operations which sell and purchase goods in foreign in the companys exposures up to 18 months ahead currencies and whose results we record in a results Natural hedging strategy, matching invoicing and variety of different currencies.
We are therefore Reduced profitability purchasing currencies where practical exposed to any significant changes in exchange rates and cash flow Foreign currency investments hedged with between a number of different currencies.
borrowings in the same currency wherever possible Regular sensitivity analyses carried out to understand the impact of exchange rate movements on the groups reporting 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review
