Principal risks and uncertainties The Group has in place a robust risk management process to identify, evaluate and manage the identified risks that could impact on the Groups performance.
Risks and uncertainties are reviewed at least annually, and additionally, using external consultants every three years, most recently in 2011.
A summary of the key risks, their likely impact and the mitigation is set out below.
The Risk Management Committee has additionally implemented a locally based review in each company to identify further risks and determine appropriate counter circumstances.
Key risk Impact Mitigation Risk of product failure: Damage to customer relationships Products designed and tested to The Group provides a wide range of Reduced profit due to increased international standards and strict products into many different plants and costs to correct the problems quality procedures industries many of which are in critical caused at customers plants Training of sales installation staff parts of our customers processes.
Litigation following product Appropriate conditions of sale and A risk exists that products are wrongly liability claim.
contractual restrictions on liability specified or installed or fail or contain Insurance cover.
Loss of manufacturing output at any Reduced sales and profit due to Group manufacturing strategy to Group factory: inability to meet customer orders regionalise manufacturing base and The Group manufactures most of the Loss of market share increase resilience products we sell in nine main factory Damage to reputation.
Business continuity planning and units which supply our sales operations disaster recovery plans worldwide.
Loss of manufacturing Stocks of components and finished output at any important plant risks product in sales companies serious disruption to sales operations.
Regular and comprehensive back-ups of IT systems Use of insurance audits inspections and business interruption insurance.
Non-compliance with health, safety and Damage to reputation Compliance with legislation and codes environmental legislation: Reduced profit due to fines, of best practice The Group places great emphasis compensation and clean-up costs Regular audits and checks and on health, safety and environmental Enforcement action by regulatory reporting to management and issues in relation to our employees and authorities.
the Board on health, safety and operations and those of our customers, environmental issues suppliers and communities so as to Ongoing training.
avoid the risk of a major health, safety or environmental problem.
Failure to respond to technological Failure to achieve expected return Maintain market knowledge and developments or customer needs: on the R&D investment monitor competitor developments, The Group has significantly increased Reduced profit making effective use of our direct R&D resources and risks this being Loss of market share field sales force ineffective if we fail to respond to Loss of intellectual property.
Maintain investment in R&D development and customer needs or programmes if we fail to manage and protect our Maintain appropriate intellectual intellectual property.
property registrations, taking enforcement action where appropriate.
26 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Key risk Impact Mitigation Breach of regulatory requirements: Fines and regulatory action and Robust internal controls, policies The Group operates in a large number of resultant reduced profit and procedures and Group countries across the world and is subject Damage to reputation Management Code to many different laws and regulations, Diversion of management time.
Establish strong ethical culture including the UK Bribery Act, health supported by communication and safety, competition regulations and and training local quality regulations with potentially Review of commercial arrangements serious consequences for breach of and regulatory requirements with these laws and regulations.
appropriate professional advice Maintain local quality accreditations.
Defined benefit pension deficit: Increase in liabilities Use of independent professional Defined Benefit pension schemes Increase in pension costs and cash advisers and custodians for Defined carry risks in relation to investment contributions Benefit pension schemes performance, security of assets, Fluctuations in pension fund asset Pension scheme fide-risking strategy to longevity and inflation.
automatically reduce equity exposure defined benefit pension liabilities and increase matching assets at prerepresent approximately 50% of agreed trigger points.
Failure to realise acquisition objectives: Failure to achieve expected return Evaluation of potential targets against The Groups strategy is focused on on investment Strategic Plan and acquisition criteria organic growth complemented by Assumption of unexpected liabilities.
Project management disciplines bolt-on acquisitions as explained in Appropriate due diligence by the Business Overview on page 5.
Group personnel and external We risk failing to achieve the expected advisers covering commercial, legal, return on investment if acquisitions accounting and environmental issues.
are not properly identified, executed and integrated.
Economic and political instability: Fluctuations in profit from significant Compliance with Group The Group operates worldwide.
currency movements Treasury Policy Economic and political instability Reduced profit due to impact on Strong internal controls with internal creates risks for our locally based direct customers from economic problems audit and appropriate insurance operations.
The Group has reviewed the Potential redenomination of local Resilient business model as explained country, credit, liquidity and currency currency, devaluation and high in the Business Overview on page 5 risks, and in particular those arising from inflation.
Well spread business approximately European debt issues.
10% of Group sales originate in the higher risk countries of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain.
Sales in Greece are immaterial.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27 Financial statements Governance Corporate social responsibility Financial review Business review Overview
