Business review Spirits approach to managing risks and uncertainties The Audit & Risk Committee of the The Board has ultimate responsibility Spirit is exposed to a variety of Company has reviewed the formal risk for the risk management framework financial, operational, economic and management framework for Spirit and and will regularly and formally review regulatory risks and uncertainties.
this has been approved by the Board.
the material risks, which will be updated Our main risks and how we manage This framework continues and builds on quarterly to reflect changes or emerging them are shown in the table on the risk management activities carried risks on an ongoing basis.
The Board is pages 25 to 27: however, this is not out by the Spirit executive management responsible for ensuring that business an exhaustive list of all of the risks team before the demerger when risks are appropriately managed by the to which the business is exposed.
the business formed part of Punch executive management team and will Taverns plc.
The aim of the Spirit risk monitor key risk performance measures Some of the risks Spirit faces are management framework is to identify, on a periodic basis.
external and therefore beyond our evaluate and manage the risks and control.
Some risks may be considered uncertainties to which it is exposed.
A Risk Assurance team, comprising to be currently immaterial, but could internal audit, operational auditors and, emerge as material risks in the future.
The work of the Spirit executive where appropriate, specialist outsourced The risk management processes are management team before the demerger internal audit resource, provides therefore designed to manage the included regular risk workshops and assurance to the Board on key controls risks which may have a material impact regular updating of the risk register.
and the management of risks.
On an on our ability to meet our strategic Risks were highlighted and then annual basis the Audit & Risk Committee objectives, rather than fully mitigate assessed based on the probability of will review the overall effectiveness all risks.
them occurring and the impact they of the risk management framework.
Day to day evaluation of risk is carried The Board is aware that these risks and out by the executive management team.
uncertainties may either singularly or As part of the demerger process collectively affect the Groups revenue, a separate risk register for Spirit, based costs, value of assets, reputation or upon risk analysis done between 2006 ability to meet strategic objectives and and the demerger, was established.
is therefore committed to continually Using a consistent approach for reviewing and improving the risk reporting risks ensures that Spirit is management framework.
able to present a coherent hierarchy of its risks.
Mitigation plans are implemented where necessary to ensure that risks are managed appropriately.
com 24 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
