spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Our principal risks and uncertainties We conduct regular risk reviews to identify the major risks in the business which may affect our operating and financial performance and where possible put in place mechanisms to mitigate them.
The principal risks and uncertainties which the directors believe are currently faced by the Spirent Group are discussed below.
Risk and potential impact Macro-economic and industry sector Technological change and competition Reliance on contract manufacturers Spirent is a global business exposed to the Spirent sells complex solutions in industries We use contract manufacturers for the current world economic conditions.
We are that are characterised by rapid technological manufacture of a substantial amount of our particularly exposed to conditions in the changes.
Keeping at the forefront of these key products.
Our major contract manufacturer is telecommunications sector into which we sell future technologies is critical to our success located in Thailand.
many of our products and services and which and to ensure that we remain competitive in has experienced significant downturns in our markets.
Disruption or financial problems of the past.
contract manufacturers or limitations in It is critical that our innovation is directed at the the manufacturing capacity at contract A deterioration in economic or sector conditions right areas to enable Spirent to develop those manufacturers could either limit supply may lead to a reduction in the level of demand for solutions that our customers need at the time or increase our costs.
Spirents products and services and cause our when they need them.
customers to delay their purchasing decisions.
If we fail to achieve these objectives our competitive position, revenue and operating profits will suffer.
Mitigation actions Having the ability to adapt to changing market We continue to make a significant investment in We work closely with our contract dynamics is key in order to minimise the effects product development.
In 2011 our investment manufacturers and maintain a regular onsite of adverse economic or sector conditions.
was increased by 10 per cent to $88.1 million to presence.
To minimise the effect on supply underpin our organic growth initiatives.
that could be caused by disruption at contract Our businesses closely monitor both market manufacturers there are contingency plans and geographic trends so that we can respond There is a Portfolio Planning Team in place in place to transfer manufacturing to to changes in demand and are in a position to responsible for reviewing and making other locations.
take timely actions to protect profitability investment decisions across Spirents where possible.
In addition, Spirent has a broad product portfolio Developing the Right Solution at the Right of innovative test solutions and a large number of Time is a key component of Spirents strategy.
A component We always work closely with customers and of our strategy is our global reach.
remain focused on their requirements and believe we are investing in areas that represent their future.
18 overview business review governance financial statements Significant risks are reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee.
It is not possible to identify every risk that could affect the business, and the actions described below to mitigate those risks cannot provide absolute assurance that the risk will not occur or adversely affect the operating or financial performance of the Group.
These processes are more fully described in the Directors statement on corporate governance.
Business continuity risks Retention and recruitment of key staff Intellectual property Operational risks are present in the Groups Spirent is its employees.
So attracting and Spirents success is dependent in part on businesses.
These risks include the risk of retaining highly qualified and skilled employees proprietary technology which may be infringed failed internal and external processes and is essential in enabling us to deliver on our by others inadvertently or otherwise.
Protecting systems, human error and external events, such strategy and to the success of our business.
our proprietary technology is important to as a natural disaster.
For example, a significant enabling us to compete successfully in portion of our communications operations are We face intense competition for personnel from our industry.
located in California which has in the past other companies and organisations and the experienced natural disasters, including loss of our key employees, or the failure to Companies in the telecommunications industry earthquakes and wildfires.
attract and retain other highly skilled often aggressively protect and pursue their employees, may impair our ability to run and intellectual property rights and may assert A significant natural disaster could disrupt expand our business effectively.
Such our ability to conduct business and impact claims can result in significant defence costs, adversely our revenue and operating results.
and may affect Spirents ability to market its products.
An important component of Spirents corporate Investing in our people is at the core of our We have active intellectual property protection governance is its integrated risk management strategy.
We aim to find, keep and engage the programmes in place to obtain appropriate strategy and its regular self-assessment of risks highest calibre of employees and encourage intellectual property protection in a cost encompassing all business units.
Over the last their contribution and development.
three years, the Group has put in place an IT environment that fosters innovation and disaster recovery plan for the Groups major collaboration is critical to Spirents success as is There are procedures in the development business systems.
Our continued IT investment ensuring our incentive plans are competitive.
of new products that include consideration of also means that people are able to work from intellectual property rights of third parties.
We home which makes our businesses resilient to Appropriate career paths and internal also consult internal and external legal counsel issues at our locations.
The Groups largest recognition programmes are developed for both experienced in intellectual property matters.
manufacturing subcontractor has worldwide technical and non-technical staff.
Further multiple sites and comprehensive business information on our employees is provided in the continuity plans.
CSR statement on pages 32 and 33.
