Our key risks and uncertainties Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls Market and economic risks Economic and market climate We carry out regular reviews of the impact of economic conditions on our The recent recession and continued uncertain budget and five year strategic plan.
outlook for the UK economy have affected consumer We have successfully launched new brands in the Managed estate providing confidence and discretionary spending across both new consumer offers and we regularly review pricing and promotional offers the retail and leisure industries.
Any delay in economic to adapt to the needs of our guests.
recovery or further challenges could affect consumer We provided circa 1.2m to support our Leased estate partners during expenditure, our partners businesses and Spirits difficult trading conditions.
We continue to monitor the financial health of our partners.
In addition, consumer perceptions towards food and alcohol may change.
Further consolidation in the pub industry could affect Spirits ability to compete with larger competitors, and Spirits revenue is affected also by the weather and the timing of major sporting events.
We have conducted full estate reviews and regularly update these to allow us Property to assess the future strategy of pubs within the Managed and Leased estate.
Fluctuations in the UK property market as well as the This has allowed us to invest where appropriate: consider possible current uncertain market conditions could impact alternative use: or dispose of those which no longer fit our future strategy.
the value of Spirits property portfolio, our ability to We have refurbished 215 Managed pubs in the year at a cost of 51m so that dispose of pubs at an appropriate value or to sub-let as a result over 60% of the estate has benefited from capital programmes leased sites.
We carry out a bi-annual review for any indicators of impairment.
ln relation to leasehold properties, the day to day running of which Spirit does not control, rental payments may increase and Spirit may be liable for sites sold or sub-let to third parties, when the occupier defaults.
Increasing costs We have negotiated supplier contracts to protect us against significant Increases in any of our key supply costs including increases in food and drink costs.
food, drink, and utility costs, due to availability of We have forward purchased our electricity and gas for the next financial products, the economic climate or inflationary price year and have a dedicated focus within our Supplies and Services Team increases, as well as increases in taxes and duties, on monitoring and reducing utility usage.
is an ongoing risk to our business.
Careful cost control processes ensure that all costs, including labour, are budgeted and closely monitored and are subject to appropriate authorisation.
Financial Cash flow forecasts are produced to assist management in identifying Liquidity and covenant risk liquidity requirements and are stress tested for possible scenarios.
Spirits capital structure is made up of debt, issued This includes assessments of the ability to meet the restricted payment share capital and reserves.
Secured loan notes make conditions in the securitisation structure in order that cash can be released up the majority of our financing, with approximately to top company level.
90% August 2010: 93% of the capital balance on Cash balances are invested in short term deposits such that they are readily these loan notes being repayable after more than available to settle short term liabilities or fund capital additions.
These borrowings are subject to financial Covenants are closely monitored and stress tested to ensure we are able covenants.
to generate sufficient returns to service our debt and meet our covenant requirements.
The securitised debt is monitored by a variety of measures which are reported to debt providers on a quarterly basis.
Interest rate risk We employ derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps Spirit is exposed to interest rate risk from our loan to generate the desired interest rate profile.
notes and borrows at both fixed and floating rates We have taken out derivative financial instruments such that 100% of all of interest.
Spirit is also exposed to counter party loans August 2010: 100% were either at fixed rate or were converted to credit risk.
fixed rate as a result of swap arrangements, thereby reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates and producing a stable long term debt profile.
Further information on Spirits financial instruments can be found in note 22 to the financial statements.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 25 Business review Business review Our key risks and uncertainties continued Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls Financial continued Pensions The defined benefit pension schemes are closed to new members: and Spirit has two defined benefit pension schemes which instead we operate defined contribution schemes for our employees.
must be funded to meet required benefit payments.
We continue to examine strategies which will further mitigate the risks The value and funding of the schemes are subject to of an increased deficit or reduced surplus and we are currently reviewing risk of changes in life expectancy, actual and expected our medium to long term risk reduction strategy.
price inflation, changes in bond yields and future We maintain a close relationship with the trustees of the pension scheme.
The difference in value between scheme assets and scheme liabilities may vary resulting in an increased deficit or reduced surplus being recognised on our balance sheet.
Internal financial control Robust internal controls operate over all key processes including general Spirit is committed to maintaining a robust internal controls such as segregation of duties, and authorisation of contracts and control environment.
This includes controls within expenditure.
our Support Centre and our Managed pubs.
A lack An Internal Audit team review and report on strengths and weaknesses of control could result in financial fraud or material in the internal control environment.
error in our financial statements.
Our operational auditors provide assurance on controls within our Managed pubs and have completed 1,136 risk based control audits during the year.
We continue to make significant investment in IT systems and infrastructure.
Operational and people Change management Formal project management processes are used across the business to The Group is reliant on the successful implementation prepare project objectives and plans and to ensure progress is tracked and of operational initiatives to deliver both day to day results measured.
improvements and our five year strategic plan.
Major projects are well communicated across the business so that a joined up approach is maintained.
Our Guest at the Heart initiative was successfully implemented during the year.
This is focused on providing consistently great hospitality.
Information systems, technology and security An incident management and disaster recovery plan is in place for critical Spirit is reliant upon information systems and business processes to ensure the business is able to continue operating technology for many aspects of its business which in the event of a major incident.
could be damaging if they were to fail for any length The business has tested these plans during the year and made further of time.
We have an off-site disaster recovery facility if access to our Support Centre, or its systems, is affected.
Product quality Safety measures are in place to ensure that product integrity is maintained Spirit is exposed to product quality risk in relation to and that all food and drink products are fully traceable.
food and drink which is supplied to us and prepared Our incident management plan ensures that products can be recalled within our Managed pubs.
Food contamination, a food quickly if required.
scare, poor quality, or wrongly prepared food could We have a formal food accreditation process based on a programme result in a food safety issue for our guests, impact our of robust supplier audits by an external food assurance company.
guest satisfaction and, ultimately Spirits reputation.
We have a Professional Safety Audit carried out in every pub 1,678 audits in total which includes food safety.
Results have improved slightly during the year with our average score being 89% against a pass rate of 80%.
We have a policy of providing food hygiene and safety training and guidance for all team members.
Service standards and threats to our brands Our guests are at the heart of our business.
We have continued our Operational Excellence programme with a Guest at the Heart programme.
and reputation This is supported by award winning training for all team members to ensure Poor service or an incident may occur which could our team are motivated to create a great guest experience.
materially impact or damage the reputation of one of A third party supplier carries out mystery guest audits and we invite all of our Managed pub brands.
This could affect the ability our guests to complete satisfaction surveys so we can continue to improve of the brand to attract future guests or negatively our standards.
impact the ability of that brand to generate income.
com 26 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011 Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls Operational and people continued Supply chain management We have taken action to improve our supply chain arrangements.
Spirit places reliance on our key suppliers and We have reviewed the disaster recovery and business continuity plans distributors to ensure continuous supply of food, drink of our key distributors.
and other products into our pubs.
Spirit is exposed We monitor product quality closely and consider action which may be to the risk of interruption or failure of suppliers or required to provide substitute products or suppliers if required.
distributors resulting in our products not being delivered on time or to our required standards.
People risks We were ranked 21 out of 25 in The Sunday Times Best Big Company 2011 Failure to recruit, train and successfully retain survey.
successful partners for our Leased pubs, key We provide industry leading recruitment, induction training and coaching executives, talented managers and team players for programmes for our Managed employees and our new partners within the our Managed pubs and high calibre people for our Leased estate.
support teams could impact the ability to deliver our We have improved our succession planning at all levels to ensure we retain strategic five year plan and operational objectives.
high calibre people and accelerate talent development.
We have introduced a range of formal qualifications including an Apprenticeship programme available to all employees and a Masters Degree programme for our high performers.
We carry out an annual Employee Engagement survey and regular Listening Groups to obtain direct feedback from our employees.
Very high levels of engagement and commitment were shown by the most recent survey.
We have a formal remuneration strategy to ensure our teams are paid fairly and competitively.
Regulatory Health and safety A health and safety management committee meets on a regular basis to A health and safety accident or incident could lead consider all aspects of health and safety across Spirit and to report to the to serious illness, injury or even loss of life to one of Board of Directors on the status of health and safety.
our guests, employees or visitors could significantly We have formally documented and briefed health and safety policies for impact Spirits reputation.
our Support Centre, field based teams, and our Managed pubs and carry out annual risk assessments in key areas.
Our Be Safe, Legal and Compliant hardline introduced as part of the Operational Excellence programme has significantly improved the health and safety culture within our Managed pubs and resulted in a significantly reduced number of accidents and environmental health incidents.
Changes in legislation We work closely with the rest of the industry to address the key issues Spirit is subject to many different areas of regulation, facing the pub sector.
many due to the high level of control over the sale We actively participate in consultation processes and have attended of alcohol, and can be subject to delay and failure consultation meetings for discussion of Rebalancing the Licensing Act.
to obtain required licences, permits and approvals.
We work closely with industry bodies and have provided input into the Increasing public focus in areas such as binge Institute of Licensings response to Rebalancing the Licensing Act.
drinking, underage drinking, and health impacts over We ensure that our training covers all aspects of licensing requirements recent years, means that the Government may and have due diligence in place to confirm that all of our pubs meet all introduce further regulation which may significantly licensing legislation.
We work closely with local Licensing Boards, to ensure all individual pub licensing requirements are met and any issues are highlighted as soon The Policing and Crime Act 2009 introduced a new as possible.
mandatory code of practice for licensing the sale of alcohol and the Police Reform & Social Responsibility Act 2011 further tightened controls on the sale of alcohol.
The Government also issued a Consultation paper in July 2010 entitled Rebalancing the Licensing Act which may impose additional changes for our business.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 27 Business review
