Scottish and Southern Energy 56 Annual Report 2011 Risk management kk energy trading levels of exposure are risk management model strictly monitored through sophisticated models and clear reporting limits: kk major project construction the Balanced Strategy Teamwork Culture Company has put in place a detailed governance process for all its large capital projects: kk the Company has a strict approach to acquisitions, and sets high hurdle rates Risk Management Risk Averse Risk Management for expected returns: Structure Appetite kk in treasury and funding matters, there is a clear and prudent approach to liquidity levels, and a mix of maturities and currencies: and Risk Monitoring Limits and Controls kk insurances are in place for all relevant and Governance major internal risks, while maintaining an appropriate balance with self insurance where appropriate.
limited value at risk Risk management electricity distribution and gas The limited appetite for risk and the distribution: process of risk identification, allied to the The Board of SSE acknowledges its clear kk electricity generation, using a diverse maintenance of a balanced model, in which responsibility for risk management.
variety of fuels gas, oil, coal, biomass, diversity of operations and investments is wind and water: a key feature, all mean that the extent of Whilst good risk governance is a kk energy supply gas and electricity, any single risk and the value associated responsible approach, the more plus other home services: and with it is limited.
fundamental methodology followed kk other energy-related activities by SSE is to ensure the overall business such as gas storage, gas production, risk monitoring model, strategy, and culture are designed contracting, utility solutions, metering Risks are monitored by the relevant with risk firmly in mind.
business units within SSE, with an overview provided by the Group Audit Department for clear and balanced business strategy This means that while they have a common the Audit Committee meetings held in May SSE has a clear strategic financial goal: core energy there is balance and diversity and November of each year.
The Board to deliver sustained real growth in the in the sources of SSEs income and profit.
reviewed all aspects of risk management dividend payable to shareholders.
To attain and internal control at its meeting in March that goal, it does not need to seek artificially culture 2011.
At that meeting, the Board held a high rates of growth in profitability or take Central to SSEs approach to risk specific review of the developments within operational or investment decisions which management is its core value of Teamwork, the Company during the year to ensure good are high risk.
The Board believes that this defined as supporting and valuing colleagues risk management: it revisited the approach dividend goal must not be subverted for and working together in an open and honest to risk appetite: and considered the any other financial end.
This facilitates a full discussion of the management structure to ensure proper risks and potential rewards associated with controls are in place.
It was also agreed that SSEs view is that a sustainable business any major decision discussion which this strategic review of risk should be held requires a clear approach to risk management involves people because of what they twice each year in future.
in all aspects of its activities.
know, not simply who they are.
Following the March 2011 meeting, the SSE seeks to achieve its strategic financial limited appetite for risk Board undertook a further review of the goal through the implementation of a wellThe Teamwork value, combined with other Companys principal risks and approved the established strategy: the efficient operation factors such as the clear, moderate but list set out opposite at its May 2011 meeting.
of, and investment in, a balanced range of nevertheless fundamentally important goal  and market-based of sustained real growth in the dividend, mean During 2010 11, the Group Audit energy businesses.
SSE has adopted a limited appetite for risk.
department carried out over 60 separate At the same time, its approach in respect of audits of functions, activities and issues These businesses operate almost entirely in  businesses, which managed by SSE, providing a large the UK and Ireland.
This means SSE is able in themselves are lower-risk, is more risknumber of reports to senior management to focus closely on issues, giving greater averse than is the case in other, market-based throughout the year.
These include experience, analysis and focus to the activities.
In these areas, such as electricity environmental audits carried out by SSEs identification, consideration and generation, SSE might consider taking on Group Environmental Auditor.
Each audit management of risks.
additional risk where the risk is very wellreport included agreed management actions understood and can be mitigated and the to improve the overall management of risk.
The practical application of its strategy potential returns are clearly attractive but Group Audit reviews complement the work means SSE derives income and profit from: also credible.
done by business-specific compliance functions in areas such as Energy Trading, Some examples of the risk averse kk three separate  Energy Efficiency, Domestic Sales, IT and approach are: activities electricity transmission, Customer Service.
57 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Principal risks risk How risk is managed The Safety, health and Environment Advisory Committee of the board is responsible for ensuring safety management SSEs health and safety policy is adhered to.
The newly-established management board also has a Safety Committee.
An experienced Regulation department manages SSEs relationships and interface with Ofgem, regulatory change Ofwat, Ofcom and energy regulators in other jurisdictions.
An experienced Policy and Public Affairs team manages SSEs relationships and interface with legislative change government ministers and officials, legislators and other policy-makers.
The board approves levels of exposure which are strictly monitored through sophisticated models Energy portfolio management and clear reporting limits.
The management board has a Risk and Trading Committee.
A Central Engineering Team is well-established.
Asset life assessment and risk-based management are asset and plant management applied.
Regular testing, review and update of major incident handling processes takes place.
Capital spending and maintenance regimes are maintained.
The Risk and Trading Committee provides oversight.
Significant upgrade and refurbishment programmes are designed to prevent network failures.
business networks management continuity plans, supported by contingency sites and regular testing, are established throughout the Company.
Clearly prepared and rehearsed approaches are in place for external relations aspects of emergency incidents and situations.
The Company has in place an information Protection Programme which covers all of its operations.
information security Resilient systems and data centres are in place and there is regular testing.
The diverse business model avoids over reliance on specific supply chains.
The Sustainability value supply chain failure ensures a long-term view is taken.
well established procurement and fuel procurement teams ensure varying supply chains are identified and counterparty exposures monitored.
The Risk and Trading Committee is required to approve any major changes to treasury policy or treasury management objectives.
Periodic reporting of treasury activity to Audit Committee also takes place.
Strong internal controls are maintained and independent reviews take place.
There is Executive director level representation at debt steering group meetings.
Ongoing credit credit management monitoring and reporting are supported by credit management teams throughout the Company.
There are periodic formal valuations of pension schemes and contributions supported by continual pension liabilities monitoring of scheme investments and valuations.
Performance of investment managers is reviewed regularly by pension boards of trustees.
There is a strong external focus to ensure developments are anticipated, including Strategy, business sector developments development and SSE ventures.
A foresighting capability is maintained through a Policy and Research team which includes Research and development.
development and implementation of SSEs large Capital Project Governance Framework is designed to major capital projects management ensure projects are governed, developed, approved and executed in an effective manner.
The Framework itself is regularly reviewed and updated.
The Company works with experienced advisers and suppliers and implements a strong governance transformation projects management and assurance framework for all aspects of major change programmes.
wide-ranging consultation and review of all relevant regulatory, legal and accounting frameworks compliance management take place.
Regulation, Compliance and Group Audit teams develop and monitor compliance processes.
Corporate crisis policy and procedure issued and updated annually.
There is Executive training and crisis management regular test exercises are undertaken.
The nomination Committee of the board is responsible for reviewing the leadership needs of senior succession planning management and succession plans for the Executive directors.
integrated Group Services function to ensure optimum resource management, including Finance, hR, resource management iT and Facilities management and Property maintenance, deployment and development of resources is in response to business needs.
board oversight and practical application, including through the performance appraisal process, of the Developing corporate arrogance SSE SET of core values: Safety, Service, Efficiency, Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork.
Scottish and Southern Energy 58 Annual Report 2011 Risk management continued Risk is also the subject of specific SSEs approach to risk management regular reports to the Management Board, which was established in January 2011 see page 54 for more information on the is characterised by: the clarity of its Management Board.
financial goal: its strategy and business risk management In summary, SSEs approach to risk model, which help to limit the value at management is characterised by: the clarity of its financial goal: its strategy and business model, which help to limit the risk: its culture and limited appetite for value at risk: its culture and limited appetite for risk: and its work on risk identification risk: and its work on risk identification and risk management.
clear and transparent decision-making Such an approach to risk management still requires one essential feature: clear and transparent decision-making to make the overall approach effective, in support of its clear financial goal.
have no control is, in practice, limited: No list of risks can ever be totally kk the weather could have an impact on the comprehensive.
Circumstances change Risk categories production and consumption of energy and the unexpected happens so the extent in the Generation and Supply business.
and materiality of any risk can vary.
As stated on page 56, the Board reviewed The extent of this risk is contained by Nevertheless, in its ongoing review of risk, SSEs principal risk categories and the the diversity within SSEs generation SSE is confident that its assessment of effectiveness of SSEs system of internal portfolio, the further diversity within the principal risk categories is correct controls between March and May 2011. its renewable energy portfolio, and the and that its analysis of individual risks The risks are set out on the previous page.
integrated nature of its generation and is soundly-based.
It could also There are three additional risks that are have an impact on the operation of Internal control not specified but which could potentially energy networks, and management of affect a large number of areas of activity: this risk is factored into the operational Risk management depends on a strong geopolitical developments: the weather: planning of these networks: and system of internal control, which is and reputation.
kk SSE believes that the most effective way fundamental to achieving SSEs strategic to manage risks to its reputation is to objectives.
The Board is responsible for kk geopolitical developments could have an manage effectively the risks set out on the overall system of internal control impact on a number of SSEs activities, page 57.
Corporate reputation is very and risk management, and it either such as energy portfolio management or important for a long-term business directly, or through its committees, sets the construction of large capital projects such as SSE, but seeking to manage performance targets and policies for the through supply chain impacts.
In view of reputation, rather than the substance management of key risks facing SSE.
this, SSEs balanced and diverse business of the issues which determine a The system of internal control is designed model, which is designed amongst other companys reputation, could lead to to manage, rather than eliminate, risk things to avoid dependence on any single short-term behaviours or actions which of failure to achieve business objectives technology or fuel, is a key means of have negative long-term implications.
and can provide only reasonable and not seeking to ensure the impact of For this reason, SSE does not specify absolute assurance against material developments over which SSE can reputation as a risk to be managed.
ssE sEt of values to manage risk SAFETY SERVICE EFFICIENCY We believe all accidents are We give our customers service We keep things simple, do the work preventable, so we do everything we are proud of and make that adds value and avoid wasting safely and responsibly or not at all.
money, materials, energy or time.
TEAMWORK EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY We support and value our colleagues We strive to get better, smarter and We operate ethically, taking the and enjoy working together as a team more innovative and be the best in long-term view to achieve growth in an open and honest way.
59 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information All employees are expected to adhere to the Companys code of business practice internal control process and the SSE values of Safety, Service, Efficiency, Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork which are embedded in the Board of Directors culture.
See page 58 for full definitions.
Their consistent application are central to all activities in SSE.
The Teamwork value, the emphasis on peoples knowledge rather Safety, Health and Audit Management Risk and Trading than status, and the maintenance of a very Environment Advisory Committee Board Committee Committee experienced team, complemented by the recruitment of additional specialist skills where necessary, are all designed to ensure that the risks associated with operations Group Audit are fully understood.
Reporting within the Company is structured so that the key issues are escalated through the management team, ultimately to the Board if appropriate.
Business Units The key elements of SSEs internal control and financial reporting processes are summarised below: operational plans, policies, procedures Reviewing the system of internal control the Board: and budgets: and monitoring its effectiveness is delegated kk approves the policies, procedures and kk assesses and controls all SSE risks: to the Audit Committee and is reviewed at framework for the maintenance of a kk monitors competitive forces in each least annually by the Board.
The Board and sound and effective system of internal area of operation: the Audit Committee have reviewed the control ensuring: kk receives and reviews reports from its effectiveness of the internal control system the provision of quality internal four committees including the Risk in accordance with the Code for the period reporting to the Audit Committee and Trading Committee and the Safety, from 1 April 2010 to 19 May 2011 being the and other Board Committees by Health, and Environment Committee: and last practical day prior to the printing of management and Group Audit: kk receives and reviews regular presentations this Annual Report.
The Board confirms the provision of quality reporting and reports from all the main Group that appropriate action would have been by the external Auditors to the Audit businesses.
taken to address any significant failings Committee: or weaknesses identified: however, no compliance with the Turnbull Guidance the Group audit department: intervention has been required.
on Internal Control: and kk works with the business units to develop compliance with statutory and and improve risk-management tools and regulatory obligations, processes in their business operations: kk reviews the significant risks identified kk ensures that business risks are identified, by each business unit as well as the managed and regularly reviewed and that mitigating action against those risks the key risks are reported to the Audit following review by the Audit Committee: Committee and Board: kk determines the nature and extent of the kk ensures that the business units carry out significant risks it is willing to take in regular reviews on their internal controls achieving its strategic objectives: relating to the key risks: kk approves and regularly reviews and kk monitors the effectiveness of SSEs updates SSEs strategy and business system of internal control through the development: distribution of reports and, where kk reviews performance through a system appropriate, action plans to senior of reporting based on annual operating managers, Directors, the Audit and capital expenditure budgets: Committee and external Auditors: monthly reviews against actual results: kk monitors adherence to SSEs key analysis of variances and evaluation policies and principles: and of key performance indicators: kk provides the Audit Committee and kk receives regular reports from the Chief Board with objective assurance Executive, the Finance Director and on SSEs control environment.
the other Executive Directors: and kk undertakes an annual evaluation of the role of committees Board, its Committees and individual The role of the Audit Committee, Risk and Directors.
Trading Committee and Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee in the the management Board: Groups system of internal control and risk kk monitors operational and financial management is set out in the individual performance of SSE: committee reports.
kk develops and implements SSE strategy,
