Risk Management The Group operates an internal risk control system to evaluate and manage risks as described in the section Internal Control on page 43 of this report.
Besides general risk factors, a non-exhaustive summary of specific risks affecting the Groups operations and industry is outlined below.
Consumer Confidence Airport safety and security As a key supplier to UK retailers, the Groups revenues are not There are inherent safety and security risks involved in as sensitive to general economic and consumer spending operating an airport.
The airport management and staff are conditions.
This is because a large proportion of loads carried well equipped to manage fire and other safety and security are within the Fast Moving Consumer Goods FMCG sector.
London Southend Airport and Carlisle Lake 33 District Airport are regulated by the Civil Aviation Authority Where volumes decline, the Group operates a fleet financing and the Department for Transport.
and recruitment policy which allows it to flex its operations in response to both increases and decreases in demand.
Demand for Integrated and Outsourced Transport and Logistics Seasonality and Abnormal Weather The transport and logistics industry in the UK has seen a Supplying UK retailers, the Groups revenue has been general trend towards an increased demand from customers seasonally linked with its customers, with demand peaking in for an integrated transport and logistics service from suppliers the summer months and the build-up to Christmas.
January with national and international operations, as opposed to and February have typically been the slowest trading months.
companies providing only one service on a limited regional The Group has grown non-seasonal business to minimise these basis.
peaks and troughs, but revenues will still flex in response to The Board believes that the Group is well positioned to take strong or weak retail trading: particularly in the build-up to advantage of this move towards integrated and outsourced Christmas.
The ability to flex the fleet in response as outlined transport and logistics with both national and international above also mitigates this risk.
capabilities, offering a more operationally efficient service.
Extreme weather, such as high winds and snow, can disrupt the Groups business as the fleet and rail terminals can have People difficulty operating.
The strategic and operational management of the Group Government Legislation and Regulation depends on certain key management.
Management is retained by competitive performance based remuneration and key man Operating in the transport and distribution sector, the Group insurance policies are in place.
is subject to a number of areas of legislation and regulation.
Legislation and regulation in areas such as working time, health Competition and safety, road duties, fuel costs and environment, can have an impact on a number of operational areas.
Management The transport and logistics industry remains highly polarised, have worked within these constraints through the introduction with a large number of small regional operators competing of appropriate systems and controls.
for general transport work and a small number of national and international businesses capable of offering fully outsourced integrated solutions to major UK customers.
Information Technology The Group is targeting national transport and logistics The Groups business model is dependent on certain contracts worth in excess of 10m per annum.
This will information systems externally hosted and databases.
These increase its direct competition with the small number of are backed up and the Group has in-house IT services.
international businesses also looking to target this market segment.
However, due to the nature of the innovative cost model, the Group will also seek other business to complement its traffic flows.
Risk Management Risk Management Nature of Lease Obligations Stobart Group has a number of warehouse and operating depot leases which represent a significant cost commitment and contribute to material fixed costs.
34 Where possible, the Group sublets facilities in back-to-back arrangements with end customers to minimise financial risk.
The warehouses are predominantly on standard commercial property terms and include periodic upwards only rent reviews.
Fuel Prices Fuel prices represent a high cost in the Group.
The impact of fuel price movements on financial performance in 2009 2010 and 2010 2011 has been negligible due to the use of fuel price escalators within all customers contracts.
Commercial Property The Group currently holds an interest in a number of commercial property assets.
These properties are subject to the general property market climate.
The values have been substantially written down in previous years following the downturn in the commercial property market.
The Group has seen in increase in value in a number of the properties during the year.
The commercial property Joint Venture interests had previously been written down to nil.
Acquisitions The enlarged Stobart Group was formed by a merger in September 2007 and has, since then, completed a further five major acquisitions.
The synergistic benefits from the merger and acquisitions will be derived from successful integration of the various interests.
The Group has adopted detailed integration plans to ensure the integrations are successful.
Capital Expenditure The successful development of the Groups assets at London Southend Airport, Carlisle Lake District Airport, Widnes and the Port of Weston at Runcorn will depend on securing funding for the proposals.
The Group manages its capital and debt and believes it is in a strong position to realise the potential of these assets.
