Synergy Health plc 22 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties Since 2007 the Group has continued to expand and enhance its Commodity prices RiskManagement efforts that identify, assess and mitigate against Increasing demand, especially from Asia, for oil and other raw themain challenges it faces.
This effort is led by the Director of Risk materials, coupled with natural disasters, and unrest in the Middle Management who works closely with the senior directors and East, has resulted in sharp price increases.
At the same time economic managers around the Group to find the best solutions to the risks recession is putting downward pressure on prices and squeezing thatarise in a rapidly changing business environment.
The recent floods in Pakistan resulted in the loss of much ofthe cotton harvest and our linen businesses in the UK and the The Senior Executive Board SEB is responsible for setting and Netherlands are seeing rising costs and less availability.
Oil prices communicating an acceptable level of risk.
They are also responsible continue to rise making energy dependent processes and distribution for ensuring that systems remain in place, through appropriate operations more expensive.
delegation into the management chain, formanaging risks whilst avoiding actions that could stifle businessexpansion.
Mitigation Well established risk groups exist in each business sector and carry A two fold strategy on energy has enabled us to contain some of the out regular reviews of the specific risks they face.
Our efforts to drive down energy use through a produce detailed risk registers that clearly identify the most serious structured energy management programme combined with hedging threats to the business and communicate this message back to the aproportion of our energy costs have been effective in this regard.
The groups are also responsible for developing and implementing Further, certain of our customer contracts allow for prices to be solutions and contingency plans to reduce all risks to a level that index-linked to utility prices.
Ourcompetitors are facing the same matches the Groups risk appetite.
pressures and it is our challenge to out-perform them and be in a position to capture new business based on cost and quality of service.
Progress is monitored by the SEB to ensure thatactions are taken within agreed timescales.
The process is fullycontained and self Financial regulating through the processes of review, report, action, monitor and New business financial control and reporting report again.
As individual risk scores dropto become less significant As the Group expands into new markets and jurisdictions, the risk they are archived and then go into atwo year review cycle.
As a result, ofnot being able to maintain adequate financial controls increases.
the risk registers do not become too large, and focus on the most Thisrisk includes potential local tax problems, as well as ensuring significant current challenges facing the business.
thatnew investments realise their anticipated potential.
Making sure During the past year the turmoil in the world markets continued to that financial reporting from new businesses is accurate and complies throw up situations that required us to modify our risk programme.
with current approved practices will be key elements in avoiding Those which have been deemed to pose the highest threat are listed financial under-performance and impact on profits and long term below under the following headings: shareholder value.
Commercial Mitigation Financial The teams in our Asia and Africa and Americas regions, where the Operational fastest growth is expected, include employees with extensive financial experience who have worked in the region over many years.
We also Legal compliance take local professional advice and have well established relationships People inall territories.
Improvements, including peer reviews, are planned for2012.
Both in Asia and elsewhere, Synergy closely evaluates the Commercial strategic effects of its investments by forming multidisciplinary teams Business retention and expansion who are tasked with ensuring that new ventures are compatible with A number of different factors come together to make trading conditions the long term goals ofthe business.
more uncertain across our different sectors.
The serious economic Legacy risks conditions in Ireland could pose a threat to our medical device sterilisation services business should any fiscal changes make it a less As an acquisitive business, Synergy faces the risk of inheriting attractive market for US multinational device manufacturers to do outstanding debts and liabilities.
One area where we face some business there.
Low cost imports and changing buying patterns in the exposure is in the UK final salary pension scheme deficits for the NHS pose a threat to our Healthcare Solutions business in retaining former Shiloh, Vernon Carus and Synergy Healthcare parts of and expanding its product offerings.
Similarly, the UK Governments ourbusiness.
proposals to replace 152 primary care trusts with GP consortia will Mitigation require us to understand how we can maintain our success in offering We have been actively developing a strategy of deficit reduction outsourced sterilisation services to hospitals.
through better and more proactive management of the schemes.
Mitigation Withthe exception of NHS transfers, the Groups defined benefit By ensuring that we maintain our cost leadership approach and can schemes are closed to new entrants and with effect from 1 April 2011, demonstrate value for money combined with excellence of service, we have closed all three UK schemes to future accruals: active there is no reason why we cannot continue to capture new business.
members have been transferred to deferred status, and invited to join The recent acquisition of GSP gives our Europe and Middle East region the Groups defined contribution scheme.
access to new markets and expansion opportunities.
Rationalising In other areas, extensive due diligence is carried out to make sure that andconsolidating our manufacturing processes should also drive any acquisitions, whilst offering opportunities for growth, represent down costs and improve quality and delivery.
asound investment and will not threaten the financial health of theGroup.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 23 Operational Mitigation Security and safety of critical facilities The Group continues to invest in improving its quality assurance programmes.
The appointment of a Quality Director for the UK and Cost leadership requires us to carefully consider all new investment Ireland emphasises this commitment towards excellence.
Synergy will and to maximise the return we can obtain from existing assets.
Our continue to evaluate and develop both its human and technological success in capturing new business across all our operational sectors resources so it can exceed the minimum requirements set under increases the pressure on individual facilities to maintain high levels of international standards and those expected by our customers.
The sudden unexpected loss of a facility, due to fire or natural disaster, could impact on service and compromise the Groups ability Legal compliance to meet customer expectations.
Customers are becoming more Changes in legislation sophisticated in evaluating their suppliers in areas such as contingency planning, and we need to be able to demonstrate that our response to Maintaining legal compliance in respect of financial, environmental, disaster will be adequate to satisfy their requirements.
health and safety, and other requirements, worldwide, is a significant challenge.
European Directives set the framework for national laws Mitigation within the EU but the interpretation and application can vary widely Throughout the past year we have continued to evaluate and develop indiffering national jurisdictions.
Responding inappropriately to new our Business Continuity Planning.
We remain committed to treating regulations can expose the Group to censure and uninsurable losses this as an area of continual improvement, so we can not only meet but iffines are imposed.
In the UK, the Corporate Manslaughter and exceed the expectations of our customers.
Throughout the coming Corporate Homicide Act 2007 and The Bribery Act 2010 impose risk year we will work with our risk management partners to find better exposures on the Company and its officers.
Understanding and solutions to potential scenarios where we may need to initiate disaster reacting correctly to these new laws will be an essential requirement in recovery processes.
Combined with this programme, we also strive to avoiding legal sanction.
improve our control of the working environment and implement risk reduction measures to minimise the likelihood of any loss occurring.
Mitigation The Group has appointed senior directors and managers to take Information Technology IT responsibility for maintaining legal compliance within the different The increasing size and sophistication of the Groups operations jurisdictions where we operate.
This extends to corporate governance, inevitably leads to a greater dependence on IT systems.
These safety and environmental areas.
Our Company Secretary, in systemsinclude financial and ERP systems which are used widely partnership with selected specialist advisers, ensures that our across the business, integrating with plant control software that may standards of corporate governance reach the highest standards.
have its use limited to a single site or key piece of plant.
Inevitably, Though our risk management processes the implications of new these systems and the platforms they rely on can become outdated, regulations are assessed and required changes and mitigation put redundant or unable to cope with the increased demand resulting inplace.
The Group is exposed to risks arising from outdated systems inherited through acquisitions, which could slow People risks itsgrowth and development.
Loss of critical knowledge Mitigation The Group operates in a number of specialist areas providing outsourced services for companies who do not wish to invest directly The Group has initiated Project Olympic, which is designed to deliver inthe expertise and technology required to carry out these services for a new worldwide financial system, to replace our older ERP systems themselves.
As such Synergy has an interest in attracting and retaining and some operational control systems, and to provide central support the best people.
Failure to continue to do this could compromise the on a modern platform that will be able to expand as the Group grows.
successful growth of the Group into new markets and impact on A project board sponsored by the Group Finance Director has been set longterm shareholder value.
up to complete this project in 2012.
The completion of this project is expected to eliminate many of the potential IT-related concerns and Mitigation improve the efficiency of financial reporting.
It will also create Synergy has long recognised the importance of its employees and has opportunities for improved innovation, scalability and cost reduction.
sought to provide an attractive and exciting environment for individuals to develop and prosper by contributing to the success of the business.
Quality risks The introduction of development and leadership programmes, along Our business relies on maintaining the highest level of quality with our graduate recruitment programme underline this commitment.
assurance to protect patient safety.
There can be no compromises In 2011 we have appointed a Group Talent Manager to co-ordinate and inour commitment to deliver world class quality by developing and improve our current efforts further.
When errors do occur, it is essential that lessons are learnt and where necessary, procedures and work methods are adapted to prevent repetition.
Failure to achieve this would result in a loss of confidence by our customers and increasing difficulty in retaining existing business and attracting new customers.
Financials Governance Operating and financial review Our strategy Who we are
