20 Principal risks In common with other organisations, we are affected by a number of risks, not all of which are in our control.
and uncertainties Some risks, such as UK macroeconomic factors, are likely to affect the performance of UK businesses generally, while others are particular to our operations.
This section sets out the material risks to the Group and how we seek to mitigate them in the day to day running of our business.
Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Increased competition in the UK We regularly monitor the product broadband market may impact offerings of key competitors in the financial performance.
This results in an ongoing 1 review of the customer proposition and the overall value of our products.
Competitive environment Changes in regulated prices We actively participate in the pricing can significantly impact the discussions had by Ofcom, including Groups performance.
the use of independent experts to 2 provide assistance and evidence as required.
Regulatory environment Failure to provide a reliable service We focus continually on improving causes customer churn.
network resilience and performance, and continue to invest to ensure 3 we keep pace with customers growing demands.
Network reliability We are undertaking a significant We have a Group Change Forum change to our organisational structure comprised of senior managers which at the start of the 2012 financial year.
is responsible for centrally monitoring 4 Disruption to business operations group wide change.
and back office functions may impact Change management financial performance.
Teams are established to run the component projects of the overall change, with clear plans in place for each area.
Regular progress reports are provided to ensure key dates are met.
Demand for fibre access could The Group is working with Openreach grow significantly before a wholesale to develop fibre products which incur product with acceptable economics lower set up and provisioning costs.
5 is available for the Group to market There is close liaison with Ofcom to to customers.
ensure there is regulatory support for Fibre access technology development of fibre products suitable for mass market adoption.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 21 Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Loss of customer data could lead The Group continually reviews its to data protection breaches causing data security and implements new damage to our reputation and fines.
solutions as they become available.
6 Data integrity and security During the year we have had The Executive team continues to work a notification from Ofcom of closely with Ofcom to demonstrate that contravention of General Condition 11 the Group is taking appropriate action 7 under section 94 of The Communication to remedy the issues which led to Act 2003.
Ofcom may issue a penalty the notification from Ofcom of the Ofcom to the Group under this Act.
contravention of General Condition 11 under section 94 of the Communications Act.
In addition, the Group has established a Compliance Committee chaired by the Senior Independent Director, John Gildersleeve.
This Committee monitors the level of and reason for customer complaints and ensures appropriate remedial action is taken.
Provision of television services The Group is part of the YouView joint could become a more important venture, along with the BBC and other driver of competitive advantage parties, which is developing a television 8 in the broadband market.
service which includes internet based catch up and video on demand services.
Television Failure to operate effective processes A Group wide project was started across the Group may lead to customer during the year, Project Sunshine, churn, and non-compliance with to document, review and improve 9 regulatory requirements.
the end to end processes in the Group.
This project is key to driving End to end process and controls joined up processes across the Group and improving our customers experience.
The Groups Compliance Committee regularly monitors the level and reason for customer complaints.
For more information visit: www.
com TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011
