Business review Risk management Tate & Lyle could be affected by a number of risks, which might have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operations and financial performance.
The Board of directors has overall responsibility During the year ended 31 March 2011, the risk for the Groups system of risk management and management process was enhanced further internal control.
The schedule of matters reserved through an exercise undertaken by the Board of to the Board ensures that the directors control, directors and the Group Executive Committee to among other matters, all significant strategic, consider the nature and extent of the Groups risk financial and organisational issues.
The results of this exercise are being used as part of the Groups strategic planning activities, Approach and in considering ongoing mitigating actions.
The Groups enterprise-wide risk management and reporting process helps management to The Groups risk management process identify, assess, prioritise and mitigate risk.
continues to follow the Committee of Sponsoring The process involves an ongoing programme of Organizations of the Treadway Commission workshops, facilitated by the risk management COSO Enterprise Risk framework.
The COSO function, held around the Group.
The risks identified framework provides a process to manage the are collated and reported through functional and risk of failure to achieve business objectives and divisional levels to the Group Executive Committee.
assurance against material loss or misstatement.
This culminates in the identification of the Groups Key risks key business, financial, operational and compliance Key risks and uncertainties identified as part of risks with associated action plans and controls to the risk management process undertaken during mitigate them where possible and to the extent the year, together with some of the mitigating deemed appropriate taking account of costs and actions that we are taking, are set out below.
The output is then reviewed by the Board.
not possible to identify or anticipate every risk that Responsibility for managing each key risk and the may affect the Group.
Our overall success as a associated mitigating controls is allocated to an global business depends, in part, upon our ability individual executive within each division.
As part to succeed in different economic, social and of the process, senior executive management political environments and to manage and to formally confirms that these key risks are being mitigate these risks.
managed appropriately within their operations and that controls have been examined and are effective.
The confirmations and any exceptions are discussed at the Audit Committee and Corporate Responsibility Committee once a year.
Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions Failure to act safely The safety of our employees, Corporate Responsibility Committee in place and to maintain the contractors, suppliers, and the Board annual review of Group safety environmental safe and continuous communities in which we operate is performance policies operation of our paramount.
We must operate within Separate central global function established, Group facilities local laws, regulations, rules and Operational Efficiency and Sustainability, outside business ordinances relating to health, safety and unit control, to set and monitor standards the environment, including emissions.
Health and safety policies and procedures at all facilities with The operation of plants involves many dedicated staff to ensure policies are embedded and measured risks, including failure or sub-standard Environmental management systems at production facilities performance of critical equipment: Business continuity plans in place to enable supply, improper installation or operation of as quickly as practicable, of product to customers from equipment: failure of critical supplier: alternative sources in the event of a natural disaster or and natural disasters.
If these risks major equipment or plant failure backed by appropriate cause a temporary or permanent insurance coverage against business interruption stoppage in production, this could Periodic review of critical supply or supplier dependencies have a material adverse effect in principal manufacturing operations.
Failure to maintain the The safety of consumers of our Central global function, Group Operational Efficiency quality of our products products is critical.
Poor quality and Sustainability, manages Group-wide quality process and high standards of or sub-standard products or poor and procedures customer service customer service could have a Product safety and quality policies and procedures in negative impact on our reputation place to prevent contamination and relationships with customers.
Dedicated staff at all locations to ensure policies are embedded and measured Third-party audits completed Recall simulation exercises undertaken.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 19 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Business review Risk management Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions Failure to attract, Performance, knowledge and skills Remuneration policies designed to attract, retain develop and retain of employees are central to success.
and reward employees with ability and experience key personnel We must attract, integrate and retain to execute Group strategy the talent required to fulfil our ambitions Talent strategy to provide opportunities for and deliver the Groups strategy.
Inability employees to develop careers to retain key knowledge and adequately Single global performance appraisal system in place plan for succession could have a New Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in negative impact on Company Chicago, USA to help attract and retain new performance.
Non-compliance The Group operates in diverse markets Regulatory managers monitor changes in with legislation and and therefore is exposed to a wide range legislation and develop action plans regulation of legal and regulatory frameworks.
We Legal teams maintain compliance policies in must understand and comply with all areas such as antitrust, money laundering and applicable legislation.
Any breach could anti-corruption laws: and provide ongoing training have a financial impact and damage to employees our reputation.
External consultants provide quarterly reports on regulatory change.
Fluctuations in prices, Margins may be affected by fluctuations Strategic relationships with suppliers and offtake and availability in crop prices due to factors such as trading companies of raw materials, energy, harvest and weather conditions, crop Multiple-source supply agreements for key freight and other disease, crop yields, alternative crops and ingredient supplies operating inputs co-product values.
In some cases, due to Balanced portfolio of supply and tolling the basis for pricing in sales contracts, or contracts in operation with customers to due to competitive markets, we may not manage balance of raw material prices and be able to pass on to customers the full product sales prices and volume risks amount of raw material price increases Raw material and energy purchasing policies or higher energy, freight or other to provide security of supply operating costs.
Derivatives used where possible to hedge exposure to movements in future prices of commodities.
Failure to protect Our commercial success depends, in Group legal department, supported by expert intellectual property part, on obtaining and maintaining patent patent lawyers, monitors all patents protection on certain products and Group Intellectual Property IP committee in technology.
We must successfully defend place, chaired by the President of Innovation patents against third-party challenges and Commercial Development, to oversee the or infringements.
Groups IP management Organised and secure process for identifying and recording innovations, trade secrets and potential patentable ideas.
Competitors may achieve Competitors could introduce a major Innovation and Commercial Development significant advantage technological step change, such as team to produce innovations in product through technological significantly improving the efficiency of a development, applications, manufacturing step change or higher production process and lowering costs technology and customer services service levels and thereby commoditising products : Global key account managers in place for or introduce a new product with better major customers functionality which in turn could lead to Improved customer relationship management a decline in our sales and or profitability.
capabilities as part of the programme to We must ensure we exceed or at least implement a common global IS IT platform match competitors service and and global support services.
20 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions Failure to implement the The Group has committed to a Dedicated resources allocated to the project Groups programme to programme to transform its operational Project scope set out in detailed legal contracts transform its operational capabilities, primarily by implementing a with external system integrator and other capabilities common global IS IT platform and global providers, with appropriate governance and support services.
If this programme is not remedy mechanisms implemented as planned, this would have Detailed project implementation plan subject to an adverse impact on the Groups ability both internal and external audit and review to achieve its strategy.
Formal steering committee executive management and Board Audit Committee review of project progress against agreed milestones and timelines.
Failure to counter We must be fully prepared to counter Innovation and Commercial Development negative perceptions unexpected unfounded negative publicity and regulatory teams substantiate relevant of the Groups about our products.
product claims products Media relations department monitors Group press coverage and has action plans to deal with any negative publicity.
Failure to identify Falling behind the curve on emerging Innovation and Commercial Development team important consumer dietary trends and or an inability to works closely with customers and advisors to trends and innovate innovate could impact the delivery of the identify emerging trends could impact the Groups strategy.
This would impact its Consumer-facing research to ensure we are businesss ability performance and reputation.
aware of consumers needs and expectations to grow Global key account managers in place for major customers New Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA will enable scientists, marketing, sales and technical experts to collaborate more closely with customers Recruitment and training policies in place to strengthen and upgrade staff skill sets.
Failure to manage We must manage our finances within Significant projects approved and monitored capital expenditure and strictly controlled parameters, particularly by the Board working capital, and when external financial conditions are Debt and working capital levels monitored deliver key projects uncertain and highly changeable.
The constantly and reported monthly to the Board change programme currently being Capital expenditure procedures to control and undertaken by the Group consists of a monitor allocation and spend number of projects which, if not delivered Major or key projects have dedicated teams successfully, could impact the Groups External resources and expertise used where performance and reputation.
Failure to maintain an Without effective internal financial Authorisation policies ensure that key tasks effective system of controls, we could be exposed to financial are segregated to safeguard assets internal financial irregularities and losses from acts which Detailed internal finance and capital expenditure controls could have a significant impact on the manuals set out procedure ability of the business to operate.
We Group financial performance monitored with must safeguard business assets and monthly Board reports and regular forecasting ensure accuracy and reliability of records Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and financial reporting.
undertake detailed quarterly business and financial reviews Internal audit function provides assurance.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 21 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information
