Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Chief Executives Review continued Principal risks and uncertainties The table below summarises the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
We also maintain a 6XVWDLQDELOLW DQG &OLPDWH &KDQJH 5LVN DQG 2SSRUWXQLW 5HJLVWHU WR PRQLWRU RWKHU QRQ QDQFLDO LVVXHV that could affect the Group.
More information is available in our Corporate Responsibility Report at plc.
co. uk  CRreports Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Responsibility The majority of the homes that Credit availability remains below We use a range of sales incentives t Group Finance Director Impact of economic we build are sold to individual normal historic levels.
As a result like Easymover and Deposit environment on t UK Sales Director purchasers who take on the level of effective demand for Match.
We also offer, on certain mortgage availability significant mortgages to finance new homes is below historic sites, the government backed t Group Treasurer Mortgage providers have their purchases.
In particular the trends, which could negatively shared equity product FirstBuy to been impacted by the ability of first time buyers and impact on both profitability and reduce customer up-front costs financial crisis and the investors to purchase homes cash generation.
This would and the level of finance required.
resulting requirement to has decreased due to reduced have an adverse effect on return We are working with the main increase capital such mortgage availability at the on net operating assets and mortgage providers and the as Basel III, reducing higher loan to value levels and net debt.
government on the NewBuy their ability to provide hence significant deposits mortgage indemnity guarantee mortgages.
scheme for new build homes.
Our ability to obtain the Inability to obtain suitable We have responded to the t Chief Executive Government planning permission required consents, or unforeseen delays, changes in planning policy by regulations and t UK Land and to develop communities is could impact on the number or developing a comprehensive planning policy Planning Director dependent on our ability to type of homes that we are able Community Led Planning strategy.
The Localism Act and the meet the relevant regulatory to build.
We could also be Our aim is to improve t Other members of our National Planning Policy and planning requirements.
required to fund higher than communication between our senior management team Framework have anticipated levels of planning regional businesses, communities The new planning system could introduced significant t Managing Directors of obligations, or incur additional and local authorities in order to result in extended timescales for change in the planning our regional businesses costs to meet increased deliver local requirements in the gaining planning consents or system, which potentially regulatory requirements.
All of most appropriate way.
increased legal challenges as increases the time to these would have a detrimental the powers within the new We consult with the UK obtain planning consents.
impact on the contribution processes are claried and government on upcoming per plot.
These factors increase legislation, both directly and uncertainty and increase the indirectly as a member of industry commercial risk of projects.
groups, to highlight potential issues and to understand any proposed changes to regulations.
Due to economic conditions Effective demand for new Our local teams select the t Group Management Team Impact of market and, in particular, increasing homes below normal levels locations and home designs that environment t UK Sales Director unemployment, consumer could negatively impact on best meet the needs of the local on demand confidence remains low.
This both profitability and cash community and customer demand t Regional Sales and significant economic has an impact on demand for generation.
This would have in the present and future.
Marketing Directors uncertainty in Europe, new homes as individuals are an adverse effect on return We evaluate new outlet openings government austerity more uncertain about their on net operating assets and on the basis of local market measures, at economic financial future.
conditions and regularly review growth and the potential the pricing and incentives that for increased we offer.
unemployment could suppress demand We minimise the level of speculative build that we for housing.
undertake and strive to reduce build costs, while maintaining quality, through operational efficiencies and price reductions.
We continuously optimise our marketing Web site to increase the conversion rate of visitors to customers.
12 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Responsibility Land is the major raw material Purchasing poor quality or Our local land teams select and t Group Management Team Land purchasing appraise each site.
Our appraisal for the Group and the limited mis-priced land would have a The purchase of land of t Divisional Managing availability of good quality land detrimental impact on our process ensures each project is poor quality or at too high Directors nancially viable, consistent with at an attractive price leads to profitability and returns.
a price could impact significant competition.
Purchasing insufficient land our strategy and appropriately t Regional Managing Directors future profitability.
authorised, dependent on the would reduce the Groups Purchasing land of the t Regional Land and ability to manage its portfolio proposed scale of expenditure.
appropriate quality on Planning Directors actively and create value attractive terms will enhance Our strategic land teams work for shareholders.
the Groups ability to deliver alongside regional businesses to t Strategic Land strong profit growth as housing identify and secure land with the Managing Directors markets recover.
potential for future development and promote it through the planning system.
The success of our operations In addition to the potentially We have a comprehensive t Chief Executive Site and requires a large number of tragic personal impact of an health, safety and environmental product safety t Head of Health and Safety people, ranging from employees accident on site, there is management system, which is Building sites are and sub-contractors to potential for legal proceedings, integral to our business.
This is t Every employee and inherently dangerous customers and their families, to financial penalties, reputational supported by our policies and sub-contractor places.
Unsafe practices visit our sites each day.
We want damage and delay to the procedures to ensure that we by our employees or all of these people to go home sites progress.
live up to our intention of providing sub-contractors have the at the end of the day safe a safe and healthy working potential to cause serious and uninjured.
environment and build houses injury or death.
that comply with the required regulations.
In order to optimise our build If the availability of subWe maintain regular contact t Head of Procurement Material costs cost efficiency, whilst retaining contractors or materials is with suppliers regarding volume and availability of t Regional Commercial the exibility to commence insufficient to meet demand this requirements and negotiate sub-contractors Directors work on new sites as market could lead to increased build contract pricing and duration Supply of labour and conditions allow, the vast times, increased costs and, as appropriate.
materials has reduced as majority of work carried out therefore, reduced profitability.
As part of our sub-contractor industry volumes declined on site is performed by Lack of skilled sub-contractors selection process key over recent years.
could also result in higher levels competencies are considered However, as market of waste being produced from Some sub-contractors and particularly in relation to health and conditions recover, there our sites and lower build quality.
suppliers have gone out of safety, quality, previous site will be greater demand business as a result of the performance and and competition for key downturn, with others reducing financial stability.
skills and materials prices to secure orders.
As which could lead to We also work to address the skills demand increases labour and increased prices.
shortage in the industry through material prices could increase.
apprenticeship schemes and the Construction Industry Training Board.
Our value cycle requires Not having the right teams in We monitor employee turnover t Chief Executive Ability to attract and significant input from skilled place could lead to delays, levels on a monthly basis and retain high calibre t Group HR Director people to deliver quality quality issues, reduced sales conduct exit interviews, as employees homes and communities for levels, poor customer care and appropriate, to identify any areas t Every employee Recruiting employees our customers.
We benchmark managing people with inadequate skills or in our remuneration against the The challenging market insufficient numbers, or industry, have succession plans in conditions in recent years have not being able to retain place for key roles within the meant that we have had to key staff could have a Group and hold regular reduce the number of detrimental impact on development reviews to identify employees across the Group.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 13
