26 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Financial review Review of 2011 results Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management Effective management of risk and opportunities The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring The principal tool used by the RWG to monitor and How TelecityGroup manages risk that risk is appropriately managed across the Group.
report risk is the risk register.
The Group maintains The Groups operations expose it to a variety risk registers at a country level, which consolidate ofrisks.
Effective management of these risks Business risk management to form the Group Risk Register.
These registers are isessential to the delivery of the Groups submitted to the Audit Committee and the Board The responsibility for risk identification, analysis, business plans and strategic objectives, as well for review at each meeting.
evaluation, mitigation, reporting and monitoring as maximising shareholder return.
The Groups rests with line management.
This responsibility approach is geared towards early identification The risks contained in the risk registers are rated isdischarged under the guidance of the Risk of key risks, mitigating or removing those risks as to their probability of occurring and potential Working Group RWG, a committee comprising andresponding quickly and effectively should impact.
Each risk is assigned to an appropriate the executive Directors as well as other senior arisk crystallise.
All current mitigating actions managers.
The RWG meets regularly to consider arerecorded and any further action required all areas of risk to which the Group is exposed and The Group is committed to the protection of isalso documented.
appropriate steps are taken to reduce or eliminate itsassets, whether they be physical, financial, the risks or mitigate their potential impact.
human or reputational in nature.
Effective risk management assists the Group in delivering its growth strategy, which aims to deliver controlled, sustainable and profitable growth.
An analysis of our identified principal risks and uncertainties for2011, which are largely consistent with the prior year, is included on the following pages g Risk identification, monitoring and reporting framework Board Sets strategic objectives Approves risk governance structure and agrees risk appetite Sets delegation of authority Receives and reviews Group Risk Register Receives and reviews Audit Committee reports on risk governance and internal controls Audit Committee Considers adequacy of risk management and internal control framework Receives and reviews Group and Country Risk Registers Receives and reviews reports from the Risk Working Group Receives and reviews reports from independent assurance providers Risk Working Group Conducts continual review of risks Independent assurance Internal audit andriskcontrols External audit Concludes on treatment of risks Quality standards audit Reviews and reports on risk to the Audit Insurer and property risk surveyors Committee and Board Business unit Management and employees are responsible Reporting Identification sources for the identification, management Business units and reporting of local risks Health and safety audits Analysis Maintains local risk registers Fire safety audits Implements risk mitigation plans Property risk surveys Risk advisors Identification Evaluation Company secretarial External advisors Mitigation
