Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties As at 31 December 2011 A number of factors affect the operating material, their potential impacts and the uncertainties that are not presently known to results, financial condition and prospects of factors that mitigate them.
However, these the Directors, or which they currently deem each of the businesses in the Travis Perkins should not be regarded as a complete and immaterial, may also have an adverse effect group.
This section describes the risk factors comprehensive statement of all potential on the Groups operating results, financial that are considered by the Directors to be risks and uncertainties.
Additional risks and condition or prospects.
Risk description Impact Risk mitigation Market conditions The Groups products are sold to tradesmen and retail Adverse The Board conducts an annual review of strategy, which includes an customers for a broad range of end uses in the built effect on assessment of likely competitor activity, market forecasts and possible environment.
The performance of the market is affected financial future trends in products, channels of distribution and customer behaviour.
by general economic conditions and a number of specific results The Group maintains a comprehensive tracking system for lead indicators drivers of construction and DIY activity, including housing that influence the market for the consumption of building materials in the transactions, net disposable income, house price inflation, UK.
consumer confidence, interest rates and unemployment.
Significant events including those in the supply chain that may affect the Group are monitored by the Executive Committee and reported to the Board monthly by the Group Chief Executive.
Competitive pressures Market trends, particularly in respect of customers Adverse Changes to market practice are tracked on an on-going basis and reported preferences for purchasing materials through a range of effect on to the Board each month.
supply channels, may affect the Groups performance so financial The Group is leading the industry in terms of the development of new making traditional branch based operations less relevant.
results and innovative supply solutions, and works closely with customers and suppliers on a programme of continuous improvement of current models.
Public sector buying groups could reduce sales if public bodies chose to buy direct from the manufacturers.
The Groups branding strategy allows it to use sites flexibly.
Alternative space utilisation models are possible, including maintaining smaller stores Disintermediation may become more of a threat if and implanting additional services into existing branches.
manufacturers decide to deal directly with the end user.
Information technology The operations of the Group depend on a wide range of Adverse The strategic demands of the business, resources available to IT, complex IT systems operating efficiently and effectively.
effect on performance levels of key systems and IT security are kept under review by financial the Executive Committee.
The rapid expansion of the Group together with an results.
increasing demand for IT services, particularly in respect Maintenance is undertaken on an on-going basis to ensure the resilience of the BSS integration, could result in development Adverse of group systems, with escalation procedures operating to ensure any programmes being delayed.
effect performance issues are resolved at an early stage.
Our two main data on the centres mirror each other with data processing switched from one to the Increasing levels of cyber crime represent a significant Companys other on a regular basis.
An IT disaster recovery plan exists and is tested threat with the potential to cause loss of system reputation regularly together with the business continuity plan with arrangements in availability or financial loss.
place for alternative data sites for both trade and retail businesses.
Off-site back-up routines are in place.
Tile Giant has consolidated its position in diffi cult markets with total sales up 9% 36 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Risk description Impact Risk mitigation Employee recruitment, retention and succession Many employees have worked for the Group for some considerable Inability to The Group Human Resources Director monitors staff engagement time during which they have gained valuable knowledge and develop and and turnover by job type and reports to the Executive Committee expertise.
execute our regularly and to the Board annually.
Succession plans are development established for the most senior positions within the Group and The ability to recruit, retain and motivate suitably qualified staff is plans.
an important driver of the Groups overall performance.
Our reward and recognition systems are actively managed to Competitive Ensuring succession for key positions throughout the Group is ensure high levels of employee engagement.
disadvantage important if it is to continue to be successful in the future.
A wide-range of training programmes are in place to encourage staff development, whilst management development programmes are used to assist those identified for more senior positions.
Salaries and other benefits are benchmarked annually to ensure that the Group remains competitive.
Integration complexity Integrating large acquisitions into the Group requires the Adverse All major integration processes are overseen by a member of the re-direction of considerable expertise and resource if progress is to affect on Executive committee who is designated as integration director.
be achieved efficiently and effectively.
financial They are charged with the responsibility for drawing together the results.
resource and expertise required to deliver our integration plans.
Should the process encounter significant unforeseen difficulties Colleagues from throughout the Group who have the skills and with systems development and implementation, colleague Adverse experience necessary to undertake complicated integration work integration or process alignment then considerable additional affect on are seconded from their existing roles to the integration team for cost could be incurred, management could be deflected from the reputation.
the duration of the project, with additional resource employed to important task of running the rest of the business and our ability to backfill their positions.
trade successfully could be inhibited.
A rigorous quality control process is implemented to ensure that system and process changes are thoroughly tested by business users before they are released into the live operating environment.
The Board regularly reviews progress against the project plan to ensure that the process is properly controlled and has sufficient resource to complete the project.
Supplier dependency and direct sourcing The Group is the largest customer of many of its suppliers.
In Adverse The commercial and financial teams monitor the financial position some cases, those suppliers are large enough to cause significant affect on of the Groups key suppliers.
Where possible, contracts exist with difficulties to the Group if they become unable to meet their supply financial more than one supplier for key products.
The Group has made a significant investment in a new Far Alternative sourcing is generally available, but the volumes required East infrastructure to support its direct sourcing operation.
Adverse and the time it may take those suppliers to increase production Comprehensive checks are undertaken on the factories producing affect on could result in significant stock-outs for some considerable time.
product, the quality and suitability of that product before it is reputation.
We have rapidly expanded our direct sourcing capabilities, which have increased the Groups reliance on overseas factories producing product.
This increases the Groups exposure to sourcing, quality, trading, warranty and currency issues.
Defined benefit pension scheme funding The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level Adverse All of the Groups final salary pension schemes are closed to new in relation to its on-going obligations to provide current and future affect on members.
pensions for members of its pension schemes who are entitled to financial For the Travis Perkins scheme, pensionable salary inflation has defined benefits.
Some issues could adversely affect the funding of these obligations The schemes investment policies are kept under regular review including poor performance of the pension fund investments and to ensure asset profiles are kept in line with the profiles of increasing longevity of pension scheme members.
The level of contributions required from the Group to meet the benefits promised in the final salary schemes will vary depending upon the funding position of those schemes.
