Risk management Committed to effeCtive risk management Risk management processes The realisation of abgs strategy depends on its risk management and identification forms part of our overall ability to take calculated risks in a manner that performance and operational reviews throughout the year.
our annual does not jeopardise the direct interests of abgs business plan and budget process are agreed in conjunction with risks stakeholders.
for this reason, we use a number of that may affect delivery of operational and financial targets and project processes and procedures to progress and manage our development.
Quarterly business reviews, which include a component of risk management and mitigating actions at appropriate stages of corporate strategy, assets, capital, projects and people.
the business cycle, are conducted by the Senior leadership Team and reviewed by the board and its committees.
Updates on key risks Overview also form part of monthly business reporting on operational and These processes are reviewed and developed on a continuous basis financial performance.
to support our initiatives and corporate goals.
our risk management framework incorporates the key requirements of iSo 31000:2009, abg management conducts a number of risk reviews throughout the Uk corporate governance standards and other generally accepted year in preparation for the boards annual internal controls and risk governance principles.
This framework includes the companys risk management assessment.
in 2011 managements risk review activities management charter, its risk management policy and a number of focused on the following: detailed risk management procedures.
all members of the abg group, group level risk workshops with members of senior management its material operations, its service organisations, its support functions to consider overall strategic risks, the occurrence of which could and its processes and projects must comply with and adhere to the affect our long-term objectives.
requirements of this risk management framework.
operational risk workshops focused on operational specific risks and Management of risk across the business uncertainties, which could affect life of mine or wider business plans.
we believe that effective risk management requires collective responsibility functional risk workshops with various centralised departments, and engagement across our organisation.
for this reason, in addition to including financial reporting and planning, treasury, tax, technical making risk management a board level responsibility, members of abgs services, supply chain and human resources.
Senior leadership Team, functional department heads and in-country residual risks are identified based on the effectiveness of existing senior management are accountable for identifying, mitigating and controls and mitigating action plans prepared for all high impact managing risk in accordance with the responsibilities of their function and areas.
when compiled, all risk assessments are assessed by the Senior role.
abgs internal audit function also plays a critical role in advising leadership Team in the first instance, where relevant, the audit and and producing guidance on risk-related matters.
it assists management in ehS&S committees, and ultimately form the basis of a detailed board conducting risk studies, reviewing risk profiles, interpreting risk data and review.
further details as regards the boards risk management review integrating risk management in business processes.
for the year is provided on page 86.
Risk management process Establish the context Risk assessment Risk identi cation Communications Monitoring & & Risk analysis consultations review Risk evaluation Risk treatment www.
com 70 overview performance governance financial Shareholder STaTemenTS informaTion Risk management across the business BOARD Ultimately responsible for e ectiveness of internal control systems fide fines ABGs risk has overall approves all key appetite responsibility components and tolerance for risk management of risk management compliance and internal control systems AUDIT COMMITTEE EHS&S COMMITTEE Plays a key role in reviewing e ectiveness Responsible for environmental, security, health & safety systems approves the annual reviews the e ectiveness of ABGs reviews e ectiveness internal and external environmental management programmes of internal control audit plan and systems, security systems, health and safety systems systems and social performance reviews e ectiveness reviews all material of financial reporting findings of the internal risk management and external audit systems functions SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM Accountable for the design and implementation of risk management processes and the consistent application of risk management systems GENERAL MANAGERS AND FUNCTIONAL HEADS Ensure risk management compliance is embodied in ABGs culture, practices and operations INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION Assists the Board and Management in executing their responsibilities a critical role in advising assists management reviews risk interpretation and producing guidance in conducting risk pro les of risk data on risk-related studies matters annUal rePorT and accoUnTS 2011 71 Risk management continued over the course of 2011, we have made a number of developments in 2011 Risk management developments and assessments the identification and management of our risk profile in order to focus we have further progressed our risk management tools and internal on the most significant risks and events that could affect our operations, controls processes throughout the year.
in particular, additional financials and performance.
while the overall makeup of our principal procedures have been developed to support our annual risk assessment, risks has not significantly changed from 2010, certain risk profiles have which provide for ongoing risk reviews within quarterly reporting increased as a result of developments in our operating environment and structures, monthly operating reviews and overall mine management continuing uncertainties and trends within the wider global economy reporting.
we have also taken a number of steps to further mitigate and or the mining industry.
where appropriate, risk ratings have also our principal risks and will continue to evaluate ways in which we been reviewed as a result of the further implementation of controls may manage and mitigate these risks on an ongoing basis.
overall, abgs risk and rating as regards exposure to fluctuations in commodity pricing has remained the same in particular, we have made the following improvements to our despite the continuing movements and fluctuations in the average internal controls and risk mitigation processes as part of our overall realised gold price, given the overall strength of our balance sheet, assessments of the operational challenges faced at buzwagi and positive cash flows and the processes that we have adopted to north mara this year: continuously assess our exposure to rapid gold price movements.
procedure for management of critical supplies and assets: further due to overall industry cost pressures and increased cash costs at our management plans have been developed to identify and address operations, primarily relating to increases in labour, energy and capital critical assets and supplies in order to minimise the potential equipment costs, we have decided to increase the risk rating applicable operational impacts of interruptions or losses of critical supplies, to increases in our operating costs and capital expenditure going assets and or infrastructure.
we have performed a full review of forward.
further information regarding cash costs and operational critical parts and spares at our buzwagi operation following the Sag cash flow is provided as part of our finance review.
we will continue mill motor failure in may 2011. critical spares identification is an to monitor operating costs vigorously at all of our operations and ongoing process and will continue across our operations in 2012. across our industry in general.
in connection with this and as a result security reviews: we have completed security risk assessments at of competition for qualified personnel across the mining industry buzwagi, Tulawaka and north mara and are in the process of generally, we will also continue to monitor our ability to recruit and implementing a risk assessment at bulyanhulu.
we have also made retain qualified personnel.
This will also require continual progression a number of improvements to our overall security function and of training and development and employee and industrial relations systems following the north mara site intrusion.
further information programmes across our operations.
regarding relevant actions is provided as part of our security review on page 66.
Power supply with its significant reliance on hydro power generation, the Tanzanian power network has been under particular strain throughout 2011, as a result of unusually low rainfall levels and the impact of ongoing drought conditions in the east african region leading to regular power outages.
This has been exacerbated by maintenance work on the transmission network as well as on gas pipelines feeding the network.
The majority of the impact to abg has been experienced at buzwagi, as a result of its reliance on grid power.
in response to this situation we invested in a first phase of 5 mw of back-up power installed in July, followed by a second phase of 16 mw, which was commissioned in december and which now provides full back-up power for the site.
at our other mines, Tulawaka draws its power entirely from diesel generators, north mara has full diesel back-up, and at bulyanhulu we have around 85% back-up coverage, which will move to 100% by the end of Q2 2012. www.
com 72 overview performance governance financial Shareholder STaTemenTS informaTion we have made good progress in increasing power generation capacities we have also made a number of important steps to progress at our operations, to help mitigate the effects of stoppages and relationships with local communities and to support our licence interruptions.
Therefore, although we have experienced intermittent to operate, notably with the creation of the abg development issues in utilities supply throughout the year as a result of ongoing maendeleo fund and the progression of a number of community power supply issues throughout Tanzania, our risk rating as regards projects.
however, the overall achievements of our community interruptions in key utilities supplies remains unchanged.
we will relations programmes must also be viewed in the context of stability, continue to monitor overall factors that could impact our production and therefore the security incident at north mara.
as a result of this, and cost estimates, given the overriding importance placed on we have decided to increase the overall impact rating allocated to achieving production and cost estimates for our investor base.
in community relations risks to high: however we do not envisage any connection with this, further enhancements to life of mine planning change in the likelihood of further community related incidents will remain a management priority in 2012. in a wider operational occurring over the longer term.
context, whilst the operating environment within Tanzania and across The following pages set out the principal risks affecting the abg group.
africa generally continues to evolve, we have continued to maintain a in addition, there may be additional risks unknown to abg and other good working relationship with the Tanzanian government and legal risks, which are currently believed to be immaterial, could turn out to be policy makers.
during 2011, we have achieved a number of positive material to the group.
These risks, whether they materialise individually outcomes as regards our commitments to Tanzania, notably through or simultaneously, could significantly affect the groups business and the agreement reached with the Tra to address the treatment of certain financial results.
in addition, abg could also be affected by risks outstanding indirect tax refunds and our secondary listing on the relating to the gold mining industry generally and the risks and hazards dar es Salaam Stock exchange.
Therefore our outlook for political involved in the business of mining metals, which are largely outside its and legal risks and taxation reviews remains unchanged.
lastly, due to the very nature of risks, mitigating factors stated risks relating to security, trespass and vandalism are inherent to our should not be viewed as assurances that actions taken or planned operations due to the industry and geographical locations in which will be wholly effective.
additional discussions of certain trends and we operate.
Throughout the year we have continued to strengthen our uncertainties that may affect our operations are provided as part of security systems and further strategically assess our security action our operating review.
plans, notably as part of overall reviews and investigations into the north mara site intrusion, such that our overall assessment of security risks remains unchanged.
as we go into 2012, we will benefit from our investment in additional back-up generating capacity.
we are also encouraged by the commitment from the Tanzanian government and the national utility provider TaneSco to add to the installed generating capacity as well as to improve maintenance of the existing infrastructure in the country.
annUal rePorT and accoUnTS 2011 73 Principal risks and uncertainties potential change risk key management responsibility mitigation comment progress made in 2011 impact from 2010 further information sTraTegic risks Single coUnTrY riSk all of the abg groups revenue is derived from production at its four facilities in Tanzania.
in order to ensure continued growth, the group vice President of exploration and abg assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities to build continuing evaluation of corporate high a review of exploration activities is needs to identify new resources and development opportunities through exploration and acquisition targets.
head of corporate development on its existing portfolio, including external acquisition and development development opportunities across set out in the exploration review on and investor relations.
opportunities outside Tanzania to maximise growth potential.
pages 38 to 41. reServeS and reSoUrce eSTimaTeS The abg groups stated mineral reserves and resources are estimates based on a range of assumptions, including geological, metallurgical chief operating officer and vice abg management has implemented a number of processes to creation of reserves and resources high details of the abg groups reserves and technical factors: there can be no assurance that the anticipated tonnages or grades will be achieved.
continuously monitor and evaluate the current life of the companys committee to support Senior leadership and resources are set out on mine plans and production targets.
The abg groups resources and Team and board.
pages 112 to 115. reserves are updated annually.
abg follows ni 43-101 of the canadian improvement of management processes details of abgs management institute of mining metallurgy and Petroleum when calculating its for the monitoring of production targets committees are provided on page 83. mineral reserves and resources.
and long-term life of mine planning.
financiaL risks commodiTY PriceS The abg groups financial performance is highly dependent upon the price of gold and, to a lesser extent, the price of copper and silver.
chief financial officer and abgs strategic objective is to provide maximum exposure to the price entry into hedging facilities for copper, high further information is set out in the The prices of these commodities are affected by a number of factors beyond abgs control.
rapid fluctuations in pricing of these commodities group Treasurer.
as such a no-gold-hedging policy has been adopted.
financial review on pages 42 to 51. will have a corresponding impact on abgs financial position.
has implemented a number of processes to assess its exposure to other commodity price fluctuations.
abg has also entered into hedging facilities in connection with copper, silver and diesel price fluctuations and is reviewing appropriate hedging facilities to assist in the management of exposure to other commodities.
coSTS and caPiTal exPendiTUre abg operates a cyclical business where fluctuations in operating cash flow and capital expenditure may adversely affect abgs financial position.
chief financial officer and abg management continuously monitors operational costs and capital entry into receivables financing high further information is set out in the in addition, industry cost pressures, notably as regards labour, capital equipment and energy may affect abgs cash flow and capital expenditure.
it holds a conservative balance sheet and has a rigorous arrangements to assist with operational financial review on pages 42 to 51. cash flow planning process to mitigate liquidity risks.
it also has a cash flow and reduce credit risk.
commercial credit facility to support general working capital purposes, extended term of existing revolving which remains undrawn.
entry into arrangements in order to hedge South african rand exposure.
exTernaL risks PoliTical, legal and regUlaTorY develoPmenTS The abg groups exploration, development and operational activities are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing various matters in vice President of corporate affairs The group assesses legal and political risks as part of its evaluation of further development and improvement high further information is set out in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
changes to existing law and regulations, or more stringent application or interpretation of current laws and and general counsel.
it actively monitors legal and political developments of government relations Strategy.
note 31 to the consolidated financial regulations by relevant government authorities, could adversely affect the abg groups operations and development projects.
in particular, as in countries in which its existing operations are located.
Progression of government dialogue abgs revenue is currently derived exclusively from the production of its facilities in Tanzania, its business operations and financial condition on material issues, such as taxation.
The group actively engages in dialogue with the Tanzanian may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory changes and developments in Tanzania, or if existing mineral development agreements are not government and legal policy makers to discuss all key legal and honoured by the Tanzanian government.
regulatory developments applicable to its operations, in particular The group may also be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions, political and or economic instability in Tanzania or any developments in connection with the Tanzanian mining act and of its surrounding countries.
TaxaTion reviewS The abg groups financial condition may be adversely affected in the event of the introduction of revised royalty or corporate tax regimes chief financial officer and The abg group has entered into a series of ongoing discussions with entry into memorandum of Settlement high further information on the status in Tanzania that go beyond agreements reached and contained in abgs mineral development agreements.
the Tanzanian government with the goal of resolving outstanding tax with the Tra for the treatment of of these discussions is provided on disputes and recovering amounts owed and continues to review taxation certain outstanding indirect tax refunds page 47. abgs financial condition may also be adversely affected if it is unsuccessful in its current appeals and or discussions with the Tra regarding matters generally on an ongoing basis.
in respect of fuel levies and value outstanding tax assessments and unresolved tax disputes.
UTiliTieS SUPPlY Power stoppages, fluctuations and disruptions in electrical power supply or other utilities could adversely affect group operations and impact chief executive officer, capacity of back-up or alternative power generation at all of our continuing upgrades to back-up power high further information on the status of its financial condition.
in addition, an increase in power costs would make production more costly and alternative power sources may not chief operating officer operations has been increased to maintain critical systems.
power supply and buzwagi initiatives be available.
is provided on page 72. implementation of back-up and spinning power at buzwagi to maintain critical systems.
com 74 overview performance governance financial Shareholder STaTemenTS informaTion potential change risk key management responsibility mitigation comment progress made in 2011 impact from 2010 further information sTraTegic risks Single coUnTrY riSk all of the abg groups revenue is derived from production at its four facilities in Tanzania.
annUal rePorT and accoUnTS 2011 75 Principal risks and uncertainties continued potential change risk key management responsibility mitigation comment progress made in 2011 impact from 2010 further information commUniTY relaTionS a failure to adequately engage or manage relations with local communities and stakeholders could have a direct impact on the abg groups chief operating officer, in addition to existing corporate social responsibility programmes, creation of the abg development high details of the groups community ability to operate at its existing operations.
general counsel, the group is implementing a number of initiatives to improve and maendeleo fund.
relations activities are set out in the vice President corporate affairs, build on local community relations, and continues to assess and, where corporate responsibility section on Partnership established with Search Senior director for environment necessary, increase its social management teams capacity generally.
pages 56 to 58. for common ground.
appointment of Senior director for environment and community relations.
operaTionaL risks variaTionS To ProdUcTion and coST eSTimaTeS The abg groups actual production and costs may vary from estimates of future production, cash costs and capital costs for a variety of reasons, chief executive officer, chief abgs management has implemented a number of processes to improvement of management high including actual ore mined varying from estimates of grade, tonnage, dilution and metallurgical and other characteristics: short-term operating factors financial officer, chief operating continuously monitor and evaluate abgs production and cost processes for the monitoring of relating to ore reserves: revisions to mine plans: risks and hazards associated with mining: natural phenomena: and unexpected labour shortages or officer and general managers.
production targets and long-term strikes.
costs of production may also be affected by a variety of factors, including: changing waste-to-ore ratios: ore grade metallurgy: labour costs: the life of mine planning.
cost of commodities: general inflationary pressures: and currency exchange rates.
failure to achieve production or cost estimates or material increases in costs could have an adverse impact on the abg groups future business, cash flows, profitability, results of operations and financial condition.
loSS of criTical ProceSSeS The abg groups mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend on the continuous availability of its operational chief operating officer management assesses the critical components of abgs operational development of additional critical high further discussion regarding critical infrastructure, in addition to reliable utilities and water supplies and access to roads.
any failure or unavailability of operational infrastructure, and general managers.
in addition to external resources spares review programmes.
spares reviews and loss of critical for example through equipment failure or disruption, could adversely affect production output and or impact exploration and development and, when required, abg has established channels through the support processes during the year are provided completion of critical spares review activities.
deficiencies in core supply chain availability could also adversely affect group operations.
of the barrick group network to address critical disruptions to its at page 72. at buzwagi.
technical services and plant equipment.
Supply chain management and support are assessed and reviewed against business requirements on a regular basis.
environmenTal haZardS and rehabiliTaTion The abg groups activities are subject to environmental hazards as a result of the processes and chemicals used in its extraction and production chief operating officer, Senior The group has committed itself to the application of global standards cyanide code certification progressed high details of the abg groups methods.
The group may be liable for losses and costs associated with environmental hazards at its operations, have its licences and permits director for environment and and implementing relevant international council on mining and for all abg sites.
environmental activities and withdrawn or suspended as a result of such hazards, or may be forced to undertake extensive clean-up and remediation action in respect of community relations, director of metal practices, and the international cyanide code standards.
compliance programmes are set improvement in use of environmental environmental hazards and incidents relating to its operations.
any such action could have a material adverse effect on the groups business, environment and general managers.
compliance with applicable environmental standards is assessed out in the corporate responsibility management systems.
remediation and rehabilitation costs are section on pages 60 to 63. assessed and reviewed annually.
continuing development of actions for discharge of ePo at north mara.
emPloYee, conTracTor and indUSTrial relaTionS The abg groups business significantly depends upon its ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, in particular members of the Senior head of human resources.
abg regularly assesses its staff recruitment and retention policies to development of employee high further details on employee leadership Team and its skilled team of engineers and geologists.
The loss of skilled workers and a failure to recruit and train equivalent replacements assist with labour stability, and maintains appropriate investment in benefit packages.
arrangements and related may negatively impact on abgs operations and production.
The abg groups business also depends on good relations generally with its employees training and development to safeguard the skills of its workforce.
it is initiatives are provided in the continued progression of programmes and employee representative groups, such as trade unions.
a breakdown in these relations could result in a decrease in production levels and or also focused on furthering the nationalisation of its workforce in Tanzania corporate responsibility section for workforce localisation.
increased costs, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
and participates in a number of training programmes to help develop on pages 58 to 60. local industry expertise.
assessments of employee and key contractor Progression of industrial in addition to employees, abg depends on certain key contractors.
interruptions in contracted services could result in production slowdowns relationships are undertaken on a regular basis to ensure that the relevant relations programme.
support balances business requirements and wider expectations.
SecUriTY, TreSPaSS and vandaliSm abg faces certain risks in dealing with trespass, theft, corruption and vandalism at its mines and unauthorised small-scale mining in proximity chief operating officer, general measures have been taken to protect employees, mines and production Upgrades of security infrastructure at high further information on security to and on specific areas covered by abgs exploration and mining licences.
The impact of such risks may have an adverse effect upon abgs counsel and director of Security.
facilities from various security and theft risks.
Steps include increasing buzwagi, north mara and Tulawaka.
developments and initiatives can be operations and financial condition.
existing security personnel, the installation of additional perimeter found in the corporate responsibility increased training of security fencing, surveillance equipment and the imposition of additional security section on pages 66 and 67. personnel across all operations.
where appropriate, the group continues to work in collaboration with local law enforcement to address security-related matters.
in addition, abg adheres to the voluntary Principles as part of its membership of the barrick group.
healTh and SafeTY, infecTioUS diSeaSeS due to the nature of the groups operations, a wide range of occupational health diseases, such as noise-induced hearing loss and lung diseases, chief operating officer and The group has implemented a number of malaria and tuberculosis Progression of health impact medium further details of health and pose a risk to the groups workforce.
in addition, tropical and infectious diseases, such as malaria and hiv aidS, pose significant health risks director of health & Safety.
programmes and hiv aidS awareness and prevention programmes assessments at buzwagi and safety awareness programmes to the groups employees, due to the epidemic proportions that such diseases may have in areas at which the groups operations are located.
for its employees, their families and the local communities surrounding north mara.
and initiatives are set out in the The potential liabilities related to such diseases and the impact that these diseases may have on the groups workforce may have an adverse its operations.
it also provides occupational health services to its corporate responsibility section development of abg health standards.
effect upon the groups operations and financial condition.
employees at its mine clinics and it continues to improve preventative on pages 64 and 65. hygiene initiatives.
health and safety and risk management systems are in place onsite at all of abgs operations.
com 76 overview performance governance financial Shareholder STaTemenTS informaTion potential change risk key management responsibility mitigation comment progress made in 2011 impact from 2010 further information commUniTY relaTionS a failure to adequately engage or manage relations with local communities and stakeholders could have a direct impact on the abg groups chief operating officer, in addition to existing corporate social responsibility programmes, creation of the abg development high details of the groups community ability to operate at its existing operations.
