Risk management PR OTECTING OUR BUSINESS The Oil and Gas industry is inherently high risk and as a consequence the management and mitigation of risk is a dynamic and vital business process.
It helps us protect our business, our people and our reputation.
By doing so we protect the communities and the environment, and enhance our relationships with host governments.
Risk management is central to how we run our business and Each Region is led by a Regional Business Manager RBM.
is fundamental to how we create value and deliver substantial Each RBM has strategic responsibility and accountability to returns to shareholders.
It is an integral part of our business the Executive team for the successful delivery of the Groups model and is a Board level responsibility.
Our approach to risk business plans for their Region.
A large part of their remit is management aims to identify key risks as early as possible and identifying, mitigating and reporting on risks and opportunities to either reduce or remove those risks.
If that is not possible, for risk management and mitigation.
then we respond when a risk crystallises to reduce that risk to an acceptable level.
Operational assurance for risk is provided by three cross-functional groups the Global Exploration Leadership Executive Directors have designated responsibility for each Team GELT, the Development & Operations Leadership Team, key risk.
The Groups new Regional and Business Unit including EHS responsibility, and the Financial Risk Committee.
organisation structure has embedded risk management Combined, these three groups provide greater support for more deeply in the running of business.
aligned and effective risk management across the Group.
Day-to-day management of risk is assigned to individual managers and each employee is personally responsible for managing risk within the remit of their role.
2011 principal risks and uncertainties This table sets out the Groups management of principal risks and uncertainties during the year.
Detailed information is referenced elsewhere in the report.
Key risk and uncertainty Performance during the year Jubilee production This was slower than anticipated due to a technical issue with well completions.
Remediation is ramp-up under way and we anticipate that production will achieve plateau levels in 2013.
Working interest production grew 35% in 2011 to 78,200 boepd.
Further information is available on page 52.
Timely approvals from While there were further delays in 2011, two new PSAs were signed with the Government of Ugandan authorities Uganda in February 2012.
This was shortly followed by the completion of the $2.9 billion farm-down of two-thirds of the Groups interests in the Lake Albert Rift Basin.
Further information is available on page 56.
2011 E&A programme Tullow achieved a 74% E&A success ratio.
Reserves and resources replacement was 959%.
in Africa and The Group also achieved an excellent EHS performance over the course of the year.
Further South America information is available in the operations review starting on page 48 and EHS performance is detailed in pages 66 to 67.
2011 Board objective with The Board had a 2011 objective with regard to major corporate risks.
The Board is satisfied that regard to corporate risks appropiate discussion took place in 2011 around the principal corporate risks.
Further information is set out on pages 78 to 79.
40 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS REVIEW s r o s t r c o t e c r e i r i D D More information Page 1 Operations review 48 Corporate responsibility 62 Governance and risk framework 80 INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT IN TULLOWS MATRIX ORGANISATION Board of Directors Executive Directors The Board, through its regular meetings, provides oversight of the On a weekly basis Executive Directors meet to discuss strategy strategic direction of the business and approves the annual budget and implementation and key issues of interest with the Regional Business business plan.
The detailed annual business plan and budget process, Managers and key function managers.
This structure, together with extending over a three-year period, provides the principal metrics against monthly and quarterly reporting, leads to an effective two-way exchange of which the performance of the Group is measured.
These include annual information and ensures coordinated decision-making takes place with a objectives and targets covering production, development, exploration, EHS premium placed on risk management.
Updates on key risks form part of and financial performance, which are set at a business unit level.
Business monthly reporting to the Board and Senior Management on the operational plans are agreed with the Board together with risks to delivery and defined and financial management of the Group.
Risk reporting is an action-oriented operational targets.
Key risks for strategic delivery of the Groups business process that closely monitors key risks.
In this way, it is clear whether risk plans and objectives are then collated as part of the Boards annual review mitigation has been achieved, is in progress, or whether risk has escalated of Group strategy.
The Audit Committee also plays a key role in reviewing the and requires immediate attention.
On a cumulative basis, this approach effectiveness of Tullows internal controls and financial risk management.
validates progress being made in mitigating risk throughout the year as well as creating a dynamic risk management system that identifies new risks and refines mitigation processes in line with changes in the external operating environment.
Risk reporting is coordinated independently by the Group Internal Audit Manager.
Business units Business units and in-country functions Regional business management and corporate functions Risk is managed on a day-to-day basis through in-country operational The three Regional Business Managers and corporate functions provide monitoring and reporting of asset performance, operational reviews and a coordination and oversight of the activities of the Business Units audits, and cross-functional meetings, co-ordinated by Business Unit and in-country functions, Corporate functions are also responsible for Managers.
Formal operational reporting is completed weekly with monthly managing a number of Group-wide risks such as EHS, liquidity and corporate financial reporting of performance versus budget, objectives and risk responsibility.
This is supported by cross-functional committees that provide management to Senior Management, the Executive and the Board.
Tullow integrated assurance over the technical, commercial and financial risks has detailed policies, procedures and systems in place to support risk associated with the Groups core activities.
These committees comprise management across the Group.
These include the Code of Business the GELT, Development & Operations Leadership Team and Financial Risk Conduct, HR and EHS policies and systems, supply chain management, Committee.
In addition, a range of other multi-disciplinary committees crisis management plans and ISO14001 certification of the Groups provide oversight of the management of specific risks i. e. Information Environmental Management System.
Systems Leadership Group IT risks, Compliance Committee compliance and regulatory risks, and EHS Strategy Group EHS risks.
On a quarterly basis Senior Management assess the Groups performance through a series of reviews with the Business Units.
These reviews include an assessment of risks to delivery and measures being implemented to manage these potential risks.
com e f s C o v t i d o t i r u a r n o c p B e u x o t E r n a e t e m f e u g n a c n t i a o n m s s s e n i s u Functions b l a n o i g e R Risk management continued Responding to changing risk Tullows Integrated Management System IMS was We operate in a dynamic environment where responding upgraded during the year to reflect the continuous growth effectively to changing risks is key to our continued success.
in the business and increased complexity of our portfolio.
During 2011 we addressed emerging risks in the following ways: The IMS sets the minimum business standards to be used throughout Tullow Oils activities through a framework for Our crisis management processes were upgraded to meet managing all business activity throughout the organisation the challenges of our growing portfolio and provides a high level of business assurance by: of assets, including: A systematic approach to critical business activities: Dedicated crisis management facilities High standards in business and EHS performance: in the Groups new London head office: and Legislative compliance throughout all operations: Recruitment of a new Group Asset Protection Manager and a Group Information Security Manager.
Sound risk management, planning and decision making: In 2012, the Group is rolling out a new security standard that Efficient and cost effective planning and conduct will apply to all Tullow sites and activities.
of operations: Our compliance processes were enhanced with the Clear assignment of responsibilities: and establishment of an experienced Compliance team and the Continuous improvement in all areas of the business.
implementation of a range of initiatives to support our regulatory compliance programme and to ensure we have The IMS is supported by an online tool and is subject to effective procedures to address the requirements of the UK periodic audit.
Bribery Act enacted during the year.
This has included: 2012 principal risks and uncertainties Implementation of a revised Code of Business Conduct As part of our 2012 to 2014 business plan we identified the supported by an ongoing programme of training and following key risks and uncertainties in relation to the Groups education endorsed by the Chief Executive Officer and financial and operational performance for the period: the Board: and Enhanced procedures covering our gifts and hospitality Completion of the Ugandan farm-down achieved February policy and declaration of conflict of interests.
2012, followed by delivery of a basin development plan and timely approvals for this from the Ugandan authorities: Tullow Safety Rules were implemented during the year to reinforce our existing safety standards for managing high E&A campaign associated risks approximately risk operational activities.
These rules comprise a set of 20 high-impact wells are planned in 2012 : requirements designed to manage day-to-day risks Timely remediation of Jubilee production 2012 2013 associated with our operations that have the potential to and delivery of Group production targets: adversely affect employees, contractors, the environment and surrounding communities.
These rules were developed Government relations stakeholder engagement with using industry best practices, guidelines and standards to particular reference to the 2012 Board objective to reinforce existing Tullow and host government regulatory significantly improve political and economic risk commitments.
The Safety Rules are being embedded information and country risk profiling: through a range of activities including: Achieve the appropriate balance between cash flow from Training of staff throughout the organisation: operations, equity debt market opportunities and portfolio management activities: and Working with our contractors to enable them to implement the rules when engaged in operations Manage shareholder expectations, particularly with on Tullows behalf: and regard to the Groups long-term strategy, production profile and funding.
Dedicated Intranet site and Safety Rules booklet distributed to employees to support the education process.
42 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts
