BUSINESS REVIEW More information Page 1 Special feature: Clear vision 13 Key Performance Indicators 31 Board of Directors 81 L ONG-TERM P ERFORMANCE RISKS We group our risks into strategic, financial, operational and external risks, which we believe could potentially adversely impact our employees, operations, performance and assets.
Throughout the year we have critically reviewed and evaluated Our assessment of the most significant risks and uncertainties the risks the Group faces.
This list is not exhaustive and it is which could impact the Groups long-term performance is likely to change as some risks assume greater importance outlined in this section of the report.
These risks are not set than others during the course of the year.
out in any order or priority and they do not comprise all the risks and uncertainties we face.
Our business risk systems combined with the Boards ownership of strategic risks ensure that risk management is embedded in the business, aligned with our business model and is directly linked to strategic delivery.
STRATEGIC RISK Strategy fails to meet shareholder expectations Performance Impact Mitigation process Ineffective or poorly-executed strategy fails Strategy focused on delivering Ghana and Uganda developments indicator to create shareholder value and to meet and selective high-impact exploration programme.
Effective TSR performance shareholder expectations, leading to a loss of communication with all stakeholders, based on open and Executive investor confidence and a reduction in the share transparent dialogue.
This in turn reduces the Groups ability to Progress in 2011 Aidan Heavey access finance and increases vulnerability to a Ghana: Since production start-up in 2010 over 30 million barrels Chief Executive Officer hostile takeover.
of oil have been produced.
Jubilee Phase 1 development was Policies and systems completed in October.
Phase 1A development received Government Annual business plan, RBM responsibility approval in January 2012.
Good progress was also made in supported by corporate functional teams, monthly appraising the TEN discoveries.
reporting, annual strategy review, IR programme.
Uganda: Government approvals and the related farm-down transactions were completed in February 2012.
Development planning for the basin has progressed through integrated teams with CNOOC and Total.
Loss of key staff and succession planning Performance Impact Progress in 2011 The loss of key staff and a lack of internal Total workforce increased by 26% to support continued business indicator succession planning for key roles within the growth.
An employee survey was completed and the results will Staff turnover Group causes shortand medium-term be used to develop targeted improvements in people management Executive disruption to the business.
Tailored training programmes were also implemented responsibility with a focus on developing coaching and mentoring skills, including Policies and systems Graham Martin the commencement of a bespoke leadership programme open to Living our values, HR function and policies, General Counsel Tullow managers.
& Company Secretary Mitigation process Clearly defined people strategy based on culture and engagement, talent development and reward and recognition, together with the continuing success of the Group.
com Risk management continued Strategic risk continued Sustained exploration failure Performance Impact Mitigation process Failure to sustain exploration success limits Board approval of E&A programme.
Monthly reporting to the Board indicator replacement of reserves and resources, which on finding costs per boe and high-grading of Groups portfolio, with Reserves and impacts investor confidence in long-term a view to measuring success of exploration spend.
replacement Continued use of appropriate technologies and technical excellence in exploration methodologies.
South America discovery opens new Finding costs per boe Policies and systems hydrocarbon basin.
GELT, competitive capital allocation process, Executive clear exploration strategy.
Progress in 2011 responsibility E&A success ratio of 74% was achieved.
This included discoveries in Angus McCoss Ghana and Uganda and the significant Zaedyus discovery offshore Exploration Director French Guiana.
FINANCIAL RISK Insufficient liquidity, inappropriate financial strategy Performance Impact Mitigation process Asset performance and excessive leverage leads Prudent approach to debt and equity, with balance maintained indicator to the Group being unable to meet its financial through refinancing, equity placing and portfolio management activity.
This scenario, in the extreme, Regular Board review and approval for financing options.
Short-term Executive impacts on the Groups ability to continue and long-term cash forecasts reported on a monthly basis to Senior responsibility as a going concern, or causes a breach of Management and the Board.
Maintenance of strong banking and Ian Springett bank covenants.
Chief Financial Officer Policies and systems Progress in 2011 Financial strategy, cash flow forecasting and Balance sheet was strengthened through commitment increase management, capital allocation processes.
of $1.0 billion agreed with the Reserves Based Lending Facility.
The Group now has total debt facilities of $4.15 billion.
Portfolio management included acquiring Nuons Dutch assets, EO Groups Ghana interests as well as a number of farm in deals in Africa.
Cost and capital discipline Performance Impact Mitigation process Ineffective cost control leads to reduced margins Comprehensive annual budgeting processes covering all expenditure indicator and profitability, reducing operating cash flow and are approved by the Board.
Executive management approval is required Cash operating the ability to fund the business.
for major categories of expenditure, and investment and divestment costs per boe opportunities are ranked on a consistent basis, resulting in effective Finding costs per boe Policies and systems management of capital allocation.
Delegation of Authority DoA and budgeting and Capital expenditure reporting processes, project approval process Progress in 2011 and cost management for all significant categories of expenditure.
2011 capital expenditure of $1.4 billion principally on completion of targets Phase 1 development of the Jubilee field in Ghana and E&A activities in Ghana, Uganda and French Guiana.
Executive responsibility Paul McDade Chief Operating Officer Angus McCoss Exploration Director OPERATIONAL RISK EHS failures and security incident Performance Impact Mitigation process Major event from drilling or production operations EHS performance standards set and monitored regularly across the indicator impacts staff, contractors, communities or the Group through Business Unit performance reporting.
EHS management No significant environment, leading to loss of reputation system implemented.
Clear policies and procedures supported by environmental and or revenue.
strong leadership accountability and commitment throughout the incidents, LTIFR 1.0 organisation.
and top quartile industry safety Policies and systems Progress in 2011 performance EHS policies, IMS, Tullow Oil Environmental EHS performance measures were met.
Crisis management resources Standards toes, EMS, crisis management Executive and procedures were further developed.
EHS organisation closely procedures, EHS policy, EHS Strategy Forum.
aligned with Regional Businesses with EHS managers in place for responsibility each of the three regions.
Malaria Paul McDade management processes reviewed and strengthened.
Chief Operating Officer 44 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS REVIEW 1 Operational risk continued Key development failure Performance Impact Mitigation process Development projects fail to meet cost and Technical, financial and Board approval required for all projects, indicator schedule budgets or operational objectives, and for all dedicated project teams.
Risk evaluation and progress Specific yearly base causing returns to be eroded.
reporting initiated for all projects.
and stretch targets that reflect key Policies and systems Progress in 2011 project milestones IMS, EHS systems and policies, DoA, Code of Development expenditure of $396 million in 2011 with key project Executive Business Conduct, risk management process and milestones met.
responsibility Paul McDade Chief Operating Officer EXTERNAL RISK Corporate responsibility Performance Impact Mitigation process The overall political, industry or market Consistent ethical standards established and applied through the indicator environment negatively impacts the Groups Code of Business Conduct, and through contract and procurement TSR performance ability to grow and manage its business.
Regular review of compliance requirements with Executive periodic Board reporting.
Policies and systems responsibility Code of Business Conduct, corporate Progress in 2011 Graham Martin responsibility policies and systems.
Compliance team strengthened, revised Code of Business Conduct General Counsel & launched and rolled out to employees, contractors and suppliers.
Company Secretary New Compliance Committee formed which will report to Board on a quarterly basis.
Country risk Impact Mitigation process Performance Government regulations change rapidly, Successful relationships with Governments and other external indicator which can result in expropriation of assets stakeholders built and maintained.
Through these relationships TSR performance and the introduction of burdensome tariffs or trust is grown, key issues identified and processes improved.
Political changes affect the competitive Enterprise projects aligned with the needs of stakeholders and the environment, with political instability and civil business in support of creating shared prosperity.
responsibility disturbances disrupting the Groups operations.
Aidan Heavey Progress in 2011 Chief Executive Officer Policies and systems Membership of Transparency Internationals Corporate Supporters forum Social Enterprise investment programme.
and became of a supporter of the Extrachives Industry Transparency Initiative EITI.
Held a multi-stakeholder forum to discuss Tullows Stakeholder engagement strategy and plan.
Developed guidelines and toolkit to support external stakeholder engagement and issues management.
Oil and gas price volatility Performance Impact Mitigation process Volatility in commodity prices impacts the Hedging strategy agreed by the Board, with monthly reporting indicator Groups revenue streams, with an adverse of hedging activity.
commodity Progress in 2011 prices Policies and systems Conservative hedging policy implemented, with realised oil and gas Executive Hedging strategy.
prices of $108 bbl and 57 pence per therm.
Detailed monthly Board reporting of hedge positions.
Board also reviewed and approved responsibility ongoing hedging strategy throughout the year.
Ian Springett Chief Financial Officer 45 www.
com UK-based explorationists observing an outcrop of fluvial sands in the Nyamsika River Valley in Exploration Area 1, Uganda.
OP ERATIONS REVIEW 48 2011 operations overview Overall, the Group continues to deliver a strong operational performance.
Material production growth was achieved in 2011 and excellent E&A results were also delivered.
Two acquisitions were completed during the year and since year-end the farm-down in Uganda has concluded.
50 Exploration & Appraisal and Development & Operations overview Our bold exploration strategy differentiates Tullow within the industry and Tullows exceptional exploration success has provided an exciting and growing portfolio of development and production assets in both Africa and South America.
52 West & North Africa Tullows African production comes from Ghana, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Cte dIvoire, Congo Brazzaville and Mauritania.
Whilst the main development and operating focus is on the Jubilee and TEN projects, offshore Ghana, Tullow has significant ongoing development activities and high-impact exploration acreage across this region.
55 South & East Africa Following success in Uganda, Tullow recently embarked upon the next stage of its exploration strategy in the region by securing significant acreage in Kenya and Ethiopia in 2011, with drilling, having commenced in Kenya in January 2012.
57 Europe, South America &Asia Tullow has gas production assets, ongoing developments and exploration acreage in the UK and the Netherlands which provide valuable cash flow to the Group.
In South America, Tullow has significant exploration acreage in French Guiana, Guyana and Suriname.
The Group also produces from the Bangora field in Bangladesh and has an exploration portfolio in Pakistan.
In March 2012 Tullow commenced the process of divesting its Asian assets.
WORKING WITH INTEGRITY & RESPECT Work with integrity and with respect for people, and for the environments in which we operate.
Tullow takes a long-term view in conducting its business, which ensures we put fostering relationships and protecting the environment ahead of short-term gains.
2 Operations review 2011 OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Overall, the Group continues to deliver a strong operational performance.
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS Group reserves and resources Group working interest production Group revenue 1,743 MMBOE 78,200 BOEPD $2,304 MILLION 1% 15% 21% 27% 73% 79% 84% 7% 16% 27% 38% 73% 55% 84% Oil Gas Tariff Income West & North Africa South & East Africa Europe, South America & Asia KEY PRODUCING ASSETS West & North Africa Europe, South Amercia & Asia 2011 working 2011 working Producing field interest production Producing field interest production Country Tullow % boepd Country Tullow % boepd Congo Brazzaville MBoundi 11% 3,000 Netherlands 26 fields 4.69% 22.5% 3,000 Cte dIvoire Espoir 21.33% 3,750 UK CMS Area 6.91% 100% 11,500 Equatorial Guinea Ceiba 14.25% 2,850 Thames Area 50% 100% 1,000 Okume 14.25% 10,200 Bangladesh Bangora 30% 5,150 Gabon Tchatamba 25% 3,100 Pakistan Shekhan-1 40% 150 Niungo 40% 3,000 Total 20,800 Etame Complex 7.50% 1,620 Others 3.75% 52.78% 5,030 Ghana Jubilee 35.48% 23,500 Mauritania Chinguetti 22.25% 1,400 Total 57,400 48 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts OPERATIONS REVIEW 2 Europe, South America United & Asia Kingdom EDP Ireland Netherlands EDP Bangladesh EDP Pakistan EP Mauritania Guyana E EDP Suriname E French Guiana E Senegal E Sierra Ethiopia E Leone E Ghana EDP West & Liberia E Uganda ED North Africa Cte dIvoire Equatorial Kenya E EDP Guinea DP Gabon Tanzania E Congo EDP Brazzaville DP Madagascar E South & Namibia D East Africa South Africa EXPLORATION & APPRAISAL SUCCESS West & North Africa South & East Africa Europe, South America & Asia Well Well Well Country Success Seismic Country Success Seismic Country Success Seismic Cte dIvoire Ethiopia UK 1 2 Equatorial Guinea Kenya Netherlands 0 1 Gabon 6 8 Madagascar French Guiana 1 1 Ghana 9 11 Uganda 8 9 Bangladesh Liberia 0 1 Mauritania 1 2 Seismic Acquisition Onshore Airborne 49 www.
