Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements UBM principal risks Risks Potential impact How it is managed UBM operates in highly competitive international UBMs strategy of creating a balanced portfolio of Sector trends markets which change in response to technological products improves our ability to meet the changing innovation and other global political factors.
It is needsof our customers.
We have responded to the notpossible to predict with certainty the changes continuing digital revolution by acquiring and developing whichmayaffect the competitiveness of the business, innovative digital products, while at the same time  innovation or disruptive actively managing the contraction of our print magazine technologies will render some existing products and portfolio.
We closely monitor trends relevant to our services partially or wholly obsolete.
With increased businesses and regularly discuss with senior management.
agility and innovation within UBMs businesses, our We consider relevant risk factors in the development of current organisational structure and control systems new products and services, and develop appropriate maynot evolve at the samepace and lose alignment control systems for new products.
We aim to achieve withthe business needs.
abalance between the requirement for increasing innovation and agility which enable us to compete, withthe requirement for control and scalability.
Advertising and other discretionary marketing spend UBMs business is diversified across many different Economic conditions tends to be cyclical.
An economic slowdown or markets and geographies, some of which exhibit lower recession, possibly exacerbated by the Eurozone levels of cyclicality than others.
The geographic spread crisis, could impact revenue as companies spend less ofthe business helps to limit the impact of economic onadvertising.
Any downturn may also result in downturn in any specific country or region.
Market slowerdebt collections, thereby affecting cash flow.
trends are closely monitored at a divisional level and regularly reported upon.
Each division closely manages credit risk monitoring collections performance and reviewing credit policies.
UBM operates in a number of industry segments in We place significant emphasis on succession planning Attracting retaining which there is intense competition for experienced and anddeveloping and retaining management talent.
We do and succession highly qualified individuals.
The ability to attract talent this through a variety of means including incentive planning for key and retain highly skilled, experienced, and motivated schemes, by developing a more agile, entrepreneurial and management personnel plays an important part in the continued innovative company culture and by running a number successful execution of the strategy.
oftalent management and specific succession planning personnel programs to develop high calibre business leaders.
UBM has businesses in many geographic regions We are addressing each of the control, operational and Geographic and including growing operations in rapidly developing reputation risks by sending experienced employees into Emerging Market countries.
Operations in these new territories may new regions to form part of local management teams exposures presentlogistical, political and management challenges andthrough review by internal audit, and close board due to different business cultures, laws and languages.
Foreign currency exposures are hedged Inaddition, foreign exchange rate fluctuations could under a policy of denominating borrowings in currencies adversely affect our earnings and the strength of our where significant transaction exposure exists.
Expansion in geographical locations remote from the centres of management increases thespans of control and oversight.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 Section 1: Overview Operating and Financial Review UBM principal risks continued Risks Potential impact How it is managed A disaster or natural catastrophe, terrorism, political We have developed business continuity arrangements, Force majeure instability or disease could affect our ability to continue including IT disaster recovery plans and back-up delivery to do business if it renders offices unavailable and or systems, to minimise any business disruption in the event curtails travel.
Insurance coverage may reduce losses in certain circumstances.
We also strengthen terms and conditions of contracts to minimise liabilities, plan for alternatives and diversify to reduce dependence on particular products or countries.
Our strategy involves acquiring companies which are Risks are mitigated by applying strict financial criteria to Acquisitions: accretive to UBMs performance.
The availability of any potential acquisition including the costs associated identification, suitable acquisition candidates, obtaining regulatory with financing the transaction, and subjecting the process execution and approval for any acquisition and changes in the to close monitoring and review by internal audit and the integration availability or cost of financing may affect our ability to Board.
The liquidity profile of UBM is closely managed execute on this strategy.
Where businesses are acquired, by Treasury.
Senior management and directors are any delays in integration or unexpected costs or liabilities, involved in acquisitions on a regular basis and strict as well as the risk of failing to realise operating benefits or processes are applied to integrations including a rigorous synergies from completed transactions may affect the review process for major acquisitions which is designed impact of the acquisition.
toidentify and rectify integration issues at an early stage.
We also provide in-house integration training as part of career development for certain management positions.
We seek to limit interest rate and foreign exchange UBMs central treasury is principally concerned with Credit counterparty riskbythe use of financial instruments.
As a result managing internal and external funding requirements and exposure and access wehave anunsecured credit risk from the potential monitoring our working capital.
The Head of Treasury is tocapital non-performance by counterparties to these financial accountable to the Chief Financial Officer and the Board.
The credit risk is normally limited to the We maintain a balance between continuity of funding amount of any mark to market gain on the instrument and flexibility through the use of capital markets, bank and not the notional amount being hedged.
We also loans and overdrafts.
We maintain a range of borrowing havecredit exposure for the amount of cash and cash facilities to fund requirements at short notice and at equivalents on the balance sheet.
UBM liquidity issues competitive rates.
To facilitate access to these sources of orrestrictions in access to capital may curtail the ability funds we seek to maintain a long term investment grade tomake certain acquisitions, while local liquidity issues credit rating with both Moodys current rating: Baa3 could have a negative reputational impact, particularly stable outlook and Standard & Poors current rating: with suppliers.
Credit risk is controlled by Treasury policy which restricts the counterparties with whom funds can be invested and derivative contracts can be entered into, principally to licensed commercial and investment banks with strong, long term credit ratings.
The policy does not allow significant exposures with counterparties that are rated less than A by Standard & Poors, Moodys or Fitch andwe monitor the concentration of risk constantly.
Given our large and diverse customer base, there are no significant concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables.
No single customer accounts for more than 1% of UBMs revenues.
42 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Risks Potential impact How it is managed Significant projects may be required to secure future We seek to mitigate project-related risks through Major project revenue streams and may involve significant capital robustproject management discipline, monitoring by execution investment specifically IT and system development.
internal audit and assigning responsibility for projects The failure to manage and execute these projects atan executive management level within UBM.
successfully could lead to increased costs, delays in completion or erosion of UBMs competitive position.
The global nature of UBM means we are subject to Risks are managed through legal reviews, operational Litigation, regulation lawsin the various jurisdictions in which we operate.
reviews and staff training to raise awareness of the need and compliance Weare therefore exposed to the risk of unfavourable for compliance in certain areas.
The divisions seek to changes in applicable law and its interpretation.
These monitor legislative changes and regularly discuss with risks include, among others, disputes over intellectual senior management.
property, trade terms with customers and or suppliers, customer losses resulting from our IT system delay or failure for example, arising from a breach of Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards and violations ofdata protection andprivacy laws.
The initiation of a claim, proceedings orinvestigation could have a material effect on our reputation, business or financial position.
New legislation changes may inhibit our ability to grow e. g. requirements to maintain marketing data under data protection issues or have an adverse effect on revenues e. g. changes in government health policies on the use ofgeneric drugs may adversely affect the pharmaceutical companies advertising spend.
The management of tax liabilities is a matter of We manage our tax affairs actively including monitoring Tax regulatorycompliance and legal structure.
Failure to tax developments, liaising with external advisors and comply with the necessary legislation could expose regularly reviewing the tax planning schemes.
UBMto penalties or challenges to legal structures such that future tax payments may exceed recorded liabilities.
Similarly changes to taxation legislation may result in higher levelsof taxation than previously guided to.
The cost of providing pension benefits to existing and We mitigate this by active management of the investment Pensions former employees is subject to changes in pension fund portfolio and additional contributions have been made values and changing mortality.
Asset returns might be tothe UK schemes.
UBM has acted to close its defined insufficient to cover changes in the schemes liabilities benefit schemes to new members and neither the CEO over time.
nor the CFO belongs to such a scheme.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43
