Performance Risk management Performance Risk management Strategic risks are assessed formally each year by the Board during the strategic planning process and steps are taken subsequently to ensure that such risks are minimised at all times.
The pursuit of profitable growth is inherently a risky The table below illustrates the business activities that are undertaking.
The Group encourages individuals and teams to considered around the typical parameters that might be be entrepreneurial and to exhibit audacity: taking risks is an reviewed.
Also shown is how the management of certain risks inevitable outcome of this.
Ultra manages risk very well it is reviewed by the Board, while others are delegated.
The table takes considered risks.
Risk management is not treated as a is illustrative, not exhaustive.
The major risks, their context, separate function within the Group: it is an integral part of potential impact and mitigation actions are then shown on the normal management processes within Ultra.
hierarchy within the risk management process.
Many risks are reviewed, negated or mitigated at departmental, team or project level.
Where the potential impact of a risk occurring is larger, the level of management that reviews it is escalated.
Business activty Typical review points Strategy competitive Vision: market analysis: competitor analysis: differentiation: innovation roadmap: teaming plans Strategy corporate Watch list: available nancing Acquisitions Specialist capabilities: customers and programmes: synergies: financial performance: financial projections Bids Plan to win and positioning with customer: maturity of solution: competitive position: embedded risk technical and engineering : resources available: cash prole: contract conditions Contract execution Progress against plan and milestones: costs incurred to complete at completion: risk register Business performance Orders, sales, profit and cash: month, year-to-date, forecasts: variances to budget and forecast: marketing pursuits: projects under development, compliance matrix Team development Organisation review: succession planning: training plans: management and team development activities: performance vs. potential review Business processes Quality systems: segregation of duties: disaster recovery: health, safety & environmental management: IT penetration testing Regulatory and compliance Compliance with local laws, compliance with export regulations, compliance with security requirements reviewed as normal practice major only, in accordance with delegated authorities by exception Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 35 Reviewed by Board Executive team Division Business Internal peer group Internal audit 7.
Introduction Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance Risk management continued Risk: Market factors Context Mitigation Ultra is reliant on defence budgets that are forecast to The Group has positioned itself in the sweet-spot of decline.
There is a risk that the declines could accelerate.
defence budgets by focusing on electronic and software solutions.
All new platforms and platform upgrades require Parts of Ultras civil business notably aerospace and improved electronics and software.
nuclear may be vulnerable to sudden changes in economics or sentiment.
The Group has over 180 specialist capabilities specified on a large number of platforms and programmes.
Ultra is Impact not reliant on a small number of large contracts that could An amount of Ultras business could be lost as be cancelled.
programmes are potentially cut from both government and commercial procurement budgets.
Ultras agility, innovation and speed of response allows the Group to constantly move into new growth markets.
Ultra is positioned on many civil aerospace platforms that have long order books providing cover for many years to come.
The reaction to the recent incident at the Fukushima nuclear power station showed that the strategic need for secure access to energy outweighed the negative sentiment surrounding this kind of incident.
For more information on all of the Groups markets, see pages 21 to 23.
Risk: Market access Context Mitigation Ultra has elected to cede some control of certain Ultra works hard to ensure that its joint venture partners businesses e. g. Proxy Board, joint enterprises to enhance and the members of the Groups security and proxy market position in key markets.
boards accord with the Groups corporate culture and way of doing business.
Impact Overall control is lost.
Ultra benets from the expertise that the members of its JVs and boards bring to the Group.
Risk: Bidding for contracts Context Mitigation Ultra is bidding for an increasing number of large and The Group has many ways of sharing best practise and complex contracts.
lessons learnt from all of its large bids.
Impact All large bids are reviewed at many levels of the business, Ultra could underestimate the required resources or the including the Board, before proceeding.
Internal peer project complexity and lose money.
group reviews are conducted on the solution, the cost build-up and the key points of the proposal.
Risk: Execution of contracts Context Mitigation Ultra has an increasing number of large and complex Ultra places great emphasis on managing the risks contracts.
embedded in its customer contracts.
The management teams of Ultra businesses must focus on reducing or Impact retiring these risks as quickly as possible.
The Group could manage these contracts badly and lose money and reputation.
Ultra will not enter into a xed, rm priced solution with a rm timetable if there is embedded technical risk i. e. the overall design solution is not yet proven.
Ultra will only commit to delivering what it knows it can deliver: Ultra places great pride in meeting its commitments.
36 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic review Risk management Risk: Staff retention Context Mitigation The Group businesses are capital-light but specialist The Group places great emphasis on recruiting, knowledge intensive.
retaining and developing high quality individuals to work in Ultra teams.
Impact Ultra could lose key staff or capabilities so that the Group Ultra has consistently high levels of retention for key staff.
cannot full its contractual obligations or is forced to Ultra has developed many human resources processes that outsource work, squeezing margins.
reinforce the Groups culture and unique ways of operating.
In addition to offering properly benchmarked salary and benets, many training and career development techniques are used constantly to develop those identied as potential high achievers to maintain a challenging but rewarding environment for them.
The Group also gives high priority to succession planning: all key staff have a nominated successor so the impact, if someone does leave the business, is reduced.
For more information on Ultras human resources initiatives, see pages 18 to 20.
Risk: Exchange rates Context Mitigation Ultra trades internationally and has both transaction and Ultras projected net transaction exposure is mitigated by translation risk.
the use of forward hedging contracts.
Impact The level of hedging cover is regularly reviewed to ensure Poor management or sudden exchange rate movements compliance with the agreed policy.
By their nature, currency translation risks cannot be mitigated.
For more information about how the Group manages foreign exchange risks, see page 34.
Risk: Industry restructuring vertical integration Context Mitigation Ultras customers could integrate vertically organically or by The Group operates in specic market niches that often acquisition, so undermining the Groups market position.
have extremely high barriers to entry.
Impact Ultra executes its contracts well and constantly meets its A sudden removal of key market segments resulting in a commitments, thereby reducing the incentive for loss of business.
customers to attempt to emulate the Groups specialist expertise and capabilities.
Risk: Pricing pressures Context Mitigation Many of Ultras customers are under severe Ultra has a long track record of product innovation, budgetary constraints.
exploiting new, lower cost electronics technologies to reduce costs whilst delivering improved performance.
Impact Customers could react by demanding price reductions Additionally, operational efficiencies are achieved by that the Group cannot offset with efficiency savings, working more intelligently, particularly through embracing thereby squeezing margins.
lean manufacturing and design processes.
Ultra has made significant progress in sourcing production in low cost economies where this is appropriate given the nature of the products that the Group provides.
The anticipated cost reductions have been achieved, thereby helping protect and improve the Groups underlying operating margins.
Introduction Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance Risk management continued Risk: Relationships Context Mitigation Some Ultra business depends on specic relationships, The diversied nature of Ultras activities is reected in the such as suppliers, joint venture, partners, agents, teaming broad range of platforms and programmes in which the partners, customers, governments and regulators.
Impact This diversication extends to customer, supplier and The Group potentially loses those relationships and partner relationships.
Within its total sales to the major consequently the business.
prime contractors, Ultra typically supplies products, equipment, sub-systems and services to a range of different platforms and programmes, with each one effectively acting as a different customer.
Given that no single platform or programme represents more than 5% of revenue in any one year, there is, therefore, no single relationship of such signicance that its severance would have a material impact on Ultras performance or prospects.
For more information about how the Group manages its relationships, see page 40.
Risk: Supply chain constraints Context Mitigation Ultra is reliant on key suppliers that could be impacted Where possible Ultra dual-sources specialist components.
by various factors: examples include natural disasters Where necessary the Group holds sufficient buffer stock e. g. the Japanese tsunami, the pricing of subcomponents to protect against supply chain disruptions.
or financial issues e. g. bankruptcy.
In specic instances Ultra has undertaken lifetime buys Impact of components to assure supply and to protect against Necessary components could become unavailable, causing technical obsolescence.
programme delays or price rises that reduce margins.
This could have a negative impact on Ultras reputation and the Groups relationship with its end customers.
Risk: Technology or market change Context Mitigation Ultras competitive position could be undermined by a Ultras constant focus on innovation leads the Group to disruptive technology or a significant change in customer be a leader more often than a follower in introducing preferences regarding technologies, e. g. a move to advanced technology solutions where appropriate.
Lengthy programme timescales make it improbable that a Impact technical innovation could invalidate Ultras offering overnight.
The Groups specialist capabilities could become redundant High integrity markets are, by their nature, quite leading to a loss of business.
conservative so technical revolutions are not commonplace.
Ultra develops good relations with its customers the Group focuses on customer pull rather than technology push so is likely to find out about changes in attitude early on in the process.
The Group is technology-agnostic and so willingly adopts commercial technologies where they can meet the customer requirement.
38 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic review Risk management Risk: Loss of regulatory approvals Context Mitigation Much of Ultras business relies on markets that require a In all Ultra businesses there is a clear focus on maintaining high level of regulatory approval.
For example, international compliance with all regulatory requirements of customers, defence sales are subject to export controls and high industry, national and international law.
integrity equipment is subject to high minimum The internal audit process that reviews such compliance is requirements set by regulatory authorities.
reported by each business in each monthly business report.
Impact Where non-compliances with required process are noted, If Ultra had a major ITAR or security infringement then the the corrective action is monitored until full compliance is Groups ability to operate in the US, for example, could be regained.
If the Groups high-integrity nuclear safety systems and components, for example, failed to meet regulatory approval then Ultra would not be able to access these markets.
Risk: Lack of suitable acquisitiontargets Context Mitigation Ultra maintains a balance between organic and Ultra retains a solid list of potential acquisitions and is acquisition growth.
Appropriate businesses that can be confident that it can expand its range of specialist acquired at value-enhancing prices augment the Groups capabilities and take market share from others.
Ultra identies targets as part of its internal strategy Impact review process: through use of specialist consultants and Ultras rate of growth would be adversely impacted.
by receiving details of businesses being marketed.
