Report of the Directors About Unilever RISKS Outlook and risks 2012 The following discussion of the risk outlook and our principal risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that reflect Unilevers view of the operating risk environment.
The actual results could differ materially from those projected.
See the Cautionary statement on the inside back cover.
Outlook Market conditions for our business were challenging in 2011 and we do not anticipate this changing significantly in 2012.
Economic pressures are expected to continue.
We expect consumer markets to remain flat to slightly down in developed markets.
In emerging markets consumer demand remains robust but there is nonetheless the risk of modest slowdown in key markets such as China, India and Brazil.
Currency markets remain volatile and uncertain.
Although we have seen rather more stable conditions in key commodity markets in recent months we remain watchful for further periods of volatility in 2012.
A worsening economic scenario could be triggered by a major Eurozone crisis prompted by countries leaving the euro or by a break-up of the euro leading to significant contraction in financial markets, followed by a severe recession in Europe and knock-on effects globally.
Terrorist activity and political unrest may also result in business interruptions and a decreased demand for our products.
The competitive environment for our business is likely to remain intense in 2012.
Our competitors, both global and local, will continue to shift resources into emerging markets.
We expect continued high levels of competitive challenge to our many category leadership positions.
Some of this may be price based, but we also expect strong innovation based competition.
With the improvements we have been making to our business we are well prepared for these challenges.
In a period of significant uncertainty and downside risk, we believe Unilevers operational and financial flexibility, and speed of response to a fast changing environment are vital assets.
We will continue to focus on our long term strategic priority of driving volume growth ahead of our markets whilst providing a steady improvement in core operating margin and strong cash flow.
We are well placed in emerging markets and we expect these markets to continue to drive growth.
Our recent strategy review sharpened the portfolio role of our categories and our 2012 outlook fully reflects the choices made.
This gives us confidence that Unilever is fit to compete, whatever the circumstances.
Principal risk factors Our business is subject to risks and uncertainties.
The risks that we regard as the most relevant to our business are identified below.
We have also commented on certain mitigating actions that we believe help us to manage these risks.
However, we may not be successful in deploying some or all of these mitigating actions.
If the circumstances in these risks occur or are not successfully mitigated, our cashflow, operating results, financial position, business and reputation could be materially adversely affected.
In addition risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to vary from those described herein in the descriptions below, which may include forward-looking statements, or could impact on our ability to meet our targets or be detrimental to our profitability or reputation.
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Consumer Preference As a branded goods business, Unilevers success depends on the We continuously monitor external market trends and collate value and relevance of our brands and products to consumers consumer, customer and shopper insight in order to develop category across the world and on our ability to innovate.
Consumer tastes, preferences and behaviours are constantly Our Research and Development function actively searches for ways in changing and Unilevers ability to respond to these changes and to which to translate the trends in consumer preference and taste into continue to differentiate our brands and products is vital to our new technologies for incorporation into future products.
Our innovation management process deploys the necessary tools, We are dependent on creating innovative products that continue to technologies and resources to convert category strategies into meet the needs of our consumers.
projects and category plans, develop products and relevant brand communication and successfully roll out new products to our consumers.
28 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors About Unilever Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Competition The activities of our competitors may adversely impact our Our strategy focuses on investing in markets and segments which we business.
identify as attractive because we have already built, or are confident that we can build, competitive advantage.
Unilever operates globally in competitive markets where other local, regional and global companies are targeting the same consumer We continue to monitor developments in our markets across the base.
world and to direct our resources accordingly to respond to competitive threats and opportunities.
Our retail customers frequently compete with us through private label offerings.
Industry consolidation amongst our direct competitors and in the retail trade can bring about significant shifts in the competitive landscape.
Portfolio Management Unilevers strategic investment choices will determine the longOur Compass strategy and our business plans are designed to ensure term growth and profits of our business.
that resources are prioritised towards those categories and markets having the greatest long term potential for Unilever.
Unilevers growth and profitability are determined by our portfolio of categories, geographies and channels and how these evolve over Our acquisition activity is driven by our portfolio strategy with a clear, time.
Sustainability The success of our business depends on finding sustainable The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan sets clear long-term solutions to support long-term growth.
commitments for health and well-being, environmental impact and enhancing livelihoods.
These are underpinned by specific targets in Unilevers vision to double the size of our business while reducing areas such as sustainable sourcing, water availability and usage, our environmental impact will require more sustainable ways of waste and greenhouse gases.
This means increasing the positive social benefits of Unilevers activities while reducing our environmental impact.
The Unilever Sustainable Development Group, comprising five external specialists in corporate responsibility and sustainability, monitors the execution of this strategy.
Progress towards the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan ismonitored by the Unilever Leadership Executive and the Boards.
Customer Relationships Successful customer relationships are vital to our business and We build and maintain trading relationships across a broad spectrum continued growth.
of channels ranging from centrally managed multinational customers through to small traders accessed via distributors in many developing Maintaining strong relationships with our customers is necessary countries.
for our brands to be well presented to our consumers and available for purchase at all times.
We develop joint business plans with all our key customers that include detailed investment plans and customer service objectives The strength of our customer relationships also affects our ability to and we regularly monitor progress.
obtain pricing and secure favourable trade terms.
We have developed capabilities for customer sales and outlet design which enable us to find new ways to improve customer performance and enhance our customer relationships.
People A skilled workforce is essential for the continued success of our Resource committees have been established and implemented business.
These committees have responsibility for identifying future skills and capability needs, developing career paths Our ability to attract, develop and retain the right number of and identifying the key talent and leaders of the future.
appropriately qualified people is critical if we are to effectively compete and grow.
We have an integrated management development process which includes regular performance reviews underpinned by a common set This is especially true in our key emerging markets where there can of leadership behaviours, skills and competencies.
be a high level of competition for a limited talent pool.
We have targeted programmes to attract and retain top talent and we actively monitor our performance in retaining talent within Unilever.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 Report of the Directors About Unilever RISKS continued Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Supply Chain Our business depends on securing high quality materials, efficient We have contingency plans designed to enable us to secure manufacturing and the timely distribution of products to our alternative key material supplies at short notice, to transfer or share customers.
production between manufacturing sites and to use substitute materials in our product formulations and recipes.
Our supply chain network is exposed topotentially adverse events such as physical disruptions, environmental and industrial accidents These contingency plans also extend to an ability to intervene directly or bankruptcy of a key supplier which could impact our ability to to support a key supplier should it for any reason find itself in difficulty deliver orders to our customers.
or be at risk of negatively affecting a Unilever product.
The quality and safety of our products are of paramount importance We have policies and procedures designed to ensure the health and for our brands andour reputation.
safety ofour employees and the products in our facilities and to deal withmajor incidents or crises including business continuity and The cost of our products can be significantly affected by the cost of disaster recovery.
the underlying commodities and materials from which they are made.
Fluctuations in these costs cannot always be passed on to the Our product quality controls are extensive and are regularly tested to consumer through pricing.
ensure that they are effective.
All of our key suppliers areperiodically reviewed to ensure they meet the rigorous quality standards that our products demand.
Commodity price risk is actively managed through forward-buying oftraded commodities and other hedging mechanisms.
Trends are monitored and modelled regularly and integrated into our forecasting process.
Systems and Information Unilevers operations are increasingly dependent on IT systems and Hardware that runs and manages core operating data is fully backed the management of information.
up with separate contingency systems to provide real time backup operations should they ever be required.
We interact electronically with customers, suppliers and consumers in ways which place ever greater emphasis on the need for secure We maintain a system of control at all times for access to our and reliable IT systems and infrastructure and careful management important information.
of the information that is in our possession.
Our policies on data access, privacy and protection of information are This also increases the threat from unauthorised access and regularly reviewed and our employees are trained to understand the misuse of sensitive information.
Business Transformation Successful execution of business transformation projects is key to All acquisitions, disposals and global restructuring projects are delivering their intended business benefits and avoiding disruption sponsored by a Unilever Leadership Executive member.
Regular to other business activities.
progress updates are provided to the Unilever Leadership Executive.
Unilever is continually engaged in major change projects, including Sound project disciplines are used in all merger, acquisitions and acquisitions and disposals, to drive continuous improvement in our restructuring projects and these projects are resourced by dedicated business and to strengthen our portfolio and capabilities.
In 2011, this included several significant acquisitions Alberto Culver, Unilever also monitors the volume of change programmes underway Concern Kalina, IT system implementations, the roll-out of in an effort to stagger the impact on current operations and to ensure Enterprise Support and changes to our management organisation.
30 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors About Unilever Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk External economic and political risks, and natural disasters Unilever operates across the globe and is exposed to a range of The breadth of Unilevers portfolio and our geographic reach help to external economic and political risks and natural disasters that may mitigate our exposure to any particular localised risk to an extent.
Our affect the execution of our strategy or the running of our operations.
flexible business model allows us to adapt our portfolio and respond quickly to develop new offerings that suit consumers and customers Adverse economic conditions may result in reduced consumer changing needs during economic downturns.
demand for our products, and may affect one or more countries within a region, or may extend globally.
We regularly update our forecast of business results and cash flows and, where necessary, rebalance investment priorities.
Government actions such as fiscal stimulus, changes to taxation and price controls can impact on the growth and profitability of our local We have continuity planning designed to deal with crisis management operations.
in the event of political and social events and natural disasters.
Social and political upheavals and natural disasters can disrupt We believe that many years of exposure to emerging markets has sales and operations.
given us experience operating and developing our business successfully during periods of economic, political or social change.
In 2011, more than half of Unilevers turnover came from emerging markets including Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey, South Africa, China, Mexico and Russia.
These markets offer greater growth opportunities but also expose Unilever to economic, political and social volatility in these markets.
Eurozone risk Issues arising out of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe could have a Unilever is committed to maintaining its operations in all European material adverse effect on Unilevers business in a number of ways.
Uncertainty, lack of confidence and any further deterioration in the We have conducted scenario planning in respect of a Eurozone situation could lead to lower growth and even recession in Europe break-up, or of countries leaving the Eurozone, and this has been and elsewhere.
Our operations would be affected if Eurozone countries were to We are taking measures designed to minimise the impact of the leave the euro.
In particular: potential scenarios whilst continuing to trade as normal, including: our European supply chain would face economic and operational developing contingency plans in respect of our supply chain challenges: operations: our customers and suppliers may be adversely affected, leading exercising additional caution with our counterparty exposures: to heightened counterparty credit risk: and taking prudent balance sheet measures in relation to high risk our investment in the country concerned could be impaired and countries: and may be subject to exchange controls and translation risks going strengthening our short term liquidity positions.
The likely contraction in the availability of credit from financial institutions and the impact this will have on Unilevers liquidity risk are described under Financial below.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 Report of the Directors About Unilever RISKS continued Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Financial Unilever is exposed to a variety of external financial risks.
Currency exposures are managed within prescribed limits and by theuse of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Further, operating Changes to the relative value of currencies can fluctuate widely companies borrow in local currency except where inhibited by local andcould have a significant impact on business results.
Further, regulations, lack of local liquidity or local market conditions.
We also because Unilever consolidates its financial statements in euros it hedge some of our exposures through the use of foreign currency issubject to exchange risks associated with the translation of the borrowing or forward exchange contracts.
underlying net assets and earnings of its foreign subsidiaries.
Our interest rate management approach aims to achieve an optimal We are also subject to the imposition of exchange controls by balance between fixed and floating rate interest exposures on individual countries which could limit our ability to import materials expected net debt.
paid in foreign currency or to remit dividends to the parent company.
We seek to manage our liquidity requirements by maintaining Currency rates, along with demand cycles, can also result in accessto global debt markets through short-term and long-term significant swings in the prices of the raw materials needed to debt programmes.
In addition, we have high committed credit produce our goods.
facilities for general corporate purposes.
Unilever may face liquidity risk, i. e. difficulty in meeting its Group Treasury regularly monitors exposure to our banks, tightening obligations, associated with its financial liabilities.
A material and counter party limits where appropriate.
Unilever actively manages its sustained shortfall in our cash flow could undermine Unilevers banking exposures on a daily basis.
credit rating, impair investor confidence and also restrict Unilevers ability to raise funds.
We regularly assess and monitor counterparty risk in our customers and take appropriate action to manage our exposures.
We are exposed to market interest rate fluctuations on our floating rate debt.
Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase the interest Our pension investment standards require us to invest across a range cost of our floating rate debt and increase the cost of future borrowings.
of equities, bonds, property, alternative assets and cash such that the failure of any single investment will not have a material impact on the In times of financial market volatility, we are also potentially exposed overall value of assets.
to counter party risks with banks, suppliers and customers.
The majority of our assets, including those held in our pooled Certain businesses have defined benefit pension plans, most now investment vehicle, Univest, are managed by external fund managers closed to new employees, which are exposed to movements in and are regularly monitored by pension trustees and central pensions interest rates, fluctuating values of underlying investments and and investment teams.
Changes in any or all of these inputs could potentially increase the cost to Unilever of funding the schemes and Further information on financial instruments and capital and treasury therefore have an adverse impact on profitability and cash flow.
risk management is included in note 16 on pages 94 to 100.
Ethical Acting in an ethical manner, consistent with the expectations of Our Code of Business Principles and our Code Policies govern the customers, consumers and other stakeholders is essential for the behaviour of our employees, suppliers, distributors and other third protection of the reputation of Unilever and its brands.
Unilevers brand and reputation are valuable assets and the way in Our processes for identifying and resolving cases of unethical which we operate, contribute to society and engage with the world practice are clearly defined and regularly communicated throughout around us is always under scrutiny both internally and externally.
Data relating to instances of unethical practice is reviewed by the Unilever Leadership Executive and by relevant Board committees and helps to determine the allocation of resources for future policy development, training and awareness initiatives.
Legal, Regulatory and Other Compliance with laws and regulations is an essential part of The Code of Business Principles sets out our commitment to Unilevers business operations.
complying with the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate.
In specialist areas the relevant teams at global, regional or Unilever is subject to local, regional and global laws and regulations local level are responsible for setting detailed standards and ensuring in such diverse areas as product safety, product claims, that all employees are aware of and comply with regulations and laws trademarks, copyright, patents, competition, employee health and specific and relevant to their roles.
safety, the environment, corporate governance, listing and disclosure, employment and taxes.
Our legal specialists are heavily involved in monitoring and reviewing our practices to provide reasonable assurance that we remain aware Failure to comply with laws and regulations could expose Unilever to of and in line with all relevant laws and legal obligations.
civil and or criminal actions leading to damages, fines and criminal sanctions against us and or our employees with possible Various mitigating processes exist within Unilever operating systems consequences for our corporate reputation.
designed to help to mitigate other areas of risk including terrorism, fiscal and other forms of regulatory change or economic instability.
Changes to laws and regulations could have a material impact on the cost of doing business.
Unilever is also exposed to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty related to other factors including environmental, political, social and fiscal risks.
All these risks could materially affect Unilevers business.
There may be other risks which are unknown to Unilever or which are currently believed to be immaterial.
32 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors About Unilever Our Risk Appetite and Approach to Risk Management Processes Risk management is integral to Unilevers strategy and to the Unilever operates a wide range of processes and activities across achievement of Unilevers long-term goals.
Our success as an all its operations covering strategy, planning, execution and organisation depends on our ability to identify and exploit the performance management.
Risk management is integrated into opportunities generated by our business and the markets we are in.
every stage of this business cycle.
These procedures are In doing this we take an embedded approach to risk management formalised and documented and are increasingly being which puts risk and opportunity assessment at the core of the centralised and automated into transactional and other leadership team agenda, which is where we believe it should be.
Unilever adopts a risk profile that is aligned to our vision to double Assurance and Re-Assurance the size of our business while reducing our environmental impact.
Assurance on compliance with the Code of Business Principles Our available capital and other resources are applied to underpin and all of our Code Policies is obtained annually from Unilever our priorities.
We aim to maintain a strong single A credit rating management via a formal Code declaration.
In addition, there are on a long term basis, reflecting the strength of our balance sheet specialist compliance programmes which run during the year and and cash flows.
vary depending on thebusiness priorities.
These specialist compliance programmes supplement the Code declaration.
Our Our approach to risk management is designed to provide Corporate Audit function plays a vital role in providing to both reasonable, but notabsolute, assurance that our assets are management and the Boards an objective and independent review safeguarded, the risks facing the business are being assessed of the effectiveness of risk management and internal control and mitigated and all information that may be required to be systems throughout Unilever.
disclosed is reported toUnilevers senior management including, where appropriate, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Boards assessment of compliance with the Risk Management Officer.
frameworks The Boards, through the Committees where appropriate, Organisation regularly review the significant risks and decisions that could The Unilever Boards assume overall accountability for the have a material impact on Unilever.
These reviews consider the management of risk and for reviewing the effectiveness of boundaries to the risks that Unilever is prepared to take in pursuit Unilevers risk management and internal control systems.
of the business strategy and the effectiveness of the management controls in place to mitigate the risk exposure.
The Boards have established a clear organisational structure withwell defined accountabilities for the principal risks that The Boards, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the Unilever faces in the short, medium and longer term.
This assessment of risks, internal controls and disclosure controls organisational structure and distribution of accountabilities and and procedures in operation within Unilever.
They have also responsibilities ensures that every country in which we operate considered the effectiveness of any remedial actions taken for the has specific resources and processes for risk review and risk year covered by this document and up to the date of its approval by mitigation.
This is supported by the Unilever Leadership Executive, the Boards.
which takes an active responsibility for focusing on the principal areas of risk to Unilever.
The Boards regularly review these risk Details of the activities of the Audit Committee in relation to this areas and retain responsibility for determining the nature and can be found in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 47 extent of the significant risks that Unilever is prepared to take to and 48. achieve its strategic objectives.
Further statements on compliance with the specific risk Foundation and Principles management and control requirements in the Dutch Corporate Unilevers approach to doing business is framed by our Corporate Governance Code, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the US Mission.
Our Code of Business Principles sets out the standards Securities Exchange Act 1934 and the Sarbanes-Oxley 2002 Act of behaviour that we expect all employees to adhere to.
Day-tocan be found on pages 44 to 46. day responsibility for ensuring these principles are applied throughout Unilever rests with senior management across categories, geographies and functions.
A network of Code Officers and Committees supports the activities necessary to communicate the Code, deliver training, maintain processes and procedures including hotlines to report and respond to alleged breaches, and to capture and communicate learnings.
We have a framework of Code Policies that underpin the Code and set out the non-negotiable standards of behaviour expected from all our employees.
Unilevers functional standards define mandatory requirements across a range of specialist areas such as health and safety, accounting and reporting and financial risk management.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33
