24 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Business review Managing risk and uncertainty Managing risk and uncertainty AVEVA has continued to be successful during the year, but as with any organisation there are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Group's longterm performance.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are as follows: Risk Explanation and mitigation Intellectual property The Group's success has been built upon the development of its substantial intellectual property rights and the future growth of the business requires the continual progression of these tools.
The Group makes substantial investments in Research and Development in enhancing existing products and introducing new products and must effectively appraise its investment decisions and ensure that we continue to provide classleading solutions that meet the needs of our markets.
There are many risks in software development.
Our software products are complex and may contain undetected errors, failures, performance problems or defects.
Furthermore if new products or enhancements are introduced which do not meet customer requirements or competitors introduce a rival product which better meets the requirements of the market, this may have a material impact on the long-term revenue and profit.
The business continually reviews the alignment of the activities of our Research and Development teams to ensure that they remain focused on areas that will meet the demands of our customers and deliver appropriate financial returns.
This process is managed by developing a product roadmap that identifies the schedule for new products and the enhancements that will be made to successive versions of existing products.
The protection of the Groups proprietary software products remains critical and this is achieved by licensing rights to use the application, rather than selling or licensing the computer source code.
Infringement of the Group's intellectual property rights by third parties or its failure to defend infringement claims from third parties could cause damage to the business.
The Group uses thirdparty technology to encrypt, protect and restrict access to its products.
Access limitations and rights are also defined within the terms of the software licence agreement and the Group seeks to ensure that its intellectual property rights are appropriately protected by law wherever possible.
International operations The Group operates in Continental Europe, the Middle East, the United States, South America and Asia Pacific and must determine how best to utilise its resources across these diverse markets.
Where necessary the business must adapt its market approach to best capitalise on local market opportunities, particularly in the strategically key developing economies.
In addition, the Group is required to comply with the local laws, regulations and tax legislation in each of these jurisdictions.
Significant changes in these laws and regulations or failure to comply with them could lead to additional liabilities and penalties.
The Group manages its overseas operations by employing locally qualified personnel who are able to provide expertise in the appropriate language and an understanding of local culture, custom and practice.
Dependence on local management can increase the risks of Group policy not being correctly applied, especially where diverse languages and cultures exist.
The Group endeavours to mitigate these risks through oversight by regional management in each of the three major zones of the Group, Asia Pacific, EMEA and the Americas, as well as through the use of local professional advisers.
Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 25 Risk Explanation and mitigation Enterprise Solutions The continued investment in and development of the Groups Enterprise Solutions offerings is seen as important to continuing the Groups growth.
This is a relatively new market with different characteristics compared to our traditional Engineering and Design business.
This brings different challenges and opportunities for the Group which although we believe we are well positioned to manage and exploit, there remains a risk that our investment in this area does not produce the financial returns expected.
Competition AVEVA operates in highly competitive markets that serve the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine markets.
If we do not respond effectively we may lose market share and the business could suffer.
We believe that there are a relatively small number of significant competitors serving our markets.
However, some of these competitors could, in the future, pose a greater competitive threat, particularly if they consolidate or form strategic or commercial relationships among themselves or with larger, well capitalised companies.
Dependency on AVEVA generates a substantial amount of its income from customers whose main business is derived from capital projects driven predominantly by growth in the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine markets.
key markets World economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance.
Funding constraints may cause the delay of major new projects and customers who operate in the Oil & Gas, Marine and Power industries may reduce capital expenditure budgets further.
Future success is dependent on growth and continued demand from within these markets.
These industries are cyclical and subject to fluctuations in the price of oil and general economic conditions.
Such downturns, pricing pressures and restructurings may cause delays and reductions in expenditure by many of these companies and reduced demand for our products and services.
A recurrence of these industry patterns, as well as general domestic and foreign economic conditions and other factors that reduce spending by companies in these industries, could harm our operating results in the future.
Identification and During the year, the Group successfully completed the acquisitions of Logimatic Software A S and the trade and assets of ADB Systemer AS and expects to continue to review acquisition targets as part successful integration of its strategy.
The integration of acquisitions involves a number of unique risks, including diversion of of acquisitions management's attention, failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business, failure to realise the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition and successful integration of the acquired intellectual property.
Recruitment and retention AVEVA's success has been built on the quality and reputation of its products and services, which rely almost entirely on the quality of the people developing and delivering them.
Managing this pool of highly of employees skilled and motivated individuals across all disciplines and geographies remains key to our ongoing success.
The Group endeavours to ensure that employees are motivated by their work and there are regular appraisals, with staff encouraged to develop their skills.
Foreign exchange risk Exposure to foreign currency gains and losses can be material to the Group, with approximately 80% of the Group's revenue denominated in a foreign currency, of which our two largest are US Dollar and Euro.
The Group enters into forward foreign currency contracts to manage the currency risk where material.
The overseas subsidiaries trade in their own currencies, which also acts as a natural hedge against currency movements.
