Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 50 Risks and Uncertainties The risks set out below represent some of the principal uncertainties and trends which may have an impact on our ability to execute our strategy effectively in the future.
These risks have been assessed according to materiality, likelihood and residual risks after controls.
Risks and Risk Management Practices corporate level.
Each significant risk has undertaken to ensure that the Groups Our businesses and operations are an owner within the Group at a senior high standards of internal control are subject to a variety of risks and level, and the impact to the Group if a risk maintained.
The strength of a businesss uncertainties which are no different from materialises, and its likelihood of internal control environment forms a any other company in general and our occurrence, is regularly reviewed.
A risk component of senior managers competitors in particular.
Such risks are register and matrix is maintained, which is performance appraisals.
The audit the result of both the business regularly updated in consultation with process and audit plan cover the key risks environment within which we operate business managers.
The risk management identified through the risk management and other factors over which we have process is coordinated by our programme and the existence and little or no control.
These risks can be management assurance function and is effectiveness of control measures against categorised as operational, financial, regularly reviewed by our Audit each risks are verified.
Control measures environmental, health and safety, Committee.
Key business decisions are stated in the risk matrix are also verified by political, market-related and strategic discussed at the monthly meetings of the the business managers.
We have well documented and Executive Committee and senior the Groups internal control environment practised risk management policies that managers address risk management are provided in the annual Corporate act as an effective tool in minimising the issues when presenting initiatives to the Governance Report.
various risks that our businesses are Executive Committee.
The overall exposed to during the course of their internal control environment and risk During the year, the Group risk matrix has day-to-day operations as well as in their management programme is reviewed by been updated through a comprehensive strategic actions.
our Audit Committee on behalf of the and holistic exercise carried out at each Board.
operating subsidiary level and at corporate Risks are identified through a formal risk level.
The updated risk matrix and risk management programme with the We have a strong internal control culture registers were then reviewed in the light of active involvement of business managers throughout the Group.
Regular changes in nature and extent of risks, and senior management personnel at management assurance visits to our controls and actions required.
both the subsidiary level as well as at the operations and holding companies are Commodity Price Risks Risk Of the Groups principal commodities, aluminium, copper, zinc TC-RCs are a major source of income for the copper smelting and lead are priced with reference to LME prices.
LME prices operations in India.
They are susceptible to fluctuations caused are influenced by global demand and supply for these metals by factors such as demand and supply conditions prevailing in which in turn is influenced by global economic scenarios, the market.
regional growth, infrastructure spending by governments and Set out below are the key commodity price sensitivities on also by hedge fund activities.
EBITDA resulting from a change of US$100 per tonne in In the case of iron ore, prices are not linked to any exchange LME prices.
but are generally influenced by all other factors outlined above.
Average market Effect on EBITDA of Recently industry price structures are becoming aligned to the price in US$100 per tonne iron ore price index reported by some agencies based on an FY 201011 change in LME US$ tonne US$ million average of several current transactions.
We sell a large part of our output on spot and price index linked price formula and the Copper 8,138 16 rest at fixed benchmark price levels.
Price fluctuations can Aluminium 2,257 66 Zinc 2,185 72 affect our operational and financial performance.
Lead 2,244 7 While the Group aims to achieve average LME prices for the year, average realised prices may not necessarily reflect the The above sensitivities are based on FY 201011 volumes, exact LME price movements due to a variety of reasons costs and exchange rates and provide the estimated impact including uneven sales during the year.
Any fluctuation in the on EBITDA of changes in prices assuming that all other prices of the metals that we produce and sell will have a direct variables remain constant.
impact upon the profitability of our businesses.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 51 Mitigation The Groups principal commodity prices had increased the sale of finished copper occurs.
The Groups policy substantially during the year.
The recent improvement in prices on custom smelting is to generate its margins mainly from and demand may not be sustained.
As a general policy, we aim TC-RCs, premiums and sale of by-products.
As a result, to sell our products at prevailing market prices.
Hedging activity quotation period mismatches are actively managed to ensure in commodities is undertaken on a strategic basis to a limited that the gains or losses are minimised.
The copper smelting degree and is subject to both strict limits laid down by our business actively reviews its procurement strategy to strike a Board and strictly defined internal controls and monitoring judicious balance between copper concentrate procured at mechanisms.
Decisions relating to hedging of commodities are spot TC-RCs and those which are sourced at long-term approved by the Executive Committee EXCO with clearly laid contractual TC-RCs.
down guidelines for their implementation by the subsidiaries.
KCM is largely an integrated copper producer and our Group Our copper custom smelting operations at Tuticorin enjoy a strategy to protect it from copper price fluctuations is to focus natural hedge except when a possible mismatch in quotation on controlling its costs.
periods between the purchase of copper in concentrate and Political, Legal, Economic and Regulatory Risks Risk Our mining and smelting operations are located in India, Zambia, reduction or curtailment of income tax benefits available to Namibia, South Africa, Ireland and Australia and our holding and some of our operations in India, Namibia and Zambia are investment companies are located in jurisdictions including the some of the examples of risks under this category.
United Kingdom, Mauritius, Netherlands and Cyprus.
The majority of our Group revenues and profits are derived The political, legal, fiscal and other regulatory regimes in these from commodities sold to customers in India.
Any downturn in countries may result in higher operating cost or restrictions overall health of the Indian economy, any political or regional such as the imposition or increase in royalties, mining rights, instability may impact revenue margins arising out of import taxation rates, legislation pertaining to repatriation of money tariffs prevailing in India.
Changes to government policies such as changes in royalty rates, reduction in import tariffs in India, reduction in We may also be affected by the political acts of governments assistance given by Government of India for exports and the in these countries over which we have no control.
Mitigation We strive to maintain harmonious relationships with the We perform thorough risk assessment on a country by governments in host countries and actively monitor country basis to review the risks and to ensure that risks have developments in political, regulatory, fiscal and other areas been properly identified and managed.
which may have a bearing on our businesses.
com 52 Risks and Uncertainties continued Reserves and Resources Risk The ore reserves stated in this report are estimates and represent depletion or new information on geology.
Fluctuations the quantities of copper, zinc, iron ore, lead and bauxite that we in production, operating and other costs and economic believe could be mined, processed, recovered and sold at prices parameters such as metal prices, smelter treatment charges sufficient to cover the estimated future total costs of production, and exchange rates are also factors that may influence the remaining investment and anticipated additional capital estimating of reserves, many of which are beyond our control.
Our future profitability and operating margins depend upon our ability to access mineral reserves that have The Group conducts some mining operations of iron ore geological characteristics enabling mining at competitive costs.
at mines leased by the Government of India to third parties, Replacement reserves may not be available when required, or, if through a long-term mining contract, which is renewed available, may not be of a quality capable of being mined at costs periodically.
The production from such mines for year ended comparable to the existing or exhausted mines.
31 March 2011 was around 15% of total iron ore production.
Moreover, these estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties The contract in respect of the Thakurani mine was not inherent in estimating quantities of reserves and could vary in the extended on 30 November 2010 as the renewal terms were future as a result of actual exploration and production results, not commercially favourable.
Mitigation We continue to access our mineable reserves and resources The third party mining contract had been renewed periodically using the latest available techniques and also get them since last many years and currently we do not foresee any periodically verified by independent experts.
Our technical concerns for further renewals.
team continuously monitor the mineralogy of our future mineable resources and back it up with required technological inputs to address any adverse changes in mineralogy.
Delivery of Expansion Projects On Time and Within Budget Risk We have a strong pipeline of green field and brown field As a result, these projects may incur significant cost overruns expansion projects and we have committed funds for these and may not be completed on time, or at all.
These projects have achieved various stages of completion.
Our plans to generate sufficient cash flows from During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group has been these projects to repay our long-term debt and our ability to issued with show cause notices with respect to the current raise further debt are dependent upon the successful operation of the Lanjigarh refinery as well as the proposed completion of these projects on time and under budgeted cost expansion of that operation.
The sourcing of bauxite from and subsequent increase in production.
Niyamgiri mine is under litigation.
The resolution of these matters depends on the outcome from Supreme Court of Our current and future projects may be significantly delayed by India and the High Court of Orissa.
Any adverse outcomes to failures to receive regulatory approvals or renewal of approvals these ongoing proceedings may impact the future operation in a timely manner, failure to obtain sufficient funding, technical of the Lanjigarh refinery.
difficulties, human resources constraints, technological or other resource constraints or for other unforeseen reasons, events or circumstances.
Mitigation We continue to invest in ensuring we have best in class human rigorous monitoring systems in place to track the projects resources to maintain our track record of completing large progress and over time, we have developed the skills projects on time and within budgeted cost.
We also have necessary to overcome any challenges.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 53 Asset Use Continuity and Insurance Risk Productive assets used in mining and smelting operations and risks due to certain exclusions and limitations.
It may also not the associated power plants may face breakdowns in the be commercially feasible to cover all such risks.
normal course of operations or due to abnormal events such as fire, explosion, environmental hazards or other natural Consequently, our insurance coverage may not cover all calamities.
Our insurance policies may not cover all forms of the claims including for environmental or industrial accidents or pollution.
Mitigation We regularly carry out extensive review on the adequacy of our and decide on the optimal levels of insurance coverage typical insurance coverage by engaging consultants and specialists of our industry in respective Geographies.
Safety, Health and Environment Risks Risk We are engaged in mining activities which are inherently Such incidents may not only result in expensive litigation, hazardous and any accident or explosion may cause personal damage claims and penalties but also cause loss of reputation.
injury or death, property damage or environmental damage at We also operate in Zambia which has a high incidence of HIV or to our mines, smelters, refineries or related facilities and also AIDS a threat to economic development.
to communities that live near the mines and plants.
Mitigation We accord very high priority to safety, health and environment Simultaneously we continue to invest on training our people matters and these are regularly monitored and reviewed by the on these matters besides seeking advice on improvements senior management team.
from experts from time to time.
Operational Risks Risk Our operations are subject to conditions and events beyond our It is our policy to realise market prices for our commodities control that could, among other matters, increase our mining, and the profitability of our operations is dependent upon our transportation or production costs, disrupt or halt operations at ability to produce metals at a low cost which in turn is a factor our mines, smelters and power plants and production facilities for of our commercial and operational efficiencies and varying lengths of time or even permanently.
The prices of many of our input materials are and events include disruptions in mining and production due to influenced by a variety of factors including demand and supply equipment failures, unexpected maintenance problems and as well as inflation.
other interruptions, non-availability of raw materials of appropriate quantity and quality for our energy requirements, disruptions to or An increase in the cost of such input materials would adversely increased cost of transport services or strikes and industrial impact our competitiveness.
While many of these risks are beyond our control, we have adequate and competent experience in these areas and have consistently demonstrated our ability to actively manage these problems proactively.
Mitigation We have consistently demonstrated our ability to manage our reduction and quickly implement them.
We are highly focused costs and most of our operations are situated in the lowest on costs and volumes.
All operational and cost efficiencies are quartile of the cost curve.
We have a strong commercial discussed regularly at the business review meetings as well as at function and we identify the best opportunities for cost the Group Executive Committee meetings.
com 54 Risks and Uncertainties continued Financial Risks and Sensitivities Risk Within the areas of financial risk, our Board has approved a strong internal control system including segregation of front policies which encompass liquidity, currency, interest rate, office and back office functions with a separate reporting counterparty and commodity risks and is strictly monitored at structure.
We have a strong system of internal control which our Executive Committee meetings.
enables effective monitoring of adherence to Group policies.
The internal control measures are effectively supplemented by Our core philosophy in treasury management revolves around regular management assurance audits.
three main pillars, namely a capital protection, b liquidity maintenance, and c yield maximisation.
Day-to-day treasury We do not purchase or issue derivative financial instruments operations of our Group subsidiaries are managed by the for trading or speculative purposes and neither do we enter respective subsidiary finance teams within the framework of the into complex derivative transactions to manage our treasury overall Group treasury policies.
Long-term fund raising including and commodity risks.
Derivative transactions in both treasury strategic treasury initiatives is handled by a central team while and commodities are normally in the form of forward short-term funding for routine working capital requirements is contracts and interest rate swaps and currency swaps, which delegated to subsidiary companies.
Each of our subsidiaries has are subject to strict guidelines and policies.
Mitigation These conservative financial policies have enabled us to minimise, where possible, the negative impact of the recent global recession.
Liquidity Risks Risk We require funds both for short-term operational needs as well projects.
The recent global financial crisis has led to banks and as for long-term investment programmes mainly in growth financial institutions tightening lending norms Mitigation We aim to minimise these risks by generating sufficient cash Our credit is strong.
We have raised US$0.8 billion of long-term flows from our current operations which, combined with funds from the global financial market, at an attractive terms in available cash and cash equivalents, liquid financial asset the financial year 20102011. investments and sufficient committed funding facilities, will Our contractual cash obligations, excluding convertible bonds provide liquidity both in the short-term as well as in the on an undiscounted basis, by remaining maturity of our long-term.
As at 31 March 2011, we had cash and liquid financial liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business as investments of US$7.8 billion as well as US$3.4 billion of at 31 March 2011 are set out below.
committed funding facilities from our lenders.
Long-term borrowings are supplemented by shortto medium-term As at 31 March 2011, we had access to funding facilities of finance wherever required.
US$13,160.1 million excluding facilities of US$6,000 million for Cairn acquisition of which US$3,407.6 million was yet to be Our balance sheet is strong and gives us sufficient headroom drawn as set out below.
for raising further debt should the need arise.
We generally maintain a healthy debt-equity ratio as well as retain the flexibility Total Yet to be in our financing structure to alter this ratio when the need arises.
Funding facilities in US$ million facility Drawn drawn Less than 1 year 10,946.8 3,045.1 7,901.7 Remaining maturities in US$ million 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total 12 years 3,336.3 1,914.2 1,422.1 25 years and above 4,877.0 4,793.2 83.8 Bank and other borrowings 3,045.1 1,914.2 1,324.4 1,197.3 7,481.0 Total 19,160.1 9,752.5 9,407.6 Capital commitments 2,292.7 1,444.5 3,737.2 Convertible bonds 651.5 1,620.0 2,271.5 Total 5,337.8 3,358.7 1,975.9 2,817.3 13,489.7 Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 55 Currency Risks Risk Our presentation currency is the US dollar.
A majority of We also hold some intra-Group balances in currencies which our assets are located in India where the Indian rupee is the are not the functional currency of the respective subsidiary functional currency for our subsidiaries.
Operating costs are exposing the Group to movements in the functional currency influenced by the currencies of host countries where our of those entities and the currencies in which these balances Groups mines and plants are located.
also exist in the nature of capital expenditure and services denominated in currencies other than the Indian rupee.
KCMs Consequently, currency fluctuations may have a large impact functional currency is the US dollar with its cost base having a on our Group financial results.
We are subject to currency risks mix of the Zambian kwacha and the US dollar.
affecting the underlying cost base in the operating subsidiary companies and also the translation of unit cash costs, income Our Group borrowings are predominantly denominated in US statement and the balance sheet including non-US dollar dollars while a large portion of cash and liquid investments are denominated borrowings in the consolidated financial held in other currencies, mainly in the Indian rupee.
Some statements, where the functional currency is not the US dollar.
financial assets and liabilities are not held in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary.
Mitigation Foreign currency exposures are managed through a GroupClosing US Average US Impact of a 10% dollar exchange dollar exchange movement in wide hedging policy.
The policy is reviewed periodically to rate as at 31 rate in FY currency on ensure that the risk from fluctuating currency exchange rates in US$ million March 2011 201011 EBITDA is appropriately managed.
Currency Indian rupee 44.65 45.58 449 Foreign exchange exposures on imports, net of natural hedges Australian dollar 0.968 1.069 10 in place, are hedged based on their maturity.
Short-term Zambian kwacha 4,770 4,906 22.8 foreign exchange exposures relating to capital expenditure are hedged, whilst mediumto long-term exposures are The above sensitivities are based on FY 201011 volumes, not hedged.
costs and prices and give the estimated impact on EBITDA of changes in exchange rates assuming that all other variables Key foreign currency sensitivities on EBITDA resulting from remain constant.
a 10.0% movement in exchange rates are set out in the table opposite.
USD:INR exchange rate has moved from 45.14 on 31 March 2010 to 44.65 on 31 March 2011.
Interest Risks Risk As at 31 March 2011, our net debt of approximately US$1,970.3 increase in interest rates would result in a net loss.
Based on our million comprised cash and liquid investments of US$7.8 billion gross debt as at 31 March 2011, with all other variables remaining offset by debt of US$9.7 billion.
constant, a one percentage point increase in the US dollar LIBOR would impact our profit before tax by US$36 million.
We are exposed to the interest rate risk on short-term and long-term floating rate instruments and also on the refinancing During the FY 201011, interest rates, specially for debts of fixed rate debt.
Our policy is to maintain a balance of fixed denominated in INR have hardened reflecting tightening and floating interest rate borrowings.
The proportion of fixed monetary policy by the Government of India.
and floating rate debt is determined by current market interest Investment rates.
As at 31 March 2011, US$6.7 billion of our total debt was at Interest income average a fixed rate and the balance was at a floating rate.
paid fixed % yield % Currency Considering our net debt position at 31 March 2011 and our Indian rupee 9.2% 8.2% investments in bank deposits and debt mutual funds, any US dollar 6.1% 0.5% decrease in interest rates would result in a net gain and any Mitigation Our deposits are in mutual funds with a floating interest rate.
We have borrowings with a blend of fixed and floating rates in Most of the floating rate deposits are in INR.
With an increase in US dollars.
interest rates, the return on INR deposits has also increased during the year.
com 56 Risks and Uncertainties continued Counterparty Risks Risk We are exposed to counterparty credit risks on our investments and receivables.
Mitigation We have clearly defined policies to mitigate counterparty risks.
A large majority of receivables due from third parties are secured Cash and high quality liquid investments are held primarily in either as advance receipt of money or by use of trade financial debt mutual funds and banks with high credit ratings.
Emphasis is instruments such as letters of credit.
given to the security of investments.
Limits are defined for exposure to individual counterparties in the case of mutual fund Moreover, given the diverse nature of our businesses, trade houses and banks.
Most of the surplus cash is invested in banks receivables are spread over a number of customers with no and mutual funds in India where there is a well developed significant concentration of credit risk.
Our history of the financial market.
We also review the underlying investment collection of trade receivables shows a negligible provision for portfolio of mutual fund houses to ensure that indirect exposures bad and doubtful debts.
Therefore we do not expect any or latent exposures are minimised.
The investment portfolio is material risk on account of non-performance by any of the monthly being reviewed by an external agency i. e. CRISIL a counterparties.
Employees Risk People are one of our key assets and we derive our strengths leaving the organisation is a risk.
Additionally, if we were unable and maintain our competitive position from our people.
to recruit and retain good talent, this would adversely affect us.
Therefore, people in general and key personnel in particular Mitigation Our vision is to build a fast, flexible and flat organisation with of employees in the Group.
A large proportion of our world class capabilities and a high performance culture across workforces are members of a trade union.
We actively all of our businesses.
We believe in nurturing leaders from communicate and enter into dialogue with our workforce and within and providing opportunities for growth across all levels believe in maintaining a positive atmosphere by being and geographies.
We have robust processes and systems in proactive with respect to resolution of labour issues.
We have place for leadership development, training and growth to long-term agreements with the trade unions, with the deliver value to the organisation and society.
exception of KCM where these are more frequent, but concluded amicably.
We provide superior rewards for outstanding performance and have a long-term incentive plan which covers a large number Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 57 Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimation uncertainty Risk In the course of applying accounting policies outlined in Note management necessarily makes estimations and assumptions 2. a i of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that can have impact on the financial statements.
Key Relationships Customers Lenders The Group has several significant The majority of the metal production The Group has entered into several relationships which are critical to its from our Indian operations is sold in the loan arrangements.
These include, but are not Indian market and the rest is exported to held by Group companies are given limited to, the Groups relationship with growing countries in proximity to our in Notes to the Consolidated Financial its majority shareholders, customers, operations.
We produce globally required Statements.
lenders, employees and governments in common commodities and with effective the jurisdictions in which it operates.
optimisation of freight and supply chain ensure that we meet customers need at Majority Shareholder competitive price and create value by The majority shareholder of the Group is providing best in class service.
Volcan Investments Ltd. As at 31 March 2011 Volcan held 61% of the Companys Vendors total ordinary share capital.
Most of the supplies needed to operate the Groups mines and Employees smelters are secured through People are one of our key assets and we expression of interest EOI, a derive our strengths and maintain our transparent procurement process giving competitive position from our people.
ample opportunity to new participants Further details described above in Risks and the Group is not materially and Uncertainties section.
dependent on any single vendor.
