co. uk 29 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES As described in the Corporate Governance Report, there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by Cookson.
Group management operates a risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing each business and reports to the Audit Committee on the process of how those risks are being managed.
The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and also reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Group.
The Board receives regular reports on any major issues that have arisen during the year and makes an annual assessment of how the risks have changed over the period under review.
Throughout its global operations, Cookson faces various risks, both internal and external, which could have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance.
Cookson manages the risks inherent in its operations in order to mitigate exposure to all forms of risk, where practical, and to transfer risk to insurers, where cost-effective.
The risks below are not the only ones that the Group will face.
Some risks are not yet known and some that are not currently deemed material could later become material.
All of these risks could materially affect the Group, its businesses, results of future operations or financial condition.
RISK AND IMPACT MITIGATION The financial performance and financial position of Cookson may be adversely affected by a significant weakening in demand in its core end-markets.
End-market conditions, and the Groups trading performance, improved The Board regularly reviews Group strategy, which determines the markedly during the first half of 2011, reflecting the continuation of the markets in which the Group operates.
The current spread of the Groups recovery from the economic downturn which started in the fourth quarter major businesses, both geographically and by end-market served, of 2008 and persisted through much of 2009.
Whilst the recovery has been provides some protection to the Group should conditions, in particular strong, end-markets and revenue for a number of our businesses is still not markets, deteriorate.
Further, the reduction in the Groups cost base yet back to pre-crisis levels.
However, since midsummer 2011, concerns during the last three years provides additional insulation to the adverse about the world economy have intensified with growing evidence of a impact of any near-term market downturn.
Also, in view of the extent of slowdown both in the economies of the developed and developing world.
the fide-stocking which took place during 2009 in the Groups end-markets, Whilst fears of a double-dip recession in the US and a hard landing in the Directors believe that any downturn in its end-markets is likely to be China seem to have abated in recent months, market commentators are still less severe than that experienced in 2009.
Following the cost-reduction concerned about slowing global growth rates generally including in China initiatives and equity raising successfully completed during 2009 and the and the likelihood of low, or possibly, negative growth in Europe.
In addition debt refinancing recently completed in 2010 and 2011, the Directors to clear evidence of slowing worldwide economic growth, concerns about believe that the Group is well positioned financially to sustain a further the stability of the Eurozone and the European financial banking system downturn in end-market activity should this occur.
It is as yet unclear to what extent the seeming insolvency of Greece and the fiscal weakness of other countries such as Ireland, Spain, Italy and Portugal will impact the euro currency and the banking system.
Whilst, for now, a liquidity squeeze in the banking system seems to have been avoided, there can be no certainty that this risk will not return.
This is concerning given that this was the catalyst for the severe downturn in the real economy in late 2008 early 2009.
Cooksons divisions supply predominantly consumable products, on short lead times, to the global steel, foundry, electronics and precious metals industries.
As such the Groups expectations of future trading are based upon the Directors assessment of end-market conditions, which conditions are subject to some uncertainty.
In the event that end-market conditions suffer further significant deterioration, Cookson may experience further reductions in trading activity, a lower share price, the financial failure of one or more of its key customers and suppliers, asset impairments, lower profitability and a material adverse impact on its financial position.
com 20769-04 13 01 2012 Skeleton 2 Our F Our F Our Financials inancials inancials Our G Our G Our Go o ov v ver er ernanc nanc finance e e Our Business Our Business Our Business Cookson Group plc 30 Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK AND IMPACT MITIGATION The Groups financial position and trading results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates or the rate of inflation.
The Group has no control over changes in foreign currency exchange The Group attempts to manage transactional and balance sheet rates, or inflation and interest rates.
In the normal course of business, translation risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations many transactions are carried out by Group businesses in currencies other through its hedging and funding policies and it is Group policy that than their reporting currency, leading to transactional foreign exchange foreign currency transaction exposures that are material at an individual risk, although this is not material for the Group overall.
The Group is operating unit level are hedged using appropriate instruments such as exposed to the effect of translating the results and net assets of its forward foreign exchange contracts.
For its key operating currencies, the overseas subsidiaries into sterling.
Significant fluctuations in the value of Group broadly matches the currency profile of its borrowings with the currencies in which it operates, in interest rates, or in rates of inflation may currencies of its asset base, but does not hedge translational impact on adversely impact the Groups financial position, results of operations and the income statements of overseas subsidiaries.
Where appropriate, the ability to comply with its financial covenants.
Group manages its interest rate exposures using interest rate swaps or other instruments.
The Group may lose customers to competitors with new or alternative technologies if its businesses either do not adequately adapt to market developments or are unable to protect, maintain and enforce their intellectual property.
The markets in which many of the Groups businesses operate can Cookson invests significant amounts in research and development and experience rapid changes due to the introduction of new technologies.
The endeavours to sustain its competitive advantage and take appropriate Groups continued success depends upon its ability to continue to develop action to ensure that its cost base remains competitive.
In 2011, total and produce new and enhanced products and services on a cost-effective research and development spend was 42.1m, equivalent to 1.9% of net and timely basis in accordance with customer demands.
If the Group fails to sales value.
adequately adapt to market developments related to new products and The Group applies for patents over its major products, technologies and technology, it could lose customers to suppliers with better or less costly processes in a number of jurisdictions, including in Europe and the US.
Throughout its operations, the Group relies on a combination of New product and service offerings by competitors are regularly monitored trade secrets, patents, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and and any perceived breach of a Group patent is vigorously challenged.
To copyright and trade mark laws to protect its proprietary rights.
If the Group the extent possible, the Group avoids holding key intellectual property in fails to or is unable to protect, maintain and enforce its existing intellectual countries which do not afford an acceptable degree of legal protection to property, this may result in the loss of the Groups exclusive right to use the Group.
technologies and processes which are included or used in its businesses.
In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which the Group operates may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as those of, for example, the UK or the US.
The Groups financial condition may be materially adversely affected by any significant liabilities for any defects of its products or services.
If a product of the Group or of one of the Groups industrial customers The Board believes that, taking into account legal advice received, the does not conform to agreed specifications or is otherwise defective, the Groups insurance arrangements, indemnification provided by former Group may be subject to claims by its customers arising from end-product owners of certain of the subsidiaries impacted and financial provisions, defects, injury to individuals or other such claims.
Legal claims have been none of the currently pending or potential claims will, either individually brought against certain Group companies by third parties alleging that or in the aggregate, have a material adverse impact on the Groups persons have been harmed by exposure to hazardous materials used by financial position and results of operations.
those companies in the manufacture of industrial and consumer products, and further claims may be brought in the future.
Certain of the Groups subsidiaries are subject to suits, predominantly in the US, relating to a small number of products containing asbestos manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by the Group.
These suits usually also name many other product manufacturers.
To date, the Group is not aware of there being any liability verdicts against any of these subsidiaries.
co. uk 31 RISK AND IMPACT MITIGATION The Groups worldwide operations and businesses may be adversely affected by various political, legal, regulatory and other developments in countries in which it operates.
The Group is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including As part of its planning process before entering a new market or territory, those covering taxation and environmental matters: and political risks or expanding in an existing market or territory, the Group undertakes a including the imposition of trade barriers, changes of regulatory rigorous assessment of the risks involved.
In addition, the spread of the requirements, lack of protection for intellectual property rights and the Groups major businesses, both geographically and by end-market served, volatility of input costs, selling prices, taxes and currencies.
In particular, provides some protection to the Group should any of its businesses be operating within the rapidly evolving developing nations can expose the adversely impacted by legal, regulatory or other changes in an individual Groups businesses to significant local risks and challenges.
Future global market or territory.
political, legal or regulatory developments concerning Group businesses The Group has in place an insurance programme covering all of its may affect their ability to operate and to operate profitably in the affected businesses which provides an acceptable level of coverage for the jurisdictions.
Should Group businesses fail to comply with applicable legal operational risks which they face.
and regulatory requirements, this may result in a financial loss or restriction on their ability to operate.
The Groups businesses are subject to a variety of operational risks, including natural catastrophe, terrorist action, theft, fraud and, particularly in developing nations, insufficient supply of high-quality local management and technical personnel.
If any of the operational risks materialise to a significant extent, this could result in a substantial interruption to a facility, loss of future insurance cover, a potential loss of customers and revenue and financial loss.
A withdrawal or reduction of precious metal consignment arrangements, or increased precious metal prices resulting in consignment lines being fully utilised, may cause a shortage of raw materials requiring the business to be restructured and downsized and may result in a short-term material increase in the Groups financial indebtedness.
The Groups precious metal fabrication operations utilise significant Cookson has successfully maintained precious metal consignment quantities of precious metals, primarily gold by value.
These metals are arrangements of this nature for over 20 years.
The Group has close held predominantly on consignment under contractual arrangements commercial relationships with its group of consignor banks.
Management whereby the consignor retains title to the metal and the associated risks seeks to operate the business at all times with appropriate headroom and benefits of ownership, with the result that the physical metal so held within the consignment facilities, taking account of anticipated levels of is not recorded in the Group balance sheet.
These arrangements are business activity and precious metals prices.
uncommitted in that the consignor has the right, with limited or in some cases no notice, to demand physical return or purchase of its consigned metal.
The utilisation of consigned precious metals is established practice in the precious metals industry.
Should precious metals consignors decide to reduce or withdraw the facilities for whatever reason, or require a return of the consigned metal, or increased metal prices lead to the consignment arrangements becoming fully utilised, the Groups precious metal fabrication operations may suffer shortages of raw materials requiring the business to be restructured and downsized in order to be able to operate within its available consignment facilities.
In the short-term this may require precious metals to be purchased, which could materially increase the Groups financial indebtedness pending completion of the downsizing.
com 20769-04 13 01 2012 Skeleton 2 Our F Our F Our Financials inancials inancials Our G Our G Our Go o ov v ver er ernanc nanc finance e e Our Business Our Business Our Business
