Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Overview continued Risks External market factors Risk area Risk description Mitigation The global economic environment and The diverse nature of the Groups markets, Economic environment the levels of activity in the markets and customers and the territories in which each territories in which the Group operates business unit operates, together with appropriate could adversely affect the Groups contingency planning, help to mitigate the revenues, profitability and cash flow.
impact of a global economic downturn.
Currency exposure The Group operates in several non-UK The Groups hedging policy to mitigate the countries and currently exports 98% short-term currency risk is managed by the Currency of sales from the UK.
Primarily these Committee and is detailed in the Corporate sales are denominated in US Dollar, Governance Report on page 31 and in note 15.
Fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling and these currencies could cause profit and balance sheet volatility.
Competitor activity The Group operates in competitive We continue to work closely with our customers markets, both in terms of competitors as described on pages 11 and 20 and seek to offering directly comparable and always have the highest quality products available alternative materials.
The ability of to meet our promised delivery schedules globally.
the Group to compete is dependent We invest in resources to ensure that we remain on its ability to develop technological at the leading edge of polyketone technology innovations and deliver high quality and seek to continuously improve the quality products.
Demand for our products and the performance of our products.
Through could be impacted if we fail to our technology centres in the UK, China and compete successfully as new Japan we provide prompt technical support technologies and materials are and advice so as to provide high quality developed, causing loss of market applications solutions for our customers.
The Groups two business units are To maintain and advance our technology skills and Technological change dependent on manufacturing and knowledge we invest in resources and employ selling high quality products into polymer and applications specialists at our advanced applications.
Demand for technology centres in the UK, China and Japan, these applications and consequently who are complemented by office and field based our products could be impacted commercial and technical specialists globally as new technologies and materials who work closely with our customers and end are developed.
users covering the major market segments for each business unit.
This enables us to develop new products and new applications for our products so that we maintain our position as the leading polymer solutions provider to designers and engineers at our customers and end users.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business specific factors Risk area Risk description Mitigation The Groups business is dependent We have implemented policies and procedures Operational disruption on the ongoing operation of our to efficiently and safely manage all our operations various manufacturing facilities.
and to maintain our supply of products to our A significant operational disruption customers.
In particular, we employ a dedicated could adversely affect our ability and empowered Safety, Health and Environment to make and supply products.
SHE department to assist line management and to provide expert guidance.
Further information on SHE matters is set out in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 18.
Additionally we continue to work closely with our suppliers as described on pages 11 and 20 to ensure that we maintain significant stocks of raw materials and finished goods which should enable us to maintain supplies to our customers during any short-term disruption.
Furthermore our two polymer manufacturing plants are able to operate independently, thereby reducing the impact of any operational disruption on our ability to continue manufacturing products.
Product specifications The Groups products are used in highly VICTREX PEEK polymer is manufactured within demanding end use applications.
Any a quality management system approved to failure to supply products in accordance ISO 9001:2008.
Invibio PEEK-OPTIMA polymer with their specifications could lead is additionally manufactured within the to loss of business and, potentially, requirements of ISO 13485:2003, a system a product liability claim.
of good manufacturing practice often used by the pharmaceutical industry and by medical device manufacturers.
The quality management process is a process of continuous improvement which is overseen by a Quality Steering Committee which meets quarterly and comprises senior management from the quality assurance, SHE, operations, technology and commercial teams.
Additionally the Group maintains appropriate levels of product liability insurance.
Insufficient capacity Our customers businesses depend Our stocks of finished goods and raw materials on maintaining a consistent supply which are held in a number of locations worldwide of high quality products.
Any enable us to supply any short-term surge in demand unexpected upsurge in demand from our customers.
could lead to insufficient capacity to Furthermore, it is our policy to keep capacity well fulfil customers needs.
Additionally, ahead of demand by investing in all aspects of any delays in the implementation our supply chain so that our customers can be of major capital expenditure confident that we can meet their current and programmes could create a capacity future requirements.
During the year we appointed shortage, leading to customers a VPS Strategic Infrastructure Director to further seeking alternative products.
develop and oversee the Groups capacity planning programme.
