Performance Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 45 Principal risk factors and uncertainties The following discussion of principal risk factors and uncertainties identifies the most significant risks that may adversely affect our business, operations, liquidity, financial position or future performance.
Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem less material, may also impact our business.
This section should be read in conjunction with the Forward-looking statements on page 148 of this document.
Adverse macroeconomic conditions in the markets in which we receive telecommunications services or other competing services from operate could impact our results of operations.
Examples include but are not limited to competition from Adverse macroeconomic conditions and deterioration in the global internet based services and MVNOs.
economic environment, such as further economic slowdown in the markets in which we operate, may lead to a reduction in the level of demand The focus of competition in many of our markets continues to shift from from our customers for existing and new products and services.
In difficult customer acquisition to customer retention as the market for mobile economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary telecommunications has become increasingly penetrated.
Customer spending by reducing their use of our products and services, including data deactivations are measured by our churn rate.
There can be no assurance services, or by switching to lower-cost alternatives offered by our that we will not experience increases in churn rates, particularly as competitors.
Similarly, under these conditions the enterprise customers competition intensifies.
An increase in churn rates could adversely affect that we serve may delay purchasing decisions, delay full implementation profitability because we would experience lower revenue and additional of service offerings or reduce their use of our services.
In addition, adverse selling costs to replace customers or recapture lost revenue.
economic conditions may lead to an increased number of our consumer and enterprise customers that are unable to pay for existing or additional Increased competition has also led to declines in the prices we charge for services.
If these events were to occur it could have a material adverse our mobile services and is expected to lead to further price declines in the effect on our results of operations.
Competition could also lead to an increase in the level at which we must provide subsidies for handsets.
Additionally, we could face increased The continued volatility of worldwide financial markets may have competition should there be an award of additional licences in jurisdictions a negative impact on our access to finance.
in which a member of our Group already has a licence.
Our key sources of liquidity in the foreseeable future are likely to be cash generated from operations and borrowings through long-term and shortDelays in the development of handsets and network compatibility term issuances in the capital markets as well as committed bank facilities.
and components may hinder the deployment of new technologies.
Due to volatility experienced in capital and credit markets around the Our operations depend in part upon the successful deployment of world, new issuances of debt securities may experience decreased continuously evolving telecommunications technologies.
Adverse changes in credit markets or our credit ratings could technologies from a number of vendors and make significant capital increase the cost of borrowing and banks may be unwilling to renew credit expenditure in connection with the deployment of such technologies.
Any of these factors could have a negative There can be no assurance that common standards and specifications will impact on our access to finance.
be achieved, that there will be inter-operability across Group and other networks, that technologies will be developed according to anticipated Regulatory decisions and changes in the regulatory environment schedules, that they will perform according to expectations or that they will could adversely affect our business.
The introduction of software and other As we have ventures in a large number of geographic areas, we must network components may also be delayed.
The failure of vendor comply with an extensive range of requirements that regulate and performance or technology performance to meet our expectations or the supervise the licensing, construction and operation of our failure of a technology to achieve commercial acceptance could result in telecommunications networks and services.
In particular, there are additional capital expenditure by us or a reduction in our profitability.
agencies which regulate and supervise the allocation of frequency spectrum and which monitor and enforce regulation and competition laws We may experience a decline in revenue or profitability which apply to the mobile telecommunications industry.
Decisions by notwithstanding our efforts to increase revenue from the regulators regarding the granting, amendment or renewal of licences, to us introduction of new services.
or to third parties, could adversely affect our future operations in these As part of our strategy we will continue to offer new services to our existing geographic areas.
In addition, other changes in the regulatory environment customers and seek to increase non-voice service revenue as a percentage concerning the use of mobile phones may lead to a reduction in the usage of total service revenue.
However, we may not be able to introduce these of mobile phones or otherwise adversely affect us.
Additionally, decisions new services commercially or may experience significant delays due to by regulators and new legislation, such as those relating to international problems such as the availability of new mobile devices, higher than roaming charges and call termination rates, could affect the pricing for, or anticipated prices of new devices or availability of new content services.
In adversely affect the revenue from, the services we offer.
Further details on addition, even if these services are introduced in accordance with expected the regulatory framework in certain countries and regions in which we time schedules, there is no assurance that revenue from such services will operate, and on regulatory proceedings, can be found in Regulation on increase ARPU or maintain profit margins.
Expected benefits from our cost reduction initiatives may not Increased competition may reduce our market share and revenue.
We face intensifying competition and our ability to compete effectively will We have entered into several cost reduction initiatives principally relating depend on, among other things, our network quality, capacity and to network sharing, the outsourcing of IT application, development and coverage, pricing of services and equipment, quality of customer service, maintenance, data centre consolidation, supply chain management and a development of new and enhanced products and services in response to business transformation programme to implement a single, integrated customer demands and changing technology, reach and quality of sales operating model using one enterprise resource planning ERP system.
and distribution channels and capital resources.
Competition could lead to However, there is no assurance that the full extent of the anticipated a reduction in the rate at which we add new customers, a decrease in the benefits will be realised in the timeline envisaged.
size of our market share and a decline in our ARPU as customers choose to 46 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Principal risk factors and uncertainties continued Changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value of certain Expected benefits from investment in networks, licences and new Group assets could result in impairment.
technology may not be realised.
We complete a review of the carrying value of Group assets annually, or We have made substantial investments in the acquisition of licences and in more frequently where the circumstances require, to assess whether those our mobile networks, including the roll out of 3G networks.
We expect to carrying values can be supported by the net present value of future cash continue to make significant investments in our mobile networks due to flows derived from such assets.
This review examines the continued increased usage and the need to offer new services and greater appropriateness of the assumptions in respect of highly uncertain matters functionality afforded by new or evolving telecommunications upon which the valuations supporting carrying values of certain Group technologies.
Accordingly, the rate of our capital expenditures in future assets are based.
This includes an assessment of discount rates and longyears could remain high or exceed that which we have experienced to date.
term growth rates, future technological developments, and timing and There can be no assurance that the introduction of new services will quantum of future capital expenditure as well as several factors which may proceed according to anticipated schedules or that the level of demand for affect revenue and profitability identified within the other risk factors in this new services will justify the cost of setting up and providing new services.
section such as intensifying competition, pricing pressures, regulatory Failure or a delay in the completion of networks and the launch of new changes and the timing for introducing new products or services.
Discount services, or increases in the associated costs, could have a material adverse rates are in part derived from yields on government bonds, the level of effect on our operations.
which may change substantially period to period and which may be affected by political, economic and legal developments which are beyond Our business may be impaired by actual or perceived health risks our control.
Due to our substantial carrying value of goodwill under associated with the transmission of radio waves from mobile International Financial Reporting Standards, the revision of any of these telephones, transmitters and associated equipment.
assumptions to reflect current or anticipated changes in operations or the Concerns have been expressed that the electromagnetic signals emitted financial condition of the Group could lead to an impairment in the carrying by mobile telephone handsets and base stations may pose health risks at value of certain Group assets.
While impairment does not impact reported exposure levels below existing guideline levels and may interfere with the cash flows, it does result in a non-cash charge in the consolidated income operation of electronic equipment.
In the event of national governments statement and thus no assurance can be given that any future impairments responding to public concern with the imposition of more stringent would not affect our reported distributable reserves and therefore our exposure limits, our costs may be increased.
In addition, as described under ability to make distributions to our shareholders or repurchase our shares.
the heading Legal proceedings in note 28 to the consolidated financial See Critical accounting estimates on page 77 and note 10 to the statements, several mobile industry participants including Verizon Wireless consolidated financial statements.
and ourselves have had lawsuits filed against us alleging various health consequences as a result of mobile phone usage including brain cancer.
Our emerging market footprint may present exposure to While we are not aware that such health risks have been substantiated, unpredictable economic, political, regulatory, tax and legal risks.
there can be no assurance that the actual or perceived risks associated with Political, regulatory, economic and legal systems in emerging markets may radio wave transmission will not impair our ability to retain customers and be less predictable than in countries with more stable institutional attract new customers, reduce mobile telecommunications usage or result structures.
Since we operate in and are exposed to emerging markets, the in further litigation.
In such event, because of our strategic focus on mobile value of our investments in these markets may be adversely affected by telecommunications, our business and results of operations may be political, regulatory, economic, tax and legal developments which are more adversely affected than those of other companies in the beyond our control and anticipated benefits resulting from acquisitions telecommunications sector.
and other investments we have made in these markets may not be achieved in the time expected or at all.
For further information on legal and Our business would be adversely affected by the non-supply tax proceedings see note 28. of equipment and support services by a major supplier.
Companies within the Group source network infrastructure and other We participate in joint ventures which expose us to operational equipment, as well as network-related and other significant support and financial risk.
services, from third party suppliers.
The withdrawal or removal from the We participate in a number of joint ventures, some of which we do not market of one or more of these major third party suppliers could adversely control.
Whether or not we hold majority interests or maintain operational affect our operations and could require us to make additional capital or control in our joint ventures, our partners may have economic or business operational expenditures.
interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, exercise their rights in a way that prohibits us from acting in a manner which we would like or they Our business could be adversely affected by disruptions to our may be unable or unwilling to fulfil their obligations under the joint venture telecommunications networks.
In particular, some of our interests in mobile licences We are dependent on the secure operation of our telecommunications are held through entities in which we are a significant but not a controlling networks and attacks on critical infrastructure, or disruption of our owner.
Under the governing documents for some of these partnerships and networks caused by other factors beyond our control, pose an increasing corporations, certain key matters such as the approval of business plans and threat.
As the importance of mobile communication in everyday life, as well decisions as to the timing and amount of cash distributions require the as during times of crisis, increases and the volume of personal and business consent of our partners.
In others these matters may be approved without data being communicated and stored by network operators grows, our consent.
We may enter into similar arrangements as we participate in organisations and individuals look to us to maintain service and protect ventures formed to pursue additional opportunities.
Although we have not sensitive information.
Any significant interruption in our service or in our been materially constrained by our participation in joint ventures to date, no ability to protect sensitive information, whether caused by acts of terrorism, assurance can be given that the actions or decisions of our joint venture industrial action, natural disasters, political unrest or otherwise, could have partners will not affect our ventures in a way that hinders our corporate a material adverse effect on our revenue and our reputation.
objectives or reduces any anticipated cost savings or revenue enhancement resulting from these ventures.
