32 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Managing risk The Weir Way Principal risks and uncertainties The Weir Group is committed to identifying and managing the full spectrum of risks faced across its global operations, many of which have the potential to adversely impact its operational, financial and reputational performance.
To support this approach, the Group operates a rigorous and transparent risk management framework which promotes the use of quality risk information in the development of strategy and decision-making.
The risk and control framework is described in detail in the Corporate Governance report.
The Group has identified the following principal risks which could have a material impact on the business.
RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Environmental, health & safety Our principal environmental, health and safety Failure to manage these risks could result in The Group is committed to a zero EHS risks relate to the potential for a serious a serious deterioration of the Groups safety accident workplace and the highest environmental incident, serious injury and fatal performance or an environmental regulatory environmental standards.
accidents in the workplace and regulatory action breach which could lead to: During 2011, Weir has established the EHS for non-compliance with statutory requirements.
fines and penalties: excellence committee to drive improvement in the environmental, health and safety agenda.
loss of key customers: A programme of external audits of EHS performance has begun from which global exclusion from market sectors deemed standards will be developed and improvement important for future growth: and plans created and implemented.
In addition, damage to reputation.
initiatives to address the most common accident types have been developed and the implementation in 2012 of a Weir behavioural safety system will further reduce the risk of incidents.
Technology & innovation The Groups growth and success depends not Failure of the Group to drive innovation To remain competitive, the Group only on its ability to innovate and ensure the and continue to ensure the development of invests continuously in its research continuous improvement of its existing product attractive, sustainable products and solutions and development, manufacturing, portfolio, but also its ability to develop and has the potential to give rise to customer marketing, customer service support produce new and enhanced products in a dissatisfaction, loss of market share and or and distribution networks.
cost effective and timely manner to meet competitors developing superior Weir During 2011, the Group established the customer demands.
Weir Advanced Research Centre WARC in conjunction with the University of Strathclyde, tasked with supporting new product innovation and delivering enhancements to the Groups existing product range.
The Group maintains the highest manufacturing and quality standards which include regular dialogue with customers to ensure that their requirements are met through the Groups key account management process.
It also takes appropriate action to ensure that its cost base remains competitive and margins are protected through its global procurement activities.
33 RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Compliance & corruption As the business grows in size and geographical Potential impacts include fines, penalties, The Group has a central legal and compliance scope, the potential for fraudulent and regulatory scrutiny, reputational damage function which assists and monitors all Group dishonest activity by our suppliers, customers and imprisonment.
The recent appointments and employees increases.
of in-house counsel has strengthened internal resource in the Americas and Asia-Pacific.
The Groups internal audit activities have been expanded to incorporate regular review of the anti-bribery and corruption assurance framework.
In addition, the Groups Code of Conduct provides a clear framework within which all employees have to operate to maintain the Groups high standards of doing business.
In 2011, online training modules on the Code were completed by staff, with a selfcertification process ensuring compliance.
Face to face presentations on the Code and UK Bribery Act were also carried out across the business.
Acquisitions The continued pursuit of our growth plans While the Group identifies expected synergies, The Group operates a strategic planning through a blend of organic growth initiatives cost savings and growth opportunities prior process to review its corporate strategy with and acquisitions brings with it a degree of to completing any acquisitions, these benefits market and competitive position assessments risk, the most significant being that a poorly may not always be achieved or be achieved driving the acquisition agenda.
In addition, executed acquisition fails to deliver the within the anticipated timescales.
Furthermore, the Group implements a rigorous due diligence anticipated benefits.
the Group could find itself liable for past acts or process and ensures clear financial targets are omissions of the acquired business without any in place.
The Group implements an internal adequate right of redress.
100 day plan to ensure that the integration process is actioned with the minimum of disruption.
Key suppliers & delivery The Groups ability to meet customer delivery Failure to deliver in accordance with customer Manufacturing scheduling and planning schedules is dependent on a number of factors expectation could subject the Group to is subject to stringent internal assurance including sufficient manufacturing capacity, financial penalties, damage customer processes to optimise each business units access to raw materials, inventory control, relationships and, as a result, impact order book.
The effect of this is to maximise sufficient trained and equipped employees, on the Groups financial performance.
capacity and minimise reworking costs and engineering expertise and the appropriate delays in delivery times.
This is complemented In addition, failure of a supplier or availability planning and scheduling of the manufacturing by the use of the Groups Manufacturing of scarce raw materials could result in the process.
Many of the contracts it enters into Resource Planning systems, together with Group incurring additional costs in sourcing require long lead times and therefore contain the slotting and scheduling achieved through an alternative.
clauses in relation to on-time delivery.
In addition, the Group is dependent on the The Group seeks to develop long-term continued availability and effective management relationships with its subcontractors and the of subcontractors and other service providers.
Groups procurement function is responsible for establishing robust supplier relationships.
In addition, the procurement function conducts a regular review of strategically important suppliers.
34 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Managing risk The Weir Way Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Global & economic conditions The Group is exposed to global growth trends Failure to successfully anticipate any future As part of our strategic planning process the and continued weakness in the global economy market downturns and not execute our Group utilises extensive market intelligence and banking sectors may trigger a subsequent developed mitigation strategies effectively to closely monitor the stability of and downturn in customer demand.
could adversely affect Group revenues, opportunities within all our markets.
The Group continues to maintain proactive downturn plans with identified trigger points, enabling a quick response to deteriorating market conditions.
Commodity prices The Group is exposed to volatility in An inability to respond to input price volatility The Group closely monitors commodity commodity prices.
could have a potential impact on the Groups inputs and adapts a range of mechanisms operating results, revenue and cash flows.
to protect margins including back to back contractual terms, indexation agreements with customers and hedging of certain commodity input prices.
Dependency risk The Group generates a material proportion of Its high proportional contribution to the Group The Group closely monitors the leading its profits from Weir SPM, its Texas based well and changes to the demand for hydraulic indicators impacting Weir SPMs end service pump business.
Market, operational fracturing equipment in its end markets could markets and, together with Weir SPMs flexible and technological developments may adversely have a significant impact on the Groups profits business model and continued investment in affect the position of Weir SPM.
new product offerings, will ensure that Weir SPM can react to changes in demand.
Over time organic and acquisitive growth of other operations in the Group is expected to dilute the dependency on Weir SPM.
Employees The future success of the Group depends on If it is unable to attract and retain excellent The Group constantly reviews its remuneration the skills and efforts of its employees across all talent, the Group may not be able to effectively packages to ensure they remain competitive of its businesses and the ability to retain and implement its business strategies.
and has also established in 2011 a develop these individuals.
management and leadership development framework to ensure present and In addition, the success of Group acquisitions future capability and facilitate effective will depend on the ability to retain management succession planning.
The Groups employee development programmes are explained in more detail on pages 60 to 62.
35 RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Legal Manufacturing companies are, from time to The Group has insurance cover for certain The Group has internal policies and time, exposed to personal injury claims and claims but not for all potential claims.
The procedures for monitoring these risks, class actions or other litigation resulting from number and size of the claims is dependent managing and mitigating against these injuries sustained at work, including asbestosis on the number of third parties that are still in liabilities and to ensure that there is regular or other health problems associated from existence and can be included in such actions.
reporting to the Board on any changes working in industries that used asbestos Both of these can change over time and as a or developments.
result the Groups exposure could increase.
Low-cost competition Increasing competitive threat from low-cost Failure to build on our emerging market The Group has an established and growing markets which are using total cost innovation presence and realise growth through the global footprint to ensure proximity to in product design, supply chain and low labour delivery of innovative and creative product customers and consistent quality of service costs to gain a competitive advantage.
solutions may result in our existing customer coupled with continued product innovation base switching to low-cost suppliers, to provide technological differentiation and leading to a reduction in market share.
The Group continues to drive operational excellence across all plants with a continued focus on the key areas of lean, on time delivery, global sourcing and other procurement and supply chain initiatives and the Weir Production System, all of which contribute to the delivery of enhanced operational efficiencies.
