1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Directors report and business review Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties The Corporate Governance report on pages 22 to 28 Key suppliers and supply chain management describes the process through which the directors WHSmith has agreements with key suppliers in the assess, manage and mitigate risks.
The Board UK, Europe and the Far East.
The interruption or regularly reviews the risks faced by the Group.
lossof supply of core category products from these WHSmiths management team has identified the suppliers to our stores may affect our ability to trade.
following factors as major potential risks to the Quality of supply issues may also impact the Groups successful performance of the business.
The Board reputation and impact our ability to trade.
The Group considers the risks set out below to represent the conducts risk assessments of all its key suppliers Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
WHSmiths toidentify alternatives and develop contingency management team recognise that the profile of risks plansin the event that any of these key suppliers fail.
changes constantly and additional risks not presently All suppliers have to comply with the conditions known, or that are currently deemed immaterial, laidout in our Supplier Code of Conduct which mayalso impact the Groups business objectives coversareas such as production methods, employee andperformance.
working conditions and quality control.
WHSmith has contractual and other arrangements with numerous Reliance on the WHSmith brand third parties in support of its business activities.
The WHSmith brand is an important asset.
Failure to Noneof the arrangements is individually considered protect it from an event that materially damages its to be essential to the business of WHSmith.
reputation, and or the failure to sustain its appeal to customers, could have an adverse effect on revenues.
Store portfolio The Group regularly monitors key service and The quality and location of the Groups store portfolio compliance measures to ensure operating standards are key contributors to the Groups strategy.
Retailing are maintained in the UK and internationally.
from a portfolio of good quality real estate in prime retail areas and at commercially reasonable rates Economic, political and market risks remains critical to the performance of the Group.
In each country in which WHSmith operates, Allof High Streets stores are held under operating WHSmithmay be impacted by regulatory and leases, and consequently the Group is exposed to the taxchanges, increasing scrutiny by competition extent that any store becomes unviable as a result authorities such as the ongoing OFT investigation ofrental inflation.
Most Travel stores are held under intothe sale of eBooks by WHSmith and others, concession agreements on average for five to ten political developments, the economic climate and years.
There is no guarantee that concessions will be thegeneral condition of retail and travel markets.
renewed or that Travel will be able to bid successfully Factors such as household disposable income, for new contracts.
The majority of Travels airport weather, seasonality of sales, changing demographics andrailway concession agreements contain change and raw material costs will impact the Groups profit ofcontrol clauses, giving various rights to the grantor performance.
Through development of our product of the concession, such as termination of the contract, ranges and pricing strategy, the Group works to inthe event of a successful takeover bid for WHSmith.
ensure we deliver value for all our customers.
WHSmith operates in highly competitive markets andour failure to compete effectively with travel, convenience and category-specific retailers may affect revenues obtained through our stores.
Theretail industry is subject to changing customer tastes.
WHSmiths performance is dependent uponeffectively predicting and quickly responding tochanging consumer demands.
We must also translate market trends into saleable merchandise.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 17 Directors report and business review Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued Business interruption Treasury, financial and credit risk management An outbreak of a pandemic disease, an act of The Groups exposure to and management of capital, terrorism or war could reduce the number of liquidity, credit, interest rate and foreign currency risk customers visiting WHSmith outlets, causing are included in Note 23 on page 59 of the accounts.
In the past our The Groups Treasury function seeks to reduce Travelbusiness has been particularly impacted exposures to interest rate, foreign exchange and bygeopolitical events such as the terrorist attacks otherfinancial risks, to ensure sufficient liquidity is on11September 2001 and 7 July 2005, which led available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest toreductions in customer traffic.
Closure of travel cash assets safely and profitably.
The Group does not routes both planned and unplanned, such as the engage in speculative trading in financial instruments disruption caused by weather-related events, may and transacts only in relation to underlying business also have a material effect on business.
The value of any deposit that can be operates from three distribution centres and the placed with any approved counterparty is based on closure of any one of them may cause disruption to short-term and long-term credit ratings.
The Group has business continuity treasury policies and procedures are periodically plansin place which are regularly reviewed, updated reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee and and tested.
In common with most retail businesses, are subject to regular Group Internal Audit review.
WHSmith relies on a number of important IT systems.
TheGroup has a committed facility with a number Any system performance problems could seriously offinancial institutions which are available to be affect our ability to trade.
The Group expects that drawn for general corporate purposes including these systems will require ongoing investment to working capital.
This facility matures in January 2016. ensure that they are able to respond to the needs of The Group also has a credit risk in relation to its the business and do not become obsolete.
Back-up trade, other receivables and sale or return contracts facilities and business continuity plans are in place withsuppliers.
and are tested regularly to ensure that business Pensions and investment risk management interruptions are minimised and data is protected from corruption or unauthorised use.
The Groups defined benefit pension scheme, the WHSmith Pension Trust, has assets valued at 785m Reliance on key personnel as at 31 August 2011.
An Investment Committee of The performance of the Group depends on its theTrustees to the scheme meets regularly to review abilitytocontinue to attract, motivate and retain the performance of the asset managers and the keyheadoffice and store staff.
The retail sector scheme as a whole, together with the underlying isverycompetitive and the Groups personnel investments.
The Company is represented on this arefrequently targeted by other companies for Committee.
TheLiability Driven Investment LDI recruitment.
The Remuneration Committee structure has anumber of inflation and interest rate monitorsthe levels and structure of remuneration hedges and equity option agreements, with collateral forsenior management and seeks to ensure that posted daily to or from the scheme to the relevant theyare designed to attract, retain and motivate counterparty.
The risk of failure of counterparties thekey personnel to run the Group successfully.
andof the investment manager is monitored regularly by the Committee, as such failure could expose thescheme to loss.
The scheme is also subject to changes in longevity.
The Trustees have the right todetermine the level of contributions and the Company has agreed with the Trustees a deficit funding schedule.
Further details can be found inNote4 oftheaccounts on page 49.
WH Smith PLC 18 Annual report and accounts 2011
