Group risks and uncertainties We have a clear method of managing key risks to the Company.
The Board, as well as the Whitbread performed well through Whitbread Hotels and Restaurants the recession, having taken a and Costa management boards, number of actions to protect its regularly review key risks and the performance and to provide value status of mitigation plans.
The Company has Audit Committee, on behalf of the continued to review significant Board, reviews this process on an economic indicators as part of annual basis with the internal and the business plan and budgeting external auditors.
This risk analysis process and to reflect them as is used to plan the operational appropriate.
audits activity and to highlight new areas for focus.
In terms of competitive activity, each of the businesses measures The risks are categorised into the its performance against the closest following areas: competitors and the market as a whole.
Actions to outperform the Health, safety and security competition are developed on a With more than ten million strategic and tactical basis with customers per month and 35,000 success being monitored regularly.
employees it is vital that the Significant customer research is Company focuses on their wellcarried out with the Premier Inn being and safety.
With this as a guest feedback form eliciting priority we have a well established 700,000 responses in the year.
Safety and Security team that Each of the businesses carries out works with our businesses to market research and analysis of implement a rigorous health and consumer trends in the UK and safety programme.
This market information CMi, an independent company, to is reviewed by the Board and the carry out audits of all our outlets management boards.
every year to measure their performance against set critical Plans have been developed to standards.
Health and safety is a combat the more challenging hurdle on the WINcard and this consumer economy at the influences the level of any bonus beginning of 2011 12.
Our emphasis received by employees in the is on giving customers value for year.
Regular updates are given to money, winning market share and the management boards and the keeping tight control of costs.
Financial loss Last year we reported that we In a group the size of Whitbread had developed plans to cope with there are a number of areas where a potential swine flu pandemic.
there could be a significant financial Although this threat would now loss if appropriate controls were appear to have reduced, these not in place.
Millions of pounds in plans remain in place in the event cash are collected and transferred of any new threat of this kind.
The We are aware of the potential for treasury policy sets the level of heightened levels of terrorist threat authority and segregation of duties in 2012 for the Olympic Games and which protect against such losses are currently working with security and PwC as operational auditor experts to further strengthen our reviews these controls regularly.
The overseas businesses also have clear rules and policies over the Strategic business risks operation of bank accounts and All our businesses operate in a the transfer of funds.
highly competitive environment which is significantly influenced by the UK economy.
18 Funding suppliers who have to pass exacting future service to existing members.
The availability of funds from the food safety and provenance preThe Board receives regular reports Companys banking facilities is qualification.
Training programmes from the pension trustee on its important for the day to day running for our employees endeavour to asset allocation and is consulted on of the businesses as well as its ensure that the food and drink changes to investment policy.
There are regular reviews served is of the appropriate quality.
advisers to the Company work with of the level of funds available to the those of the trustee to mitigate Group.
Such reviews also check that Counterparty and third party the risk.
the terms of the loan agreements contracts are being complied with.
The Board The Group is party to a number of International approves a funding policy by which contracts which are important to As Costa operates in 24 overseas the level and service of borrowings the businesses.
There is a continued territories and Premier Inn is now for the Group is set.
risk that a counterparty fails to be establishing a presence in the Middle able to fulfil its part of a contract.
A East and India, there is a risk of a A private placement was concluded current risk is the failure of a tenant loss arising from a lack of controls.
in August 2010 as part of the of a lease to which a group company To counter this risk, a rigorous Groups strategy of diversifying its was originally a party.
This could approval process and controls sources of funding and lengthening mean that the Group becomes liable environment has been established and is reviewed by the operational the Groups debt maturities.
once more to meet the obligations audit team.
Monthly updates are under the lease.
This risk is carried given to the management boards.
Market expectations by all companies selling leasehold It is important that the market interests, but is heightened in times Reputational risk receives regular and accurate of economic downturn.
A strong corporate reputation information concerning the Company amongst our stakeholders is and that the external expectations Credit control checks are carried out vital to the long-term strength for the year are accurate.
on parties to significant contracts along with continued auditing and resilience of our brands, our There are a number of management and monitoring of such contracts.
ability to attract and retain talent processes designed to keep track Regular reviews are carried out on and investment, and our license of progress against internal targets the potential for privity of contract to operate in new locations and and market expectations.
Each part claims and, when they are received, markets.
Effective risk management of the Group has an agreed budget.
all efforts are made to lessen the contributes to a positive reputation.
Monthly management reports are financial liability through negotiation However, we believe that this alone produced which are reviewed by with the landlord or sale of the lease.
It is important to the management boards and the understand and respond to the main Board.
Customers key relationships opportunities and risks presented None of the Groups businesses by corporate responsibility and The market is kept informed through are over-reliant on any particular to engage our investors, our quarterly trading updates and customer or supplier.
Key suppliers people and our customers on key the interim and full year financial have been identified and mitigation sustainability issues.
plans have been put in place for the we launched our Good Together potential failure of those suppliers.
To learn more Business continuity Other key relationships include those about this initiative please visit our It is crucial that we can continue with joint venture partners, franchise website at www.
to serve our customers with high partners and the operators of quality products every day of the restaurants on co-located sites.
Corporate governance is taken week.
Our supply chain for food seriously at Whitbread, with and drink along with key systems Pensions the intention being to operate underlying the businesses are critical The Company has obligations in with integrity and transparency.
relation to the Whitbread defined Secretariat reports to the Board benefit pension scheme and provide updates on legislation and To guard against the risk of failure any valuation deficit that arises.
a Code of Ethics is in place for all in any of those suppliers or services There is a risk that the deficit will employees.
The Code of Ethics will we have developed contingency increase and therefore involve be replaced in 2011 by a new Global plans including sources of alternative the Company in having to make Code of Conduct, partly in order to supply and back up of information.
further contributions as part of align the Companys policies with Auditing and monitoring of suppliers the funding plan required by the the new UK Bribery Act.
also protects against this risk.
The scheme is is a robust audit programme for our now closed to new members and for 19
