20 Risk and uncertainties Identifying and monitoring How do we manage the risk management process?
our risks in 2010 11 Through the application of reasoned judgement and consideration of the likelihood and consequence of events, the Board believes a Like all businesses, our business faces risks and uncertainties that could impact successful risk management framework balances risk and reward.
on the Groups achievement of its objectives.
Risk is accepted as being a part of doing business.
1 Develop and communicate corporate objectives Within the Group, responsibility We develop our strategy based on our vision to be Different and Better than Ever.
for risk management and internal This informs the setting of objectives across the business and is widely communicated control lies with the Board.
Executive within the business through the use of the scorecard.
management implements and maintains the system of controls.
2 Identify and evaluate the risks Colleagues use a variety of mechanisms to identify the risks to the achievement The business uses a corporate of the corporate objectives including the use of facilitated workshops.
The likelihood scorecard to monitor the achievement and consequence of the risks identified is considered.
of its objectives and the performance of colleagues.
3 Take action to manage risk The scorecard is made up of the Responsibility for taking necessary actions to manage risk is delegated to appropriate following four elements: colleagues within the business.
The risks and related controls are recorded in risk registers.
Financial 4 Review and monitor the success of actions Operational excellence The Management Board and the other operating boards consider the risks reported within the risk registers.
Key risks are reported to the Board, which reviews and Customers and suppliers monitors the status of risk and control across the Group.
Our people 2 Identify and evaluate the risks 3 Take action to Values manage risk Our Values define Develop and what we expect of communicate our people and what corporate objectives our stakeholders can expect from us.
1 Review and monitor the success of actions 4 Our Values are at the heart of how we manage risk We understand that any system of control is dependent on the people operating it.
Our Values define what we expect of our people and what our stakeholders can expect from us.
The Board sets the tone at the top and this is cascaded throughout the organisation.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 21 Strategic review 4 21 The list below sets out the most significant risks to the achievement Performance review 22 31 of the Groups goals with respect to the four elements listed in Governance 32 51 the panel opposite.
The list does not include all risks that the Group financial statements 52 88 Group faces and it does not list the risks in any order of priority.
Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 Risk Description Mitigation Our distribution and systems infrastructures are fundamental to To reduce the chances of this happening and also to reduce the impact Business ensuring the normal continuity of trading in our stores.
If a major of such an event if it were to happen, we have developed recovery plans interruption incident occurred to this infrastructure or another key facility this could and invested in the creation of a remote IT disaster recovery site.
have a detrimental impact on the businesss ability to operate effectively.
In the long term, effectively managing the strategic risks that the Recognising the importance of formulating and implementing a Business strategy Group faces will deliver benefits to all our stakeholders.
The Board successful strategy, the strategy is developed by the CEO and senior understands that if the strategy and vision are not properly formulated executives.
The Group has recently appointed a Strategy Director or communicated then the long term aims of the Group wont be met reporting to the Group Finance Director to further strengthen the and the business may suffer.
The strategy is considered and approved by the Board, which takes time each year to review and monitor its delivery through formal time set aside for this purpose.
To ensure that our strategy is communicated and understood, the Group engages with a wide range of stakeholders including shareholders, employees, suppliers and other groups.
This continual process helps to ensure that the strategy remains relevant and improves the likelihood of success.
The continued success of the Group relies heavily on the investment The Groups employment policies, remuneration and benefits packages Colleague in the training and development of our 132,000 colleagues.
This is are designed to be competitive with other companies, as well as engagement a critical element of the quality of service we offer to our customers.
providing colleagues with fulfilling career opportunities.
During and retention the year, 48,000 people went through our Academy programme and we started the Morrisons BSc degree programme offering.
The Group continually engages with colleagues across the business to ensure that we keep strengthening our team at every level.
In line with our commercial objectives we have identified three areas, The appropriate management evaluation and verification systems Corporate Environment, Society and Business where by doing the right thing, are integrated into operational management activities and these are Responsibility we protect valuable resources, meet demand for sustainable products overseen by the Management Board and the Corporate Compliance and make our business more efficient.
Morrisons is committed to taking and Responsibility Committee.
Delivery against targets and key good care and if we fail to meet our commitments this could damage performance indicators is regularly monitored and reported.
Further our reputation and potentially lose the trust of our stakeholders.
information is available in our Corporate Responsibility report at www.
The main financial risks that the Group is exposed to relate to the The Groups treasury operations are controlled centrally by the Financial and availability of funding, the loss of a financial counter party and the Treasury Committee in accordance with clearly defined policies and treasury uncertainty produced by fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange procedures that have been authorised by the Board.
All of these things have the potential to undermine the Groups Committee has certain approved delegated authorities but it is not ability to finance its trading activities and its financial results.
permitted to trade for profit and it reports twice a year to the Audit Committee on its activities.
The Company operates defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
In consultation with our pension scheme members the Company has Pensions taken a number of steps to put the schemes onto a sound financial The liabilities of the Groups two defined benefit schemes are derived footing for the long term and reduce the risk to the Group.
These from cash flow projections over long periods and are therefore have included additional contributions to the schemes, changes to inherently uncertain.
These are subject to changes in life expectancy, the investment strategy as well as using a prudent basis of assumptions inflation, future salary increases, volatility regarding the value of for the actuarial valuation.
Last year we moved all future benefit investments and the returns derived from such investments.
accrual to a career average basis, such that it will grow in line with The operating and financial costs are recognised in the income inflation rather than being linked to final salary.
statement in the period in which they arise.
Therefore, any variation from these assumed values has the potential to introduce volatility to the Groups results.
We are aware that if we fail or are perceived to fail to deliver to our As a manufacturer of food products, we have established strict Product quality customers satisfaction the expected standards of safety in our standards and monitoring processes to manage the risks associated and safety products, this has the potential to harm them and damage our business with food safety throughout our Group and its supply chain.
This in turn could adversely impact our market share and manufacturing businesses are ISO 22000 accredited which provides our financial results.
Our business focuses on fresh food and we have an effective framework for the control of internal processes.
Food a vertically integrated business model: therefore, food safety is of hygiene practices are taken very seriously throughout our Group, and paramount importance.
are monitored both through internal audit procedures and external bodies such as environmental health departments.
We also maintain regular supplier assessments for food and non-food categories.
Our stock withdrawal procedures operate throughout our supply chain to minimise the impact to customers of any supplier recalls.
The business is growing the size of its retail space through acquisition We have a property strategy that develops stores to a well proven Property and by modernising and extending existing stores and facilities.
If we fail format and we operate a formal capital approval process which is to adequately grow our space in an earnings-enhancing way we will lose overseen by the Investment Board.
market share and our profits will suffer.
The Group operates in an environment governed by strict regulations There is clear, ultimate accountability with Directors for compliance with Regulation to ensure the safety and protection of customers, shareholders, staff all areas of regulation and the Corporate Compliance and Responsibility and other stakeholders and the operation of an open and competitive Committee provides oversight over many of these areas.
These regulations include alcohol licensing, health and safety, designs its policies and procedures to accord with relevant laws and the handling of hazardous materials, data protection, the rules of the regulations.
In respect of Competition Law and the Grocery Supply stock exchange and competition law.
In all cases, the Board takes its Code of Practice these are monitored and reported on by the Head responsibilities very seriously, and recognises that breach of regulation of Competition Law Compliance.
can lead to reputational and financial damage to the Group.
The Board identified that many of the existing systems were To maximise the likelihood of successful delivery the Group has chosen Systems and approaching the end of their useful lives and that a comprehensive to partner with some of the worlds leading technology companies for integration programme of replacement was required.
This programme of work is key projects.
Also our business, like other similar businesses has a expected to take a number of years to complete.
The Board is aware of capacity to absorb a level of change without having a detrimental impact the risks faced by any organisation seeking to successfully implement on continuing business operations.
Change programmes within the new systems.
Group are designed with this in mind and are structured and governed in a manner that allows the Board to monitor their impact.
Specifically, a sub-committee of the Audit Committee monitors the progress of the largest programme and receives regular reports from management, Risk & Internal Audit and other specialists.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011
