38 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk management and internal control 3.
Independent assurance Robust risk management and internal Independent assurance teams check that corporate control providescompetitive advantage policies and procedures to managerisk have been andenhances productivity.
Group Internal audit independent assurance on financial Overview and non-financial activities The internal audit function is fully independent of the In Wolseley, risk management and internal control are dened day-to-day operations of the Group.
It is involved in the in four main areas: assessment of the quality of risk management and 1. Business Operations implementation of sound risk internal control and helps to promote and further develop management practices every day effective risk management within the businesses.
Themanagement team of each Group company is External audit assurance over financial statements responsible for risk management and internal control PwC are the Companys external auditors and give within its own business and for ensuring compliance assurance that the financial statements are free from withthe Groups policies and procedures.
Each of the material misstatement.
Companys main regions has also appointed a risk director whose primary role in such capacity is to ensure Other assurance providers compliance by localmanagement with the Groups risk From time to time the Company commissions external management policies and programme.
organisations to provide assurance over aspects of the Companys operations.
Oversight functions Oversight functions define policies and procedures and 4.
The Board and its Committees strategic direction monitor their implementation by business operations.
andcontrol of the Company The Board manages risk through its strategic planning Group Risk Management providing the structure, tools and performance monitoring processes.
The Board and techniques receives regular reports from the Audit Committee on the The Company continues to maintain and improve its status of risk management and internal control.
comprehensive risk management programme, which isdesigned to ensure that significant and emerging The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives risksare identied, assessed and managed effectively.
annually and approves Group company budgets and Keyfeatures ofthis programme are described on strategies in lightof these.
Control is exercised at Group page40.
and business unit level through monthly monitoring of performance by comparison to budgets, forecasts and The Advanced Control Environment ACE team cash targets, and byregular visits to Group companies strengthening financial reporting by the Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer and The ACE compliance programme is Wolseleys internal Managing Directors ofour main geographical regions.
Its objective is to avoid a The Board has formal procedures in place for the material misstatement in the Groups financial accounts approval of investment, acquisition and disposal projects, arising from inadequate financial control.
ACE defines with designated levels of authority, supported by postfinancial processes and their associated control investment review processes formajor acquisitions or objectives, which operating companies address with disposals and capital expenditure.
In doing so, itaimsto establish an efficient and account of social, environmental and ethical matters effective controlenvironment over financial reporting.
inrelation to the Groups businesses when reviewing Other Corporate Functions monitoring specic therisks faced by the Group.
The Board is conscious key risks ofthe effect that such matters may have on the shortIn order to deliver its business strategy, Wolseley and long-term value of the Company.
maintains corporate oversight functions such as Health & Safety, HR, IT, Legal, Tax, Treasury and Finance.
The policies, procedures and other activities established by these functions serve to mitigate a wide range of risks, including employee retention, credit, counterparty, interest rate, exchange rate, bribery and corruption andbusiness continuity risks.
Ownership of risk and control Fourth level: Board, Executive Committee and Audit Committee Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 39 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk management and internal control structure First level The first level of the control environment is the business operations which perform day-today risk management activity.
Front line business operations eg branches, distribution centres.
Business operations have most Group Risk Management Conference February 2011 ownership of risks and controls significant value is gained by sharing knowledge on risk through implementation of across the Group.
To this end, the Company gathers together its risk specialists at its annual Risk Management sound working practices.
Over 60 delegates and speakers attended the event in February from a range of Wolseley businesses in North America and Europe.
As well as briengs from the Group CEO, CIO, General Counsel and other Executives, the forum provides an opportunity for deep dives into Second level riskareas such as product sourcing, health and safety, IT, physical security, treasury, insurance, finance, HR and eet Oversight functions in the Company, management.
External speakers provide added challenge, such as Finance, HR and Risk but most important is the ability to share ideas and Management set direction, ensure experiences across different geographies, markets compliance with policy and monitor andriskdisciplines.
Oversight functions eg Group Risk Management, the ACE internal controls team, Finance, Health & Safety, HR, IT, Legal, Tax and Treasury.
Management and financial control: Policy and procedure setting: Acting at Group and Operating Company level.
Third level Internal and external audit are the third level of control, offering independent challenge tothe levels of assurance provided by business operations and oversight functions.
Independent assurance Internal audit, external audit and other independent assurance providers.
Provide independent challenge and assurance.
40 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk management and internal control continued significant risks to the Companys performance Key features of the Groups risk management programme The nature of the industry in which we operate and our chosen strategy expose the Company to a number of risks.
The Groups risk management programme forms a core part of the Companys overall framework for managing risks and Listed on pages 41 to 43 are risks which senior management maintaining internal control.
It includes: have identied as the most significant, which have action plans fortheir mitigation and which are subject to regular Ownership of the programme by the Board, supported by review.
The colouring red, amber, green shows the the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel with Companys estimate of the inherent risk level before any sponsorship from theGroup Chief Financial officer: mitigation.
It should be noted that these risks are difficult An appointed Group Head of Risk to lead and continually toestimate with accuracy.
The materialisation of these risks improve risk management: could have an adverse effect on the Groups results or financial condition.
Various mitigation strategies are A network of Risk Directors across the Group to develop employedto reduce these inherent risks to an acceptable risk management in their businesses: level.
The Company also faces many other risks which, A Group Risk Management policy, applicable throughout although important and subject to regular review, have the Group and reviewed annually: beenassessed as less significant and are not listed here.
This includes some risks such as the impact of restructuring A standard set of risk categories and risk denitions: activity orproduct price volatility, which were reported in last A standardised and automated risk assessment and years Annual Report and which through changes in external reporting tool, including standard risk assessment criteria, factors andcareful management are no longer material to the evaluation of gross and net risks and the determination Group as a whole.
ofrisk appetite by setting a target score for each major risk: However, many risk factors remain beyond the direct control Consolidation of risk assessments for each business at of the Company and the risk management programme can Group level to identify organisation-wide impacts and trends: only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that key risks are managed to an acceptable level.
A six-monthly risk assessment, action planning and reporting cycle, including the review by senior management, the Audit Committee and the Board of key risks and their mitigation: Reporting by the chairman of the Audit Committee to theBoard on any matters which have arisen from the Committees review of the way in which the risk management and internal control processes have been applied and on any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, theseprocesses: and Periodic reviews of business units risk mitigation bythe Group Head of Risk and by Group Internal Audit.
During the year, this programme was further strengthened through a number of initiatives, including: Risk appetite denition updated and cascaded by means ofrevised risk assessment and escalation scales: A global Wolseley risk management conference, bringing together risk specialists from across the Group to share ideas and best practices: Find out more about Wolseleys risk management and Launch of an updated and improved risk assessment tool, internal control activities in this section and elsewhere intheAnnual Report: reecting improvements requested by business units: The Board and its Committees see the Corporate Updated risk management policy: governance section on pages 56 to 70, including the Report from the Audit Committee: see pages 69 and 70.
The development of a more integrated approach to Key risks see pages 41 to 43.
Governance, Risk Management and Control within the ITfunction: and Financial risk management: see page 37 in the Financial review and pages 114 and 115 in the notes The ongoing development of key risk indicators to support tothe consolidated financial statements qualitative assessments of the top risks affecting the Group.
Provisions: see notes to the consolidated financial statements page 116.
Contingent liabilities: see notes to the consolidated financial statements page 127 and page 150 in theCompany financial statements.
Provisions for self insured risks see page 93.
Derivative financial instruments see page 110.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 41 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Inherent risk andtrend Denition Mitigation Market conditions The Groups results depend on the levels of activity in the The majority of underperforming businesses have been new construction and property repair and remodelling identied through the resource allocation process and markets.
In light ofthe debt levels in Europe and concerns havebeen turned around or are being exited.
This has about economic recovery in the US, there continues to be made the Company intrinsically better placed to withstand Inherent risk arisk that markets may uctuate rapidly or experience a asecond downturn.
Factors inuencing this risk include: A more conservative approach has been taken to the Increased risk the general rate of GDP growth: balance sheet.
Adjusted net debt has been reduced, new nancing facilities have been arranged and there are tighter consumer confidence: controls on capital expenditure.
the availability of credit to finance customer investment: Market conditions are considered in detail during the mortgage and other interest rates: Strategic Planning process, which includes forecasting the level of government initiatives to stimulate andbudgeting relating to the current economic climate.
economicactivity: Performance is constantly monitored through reviews witheach business.
Internal visibility of monthly business ination: and performance is being enhanced.
now completed organisational structure changes, which These factors are out of the Groups control and are have created dened business groups with clear cost difcultto forecast.
Cost reduction and pricing initiatives continue to be developed where possible, and there is greater knowledge sharing on these topics across the businesses.
Competitive pressures and margin erosion Current market conditions have further increased Gross margin improvement initiatives are a strategic priority competition during the period under review which, if not for all Wolseley businesses.
All businesses are focused on mitigated, could lead to downward pressure on sales prices continuous improvement in customer service, product and profit margins.
Examples of recent initiatives Inherent risk include: There is a risk that such competitive pressures will continue level: high and could be exacerbated by factors such as levels of Improvements in the visibility of gross margin across the Increased risk economic activity, customer or vendor consolidation, Group through the use of Hyperion HFM software, which manufacturers shipping directly to customers, other went live in October 2010: changes in the route to market, and changes in technology.
Knowledge sharing webcasts on pricing for the Companys senior staff, sponsored by the CEO.
For example, webcasts on the use of dynamic pricing and pricing matrices by Wolseley UK and DT Group: In the US, there is greater emphasis on the development of counters, showrooms, E-commerce and private label sales.
Matrix pricing efforts are contributing to greater consistency: In Canada, a major training programme for branch managers and counter showroom staff was launched: Wolseley France continues to focus on the optimisation of product mix and customer mix and undertakes regular reviews of its pricing and discount matrix systems.
It has also implemented pricing projects and negotiated improved purchasing terms and conditions: and In Central Europe, terms have been renegotiated with unprofitable or low margin customers.
Litigation The international nature of Wolseleys operations exposes Levels of litigation are monitored by individual operating itto thepotential for litigation from third parties, and such companies and by Group functions.
A comprehensive exposure is considered to be greater in the US than in liability insurance programme is maintained and insurance Europe.
Litigation can arise in such areas as workers policy terms, conditions and limits were reviewed at the start Inherent risk compensation, general employer liability, product liability of thelast financial year.
level: medium and environmental and asbestos litigation.
The Company is closely monitoring ongoing product There is a risk that the number of claims made against litigation relating to historical operations in the US and Increased risk theCompany may increase as a result of the changes in hasrecently resolved a number of employment practice economic conditions, changes in purchasing practices or complaints in that country.
HR and product quality other factors.
For example, an increase in the number of assurance procedures will be kept under regular review own label products offered by the Group may result in a asthe Company works through current turbulent market greater risk of product warranty claims.
conditions and expands its private label range of products.
Although the number of claims made against the Company In the case of claims related to exposure to asbestos, has increased during the year as an expected consequence Wolseley employs independent professional advisers to of the environment in which it has operated, there has been actuarially determine its potential gross liability.
Wolseley has no material change in the level of litigation inwhich the insurance which signicantly exceeds the current estimated Group is involved.
Formore information onspecic litigation liability relating to asbestos claims.
For more information to which the Company isexposed, seepages 93 and 116. onthe Companys exposure to asbestos-related litigation, see pages 93, 109 and 116.
42 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk management and internal control continued Inherent risk andtrend Denition Mitigation People Wolseleys ability to provide leadership and products and The Company will continue to closely monitor staff turnover services to customers depends on retaining sufciently across all grades in all businesses.
Retention data relating qualied, experienced and motivated personnel.
tothe top 100150 staff receives particular attention.
Reward packages are being comprehensively reviewed In order to increase productivity, and be able to take Inherent risk andupdated where necessary.
A set of core values for the growthopportunities when markets improve, Wolseley level: medium Group has been dened and communicated, and a new mustmaintain the skills and experience of its existing programme of employee engagement surveys has been management and continue to develop the managers No change launched.
Quarterly talent reviews across all businesses ofthefuture.
seek to identify high performing staff with potential.
Clear The current difficult conditions experienced in certain succession plans have been developed and are reviewed markets, and the Groups response to them, have resulted every six months by the Executive Committee and the in somewhat increased staff turnover and may demotivate Board.
There is greater career planning for counter and remaining staff.
other front line staff and a greater focus on effective performance management and appraisals at half year andyear end.
Specic examples of counter-measures applied by business units include a greater use of market salary benchmarks in Canada, a review of the pay and benets structure in the UK, enhanced communications on career development in France, reinstatement of 401k pension contributions in the US and improved succession planning in the Nordic region.
Operational resilience The Group can only carry on business as long as it has Core IT systems and data centres for DT Group, Ferguson, thepeople, the information technology and the physical Wolseley France, and Wolseley UK have documented plans infrastructure to do so.
The safe and continued operation which are tested regularly.
An annual testing schedule of ofthese resources is threatened by natural and man-made these plans is agreed by Group IT.
Some businesses, such Inherent risk perils and is affected by the level of investment available as Wolseley UK, have disaster recovery contracts with a level: medium toimprove them.
For example, third party to relocate to a back up facility.
Options are being reviewed to further improve levels of resilience in Europe.
some of the Companys physical assets are located No change InNorth America, proposals are being considered to inareas exposed to natural catastrophe risks: accelerate therelocation of existing systems to a higher the Group remains reliant on a variety ofdifferent security facility in Cincinnati.
technology systems across the Group, some of which The Company operates an IT governance framework have been operating for many years: including dedicated IT security policies.
Specic operational to optimise costs and supply chain efficiency, some controls for IT security include intrusion detection, companies within the Group have also centralised their penetration testing, wireless remediation of issues, log and distribution network and are therefore reliant on a smaller conguration management and in-ight projects to reduce number of larger distribution centres: and the likelihood of an incident.
Future plans include an the level and sophistication of IT security threats is intrusion prevention project and improvements in the constantly evolving.
monitoring of compliance with existing IT policies.
Areview of e-data risks and opportunities, focusing on data protection issues, is planned.
The loss of a physical site is naturally hedged by the diversied nature of our locations, customers and suppliers.
The Company has formally documented and tested plans for those distribution centres, head ofce buildings and data centres where the risk exposure is deemed to be greatest.
Some of these were successfully put into action following natural catastrophe incidents in the US see case study on page 23.
A comprehensive insurance programme is purchased, including coverage for property damage, business interruption and cyber risks.
A reassessment of the Companys business interruption risks has led to a reduction in the level of coverage purchased.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 43 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Inherent risk andtrend Denition Mitigation Capital expenditure and return on investment A core element of the Companys strategy is a focus on The Companys resource allocation process targets future organic growth with bolt-on acquisitions only where capital allocation to those businesses capable of generating significant benets and synergies are available.
the highest return on investment.
Capital expenditure approval limits were lowered in 2009 and all acquisitions In light of this strategy, the ability of the Companys Inherent risk irrespective of size require approval from the Group CEO management tocontrol organic capital expenditure and level: medium and CFO.
Both have been actively involved in reviewing toidentify, value and integrate any such acquisitions can low recent acquisitions.
Sincethe last year end report in August have a significant impact on thereturn on investment 2010, the Companys capital expenditure and disposals Increased risk obtained by investors in the Company.
policy has been updated October 2010 and going forward this will include guidance on expected M&A practices, a standard financial model and narrative requirements.
Governmental regulations, including anti-trust and bribery laws The Groups operations are affected by various statutes, The Group monitors regulations across its markets to regulationsand laws in the countries and markets in which it ensure that the effects of changes are minimised and that operates.
The amount of such regulation and the penalties compliance with all applicable regulation is continually sought.
During the course of the year, a number of initiatives have Inherent risk While the Group is not engaged in a highly regulated been undertaken to respond to new or updated laws level: medium industry, itissubject to the laws governing businesses andregulations.
These include, for instance, the launch low generally, including laws relating to competition, international inAugust 2010 of an updated compliance programme trade, corruption and fraud, land usage, zoning, the fortheprevention of fraud, bribery and corruption.
No change environment, health and safety, transportation, labour and TheCompany reviewed its policies against the guidance employment practices including pensions, data protection, raised by the UK Ministry of Justice regarding compliance payment terms and other matters.
Inaddition, building withthe UK Bribery Act, which came into force in July 2011. codes or particular tax treatments may affect the products The Company continued todeploy online competition law Wolseleys customers are allowed to use and, consequently, training throughout Wolseleys European operations.
changes in these may affect the saleability of some Wolseley products.
Liquidity and funding risks Wolseleys current bank facilities include a covenant that The Companys liquidity position has strengthened through itsnet debt should not exceed 3.5 times its annualised the successful syndication of two  earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and revolving credit facilities totalling 822 million.
A breach of this covenant could the Groups adjusted net debt from 1,195 million 31 July Inherent risk result in a significant proportion of the Groups borrowings 2010 to 705 million 31 July 2010 provides greater level: medium becoming payable immediately.
The Groups committed facilities currently low provide significant headroom.
The Group purchases There is a risk that the Group might have to take actions to insurance to protect itself against trade credit risks and reduce costs or preserve cash that it would not otherwise Decreased risk seeks to ensure no special payment terms are agreed.
have chosen to do, or that it might not have the resources TheCompany is monitoring plans for the implementation toexploit opportunities it would otherwise have pursued.
ofthe EU Late Payment Directive into the domestic laws of There are also risks relating to the Companys ability to EU member states, but has no specic mitigation in place maintain sufficient working capital, for example, increases atpresent given the uncertainty regarding implementation.
Due to the low risk levels, further mitigation is not planned beyond the continued monthly monitoring and reforecasting activity.
Further information can be found in the Financial review section on pages 34 to 37.
