Reviews Reviews 41 Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties We recognise that effective risk management is fundamental to helping achieve our strategic objectives.
The Group risk committee, chaired by the The Group believes that for risk It is intended that these principles be chief executive, oversees the operation of management to be successful, it must adopted throughout the Group, without the Groups risk management framework.
integrate the framework into all activities exception, to achieve progressive and develop a culture within the improvement in the effectiveness of risk The framework supports the systematic organisation so that: management processes.
identification, assessment and management of risk at all levels, and seeks to ensure that: the management of risk is clearly driven We have a number of potential risks and from business strategy and objectives uncertainties which could have a material the public, employees and the the ownership and management of risk impact on our long term performance.
environment are safe from potential is not just the exclusive responsibility of To enable us to deliver value to all hazards inherent in our operations senior management, but is passed down stakeholders we endeavour to mitigate the potential for damage to our to appropriate team members these risks where possible.
Effective risk corporate reputation, or financial loss all significant risks have mitigating management is embedded in our to shareholders and other stakeholders, strategies and action owners are governance framework, which is explained is minimised.
identified in the Corporate Governance Report.
operational risks are fully articulated and subject to regular review across the organisation as part of our normal management process we operate in a culture that encourages disclosure of issues or concerns, so that timely and appropriate action can be agreed and implemented as necessary.
Pages 64 to 71 Corporate Governance Report WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews 42 Reviews Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties continued The principal risks for the Group have been assessed as follows: Risk Mitigation Competition To ensure that the Group continues to win work, we work hard The Group faces competition in all of its markets.
Some of the to develop long term relationships with our clients.
We have also markets in which we operate serve a limited number of clients and taken measures to reduce our cost base to ensure that we remain barriers to entry are high.
In other markets, such as architectural competitive.
In addition, our robust processes for monitoring design and environment, there are numerous competitors and bidding activity seek to ensure that our bids reflect the competitive barriers to entry are lower.
environment in which we are working and that the contracts deliver appropriate returns.
A measure of this success is our work in hand: this measures our secured workload over the coming year.
Our overall work in hand is 55%, representing over six months of 2011 12 budgeted revenue Pages 18 to 37 Segmental performance that is already contractually committed.
Changes to the contracting environment We actively mitigate this risk via a range of internal review procedures The contracting environment in which we operate continues to that enable contract terms to be subject to appropriate scrutiny evolve.
Clients increasingly seek to transfer risk to consultants: and manageable risks to be reduced.
Our service delivery process, contractors will also seek to share risks.
There is a possibility that, which forms an important internal control within our governance in securing new work, the Group accepts risks that are insufficiently framework, is continually enhanced to address these issues.
understood or evaluated, with ensuing financial loss.
Page 69 Governance framework Integration of acquired businesses We always establish an implementation plan in conjunction with Failure to integrate acquired business into Atkins could lead to the acquired business, monitor progress against the plan and feed a loss of shareholder value with expected benefits and synergies back regularly to the Board on each acquisition.
Matching staffing levels to workload This risk is managed by working in a diverse portfolio of sectors and The Group balances staff resources against workload to control markets, and by the redeployment of staff from those parts of the the level of non-productive time.
In an economic downturn there business where the workload is reducing to other parts of the is a risk that there is insufficient work to match current resources.
business where the workload is strong.
Productivity is a key internal measure and is constantly monitored across the Group, with selective restructuring and headcount reduction undertaken as necessary.
This approach has been successfully implemented during the last year to maintain levels of productivity.
Pages 44 to 47 Human Resources Review Project management and major projects The Group mitigates these risks via the internal controls within our Managing clients and our own projects is core to our business.
governance framework, ongoing training, knowledge-sharing and Inadequate project management could lead to financial loss and selective recruitment.
Page 69 Governance framework Pensions The Groups defined benefit pension funds are closed to new The Groups defined benefit pension fund has a material deficit.
members and future accruals ceased in October 2007 for the The Group has previously agreed measures to reduce this deficit: majority of members.
In addition, a consultation has recently however the deficit is exposed to the risk of changes in interest commenced with employees who are members of the Groups main rates and asset values, as well as inflation and the life expectancy plan to reduce the deficit further with a proposal to remove the link of the members.
between employees accrued pension and future increases in salary.
The Group actively monitors the funds position, taking professional actuarial advice, assesses the liabilities and is implementing inflation and interest rate swaps to reduce future volatility.
Page 124 Note 29 to the Financial Statements WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 43 Risk Mitigation Market position and reputation We mitigate this risk by ensuring our governance framework includes Our reputation for delivering complex projects relies on the robust cost, project management and other internal controls.
These perception of our clients and how the Group is portrayed publicly.
are subject to regular independent audit against industry standards.
There is a risk that a major failure from poor design, poor project Page 69 Governance framework management or delivery could impact our ability to win future work.
Health, safety and the environment The Group takes these issues very seriously and ensures all staff The Groups business is concerned with the built environment and are adequately trained in health, safety and environmental issues: this entails significant health, safety and environmental risks.
Should indeed we lead our sector on health and safety matters.
Procedures the Groups policy or practice in this area prove inadequate, there in this area are central to our governance framework and are continually reviewed and improved.
We also undertake regular is a consequent risk to employees, clients, contractors and third independent audits against industry standards.
parties and also a risk of reputational damage to the Group.
Pages 48 to 56 Corporate Responsibility Review Data security Data security is taken very seriously, and we have in place procedures There is a risk that the Group might mishandle client, commercial on how to handle client and staff data, including the use of secure or staff data.
Such an event could have a significant impact on networks and encryption.
Appropriate building security is in place our reputation and expose the Group financially.
to protect confidential data, and offsite storage of client data and use of cyber protection of both hardware and software applications have been implemented.
In addition, training our staff so that they understand their responsibilities is an important mitigating measure.
Page 54 Assurance Corporate Responsibility Review Recruitment and retention of sufficient high-calibre staff The Group expends a great deal of management effort and resource The recruitment and retention of the best people is crucial to in this area, and further details of our staff controls are given in the our future success.
Failure to do so will constrain the growth Human Resources Review.
of the business and prevent us from delivering our strategy.
Pages 44 to 47 Human Resources Review Crisis event The Groups business continuity strategy requires business continuity A crisis event at an Atkins site or one affecting staff could lead plans BCPs for all major offices.
Staff awareness and testing of to loss of staff or interruption to service delivery.
BCPs is a key mitigating measure, and the resilience of our back-up systems for IT infrastructure is regularly tested.
Cash management The Groups systems and internal controls seek to ensure that Effective cash management is critically important as our major costs, appropriate contractual terms are established at the outset of such as payroll, are often paid prior to fees being settled by clients.
Once work has commenced, projects are subject to robust financial review coupled with effective processes to manage cash receivables.
The Group also maintains strong relationships with a number of banks to support its day to day cash needs.
Carbon impact and sustainability The Group has funded the creation of carbon tools to enable Failure to respond to the imperative to reduce the carbon impact the carbon impact of our designs to be appropriately monitored of our operations and those of our clients could lead to a loss and costed.
of market share and damage to our environment.
We have engaged our staff extensively to educate them in the need to embrace carbon critical design.
Page 51 to 52 Corporate Responsibility Review Global political, economic, legal and regulatory risks The Group mitigates these risks by monitoring economic indicators The Group trades in a number of countries around the world, and sentiments in the markets in which we operate, as well as potentially exposing it to political, economic, legal and maintaining a strong balance sheet, working in a diverse portfolio regulatory risks.
of business sectors and markets and building flexibility into future plans.
We aim to remain cash-positive on projects and negotiate Political instability could threaten our operations, an economic commercially favourable payment terms on contracts.
Our service slowdown could have an adverse impact on workload for both delivery process seeks to identify legal and regulatory risks during our private and public sector clients, and the Group could fail bidding and through the lifecycle of projects.
to adequately address legal and regulatory risks in unfamiliar jurisdictions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews
