com Risk management Risk is inevitable in business: it goes hand-in-hand with opportunity.
22 How risk is managed at Xstrata But it is possible to manage risk.
We have created a risk management system that allows us to pursue business opportunities and grow shareholder value as well as developing and protecting our people, our assets, our environment and our reputation.
Board Overall responsibility Our comprehensive risk management system has been implemented across our businesses.
Its processes are dened within a risk framework that is well understood across all operations.
Managing risk is a continuous challenge.
Self-assessment is ongoing within each business unit to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks, and results are regularly updated on our Group risk registers.
Board Audit Committee Each commodity business and corporate function is required to undertake Oversight role of the effectiveness of a comprehensive annual risk review.
These results are then implemented controls and the ongoing management of identied risks into the annual business plans presented for Board approval.
Progress against these plans, significant changes in the units risk prole Internal audit and actions taken to control and mitigate risks are reported regularly to its The global head of internal audit committee, the Group Audit Committee, the Executive Committee audit and risk reports significant commodity and our Board.
business risk matters to the Many risks inherent in an international mining business will always exist.
Board Audit Committee Commodity businesses t $PNQSFIFOTJWF BOOVBM SJTL SFWJFX The challenge is to manage them effectively.
"Our principal risks relate to operational challenges, mining activities and project management, and t ""MJHONFOU PG CVTJOFTT QMBO PCKFDUJWFT include health, safety, environmental and community risks."
We also face risks with risk associated with commodity price and currency exposure and the management t 0OHPJOH QSPDFTT UP JEFOUJGZ FWBMVBUF challenge to deliver on investor expectations.
"and manage risk t ""DUJPOT UBLFO BOE QSPHSFTT NBEF UP The principal risks and uncertainties that may impact our ability to execute address controls and mitigate risks our stated business strategy are detailed on the following pages."
They reported to the commodity businesses have been assessed according to materiality, likelihood and the residual audit committees, who oversee the risk after controls have been implemented.
Further information on our risk effectiveness of controls and the ongoing management of identied risks management controls and processes is provided in the Corporate Governance report on pages 87 to 95.
Our comprehensive risk management system has been implemented across our businesses.
Peter Hooley Chairman of the Audit Committee
