60 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 RISK MANAGEMENT Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential to the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives, achievement of sustainable shareholder value, protection of its reputation and meeting the requirements of good corporate governance.
Process HOW BAE SYSTEMS MANAGES RISK Businesses The responsibility for risk identification, analysis, evaluation and Board mitigation rests with the line management of the businesses.
They The Board has overall responsibility for determining the nature and are also responsible for reporting and monitoring key risks in extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its accordance with established processes under the Groups strategic objectives, and ensuring that risks are managed effectively Operational Framework.
The Groups risk management process is set out in the Risk Risk is a regular agenda item at Board meetings and the Board Management Policy, a mandated policy under the Operational reviews risk as part of its regular strategy review process.
This is Framework, and, in respect of projects, in the Lifecycle Management aimed at providing the Board with an appreciation of the key risks LCM Framework, a core business process under the Operational within the business and oversight of how they are being managed.
Further guidance is provided by a Risk Management The Board delegates certain risk management activities to the Audit Maturity self-assessment tool.
and Corporate Responsibility committees as follows.
Identified risks are documented in controlled risk registers showing: Audit Committee the risks that have been identified: characteristics of the risk: the The Audit Committee monitors the Groups key risks identified by the basis for determining mitigation strategy: and what reviews and risk assessment processes and reports its findings to the Board on a monitoring are necessary.
Each risk is allocated an owner who has regular basis.
It is also responsible for reviewing in detail the authority and responsibility for assessing and managing it.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control policies, and Project risks are reported and monitored in Group-mandated format procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
Contract Review Packs, which are reviewed by management at Corporate Responsibility Committee monthly Contract Reviews.
The financial performance of projects is The Corporate Responsibility Committee monitors the Groups reported and monitored using Contract Status Reports, which form performance in managing the Groups significant non-financial risks, part of the Contract Review Pack.
These include programme margin including those arising in respect of business conduct, health and variation metrics, which are reviewed regularly by the Executive safety, and the environment, and reports its findings to the Board on a Committee and Board see KPI on page 17.
Project margin is regular basis.
recognised after making suitable allowances for technical and other risks related to performance milestones yet to be achieved.
Approach The Groups approach to risk management is aimed at the early In addition, every six months, the businesses complete an identification of key risks, to remove or reduce the likelihood and Operational Assurance Statement OAS, which is a mandated policy effect of those risks before they occur, and deal effectively with them if under the Operational Framework.
The OAS is in two parts: a selfthey crystallise.
assessment of compliance with the Operational Framework: and a report showing the key risks for the relevant business.
Together with The Group is committed to the protection of its assets, which include independent reviews undertaken by Internal Audit and the work of the human, property and financial resources, through an effective risk external auditors, the OAS forms the Groups process for reviewing the management process, underpinned where appropriate by insurance.
effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
Reporting within the Group is structured so that key issues are Executive Committee escalated through the management team, ultimately to the Board The key financial and non-financial risks identified by the businesses where appropriate.
The underlying principles of the Groups risk from the risk assessment processes are collated and reviewed by the management policy are that risks are monitored continuously, Executive Committee to identify those issues where the cumulative associated action plans reviewed, appropriate contingencies risk, or possible reputational impacts, could be significant.
provisioned and this information reported through established management control procedures.
Management responsibility for the management of the Groups most significant non-financial risks is allocated at the Executive As with any system of internal control, the policies and processes that Committees risk workshops.
The OAS and Non-financial Risk are mandated in the Operational Framework are designed to manage registers are reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee to rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, monitor the status and progression of mitigation plans, and these key and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against risks are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Principal risks Financial and non-financial risks The principal risks identified by the Group using the policies and Financial risks expose the Group to potential costs which are processes explained above during the year are shown on pages 62 quantifiable on the basis that their probability and impact can be to67.
This year, the Group has included cybersecurity as a principal adequately understood and related to the financial statements.
Non-financial risks cannot readily be assessed in financial terms and, therefore, cannot be reflected reliably in the financial statements.
For more information on the activities of the For more information on the Groups business 72 105 Board and its committees processes and mandated policies Group performance review M S I I T S I Y G L A A T N I O A N BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 61 BOARD Overall responsibility for risk management Monitoring AUDIT COMMITTEE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register Non-fi financial Risk Register Non-fi financial Risk Register Monitoring and reporting Monitoring and reporting Monitoring and reporting EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register Non-fi financial Risk Register Monitoring and reporting BUSINESSES Integrated Business Plan Core Business Process Annual Board-approved long-term strategy and fi five-year plan for each business Operational Assurance Statement Mandated Policy Six-monthly management self-assessment of compliance with the Operational Framework and summary of key risks Chief Executives Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly top-level review of the key operational and fi financial performance issues within the business, and signifi cant forthcoming events Quarterly Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly management review of the performance of each of the Groups businesses against their objectives, measures and milestones Lifecycle Management Contract Review Core Business Process Monthly management review of project performance and issues to ensure that appropriate decisions and actions are taken Monitoring and reporting BUSINESS RISK Risk Management Policy Mandated Policy 1.
ANALYSIS Financial and non-fi financial risks recorded Risks analysed for impact and probability in controlled risk registers to determine gross exposure 4.
EVALUATION Risk owners identifi ed and action Risk exposure reviewed and risks plans implemented prioritised Robust mitigation strategy subject to regular and rigorous review As defined in the Groups For more information on the Groups 105 Operational Framework Operational Framework N O E I V T A A L C U I F A I T T I N O E N D I
