62 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 PRINCIPAL RISKS Summary of principal risks The Groups principal risks are identified below, together with a description of how the Group mitigates those risks.
Financial Performance Link to Total Performance Customer Focus Programme Execution Responsible Behaviour Other High impact Defence spending p62 Large contracts p64 Laws and Competition p65 regulations p65 Government Fixed-price contracts p64 Pension funding p66 customers p63 Export controls and other Global market p63 restrictions p66 Acquisitions p66 Medium impact Contract award Component availability, Consortia and joint timing p63 subcontractor performance ventures p67 and key suppliers p64 Exchange rates p67 Cybersecurity p67 Defence spending Impact Despite significant budgetary pressures, The Group is dependent on A decrease in defence spending by the theUS government remains committed defencespending.
Groups major customers could have a toprotecting the size, reach and fighting Description material adverse effect on the Groups future strength of its military, and has committed The Groups core businesses are primarily results and financial condition.
tosubstantial investments in high priority defence-related, selling products and capabilities and programmes.
Mitigation services directly and indirectly, mainly to the The Groups business is geographically In the UK, the 2010 Strategic Defence and US, UK, Saudi Arabian, and other national spread across five home markets, and its Security Review defined the areas of future governments.
Defence spending depends on products are marketed across a range of spend in defence and confirmed that the a complex mix of political considerations, defence markets.
The Group has ahighly Groups strategy is focused on the budgetary constraints, and the ability of the sustainable Services business, whichis an appropriateareas.
armed forces to meet specific threats and area for growth as customers operations and perform certain missions, and, as such, may In Saudi Arabia, regional tensions continue maintenance budgets come under pressure.
be subject to significant fluctuations from todictate that defence remains a high priority.
Significant cost reductions have already year to year.
With constraints on government been made to address increased budgetary expenditure in a number of the Groups For more information on the Groups pressures in the US and UK.
TheGroup 11 markets and countries in the Eurozone area five home markets continues to use realistic assumptions to currently experiencing serious financial underpin its financial andoperational difficulties, affordability continues to be a planning.
Group performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 63 Government customers general practices relating to, government toensure the Groups strategy is aligned with The Groups largest customers contracts.
As a result of these audits and theirs.
In the event of a customer termination aregovernments.
reviews, costs and prices under these for convenience, the Group would typically be Description contracts may be subject to adjustment.
paid for work done and commitments made Companies engaged in the supply of defence atthe time of termination.
Having sovereign Impact and security related equipment and services governments as major customers offers the The termination of one or more of the to government agencies are subject to certain benefits of dealing with mature procurement contracts for the Groups programmes by business risks particular to the defence and organisations with which the Group can have governments: the failure of the relevant security industries.
These governments could long-standing business relationships, and agencies to obtain expected funding modify contracts or terminate them at short well established and understood terms appropriations for the Groups programmes: notice and at their convenience.
or a deterioration in the Groups relationship long-term US government contracts are with any of its key government customers and normally funded annually and are subject to For more information on the corresponding reduction in contract awards, 6 cancellation or delay if funding appropriations Groups strategy could have a material adverse effect on the for subsequent performance periods are not Groups future results and financial condition.
Terms and risk sharing agreements can also be amended.
In addition, the Group, Mitigation as a government contractor, is subject to The Board regularly reviews the Groups financial audits and other reviews by some performance in its markets, and the Executive ofits governmental customers with respect Committee continues to work closely with the tothe performance of, and the accounting and government customers in these markets Global market operates: economic downturns, political Impact The Group operates in a global market.
instability and civil disturbances could disrupt The occurrence of any such events could have Description the Groups business activities: government a material adverse effect on the Groups BAE Systems is a global company which regulations and administrative policies future results and financial condition.
conducts business in a number of regions, couldchange quickly and restraints on Mitigation including the Middle East, and, as a result, themovement of capital could be imposed: The Group has a balanced portfolio of assumes certain risks associated with governments could expropriate the Groups businesses across its markets.
businesses with a broad geographical reach.
assets: and burdensome taxes or tariffs could In some countries, these risks include, and be introduced.
For more information on the Groups are not limited to, the following: political 11 five home markets changes could lead to changes in the business environment in which the Group Contract award timing Impact Mitigation The Group is dependent on the timing Amounts receivable under the Groups The Board regularly reviews the Groups of award of defence contracts.
defence contracts can be substantial and, performance with regard to contract awards, Description therefore, the timing of awards, or failure to and the Executive Committee actively The Groups profits and cash flows are receive anticipated awards, could materially manages the assets and resources of the dependent, to a significant extent, on affect the Groups profits and cash flows for Group in line with the timing of awards.
thetiming of award of defence contracts.
For more information on Lifecycle In 2011, the Groups financial performance Management LCM which mandates 105 projectmanagement processes was impacted by a delay in the award of a contract from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia relating to price escalation on the Salam Typhoon programme.
Negotiations on the contract continue in 2012.
64 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 PRINCIPAL RISKS continued Large contracts Impact these large contracts, and the Executive Certain of the Groups businesses The loss, expiration, suspension, cancellation Committee continues to work closely with aredependent on a small number or termination of any one of these large these customers to ensure the Groups oflarge contracts.
contracts, for any reason, could have a strategy is aligned with theirs.
Description material adverse effect on the Groups future A significant proportion of the Groups results and financial condition.
For more information on the Groups order book 23 by major programme and reporting segment revenue comes from a small number of large Mitigation contracts.
Each of these contracts, which are The Group has a well-balanced spread of primarily in the Platforms & Services UK and programmes and a large forward order book, Platforms & Services International reporting which provides long-term visibility.
The Board segments, is typically worth or potentially regularly reviews the Groups performance on worth over 1bn.
Fixed-price contracts Impact operational level.
Robust bid preparation and The Group has fixed-price contracts.
The Groups failure to anticipate technical approvals processes are well established Description problems, estimate costs accurately or throughout the Group, with decisions required A significant portion of the Groups revenue is control costs during performance of a to be taken at the appropriate level in line with derived from fixed-price contracts.
An inherent fixed-price contract may reduce the profitability clear delegations of authority.
The consistent risk in these fixed-price contracts is that of such a contract or result in a loss.
application of metrics is used to support the actual performance costs may exceed the review of individual contract performance.
Mitigation projected costs on which the fixed prices for The Group has reduced its exposure to such contracts are agreed.
These contracts For KPIs relating to schedule adherence fixed-price design and development activity can extend over many years and it can be 16 and programme margin variation which is in general more risk intensive than difficult to predict the ultimate outturn fixed-price production activity.
To manage costsassociated with the terms on which contract-related risks and uncertainties, theyare based.
contracts are managed under LCM at the Component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers ability to meet their obligations to the Group.
Mitigation The Group is dependent upon In addition, some products require relatively The Groups procurement function, which is component availability, subcontractor scarce raw materials.
The Group is generally led by a member of the Executive Committee, performance and key suppliers.
subject to specific procurement requirements is responsible for establishing and managing Description which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and end-to-end integrated supplier arrangements.
The Group is dependent upon the delivery of subcontractors it may utilise.
In some The Executive Committee continues materials by suppliers, and the assembly of instances, the Group is dependent on one or a tomonitor this risk and the Group has components and subsystems by subcontractors limited number of suppliers.
If any of these experienced no material negative impact to used in its products in a timely and satisfactory suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet the date.
The Group reviews the financial health manner, and in full compliance with applicable Groups needs, the Group may not, in the of strategically important suppliers globally terms and conditions.
short term, have readily available alternatives, onan ongoing basis.
thereby impacting its ability to complete its Impact customer obligations satisfactorily and in a For more information on Some of the Groups suppliers or 56 suppliers timely manner, which could have a negative subcontractors may be impacted by the impact on the Groups future results and economic environment and constraints on financial condition.
available financing, which could impair their Group performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 65 Laws and regulations Impact Auniform global policy and process for the The Group is subject to risk from a Failure by the Group or its sales representatives, appointment of advisers engaged in business failure to comply with laws marketing advisers or others acting on development is in effect.
itsbehalf to comply with these laws and Pursuant to its commitments concerning Description regulations could result in administrative, civil ongoing regulatory compliance made in the The Group has contracts and operations in or criminal liabilities resulting in significant course of the 2010 settlement with the US many parts of the world, operates in a highly fines and penalties, and or result in the Department of Justice and the consequent regulated environment, and is subject to suspension or debarment of theGroup from 2011 settlement with the US Department of applicable laws and regulations of many government contracts for some period of time State, the Group appointed, respectively, an jurisdictions.
These include, without or suspension of the Groups export privileges.
independent monitor in 2010 and a Special limitation, regulations relating to importMitigation Compliance Official in 2011, in each case for export controls, money laundering, false During the year, the Group has continued a period of up to three years, to monitor the accounting, anti-bribery and anti-boycott toadd resources dedicated to legal and Groups compliance with its respective provisions.
Non-compliance could expose regulatory compliance in order to enhance commitments under those settlements and theGroup to fines, penalties, suspension further its capability to identify and manage its compliance obligations going forward.
ordebarment, which could have a material the risk of compliance failure.
Internal and adverse effect on the Group.
From time to external market risk assessments form an For more information on the Groups approach time, the Group is subject to government 56 tobusiness conduct important element of the ongoing corporate investigations relating to its operations.
Competition readiness of its facilities, equipment and Impact The Groups business is subject personnel to undertake the programmes In the event that the Group is unable tosignificant competition.
adequately to compete in the markets in Description which it operates, the Groups business and In some instances, governments direct to The Groups businesses are subject to future results may be adversely impacted.
asingle supplier all work for a particular competition from national and multi-national programme, commonly known as sole-source Mitigation firms with substantial resources and capital, programmes.
Although governments have The Groups global, multi-market presence, and many contracts are obtained through a historically awarded certain programmes to the balanced portfolio of businesses, leading competitive bidding process.
Group on a sole-source basis, they may in the capabilities and performance continue to The Groups ability to compete for contracts future determine to open such programmes to address this risk.
In particular, the Group depends to a large extent on the strength of a competitive bidding process.
Government invests in research and development, and itsintellectual property rights and technical contracts for defence-related products can, in innovation, and continues to reduce its cost know-how, together with the effectiveness and certain countries, be awarded on the basis of base and improve efficiencies.
innovation of its research and development home country preference.
programmes, its ability to offer better For more information on the Groups 11 programme performance than its competitors five home markets at a lower cost to its customers, and the 66 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 PRINCIPAL RISKS continued Pension funding require the Group to increase the amount of In future, the growth of the defined benefit The Group has an aggregate cash contributions payable to these schemes, liabilities is expected to be curtailed as new fundingdeficit in its defined thereby reducing cash available to meet employees in the UK will be offered benefitpension schemes.
theGroups other operating, investing and membership of a defined contribution Description financing requirements.
pension scheme with effect from 1 April The Group operates certain defined benefit 2012, rather than the current defined benefit Mitigation pension schemes.
At present, in aggregate, defined contribution hybrid scheme.
Current Following triennial funding valuations of the there is an actuarial deficit between the value members of the Groups legacy plans will be Groups two largest UK pension schemes in of the projected liabilities of these schemes unaffected by this change.
2011, revised deficit recovery plans have and the assets they hold.
The performance of the Groups For more information on the Groups Impact pension schemes and deficit recovery plans pension accounting and funding valuations, 50 The amount of the deficits may be adversely and deficit recovery plans are regularly reviewed by both the Group and affected by changes in a number of factors, the trustees of the schemes taking actuarial including investment returns, long-term and investment advice as appropriate.
The interest rate and price inflation expectations, results of these reviews are discussed with and anticipated members longevity.
Further the Board and appropriate action taken.
increases in pension scheme deficits may Export controls and other restrictions stringent controls, or that political factors or Mitigation The Group is subject to export changing international circumstances will not The Group has formal systems and policies controls and other restrictions.
result in the Group being unable to obtain inplace which are mandated under the Description necessary export licences.
Operational Framework to ensure adherence A portion of the Groups sales is derived to regulatory requirements and identify any Impact fromthe export of its products.
The export restrictions that could adversely impact the Reduced access to export markets could ofdefence and security products outside Groups activities.
havea material adverse effect on the thejurisdictions in which they are produced is Groupsfuture results and financial condition.
subject to licensing and export controls, and For more information Failureto comply with export controls and 13 other restrictions.
No assurance can be given on exports wider regulations could expose the Group to that the export controls to which the Group fines, penalties, suspension or debarment, issubject will not become more restrictive, which could have a material adverse effect that new generations of the Groups products onthe Group.
willnot also be subject to similar or more Acquisitions Impact Mitigation The anticipated benefits of The diversion of management attention to The Group has established policies in acquisitions may not be achieved.
integration efforts and the performance of the placetomanage the acquisition process, Description acquired businesses below expectations monitor the integration and performance of The Group has experienced growth through could adversely affect the Groups business, acquired businesses, and identify potential acquisitions and continues to pursue and create the risk of impairments arising on impairments.
acquisitions in order to meet its strategic goodwill and other intangible assets.
Whether the Group realises the For more information on the Groups 10 anticipated benefits from these transactions M&A activity during theyear depends upon the successful integration of the acquired businesses, as well as their performance.
Group performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 67 Consortia and joint ventures Impact Mitigation The Group is involved in consortia, In the event of failure or disagreement within The Group seeks to participate only in joint ventures and equity holdings aconsortium, joint venture or equity holding ventures in which its interests are where it does not have control.
and the business arrangement failing to meet complementary to those of its partners, and Description its strategic objectives or expected benefits, has formal systems and procedures in place The Group participates in various consortia, the Groups business and future results may to monitor the performance of such business joint ventures and equity holdings, exercising be adversely affected.
The risk of failure or the risk of disagreement, particularly in For more information on the Groups 141 principal joint ventures those that require the unanimous consent of all members with regard to major decisions, is inherent in any jointly controlled entity.
Exchange rates Impact income statement or balance sheet of The Group is exposed to volatility Significant fluctuations in exchange rates foreignsubsidiaries and equity accounted incurrency exchange rates.
towhich the Group is exposed could have a investments it regards as long-term Description material adverse effect on the Groups future investments.
Hedges are, however, The global nature of the Groups business results and financial condition.
undertaken in respect of investments that are means it is exposed to volatility in currency not considered long term or core to the Group.
Mitigation exchange rates in respect of foreign currency In order to protect itself against currency denominated transactions, and the translation For more information on the Groups fluctuations, the Groups policy is to hedge all 52 of net assets and income statements of treasurypolicies material firm transactional exposures, unless foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted otherwise approved as exceptions by the investments.
The Group is exposed to a Treasury Review Management Committee.
number of foreign currencies, the most The Group does not hedge the translation significant being the US dollar, Euro and Saudi effect of exchange rate movements on the Arabian riyal.
Cybersecurity Impact Mitigation The Group could be negatively Failure to combat these risks effectively could The Group has a broad range of measures in impacted by information technology negatively impact the Groups reputation place, including appropriate tools and security threats.
among its customers and the public, cause techniques, to monitor and mitigate this risk.
Description disruption to its business operations, and As a defence, aerospace and security could result in a negative impact on the company, the security threats faced by the Groups future results and financial condition.
Group include threats to its information technology infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain access to its proprietary or classified information and the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have an adverse effect on the business or financial condition of the Group.
68 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 GOVERNANCE Board of directors 70 Corporate governance 72 Audit Committee report 76 Corporate Responsibility Committee report 77 Nominations Committee report 78 Remuneration Committee report 79 Remuneration report 81 Remuneration strategy, policy and packages 81 Summary of Long-Term Incentive Plans 88 Other share schemes, pensions and executive directors service contracts 91 Chairmans appointment, term and fees 93 Non-executive directors appointment, term and fees 93 Tabular information on directors shareholdings, share-based incentives, emoluments and pensions 94 Corporate governance report 101 Board committee governance 107 Other statutory and regulatory information 110 Statement of directors responsibilities 113 Surface Ships is part of BAE Systems Maritime.
Founded on almost 150 years experience in the delivery of complex warships, Surface Ships is a through-life enterprise that crosses the traditional boundaries of shipbuilder and support services provider.
Governance BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 69
