Policy and review Our business Managing risk Risk management Effective risk management is fundamental to 1. how we run our business and underpins the Board delivery of the Groups objectives.
It is essential in helping us achieve sustainable shareholder 2.
Divisional value and in protecting our reputation.
management The Groups approach to risk management is to identify, at an earlystage, key risks and then to develop actions to eliminate 3.
Operating company ormitigate, to an acceptable level, the impact and likelihood of management thoserisks.
Risk management processes are embedded throughout the Group, at all levels, and assist management in identifying and Risks understanding the risks they face in delivering business objectivesand the status of the key controls they have in place tomanage those risks.
These processes form an integral part ofthe day-to-day business activities of the Group.
of Group policies and delegated authority levels set by the Board.
Roles and responsibilities These delegated policies and authorities provide the means by The Board is responsible for the Groups system of risk which risks are reviewed and escalated to the appropriate level management and internal control.
within the Group, up to and including the Board, for consideration and approval.
The Board determines and sets the degree of risk which is considered appropriate and acceptable in pursuit of the Groups The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees, strategic objectives and the level of risk which can be taken by divisional and operating company management are set out below Group, divisional and operating company management without with details of how those roles and responsibilities are discharged.
This is managed through a small number Roles and responsibilities Responsibilities Actions undertaken 1.
Board Responsible for the Groups systems of risk Issue and review the Groups risk management policy management and internal control Annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups Determining the nature and extent of the risk management and internal control systems significant risks the Group is willing to take Review and consideration of the Groups key risks inachieving its strategic objectives and responses thereto Audit Committee To review the effectiveness of the Groups Receive regular reports on the results of internal internal controls, including systems established and external audit and other assurance activities to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks Annual assessment of the Groups system of risk management and internal control Review of risk management and assurance activities and processes Business Practices Review the Groups performance inmanaging Receive regular reports on the implementation of the Committee risks associated with health and safety, Groups health and safety, sustainability and ethics sustainability, employee engagement, and compliance programmes as well as the Groups corporate values, ethics and the Groups HR policies Codeof Conduct Review the effectiveness of the Groups helpline procedures and other mechanisms for raising concerns 2.
Divisional Responsible for risk management and internal Monthly review of key risks and mitigation plans management control systems within their division Review and challenge of operating company Ensure that operating companies assurance plans responsibilities are discharged Review of results of assurance activities Elevating key risks to Group management and Board 3.
Operating company Maintain an effective system of risk Maintain and regularly review project, functional management management and internal control within and strategic risk registers theirbusinesses Review of mitigation plans Planning and executing assurance activities 58 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Information and risk reporting Our business Risk management process Identification Analysis & evaluation Reporting & Mitigation Identify business Risks analysed as to monitoring Action plans objectives likelihood and impact Risk and mitigation developedand Risks identified at Group, Risk evaluation recorded planssubject to regular implemented to divisional, operating in risk register and rigorous review mitigate eliminate risks company, functional and Key issues elevated, Action owners and projectlevel asappropriate, timescales defined Financial and nonthroughmanagement financial risks recorded reporting structures inrisk registers Risk owners identified Risk management process The Board has concluded that the Group maintained sound risk The Groups risk management policy requires all divisions and the management and internal control systems throughout the year operating companies within them to identify and assess the risks andhas reviewed their effectiveness.
towhich they are exposed and which could impact their ability to deliver their and the Groups objectives.
Principal risks The Group operates in many business environments and across Risk registers are used to record the risk events identified, their anumber of territories in which risks and uncertainties exist, not all causes and possible consequences.
Risks are then analysed as of which are necessarily within its control.
Whilst acknowledging that tothe likelihood of occurrence and also the potential impact on it is not possible to eliminate such risks and uncertainties completely, thebusiness.
established risk management and internal control systems and Actions are then developed and put in place to mitigate or eliminate procedures exist within the Group to mitigate their impact.
Individuals are allocated responsibility for The Board recognises that there may be other risks and evaluating and managing risks identified to an agreed timescale.
uncertainties which are currently unknown to it or which could Risk registers and relevant action plans are regularly reviewed, become material in the future.
However, it believes that the Groups atvarious levels throughout the business, to identify new risks established risk management and internal control systems have asthey arise, update mitigation plans, and to remove risks that helped and will continue to help it in identifying and responding areno longer relevant.
tosuch risks and to the changing business environment and challenges it faces.
Reporting structures ensure that risks are continually monitored and that mitigation plans are subject to review within the Group.
The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties which are Established business reporting systems ensure that significant risk common to many companies, for example, financial and treasury exposures are escalated from project level to operating company risks, information technology and information security risks and the management to divisional management and ultimately to the Chief management of pension liabilities, which are significant.
The Group Executive and the Board, as appropriate, via monthly quarterly has established controls and systems in place to manage such risks.
Set out on pages 60 to 62 is a description of those principal risks The Companys risk management policy and standards also require facing the Group which could adversely impact its profitability and all divisions and operating companies to have in place appropriate its ability to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Group operates assurance mechanisms to ensure that the controls and actions put predominantly in the UK and North America with significant in place to mitigate and eliminate risks are operating effectively.
operations in Australasia and the Middle East and is seeking Arange of procedures are used to monitor the effective application toexpand into new territories.
of internal controls and these include management assurance, risk management processes and independent assurance provided by internal audit reviews and other specific reviews conducted by specialist third parties.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 59 Our business Managing risk continued Economic environment The continued effect of the global economic downturn may cause the Groups customers to cancel, postpone or reduce spending on existing or future infrastructure projects.
This is particularly relevant in certain key markets where many of our clients are in the public or regulated sectors.
The current economic conditions also increase the Groups exposure to counterparty credit risk of its customers, subcontractors, joint venture partners, financial institutions and other suppliers.
Impact Mitigation Any significant changes in the level or timing of The Group has a broad exposure to various infrastructure markets across the customer spending or investment plans could globe.
This and the continued need for infrastructure spending mitigates adversely impact the Groups order book.
Such theeffect of changes in spending in any one market.
The Group maintains changes could arise from a change in government ahigh level of engagement with its customers to understand and respond policy or from a failure of customers to secure effectively to their evolving requirements at all phases of the infrastructure financing for future projects.
The Group has identified and continues to identify new infrastructure markets as they develop eg power, mining, Brazil and India.
Failure of a customer, including any government or The financial solvency and strength of counterparties is always considered public sector body, could result in non-collection of prior to the signing of contracts and is a specific focus inthecurrent amounts owed.
During the life of a contract such assessments are updated and reviewed whenever possible.
The Group seeks to ensure that it is not over-reliant on any one counterparty.
Failure of a subcontractor or supplier would result in The Group seeks to develop long-term relationships with a number of key the Group having to find a replacement or undertaking subcontractors by understanding their operations and working with them.
the task itself which could result in time delays and Contingency plans are developed to address the eventuality of the failure of additional costs.
In addition, project retentions, bonds and or letters of credit will be obtained, where appropriate, from subcontractors to mitigate the impact of any insolvency.
Reporting and monitoring Strategic roadmap process Monthly quarterly finance and performance review Budgetary process Expansion into new territories and by acquisition The Group, in pursuit of its strategic objectives, will seek to enter into new territories and continue to make acquisitions.
Failure to identify and manage the risks associated with either of these could impact the ability of the Group to meet its strategic objectives and result in loss and reputational damage.
Impact Mitigation Failure to identify, understand and evaluate the As part of the decision making process to enter into a new territory, a detailed risks of conducting business in a new territory country risk assessment will be undertaken.
These will consider and assess could lead to significant financial loss and the prevailing economic, political, regulatory, ethical, health, safety and reputational damage.
sustainability conditions to ensure that the Group is able to operate in that territory consistent with its own values and standards.
Failure to realise the expected benefits from Detailed due diligence is undertaken on all potential acquisitions to ensure that the acquisitions and to integrate successfully the acquired businesses values and their approach to health, safety and sustainability businesses acquired into the Groups processes aligns with those of the Group.
In addition, valuation models are prepared on all could result in an adverse impact on the Groups potential acquisitions drawing upon both internal and external resources.
Due strategic objectives, future prospects, financial diligence also includes an assessment of the ability to integrate the acquired conditions and profitability.
businesses successfully into the Group.
When a business is acquired, detailed integration plans are developed and monitored to ensure the successful integration of the business into the Group and its internal control framework.
Reporting and monitoring Monthly quarterly finance and performance reviews Board divisional review and approval Board review and approval of initiatives involving entering a new country Legal and regulatory The Group operates in a number of diverse territories and its businesses are subject to a number of complex, demanding and evolving legal, tax and regulatory requirements.
Such requirements will only increase in complexity as the Group enters new countries.
Impact Mitigation A breach of these local laws and regulations could The Group monitors and responds to legal and regulatory developments in lead to legal proceedings, investigations or disputes the territories in which it operates.
A countrys legal and regulatory resulting in a disruption of business, ranging from framework is considered as part of any Group decision to conduct business additional costs incurred on a project, to potential in a new country.
Reporting and monitoring Monthly quarterly performance reviews Strategic roadmap process 60 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business Business conduct The Group operates in various international markets with partners and supply chains which may have inherent risks relating tobusiness conduct including but not limited to fraud, bribery and corruption.
Impact Mitigation Failure by the Group and its employees to observe Throughout the Group there is a vigorous approach to assessing corruption the highest standards of integrity and conduct in risks.
The Group has a number of programmes dealing with compliance dealing with customers, suppliers and other withthe Groups Code of Conduct, competition law, data protection etc.
stakeholders could result in civil and or criminal E-learning courses have been developed and are used throughout the Group penalties, debarment and reputational damage.
to raise awareness of and to embed many of those compliance programmes.
Each operating company has appointed acompliance officer who is responsible for ensuring the application and monitoring of these programmes.
Reporting and monitoring Business Practices Committee Monthly quarterly performance and operations reviews People The success of the Group depends on its ability to recruit and retain the best management and employees who have the appropriate competencies and also share the Groups values and behaviours.
Impact Mitigation Failure to recruit and retain appropriately skilled All key roles in the organisation have a competency and leadership framework people could have an adverse impact on the against which potential recruits are measured.
Organisation and people Groupsability to deliver specific contracts and reviews are undertaken by each division and its operating companies to review itsfuture growth.
the role, competencies, performance and potential of personnel.
Awelldeveloped succession planning process exists within the Group to identify and develop high-potential calibre personnel to fill key roles that arise.
These plans are reviewed and discussed at all levels within the organisation and by the Board on a regular basis.
Appropriate remuneration and incentive packages areinplace to assist in the attraction and retention of key employees.
Reporting and monitoring Board review Monthly operations and performance reviews Remuneration Committee Annual succession planning review Nominations Committee Bidding The Group, through its operating companies, seeks to win work through a large number of bids each year.
In executing certain of these bids the Group may seek to engage in joint ventures with carefully selected partners especially in those instances where the Group may not possess the necessary expertise or knowledge of the territory.
The Group also invests in a number of PPP and infrastructure investments, the success of which are dependent on a number of assumptions made, at the time of investment, on future revenues and costs.
Impact Mitigation Failure to estimate accurately risks, costs, the impact All bids are subject to rigorous estimating and tendering processes within of inflation and the contractual terms being entered adefined framework.
into and how best to manage them could have an Defined delegated authority levels exist for the approval of all tenders and adverse impact on the profitability of such contracts.
infrastructure investments, with all major and significant contracts in excess of those authority levels being subject to Group review and approval by the Group Tender and Investment Committee GTIC.
In the event of a disagreement with, or the failure, The Group has procedures in place to review the relevant skills, experience, orpoor performance of a joint venture partner to resources and values of joint venture partners to understand how they deliver, the Group could be exposed to financial complement those of the Group.
The performance of joint ventures and joint andreputational damage.
venture partners is monitored throughout the life of theproject.
If any of the assumptions made on investment Investment appraisals are performed and reviewed by experienced decisions prove to be incorrect it could have an adverse professionals.
The risks associated with revenues and costs are analysed impact on the profitability of those investments.
and, where appropriate, contractual and other risk mitigations are established.
Reporting and monitoring Monthly quarterly operations, performance Board review of GTIC activities andfinancial reviews Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 61 Our business Managing risk continued Project execution The Group is engaged in a number of complex design, engineering, construction, facilities management and asset management projects.
The successful delivery of many of these projects is dependent on the combined availability and effective management ofsubcontractors and other service providers.
The Groups ability to execute these projects to its customers requirements and on a timely basis exposes it, in the event it were tofail to do so, to the risk of financial loss and reputational damage.
Impact Mitigation Failure to manage or deliver against contracted Each operating company has a number of defined operating procedures customer requirements to an appropriate quality and designed to address the risks inherent in project delivery.
In addition, the on a timely basis could result in a number of issues Groups risk management framework facilitates the identification of specific iecontract disputes, unagreed claims, design issues, risks on projects and the mitigating actions required.
Projects are subject to cost overruns, failure to achieve customer savings management review at all levels to monitor progress and to review steps put which could adversely impact the profitability and in place to address specific risks identified on those projects.
The failure of a subcontractor to perform to an The Group seeks to develop long-term relationships with a number of its key appropriate standard and quality could result in subcontractors whilst at the same time not becoming over-reliant on any one.
delays to a project and adversely impact the ability As part of its selection criteria, the Group seeks to partner with subcontractors ofthe Group to meet its contractual commitments suppliers which share its values.
Reporting and monitoring Monthly quarterly operations and performance review Health, safety and sustainability Further information on the Groups health, safety and sustainability activities are given on pages 48 to 51.
The Group is involved in significant and complex projects which require the continuous monitoring and management of health and safety risks.
A major catastrophic incident in relation to one of the Groups projects eg structural collapse or accident arising from work performed could result in harm to the public or workforce and partners and could expose the Group to significant losses and reputational damage.
The Group, through its activities, is aware of the impact it can have on the world in which it operates and the communities with which it comes into contact.
In addition, for a number of its customers the impact of projects on communities duringtheir execution and operation in both the short term and the long term is a key consideration when evaluating bids.
A failure to meet these requirements could result in a loss of work, reputational damage or financial loss.
Impact Mitigation Failure to manage these risks could expose the Detailed health and safety policies and procedures exist to minimise such publicor our people to injury harm and the Group to risks and are subject to review and monitoring by both operating companies significant potential liabilities and reputational damage.
Within each operating company there are experienced health and safety advisers who provide advice and support toline management and also undertake regular reviews.
Failure to execute projects in a sustainable manner The Group has developed and implemented a sustainability strategy covering could result in significant potential liabilities, its operations until 2020 in terms of profitable markets, healthy communities reputational damage and not being able to win and environmental limits.
Sustainability issues eg specific customer future work.
requirements, climate change adaptation are considered in risk management activities undertaken at an operating company as well as project level.
Reporting and monitoring Sustainability working group Monthly quarterly operations reviews Executive Committee Business Practices Committee Board review 62 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our governance Our governance 64 Chairmans introduction 66 Board of Directors 68 Directors report 82 Remuneration report Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 63
