understanding our business PRINCIPAL RISKS AND uNCERTAINTIES Delivering strategic priorities through effective risk management The Board has overall responsibility for Group risk management.
It reviews principal risk OrganisatiOnal structure risks and uncertainties regularly, together with the actions taken to mitigate them.
The Board has delegated responsibility for assurance for the risk management process and the review of mitigating controls to the bOard Audit Committee.
Overall responsibility Executive Directors together with Senior for risk framework and Management from every division and internal control corporate function of the business complete aGroup risk register.
Risks are considered Ongoing review of their interms of their impact and likelihood from effectiveness both a financial and reputational perspective.
Risks are assessed both gross and net of reports to board mitigating controls.
Review meetings are on its work heldto ensure consistency of response and and conclusions adequacy of grading.
Detailed risk registers are reviewed twice yearly and upon any material change in the business with a full audit risk review undertaken annually, at which cOmmittee point it is also reviewed in detail by the AuditCommittee with new or emerging risks monitors and reviews risk considered by the Committee as appropriate.
and internal control This allows the Audit Committee to monitor framework the most important controls and prioritise risk management and internal audit .
On the following pages are the principal risks reports to audit and uncertainties from across the business.
committee on its These are not exhaustive, the Group monitors findings and seniOr a number of additional risks and adjusts those recommendations management considered principal as the risk profile across team the business changes.
compiles group risk register considers and challenges mitigating controls calibrates and scores responses 14 understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements 1. corporate risks impact: The Groups ability to maintain its reputation, revenue and value could be damaged by corporate risks.
risk impact potential mitigation factors Responding to regulatory Reduced flexibility and increased Sound governance and internal policies with appropriately and legislative challenges.
skilled resource with support from external advisers as appropriate.
Responding to reputational, communication Reputational damage and Appointment of experienced individuals with clear .
Clear statements ofcorporate and social responsibility, skilled Executive and Non-executive Directors, with support from external advisers as appropriate.
Inability to implement strategy or correctly Constraints on growth and Regular strategic reviews and monitoring of allocate capital.
Corporate level oversight of capital allocation.
Detailed capital planning and financial modelling.
Maintain adequate cash and available facilities together with conservative leverage.
Adequacy of partner evaluation and management Reduced profitability and Appropriate due diligence andconsultation.
Non-REIT status brings heightened tax exposure and Competitive disadvantage.
Focus on assets and estates where skills can be applied to create a potential competitive disadvantage when bidding enhanced value.
Risk associated with attracting and retaining staff.
Inability to execute business plan.
Succession planning, performance evaluations, training & development, long-term incentive rewards.
Sound systems and processes to effectively capture and manage information.
Failure to comply with health andsafety or other Loss or injury to employees, Comprehensive health and safety procedures in place across statutory regulations or notices.
tenants or contractors and the Group and monitored regularly.
External consultants resultant reputational damage.
undertake annual audits inall locations.
Safe working practices well established, including staff communication andtraining.
Further information surrounding Corporate risks can be found within the Corporate Governance report on pages 52 to 58, the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 44 to 49 and the Financial Review on pages 38 to 43. www.
com 15 understanding our business PRINCIPAL RISKS AND uNCERTAINTIES CONTINuED 2. financing risks impact: Reduced or limited availability of debt or equity finance may threaten the Groups ability to meet its financial commitments or objectives and potentially to operate as a going concern.
risk impact potential mitigation factors Decline in market conditions or a general rise Reduced financial and Maintain appropriate liquidity to covercommitments.
ininterest rates could impact the availability .
Target longer and staggered debt maturities to andcost of debtfinancing.
avoidrefinancing concentration and consideration ofearlyrefinancing.
Derivative contracts to provide interest rateprotection.
Cash reserves required to Regular monitoring of covenants with headroom maintained.
Reduced availability of Constrained growth, Maintain appropriate liquidity to covercommitments.
lostopportunities, Target conservative overall leverage levels.
Further information on Financing risks can be found within the Financial Review on pages 38 to 43 and Financial Covenants on page 118.
3. economic risks impact: Economic factors may threaten the Groups ability to meet its strategic objectives.
risk impact potential mitigation factors Rents decline as a result of lowerdemand from Declining profitability.
Focus on quality tenants with initial assessment of credit risk occupiers due to increased competition, changes in and active creditcontrol.
social behaviour or deteriorating profitability and Diversity of occupier mix with limited exposure to any confidence during a period of economic uncertainty.
Strategic focus on creating retail destinations and residential districts withunique attributes.
Decline in uK commercial or residential real Declining valuations.
Regular assessment of investment marketconditions including bi-annual external valuations.
Restricted availability ofcreditand higher tax rates Decline in demand Regular monitoring of covenants withheadroom maintained.
maylead toreduced consumer spending andhigher for the Groups rental properties, levels of business failure.
Further information on Economic risks can be found within the Financial Review on pages 38 to 43 and pages 114 and 118.
16 understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements 4. concentration of investments impact: Heightened exposure to events that threaten or disrupt central London.
risk impact potential mitigation factors Events which damage or diminish Londons status Significant business disruption.
as a global financial, business and tourist centre could Security and health & safety policies and procedures in offices.
affect the Groups ability to let vacant space, reduce Close liaison with police & National Counter Terrorism the value of the Groups properties and potentially Security Office NaCTSO.
disrupt access or operations at the Groups head office.
Changes to existing orplanned infrastructure Disaster recovery and business continuity planning.
Concentration of higher Active involvement in organisations profile events in central London e. g. Olympics, and industry bodies promoting London.
Further information can be found within the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 44 to 49.
5. development risks impact: Inability to deliver against development plans, particularly regarding ECOA.
risk impact potential mitigation factors unable to secure planning consent due to political, Delayed implementation.
Pre-application consultation and involvement with key legislative or other risks inherent in the planning stakeholders andlandowners.
Risk of delay due to Secretary of State Engagement with relevant authorities at a local and national call-in or judicial review.
Inability to gain the support level to ensure development proposals are in accordance with of influential stakeholders.
Project team of internal staff and external consultants with capabilities across all relevant areas.
Technical studies with regular review.
Responsive consultation with evidence based information andfocus on agreed statements of common ground.
Failure to demonstrate or implement viable High volatility in valuations Extensive design and technical work undertaken along development due to environmental, transportation andGroups returns.
and affordable housing impact or other technical Properly tendered processes to select contractors and factors.
Punitive cost, design or other implications.
Inability to reach agreement with adjacent landowners including risk of Section 34A of the ECOA Masterplan design allows the development of each Housing Act 1985 in relation to LBHF land inECOA.
Further information can be found in the Operating Review on pages 18 to 37. www.
