REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Groups financial and operational performance is subject to a number of KEEPING CONTROL risks.
The Board seeks to ensure that appropriate processes are put in place tomanage, monitor and mitigate these risks of which the principal risks are OF OUR BUSINESS identified in the table below.
The Group recognises that the management of risk is fundamental to the achievement of Group targets.
As such management throughout the Group are involved in thisprocess.
Risk and description Relevance to strategy Mitigation Market The majority of homes built by the Group are A weekly review is undertaken of key trading Changes in the macroeconomic purchased by individuals who rely on the indicators, including reservations, sales environment including availability of mortgages.
The confidence of rates, visitor levels, incentives, competitor unemployment, buyer confidence, buyers and their ability to obtain mortgages activity and cash flow projections and, availability of mortgage finance, or other forms of financing are impacted where possible, appropriate management interest rates, competitor pricing, by the macroeconomic environment.
falls in house prices or land values Accordingly, customer demand is sensitive The Groups internal systems clearly or a failure of the housing market to to changes in economic conditions.
identify the impact of sales price changes recover further, may lead to a fall in The Groups ability to grow its business on the margins achievable and as a the demand for houses which in turn partly depends on securing land oroptions minimum the Group performs asset could result in impairments of the over sites and having adequate resources impairment reviews twice a year.
Groups inventories, goodwill and to build sufficient homes to meet demand.
The Group works with key mortgage intangible assets.
The Groups ability to do this can be lenders to ensure that products are Cost reduction measures may impacted by cash and profit constraints appropriate wherever possible for adversely affect the Groups business see also the Liquidity, Land and itscustomers.
or its ability to respond to future Construction risks sections below.
The Group has developed a Planning improvements in market conditions.
forRecovery programme to seek to ensure that appropriate systems are in place for when market conditions further improve, keeps its cost base tightly controlled and manages cost reduction measures via the stewardship of the Executive.
Liquidity The Group maintains committed facilities The Group has agreed its debt refinancing Unavailability of sufficient borrowing ofdifferent duration that are designed to which provides around 1 billion of facilities to enable the servicing of ensure that it has sufficient available funds committed facilities and private placement liabilities including pension funding for operations.
The Groups borrowings are notes to May 2015. and the inability to refinance facilities cyclical during the financial year and peak The Group has in place a as they fall due, obtain surety bonds, around April May and October November comprehensive regular forecasting process or comply with borrowing covenants.
each year as, due to seasonal trends in encompassing profitability, working capital Furthermore there are risks to income, these are the calendar points and cash flow that is fully embedded in the management of working capital such whenthe Group has the highest working business.
These forecasts are regularly as conditional contracts, build costs, capital requirements.
stress tested to ensure that adequate joint ventures and the cash flows The Group maintains sufficient facility headroom within facilities and banking related to them.
committed debt headroom and in addition covenants is maintained.
On a normal has a number of trade finance and surety operating basis the Group has a policy facilities that are designed to ensure that the ofmaintaining facility headroom of up Group has sufficient bonds available.
32 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
