Charitable and political contributions Rights and obligations attaching to shares During the year the Group made charitable donations of 45,700 Subject to any rights attached to existing shares, shares may be issued 2010:36,100.
Of the donations in the current year 5,000 was with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary totheUniversity College London Hospitals Charitable Foundation resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does andtheremainder was to local and good causes.
not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
No political contributions were made during the year 2010: nil.
Subject to the Act, the Articles specify that rights attached to any existing class of shares may be varied either with the written consent of Offices the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued The Group had 25 offices excluding those offices undertaking an shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury administrative function only located throughout Britain at the end shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate ofthefinancial year.
A full list of the Groups offices and their locations general meeting of the holders of those shares.
The rights conferred can be obtained from the Company Secretariat at the registered upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly officeof the Company or from the Companys website provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied www.
by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Risk management objectives Voting The principal operational risks of the business are detailed on pages Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which any shares may 32to 35.
The Groups financial assets, financial liabilities and derivative beissued or may at the relevant time be held, every member present in financial instruments are detailed in notes 22, 23 and 24 to the financial person or by proxy at a general meeting or class meeting has one vote statements.
Details of the Groups liquidity, market price, credit and upon a show of hands or, upon a poll vote, one vote for every share of cash flow risks are setoutin note 25 to the financial statements.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall Likely future developments beaccepted to the exclusion of votes of the other joint holders and An indication of likely future developments in the Group including in seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand thefield of research and development is given in the Business review inthe register in respect of the joint holding.
In accordance with the Act, each member is entitled to appoint one or Creditor payments more proxies, and in the case of corporations, more than one corporate The Group is responsible for agreeing the detail of terms and conditions representative to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and relating to transactions with its suppliers.
It is Group policy to ensure vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
The timescales thatsuppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide for appointing proxies are set out in the Notice of the 2011 AGM.
bythe agreed terms of payment with suppliers where the goods and services have been supplied in accordance with the relevant terms No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class andconditions of contract.
Implementation of this policy resulted in a meeting in respect of any shares held by them if any call or other sum supplier payment period by the Company of 26 days 2010: 29 days then payable by them in respect of that share remains unpaid or if they forits trade creditors at 30 June 2011. have been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning Capital structure interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
All issued shares are in registered Transfer of shares form and are fully paid.
Details of the Companys issued share capital Shares in the Company may be in uncertificated or certificated form.
and of the movements in the share capital during the year can be Title to uncertificated shares may be transferred by means of a relevant foundin note 27 on page 110. system and certificated shares may be transferred by an instrument of transfer as approved by the Board.
The transferor of a share is deemed Subject to the Articles, the Act and other shareholders rights, shares are to remain the holder until the transferees name is entered into the at the disposal of the Board.
At each AGM the Board seeks authorisation Companys register of members.
from its shareholders to allot shares.
At the AGM held on 17 November 2010, the Directors were given authority to allot shares up to a nominal There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares except as follows.
value of 32,174,150 representing approximately 33.33% ofthe nominal The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reason, value of the Companys issued share capital, such authority to remain decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid valid until the end of the 2011 AGM or close of business on 16 February share.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be 2012, whichever is earlier.
A resolution to renew this authority will be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules proposed at the 2011 AGM.
as defined in the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share isto be transferred exceeds four.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 61
