REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee leads the process for appointments to theBoard and makes recommendations to the Board when suitable candidates have been identified.
When a vacancy arises the Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board and on that basis prepares a description of the roles and capabilities required for that appointment.
The search for Board candidates is carried out, and appointments are made, based on merit having regard to the need to maintain a balance of skills and experience on the Board, diversity and, where appropriate, refreshment ofBoard memberships.
External recruitment consultants are used where appropriate.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive and all four Non-Executive Directors.
The Board currently comprises of four Executive and five Non-Executive The Chairman chairs themeetings of the Nomination Directors including the Chairman.
Tessa Bamford was appointed to the Committee, except when the business of the meeting relates Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2009.
Following Lord Davies to the appointment ofhis own successor.
In accordance Report: Women on Boards, the Nomination Committee has reviewed with Code provision B.
2.1. the majority of members the the recommendations, as part of its annual effectiveness exercise.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Company as Committees primary goal is to identify the most appropriate candidates being independent.
The Nomination Committee met on two to join the Board and, accordingly, the Committee has formalised its occasions during the year to explore, amongst other matters, existing process by amending its Terms of Reference to make it clear senior succession issues, review its effectiveness and look at that in considering succession planning it has due regard to the benefits the balance of the Board and its Committees.
Attendance at of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Nomination Committee each of these meetings isshown in Table 1 onpage 39. will consider the matter further, once the outcome of the review by the FRC is published.
Principal responsibilities The Nomination Committees principal responsibilities include: Internal control and approach to risk management regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition The Board confirms in accordance with principle C. 2 of the Code ofthe Board, having regard to their balance of skills, thatithas maintained a sound risk management and internal controls experience, independence andknowledge: systems, seeking to safeguard shareholders investment and the developing succession plans for Directors and Groups assets.
The Board is responsible for seeking to determine seniorexecutives: thenature and extent of the significant risks that it is appropriate for identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board theGroup to take to achieve its strategic objectives and it is the vacancies and evaluating the role and capabilities responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management required for a particular appointment: toimplement and maintain the Groups internal control and risk reviewing the leadership needs of the Group to ensure management systems within the governance and policy framework continued ability of the Group to compete effectively approved by the Board.
The risk management and internal controls in themarket: systems have been in place throughout the year ended 30 June 2011 annually reviewing, through performance evaluation, the and up to the date of this report, and their effectiveness is regularly time required from Non-Executive Directors to fulfil their reviewed by the Board.
The risk management and internal controls duties: and systems and their effectiveness accord with the Turnbull guidance.
reviewing and making recommendations to the Board The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage risks onthe authorisation of conflicts of interest of new and that may impede the achievement of the Groups business objectives existing Directors.
rather than to eliminate those risks entirely.
The system of internal control therefore provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against The Terms of Reference for the Nomination Committee material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control does, areavailable from the Companys website however, provide reasonable assurance that potential issues can www.
be identified promptly and appropriate remedial action taken.
The Group operates internal controls to ensure that the Groups financial Robert Lawson statements are reconciled to the underlying financial ledgers.
A review CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE ofthe consolidated accounts and financial statements is completed bymanagement to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
To enhance the internal control framework, a senior executive Risk Committee was established in the 2009 10 financial year.
The Risk Committee consists of standing members comprising the Group Finance Director, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, 42 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 anOperational Executive Director and or a Regional Managing Director its financial performance, in particular by using financial instruments, and the Chief Internal Auditor.
Other members of the Executive, heads including debt and derivatives, to hedge interest rates and currency of function and senior managers attend meetings by invitation having rates.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for regard to the business areas to be explored.
Subject tothe general speculative purposes.
The Board approves treasury policies and has supervision of the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee reviews the delegated certain day-to-day treasury activities to a centralised Treasury effectiveness of the Groups internal control policies and procedures Operating Committee, whichin turn regularly reports to the Board.
for the identification, assessment and reporting of risks and to assess The treasury department implements guidelines that are established individual key risks on a rolling basis.
by the Board and the Treasury Operating Committee.
The key aspects of the Groups system of internal control and risk In accordance with principle C. 2.1. of the Code the Board regularly management framework are as follows: reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, covering all material controls including financial, operational and i a clear organisational structure with defined levels of authority compliance controls and risk management systems.
A risk framework and responsibility for each operating division: has been developed for all business processes by the internal audit ii financial and management reporting systems under which financial function and approved by the Audit Committee.
This framework forms and operating performance is consistently reviewed against budget the basis of the internal control audit plan for the year ahead, which and forecasts at divisional, regional and Group level on a monthly basis: tests if controls are being applied effectively in each operating division.
iii identification and review of principal operational risk areas are Material issues identified during internal audits and follow-up action embedded in the Groups monthly management reporting system, plans are reviewed by the Executive Directors and by the Board on sothat risk identification and the control of risk are a routine aspect a quarterly basis, and necessary actions are immediately taken to ofmanagement responsibility.
Amongst other matters, the risks remedy any failings in the internal control system.
reviewed include: the land and housing markets, including changes in the During the course of its review of systems of internal control, the Board macroeconomic environment, sales and quality of product: has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which liquidity, including the availability of sufficient borrowing facilities: it has determined to be significant.
Therefore, a confirmation of people, including the development of a skilled and necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
experiencedworkforce: subcontractors and suppliers: In addition, the management teams of all operating divisions identify key land buying: risks in their monthly management reports to the Executive Committee Government regulation, including obtaining planning permission: and complete a control self assessment twice a year in which they construction, including achieving key milestones and the impact confirm that they have applied appropriate levels of control.
The Audit on theenvironment and social surroundings: Committee, as a standing agenda item every six months, reviews the risk health and safety: and framework to determine if the system of internal control remains effective failure of the Groups IT systems: and and report on their findings to the Board.
During the year under review, iv compliance with internal control and risk management systems are the Executive Committee prioritised the risk framework by identifying supported by the Groups internal audit team which is responsible for the risks considered most significant to the Group.
For each of the risks undertaking an annual audit plan and ad hoc audits and reporting to identified, an assessment has been made of the probability and potential the Audit Committee, and, if necessary, the Board on the operation impact on the business and these risks are reported on internally and effectiveness of those systems and any material failings with them.
andreviewed during internal audits and control self assessments.
The planned programme of audit appraisals across Group operations is approved by the Audit Committee and includes full divisional audits and targeted audits of key risk areas such as the land viability process, land acquisition control and monitoring, work in progress and subcontractor payment controls.
Where the internal audit team does not have the expertise or resources required to conduct complex audits they use external expertise.
The Groups operations and financing arrangements expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The most significant of these to the Group is liquidity risk and, accordingly, there is a regular, detailed system for the reporting and forecasting of cash flows from the operations to Group management to ensure that risks are promptly identified and appropriate mitigating actions taken.
These forecasts are further stress tested ata Group level on a regular basis to ensure that adequate headroom within facilities and banking covenants is maintained.
In addition, the Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects of the other risks on BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 43
