Grainger plc 40 Risk management continued Principal risks The principal risks faced by the Group are: Change in Risk and executive lead Description and relevance to strategy Mitigation and management action Net Risk in year Long term flat or negative Rebalance owned portfolios towards Market & House Price Inflation depresses areas of higher economic growth.
Strategic Risk income from sales.
Andrew Cunningham Grow non-HPI dependent income streams.
A rapid further decline in house Continue to grow alternative prices and or mortgage availability income streams.
increases difficulties in maintaining Focus sales on markets that are not sales income.
Regular scenario planning and active management of debt levels.
Limited availability of further Cash flow and funding needs are Financial Risk capital constrains the growth continuously monitored to ensure Mark Greenwood of our business.
Ongoing area of strategic priority, particularly building on our successful refinancing strategy and focusing on reducing our requirement for debt in the near to medium term.
A significant misappropriation Policies and procedures designed to or fraud could damage the control risk are in place and regularly financial performance of the monitored.
New Bribery and Corruption policy and procedures introduced.
Insufficient or inappropriate A comprehensive review of our Operational Risk levels of suitably skilled staff remuneration structures and benchmarking Peter Couch hinder achievement of our against external markets has been carried strategic objectives.
Performance management procedures and annual appraisals are in place for all staff.
Long-term incentive schemes for senior staff and opportunities for all staff to become equity owners through SIP and SAYE schemes.
Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 41 Business review G overnance F inancials Change in Risk and executive lead Description and relevance to strategy Mitigation and management action Net Risk in year Inadequate assessment of We have dedicated and experienced Operational Risk and action planning for health Health and Safety staff to implement continued and safety risks.
the companys management procedures, which include regular risk assessments and audits to pro-actively address health and safety risks areas including health and safety risks affecting our staff, contractors and tenants.
Key third party contractor supplier Monitoring of supplier and subcontractor failure may lead to business performance through regular assessments, disruption, additional costs and market testing and maintenance of operational risks.
We conduct extensive initial checks on new suppliers in accordance with their strategic importance to the company.
Projects fail to deliver expected Project initiation is subject to appropriate Project Assurance Risk benefits through poor initiation governance and business case controls.
Ongoing progress and management monitored at project and Operational Board level.
Lessons learned exercises carried out on all projects prior to formal closedown.
Significant regulatory changes may Grainger is an active member of groups Legal and impact on the value of the groups and committees BPF, HBF, EPRA, CBI etc Regulatory Risk assets, its strategy and profitability.
which seek to influence Government and Mark Greenwood EEU policy.
In-house teams legal, compliance, corporate affairs etc are tasked with identifying changes in legislation and regulation in order to identify potential impact and if necessary initiate lobbying activity.
We monitor the status of each of our principal risks and identify whether the net risk has increased, decreased or remains unchanged from last year.
Net risk refers to the likelihood and impact of the risk after mitigating actions have been taken.
No change in Net Risk Increased Net Risk Decreased Net Risk
