Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 39 Business review G overnance F inancials Risk management Risk management facilitates business decision-making based on structured judgements.
Risk is a recognised part of the Groups The risk reporting framework enables Risk reporting framework every day activities.
Risk management atwo way approach to monitoring and isviewed as the systematic identification reporting risk across the group.
Grainger plc Board andtreatment of those risks that pose a The overall aim of risk management is threat to our business, people, assets, toenable the business to base all material capital and reputation.
It is a process used business decisions on judgements by to identify risks across Grainger plc, its competent people reached following a Group Audit Executive Risk subsidiaries and associates the group.
Committee Committee structured and documented review.
It assesses thepotential impact of these TheRisk Management Framework has risk events and then provides a method been designed to support this policy and for addressing these impacts, to manage to incorporate the full range of risks faced and mitigate threats.
Risk management Group across the group.
Business Operations is an important component of corporate Internal Unit Boards Board Audit governance andhelps to encourage A categorisation of risk has been continuous qualityimprovement.
adopted to enable a rigorous and comprehensive approach to risk The Grainger plc board is ultimately Business Unit Shared Service assessment.
The categorisation adopted responsible for the groups risk management Management Teams is intended to be relatively simple and easy framework.
It regularly reviews the groups to use and to best reflect the characteristics key risks and in the period to the year end of the group and the risks itfaces.
Risks are date, has been supported in the discharge categorised as Market & Strategy, Project Grainger staff of this responsibility by various committees, Assurance, Operational, Financial and Legal specifically the audit committee and the & Regulatory.
Responsibility for each risk executive risk committee.
Subsequent to category is assigned to one of the four the year end a risk committee has been executive directors.
established under the chairmanship of Belinda Richards.
Risk management framework Grainger Risk Management Policy Market Project Legal & Financial Operational & Strategic Assurance Regulatory Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Independent monitoring Risk based monitoring plan.
