page 32 Helical Bar plc 2011 performance & risk A property companys share price should reect growth in net assets per share.
Our Groups main objective is to maximise growth in assets from increases in investment portfolio values and from retained earnings from other property related activities.
IPD all monthly and quarterly valued funds Net asset value Key performance indicators Net asset value per share represents the share Ungeared returns and benchmarks 31.3.
09 of net assets attributable to each ordinary We incentivise management to outperform the % % % share.
Whilst the basic and diluted net asset Groups competitors by setting the right levels for per share calculations provide a guide to Helical 2.7 8.5 6.3 performance indicators against which rewards performance the property industry prefers to are measured.
We also design our remuneration IPD upper quartile 12.1 21.5 21.9 use an adjusted diluted net asset per share.
packages to align managements interests with The adjustments necessary to arrive at this Percentile rank 96 90 1 shareholders aspirations.
Key to this is the gure are shown in note 34 to these accounts.
monitoring and reporting against identiable To 31 March 2011 3 years 5 years 10 years Management is incentivised to exceed 15% performance targets and benchmarks.
For a p. a. growth in net asset value per share.
number of years we have reported on these, the Helical 1.4 5.5 11.5 most important of which are: The adjusted diluted net asset value per share, IPD benchmark 0.9 0.7 6.7 excluding trading stock surplus, at 31 March Investment Property Databank 2011 was 225p 2010: 241p.
Percentile rank 24 4 4 The Investment Property Databank IPD Including the surplus on valuation of trading and produces a number of independent The returns on shareholder capital earned development stock, the diluted EPRA net asset benchmarks of property returns which are by Helical are generally higher than those value per share at 31 March 2011 was 253p regarded as the main industry indices.
IPD measured by IPD due to the use of gearing.
Diluted EPRA triple net asset has compared the ungeared performance of value per share was 246p 2010: 259p.
Helicals total property portfolio against that of The returns noted above take no account of portfolios within IPD for the last 20 years.
The the 32m 2010: 33m surplus of trading and Other key performance indicators include: Groups annual performance target is to exceed development stock above book value arising the top quartile of the IPD database.
Helicals  from the directors valuation.
ungeared performance for the year to 31 March costs, overheads and dividends 2011 was 2.7% 2010: 8.5% compared to Total Shareholder Return  the IPD median benchmark of 11.7% 2010: Total Shareholder Return TSR measures sINCLUSIONINTHE&43% 'OOD NDEX 17.4% and upper quartile benchmark of 12.1% the return to shareholders from share price 2010: 21.5%.
movements and dividend income and is used to compare returns between companies listed on As referred to in the Chairmans Statement, the the London Stock Exchange.
Helicals TSR for year to 31 March 2011 was a period during the year to 31 March 2011 was -19.3% 2010: which the Group continued to transform its 20.2% compared to the median of the listed property holdings and this has had an impact real estate sector of 12.6% 2010: 56.7%.
on performance in the year.
However, over three, five and ten years the Groups property However, over three, five, ten, fifteen, twenty portfolio continued to outperform the IPD and twenty-five years Helicals TSR has benchmark.
outperformed the Listed Real Estate Sector Index as shown on page 2 of this Report and Accounts.
performance & risk Helical Bar plc 2011 page 33 Risk management summary How we manage our risks Risk is an integral part of any companys business activities and Helicals ability to identify, assess, monitor and manage each risk to which it is exposed is fundamental to its financial stability, current and future financial performance and reputation.
Strategic risks Risk Impact Action taken to mitigate Reputation Inability to raise new share capital Management in regular communication with all shareholders and with major institutional shareholders in face to face meetings.
Deal ow dries up Maintain high prole in the market.
Continue close contact with all major deal ow sources.
Long term underperformance Share price falls Pursue outperformance within sector compared with peers.
of real estate sector Regulatory changes eg SDLT, Transactional and holding costs increase Lobby Government and industry representatives to mitigate.
abolition of Empty Property rates relief Retention of key senior employees Inability to access and exploit deal ow Remuneration packages that retain and motivate.
Operational risks Risk Impact Action taken to mitigate People related issues Low morale Key management ably assisted by a loyal group of long-standing employees whose remuneration is designed to retain staff with full participation in the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
Computer software hardware failure Loss of transactional history External IT consultancy used, backed up by technical support from a number of hardware and software suppliers.
Breaches of authorisation levels Inappropriate use of Company resources All significant transactions approved at appropriate level.
Market risks Risk Impact Action taken to mitigate Inappropriate balance between Returns lower than market Selecting the most appropriate level of exposure to each sector investment and development is fundamental to the long term success of the company.
and between sectors Liquidity risks Risk Impact Action taken to mitigate Inadequate financial resources Unable to meet liabilities as they fall due Company nances its operations fr om the cash ow generated by its property portfolio, bank borrowings, third party nancing Unable to undertake investment decisions and from the capital markets through share issues.
arising from the Companys assessment of The guiding principle is to ensure that funding is obtained from the market diverse providers with a range of maturities backed up by interest rate protection, where appropriate.
Financing and interest rate protection is discussed further in note 28 on pages 83 and 84. Credit risks Risk Impact Action taken to mitigate Counterparty financial failure Loss arising from failed tenants, lenders, The financial assessment of tenants, contractors and potential suppliers etc partners is part of the daily routine of the Company.
page 34 Helical Bar plc 2011 performance & risk Risk governance The other main strategic risks identied by the Operational risks Group include: The responsibility for the governance of the Operational risks are those that the Group Groups risk prole lies with the Board of may suffer a loss from inadequate internal long-term under-performance of the real Directors of Helical.
The Board is responsible for processes, systems, resources, incorrect estate sector compared to alternative forms of setting the Groups risk strategy by assessing decision-making or through external events.
investment e. g. equities, gilts: risks, determining its willingness to accept Losses from operational risk can arise from: regulatory changes which signicantly impact those risks and ensuring that the risks are on the attractiveness of real estate as an monitored and that the Group is aware of and, people-related issues such as inadequate investment compared to alternative forms of if appropriate, reacts to changes in those risks.
resources, skills or departure of key investment, or on the attractiveness of investing The Board is also responsible for allocating personnel: in real estate through a listed group: and, responsibility for risk within the Groups software or hardware failure, inadequate management structure.
retention of key senior employees.
IT security, failure of back-up facilities: Risk register The principal strategic risks noted above, incorrect or inappropriate use of valuation and the underlying drivers of such risks, are The Group maintains a risk assessment register models, inappropriate gearing levels, monitored by management and discussed which enables the Board to focus on perceived breaches of authorisation levels: regularly in the Business Plan presented by the specic key risks, assessing their magnitude fraud from internal or external sources: Groups Finance Director to the full Board each and the probability of negative outcomes.
risk register is reviewed regularly and strategies external events leading to a loss of a major are adopted to minimise and eliminate the risks provider of services e. g. contractor failure.
In addition the Group receives regular updates identied.
on the impact of economic scenarios on the The Groups approach is not to eliminate real estate sector as well as subscribing to operational risk, but rather to identify the areas Strategic risks a number of economic journals in order that in which it might arise and to contain it within Strategic risks are those risks that may adversely senior employees are kept up-to-date.
acceptable limits through the application of affect the Groups financial performance by effective controls.
Ultimately, the management The Board has a schedule of matters following an inappropriate strategy or by the of operational risk is dependent upon the specically reserved to it for decision.
The failure to execute an appropriate strategy.
application of sound management judgement.
Board controls the business but delegates Strategic risks arise over a long time frame The close involvement of the executive directors day-to-day responsibility to the executive where there are fundamental differences between in the day-to-day running of the business is management.
However, there are a number the business environment in which the Group critical to that judgement.
of matters which are required to be or, in the operates and the environment assumed on interests of the Group, should only be decided the establishment of that strategy.
The Group has not suffered any material losses by the Board of Directors as a whole.
arising from exposure to operational risks in the The Groups reputation is a key component year under review.
The Board monitors the financial performance of its ability to achieve its strategic goals and of the Group at regular Board meetings where success in meeting these goals depends not comparisons against budgets and forecasts only on the effective management of risks are made together with a review of key but also on the maintenance of its reputation performance indicators.
among stakeholders i. e. employees, investors, regulators, business partners, financial The remuneration packages of senior directors institutions and the public.
and employees are seen as the key to their retention and motivation.
These remuneration Measuring the impact of the Groups reputation packages are designed to provide a basic is not a science and, in the view of the Group, level of salary at or below the median of the may best be measured by the willingness of Groups peer group but with cash bonuses and stakeholders to continue to deal with Helical.
share awards at the top end of the peer group During the last year there have been no signs rewarding outperformance compared to that that we are not seeing all the opportunities to peer group.
deal in property that it would expect and recent transactions suggest that we continue to be a The most recent annual review of the strategic Group that others want to deal with.
Internally, risks faced by the Group indicate that the risks to the Groups reputation are mitigated by business of Helical is appropriate to the the application of an internal Code of Conduct business environment in which it competes.
and whistle blowing procedures which are reviewed annually.
performance & risk Helical Bar plc 2011 page 35 Market risks Liquidity risks Credit risks Market risks arise from the possibility that the Liquidity risks arise from having insufficient Credit risk is the possibility that the Group Group may suffer reduced income or a loss financial resources to enable the Group to may suffer a loss from the failure of its tenants, resulting from uctuations in the values of, or meet its obligations as they fall due, or can only borrowers, suppliers or other counterparties to income from, its real estate portfolio.
secure them at an excessive cost.
Liquidity meet their financial obligations to the Group, risks also arise where the Group has insufficient including their failure to meet them in a timely Market risk is a key component of the Groups resources to enable investment decisions, manner.
It includes the risks that the Group may long-term strategy with exposure to the various arising from its assessment of market risks, to suffer a loss as a result of guarantees to third real estate sectors uctuating as perceptions be executed.
Credit risk in order to earn a return is of the future performance of each of those not a central feature of the Groups business sectors change.
Net asset value growth, a key The Group nances its operations from the activities, rather it is a consequence of those performance indicator, is dependent upon an cash ow generated by its operations, bank activities.
ability to move easily between sectors at the borrowings, both secured and unsecured and appropriate time.
over short-, mediumand long-term periods, The Group is exposed to credit risk in respect of and from the capital markets through share the financial stability of the tenants and potential The Groups directors constantly analyse issues.
tenants in its real estate portfolio.
It is also uctuations in market movements using exposed to credit risk where cash ows from evidence gathered from a variety of public The management of cash and debt is the sales of real estate, whether investment or and personal sources, using this analysis to monitored daily with medium-term cash ows trading properties or funded developments, are determine the future direction of real estate prepared weekly and long-term cash ows deferred.
The potential failure of major suppliers investment.
discussed regularly in management meetings such as contractors or sub-contractors also and presented to the Board at each quarterly Selecting the most appropriate level of exposes the Group to credit risk.
exposure to each sector is fundamental to the third parties, such as banks, where the Group is success of the Group.
Measuring that success in joint venture with partners expose the Group The Groups overall approach is to provide is undertaken by comparing the Groups to risks that those partners are unable to full sufficient liquidity to be able to meet, from portfolio returns over short-, mediumand their obligations.
cash resources and available facilities, the long-term periods with those as reported by expected requirements of the business.
The The financial assessment of tenants, potential Investment Property Databank IPD, the guiding principle is to ensure that funding is tenants, contractors and potential partners source of the main real estate sector indices.
obtained from diverse providers with a range are part of the daily routine of the Group.
The of maturities, backed up by interest rate In the year under review, the Groups real assessment of these third parties is undertaken protection where appropriate.
This is to ensure estate portfolio underperformed compared to by the finance department in discussion with that a stable ow of nancing is available and the majority of property funds in the IPD index.
the executive responsible for the real estate to provide protection in the event of market However, over the mediumand long-term, the decision.
Groups performance compares favourably with In the year under review bad debts constituted the rest of the sector as reported by IPD on The Groups cash resources, bank borrowings, less than 2% of gross rental income.
pages 2 and 32. interest rate protection and gearing are noted on pages 78 to 84.
