Savills plc Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Report and Accounts 2011 19 19 Our business Risks and uncertainties facing the business Our governance Our results Given the scale and diversity of our businesses, the Board of The Corporate Governance report on pages 27 to 32 describes Directors recognises that the nature, scope and potential impact the systems and processes through which the Board manages of our key operational and strategic risks are subject to continuous and mitigates risks.
The Board oversees an established risk management Our consideration of the key risks and uncertainties relating to framework which is designed to provide it with appropriate the Groups operations, along with their potential impact and visibility of the Groups key risks.
The Board regularly assesses the mitigating factors in place, is set out below.
It is not possible the effectiveness of its strategies for managing and mitigating to mitigate fully all of our risks and there may be other risks and these risks and the controls implemented to negate them.
uncertainties besides those listed below which may also adversely affect the Group.
Key risk Description Mitigating factors Volatility in Market conditions globally may deteriorate in 2012 and Our strategy of diversity of service line and geographic the markets there is, therefore, uncertainty in several of our sectors spread mitigates the impact on the business of weak in which and markets.
The restrictions facing our clients on credit market conditions in specific geographies, particularly we operate availability continues.
Group earnings and or our financial from more widespread uncertainty, but these factors condition could be adversely affected by these cannot entirely mitigate the overall risk to earnings.
To reduce the potential impact of these risks, we continually focus on our cost base and seek to improve operational efficiencies.
Our continual monitoring of market conditions and review of market changes against our Group strategy, supported by the quarterly reforecasting and reporting undertaken by all of our businesses, remain key to our ability to respond rapidly to changes in our operating environment.
In line with our strategy of being the property advisor of choice in our chosen markets, we continue to invest selectively in our business where new opportunities present themselves to enhance our service to our clients.
Savills operates in 23 countries which increases the risk Our business model is such that we do not that we will be affected by geopolitical and economic overdepend on one particular country.
When entering uncertainties associated with doing business in those a new country we undertake due diligence to assess jurisdictions.
the impact of any political or economic issues in that particular country.
Achieving the The markets in which we operate remain highly competitive To remain competitive in all markets, it is imperative right market and we need to ensure that we continue to reflect the that we continue to provide the quality of client care positioning in changing needs of our clients.
and service that our clients expect from us.
This response to need drives our strategy to continuously grow the the needs capabilities and strengthen the services offered by of our clients the Group.
We continue to invest in the development of client relationships globally and associated best in class systems to support our client service offering.
Reputational and Savills is a brand with an excellent reputation in the principal We recognise that our brand strength is vital to brand risk markets in which we operate.
We recognise the need to maintaining market share and expanding into new maintain our reputation as a quality brand and to continue markets.
To this end, we have a brand management to ensure the quality of the service we provide.
programme in place to ensure the brands positioning, identity and personality is clearly and consistently promoted.
We recognise that the quality of the service we offer is vital to maintaining the brand and we have in place policies, controls and processes to monitor the quality of our client service to support our programme of continuous improvement.
20 20 Savills plc Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Report and Accounts 2011 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Key risk Description Mitigating factors Recruitment and We recognise that our ability to deliver our strategy is We continue our investment in the development of retention of high dependent on us attracting, developing, motivating and our people and extended our programmes across calibre staff retaining people of the highest quality.
This is fundamental a number of businesses, particularly China Hong Kong.
to the future success of our business.
Our profit sharing approach to remuneration is combined with selective use of share based and other longer term incentives to ensure that our people are incentivised to perform over the longer term and to remain with the business.
Team scorecards and individual appraisals ensure that rewards are based on improvements in client service, business development, people management, delivery of personal and financial objectives such as working in co-operation with other teams from other parts of the business as well as financial performance.
Maintaining We are required to meet a broad range of regulatory A comprehensive review was undertaken during standards of compliance requirements in each of the markets in which the year of our Group Policy Framework, which sets professional, we operate.
For example, in the UK, the Financial Services out our standards regarding professional, regulatory, regulatory Authority FSA regulates the conduct of Savills Capital statutory compliance and business conduct.
To and statutory Advisors and Cordea Savills Investment Management, and support this Framework each of our businesses compliance the insurance intermediary services we provide to clients has their own regulatory and statutory compliance in our UK commercial businesses.
In addition, the UK resources who maintain the internal processes and Office of Fair Trading regulates our residential business controls required to fulfil our compliance obligations.
A number of the services we provide through Our compliance environment, at all levels, is subject our UK businesses are regulated by The Royal Institution to regular review by internal audit and other of Chartered Surveyors RICS.
Failure to satisfy regulatory assurance providers.
compliance requirements may result in fines being imposed, adverse publicity, brand reputational damage and ultimately the withdrawal of regulatory approvals.
We also have a number of key statutory obligations including the protection of the health, safety and welfare of our employees and others affected by our activities.
Legal risk Failure to fulfil our regulatory or contractual obligations to The Group has Legal and Regulatory Compliance clients could subject the Group to regulatory action and or Policies which are designed to mitigate against the claims from clients.
The adverse outcome of such action risk of such action claims being made and where claims could negatively impact our reputation, financial such claims occur, to limit liability, particularly in condition and or the results of our businesses.
For example: relation to consultancy services such as Valuations.
Such policies are regularly reviewed and in accepting client engagements, Gr oup companies communicated.
may be subject to standard of care obligations.
Failure to fulfil these obligations could result in claims being The Group maintains appropriate levels of made against the relevant Group company and or professional indemnity insurance to respond to such its employees.
claims and mitigate the Groups financial exposure to such claims.
in our Property Management business, we may assume responsibility for appointing and or supervising third party contractors that provide construction and engineering services for our managed properties.
Again, failure to discharge these responsibilities in accordance with our obligations could result in claims being made against the Group companies.
in our Valuation consultancy businesses, we can be subject to claims alleging the over-valuation of a property.
Managing our For all areas of financial risk we have an established financial The key financial risks and uncertainties are covered financial risks control framework with clear responsibilities for operational in the Financial review on pages 14 and 15. and finance teams at all levels of the Group.
We recognise that there is a currency risk attached to We minimise the risk as far as possible in local operating in a large number of countries, particularly given operations through natural hedging by ensuring that the transaction element of our business.
revenue and cost are managed in the local currency.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 21
