Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 32 Principal risks and uncertainties Robust risk management.
The identification of the most significant risks that face the group is the responsibility of the board.
Risk identification procedures take into account each of the groups strategic objectives.
David Lawler Company Secretary k A comprehensive financial review cycle, Our focus in 2011 Risk identification, which includes a rolling three-year planning evaluation and management The board has placed significant process, an annual budget approved by focuson the risks associated with the The board is responsible for determining the board, review of monthly variances implementation of our strategic change the nature and extent of the significant against budget and quarterly programme.
Throughout the year they risks it is willing to take to achieve its reforecasting of annual performance: have been kept informed as to the strategic objectives.
In October 2011 P rovision to management and the k progress being made.
theboard reviewed and approved their board of relevant, accurate and timely approach to risk appetite, defining We have focused on how risk information, including relevant key guidance which was subsequently management communication and performance indicators, based on reliable distributed to all of our business units.
procedures have needed to adapt to management information systems which accommodate our new business line At the February, March, June and are regularly improved and updated: structure in place since 1st January 2012.
December 2011 board meetings, and in M onthly reports to the board from k This has included the following: February 2012 the board reviewed the theChief Executive Officer, Finance most significant risks facing the group.
Reviewing with executive and k Director and the Managing Directors business line management the ofthe Nordic, Continent and Culture changes required: UK and Ireland regions: The group maintains an open style k Agreeing risk management R egular business unit management k ofcommunication.
This is designed to responsibilities under the new board meetings periodically attended identify early any problems and issues structure: and by the Chief Executive Officer or so that appropriate action is taken Finance Director, executive board k Preparation and distribution of quickly to minimise any impact on meetings andcompany board meetings riskmanagement training material thebusiness.
The characteristics of at which existing, new andemerging andguidance notes to all country ourgroup culture have been further operational, financial and other risks are managers and management in enhanced with the focus throughout the discussed, and appropriate actions to sharedservices.
business on our new vision and values.
manage these risks are agreed and In the first half of 2012 we will be liaising followed up: Ongoing process for risk identification, with management to ensure that D iscussion of any identified significant evaluation and management k ourrisk management systems and issues or control weaknesses and, procedures under the new structure During 2011 there has been an ongoing ifconsidered necessary, their inclusion areeffective.
process for the identification, evaluation in reports to the executive board and and management of the most During 2011 we have also facilitated a company board: significant risks faced by the group.
number of risk workshops with business M aintenance of business unit risk Thisprocess has included the following: k unit management, and carried out registers: areview of our business continuity k A ppropriate delegation of authorities planning arrangements at a key location M aintenance of a group risk register approved by the board that include k in the UK, supported by external which sets out the most significant risks formal authorisation procedures specialists.
We have also worked with facing the group and the actions being forallinvestments as well as clear management to ensure that there taken in mitigation, which is regularly guidelines on appraisal techniques : areeffective procedures throughout updated and reviewed by the board: and C lear responsibilities of line and financial k thegroup to prevent bribery and A structured and approved management for the maintenance k corruption, including providing ofgood financial controls and the programmeof internal audit visits trainingmaterial, and guidance on risk withthe implementation of production and review of detailed, assessments and supplier due diligence.
accurate and timely financial recommendations made being monitored as part of a continuous management information: programme of improvement.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 33 Further information on the Mitigation plans and actions required Internal control boardsannual assessment of the arecommunicated tobusiness unit The board also has responsibility for effectivenessof internal control management who are responsible establishing, maintaining and reviewing systemsis included in the Corporate fortheir implementation.
Business unit the effectiveness of the groups risk governance statement on page 56. management teams are responsible management and internal control forthe identification, evaluation and systems.
These internal control management of local risks, so that, Risk management framework systemsare designed to manage where possible, risks are reduced to ratherthan eliminate the risk of failing acceptable levels.
Although the board is responsible toachieve a business objective fortheidentification of the most theycan therefore only provide significant risks facing the group, reasonable and not absolute assurance thedevelopment of mitigation plans and against material misstatement or loss.
actions to manage these is delegated tothe executive board and other senior management where applicable.
The board k Agrees key risk appetite, identifies key risks and ensures they are appropriately mitigated.
k Approves group policy and procedure.
Executive board Risk management assistance: Audit committee Monitors performance Specialist management Monitors assurance and risk k k and changes in risk profile, functions including the management arrangements.
and provides regular reports following assist with the to the board.
management of risk across the group: k Agrees key risk mitigation plans.
Group Risk Management k responsibilities include maintaining group risk register and advising business units.
Effectiveness of risk and control processes k Company secretarial.
Business unit risk Reviews of the effectiveness k Insurance.
management of key risk management Health and Safety.
k and control processes by: k Management and employees are responsible for the Fire Management.
management and reporting of local risks.
k k Maintenance of local risk Group Insurer Property k registers.
k Implementation of key risk mitigation plans.
Assurance lines of defence 1 2 3 Business unit management.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 34 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks to achieving our strategic objectives.
Detailed below are the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group for thenext 12 months.
The change in the significance of each risk is also shown.
Theboard believes that the risks associated with further economic downturn especially in the Eurozone and potential adverse movements in exchange rateshave increased.
Delivering sustainable organic growth Risk Potential impact KPI likely to be affected Reduction in future profitability and k Our core growth business Organic revenue growth cash flow.
areas do not sustain Adjusted earnings per share revenue growth rates k Revenue growth below expectations.
Read more detail: of GDP 1%2% Page 16 k Reduction in future profitability and Further economic Organic revenue growth cash flow.
downturn low or negative Adjusted earnings per share k Adverse pressure on pricing Return on invested capital GDP growth in Europe Read more detail: and margins.
Page 16 Read more detail: Page 16 Revenue growth below expectations.
k k Limit to ability to complete strategy.
Maintaining a sound financial position improving capital efficiency Risk Potential impact KPI likely to be affected Unexpected variations in group k Movements in exchange Return on invested capital net earnings.
rates adversely affect the translation of our group Read more detail: Page 16 results into UK sterling k Lack of funds for future investments.
Return on Invested Capital Return on invested capital ROIC is not sufficiently k Reduction in future profitability and cash flow.
greater than the groups Read more detail: Page 16 cost of capital k Reduction in future profitability and Failure to improve Adjusted earnings per share cash flow.
the performance of k Failure to deliver targeted growth Read more detail: the Decontamination in turnover.
Page 16 business during 2012 Potential loss of management k reputation and credibility.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 35 Delivering sustainable organic growth Mitigation in 2011 Further progress planned for 2012 Change in significance New organisational structure implemented from 1st January Start-up of group-wide sales development function.
k k of risk 2012 which will give more focus on growth areas.
since2010 k Commencement of commercial terms and pricing education Sales management enforced with central sales directors for programme for senior managers across the group.
k workwear, cleanroom, mats and washroom and UKflat linen k k Pricing managers to be appointed for each business unit, coregrowth areas.
Stable k Increased focus on efficiency of our sales force to ensure we k Pricing network to be implemented.
are getting appropriate returns for our investment in sales.
New reporting system to provide monthly progress against k k Monthly management accounts distributed to the board business line budgets, including key performance indicators.
include regional and group key performance indicators onrevenue, contract gains and customer loss.
k Long range plans for business lines to 2014 prepared.
k Continued tight and closely monitored controls over capital expenditure and working capital.
Tight and closely monitored controls over capital expenditure h k and working capital including capital efficiency review.
k Continued monitoring of lead indicators, including hotel and Growing workwear volumes.
Monitoring of various lead indicators against experience k in2008 9, including hotel and workwear volumes.
Maintaining a sound financial position improving capital efficiency Mitigation in 2011 Further progress planned for 2012 Change in significance Borrowings in currencies to provide hedge against High level of balance sheet hedging will continue no plans k k of risk investments in majority of overseas net assets in euro, forprofit and loss account hedging at this stage.
since2010 DKKand SEK no exposure to investments in Greece, Italy, Turkey, Spain or Portugal.
h Growing k ROIC target set at 10% for the medium term.
k Continued focus on generation of free cash flow.
ROIC targets for senior management now extended k k k beyondmembers of the executive board and cascaded k Post-acquisition procedure to monitor returns on investments Stable downthe organisation.
made, compared to those targeted.
k Continuation of Capital Efficiency Programme.
k Ongoing Capital Efficiency Programme to reduce levels ofworking capital.
k The board receives regular updates on progress from k Continued focus on the identification and implementation UKmanagement.
ofefficiency initiatives to further reduce losses and target k break-even.
k Efficiency initiatives put in place 2011 loss 4.4 million Stable 20105.4million.
k Ongoing discussions regarding future options.
k Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 36 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks to achieving our strategic objectives Improving financial returns by leveraging operational efficiency Risk Potential impact KPI likely to be affected Inability to service customer k Unforeseen loss of capacity Adjusted earnings per share requirements.
Organic revenue growth k Adverse impact on reputation.
Read more detail: Page 16 Shortage of textiles.
k One of our major textile Adjusted earnings per share suppliers is unexpectedly Inability to service new and existing k customer requirements.
unable to meet our textile Read more detail: Page 16 requirements, or the pricing of cotton significantly destabilises buying patterns and increases input costs Maintaining health and safety as a priority Risk Potential impact KPI likely to be affected Damage to our reputation.
k Breach of health and Major injury rate safety regulations or lack k Loss of licence to operate.
of cleanliness of staff Read more detail: Page 17 and or facilities Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 37 Improving financial returns by leveraging operational efficiency Mitigation in 2011 Further progress planned for 2012 Change in significance Documented and evaluated business continuity plans Continued focus on quality of business continuity k k of risk since including identification of alternative production locations.
2010 Fire protection security procedures and regular internal Further monitoring of fire protection and security k k audits of compliance.
systems, including responding to the results of further k independent surveys.
Independent surveys to assess the design and k Stable effectivenessof plant fire protection, security and k Maintenance of appropriate Property Damage and Business businesscontinuity arrangements.
Interruption insurance cover for our individual businesses.
k Comprehensive Property Damage and Business .
k Regular risk assessment of our major textile suppliers k Current approach to the management of this risk will continue.
considering social, political and economic factors.
k k Identification of alternative production sources.
Stable Purchase of stock up to three months prior to delivery k toreduce risk.
Secured availability of alternative stocks in the event of k seriousinterruption to supply.
Where appropriate we have the ability to pass higher input k costs on to customers.
Maintaining health and safety as a priority Mitigation in 2011 Further progress planned for 2012 Change in significance k Local health, safety and fire management systems.
k Further focus to target a reduction in group major injury rate.
of risk since 2010 Regularly updated and monitored cleaning and Reinforcement of incident reporting procedure under the k k .
k Prompt incident reporting procedures to senior management Reporting to the board on major incidents and statistics to k k with subsequent monitoring.
Stable Regular board review of major incidents and statistics.
k Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 38 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks to achieving our strategic objectives Maintaining a motivated workforce driven by an experienced management team Risk Potential impact KPI likely to be affected Lack of internal succession to key k Inadequate talent Senior management management roles within the group management and inability retention rate in the event of unexpected departure.
to recruit and retain Read more detail: Page 17 sufficiently qualified and Shortmedium-term disruption to k experienced senior thebusiness.
management Loss of key personnel.
k Shortage of appropriately k skilled management.
Reducing our impact on the environment Risk Potential impact KPI likely to be affected k Loss of licence to operate.
Non-compliance with CO2 emissions group Corporate Adjusted earnings per share k Loss of goodwill and or damage to reputation.
Read more detail: Responsibility CR Page 16 Policies including k Significant stakeholder concern.
environmental policy Emergence of unaccounted k Discovery of historic Adjusted earnings per share for liability.
environmental issues Adverse impact on cash flow and k Read more detail: at laundries Page 16 retained earnings.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 39 Maintaining a motivated workforce driven by an experienced management team Mitigation in 2011 Further progress planned for 2012 Change in significance New Group Director, Human Resources appointed in May 2011.
Initiation of new group-wide Management Performance and k k of risk since Development Review Process.
2010 k Executive board reviewed short and long-term incentive arrangements.
New group-wide process for succession planning, together k with in-house learning programmes focused on leadership k k New short-term and long-term incentive plans in place, development.
aligned with business line targets.
Stable k Executive board regularly reviews current and future management requirements.
Reducing our impact on the environment Mitigation in 2011 Further progress planned for 2012 Change in significance k Board approved CR Policies communicated to the business.
k Continued assessment of our overseas textile suppliers of risk since confirmations of their adoption of appropriate working 2010 Recording and monitoring of water, electricity, chemicals and k practices.
Where appropriate, continued investment in new k k Research programmes with suppliers to reduce water, energy k technologies and plant and equipment to reduce and chemical usage rates.
consumption of water and energy.
Stable Development and maintenance of procedures to monitor k k Continued monitoring of compliance with our anti-bribery compliance with the United Nations Global Compacts ten and corruption procedures.
k Prompt incident reporting procedures to senior management and subsequent monitoring.
Established incident reporting procedures to senior Current approach to the management of this risk k k management with subsequent monitoring.
k Indemnities with previous owners that cover a number of k acquired sites.
Stable The extent and coverage of these indemnities are reviewed k with the relevant third party as appropriate.
Defence of these indemnities is vigorously prosecuted.
