Risk management Our approach to identifying, evaluating and avoiding or mitigating the impact of risks on UNITE is at the core of our business model.
Risks including a detailed assessment of health and safety are standing items on Business Unit, Executive Team and Group Board agendas, and have been central to our business and strategic planning processes.
Our principal risks are highlighted in white.
Risk Impact Mitigation Change Commentary Property and asset management risks Risk arising from shortRevenues are uncertain.
Alignment with strong High occupancy for 2011 12 term nature of tenancies Reduced lettings as a result Universities and geographic driven by strong sales occupancy and rents.
Supply performance and University demand imbalance.
Strong sales and marketing expertise.
General cost inflation, Reduced return on Forward purchase of Utilities remains a major in particular on the cost investment portfolio.
Annual opportunity consideration and UNITE is of utilities.
to increase rent to recover looking at several initiatives additional costs.
to drive down consumption and demand.
Risk of failure to collect Loss of cash revenue.
Focus on affluent customer Changes to our ways rent in austere economic base.
Strong debt collection of working have given conditions.
responsibility for debt collection back to city teams, which has driven performance improvement on debt.
Major health and safety Reputational damage and Health and safety policies We have brought in external incident in property, impact to students living and frameworks in place.
consultants to review our development site withus.
Group Risk Committee health and safety processes or office.
and commenced a review External audit undertaken of our business continuity on all our properties every management processes six months and internal audit to conclude in H2 2012. undertaken monthly.
Adverse yield movement Falling NAV, increased Yield movement offset by London focus of portfolio, leading to a fall in asset gearing.
rental growth and mitigated high occupancy and rental values.
by focus on strongest growth outlook support University markets.
32 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Risk Impact Mitigation Change Commentary Development management risks Failure to secure sites, Unable to generate returns Skilled development team Development pipeline construction contracts in line with plans.
Focus of 3,336 beds secured: and or development debt on off-market transactions.
good progress with at attractive prices.
Strong relationships with planning and funding.
Failure or delays in obtaining Cost of aborted schemes.
Established planning Strong relationships planning consents.
Delayed schemes impacting expertise and careful site with planning authorities, financial returns.
Low financial particularly in London.
investment in schemes prior Planning consent gained to grant of planning.
Pursuing in six months for Stratford new opportunities on a scheme.
Focus on preconditional basis to ensure application discussions we retain adequate flexibility.
Delays in completion of Reduced financial returns Strong track record and All 2011 12 schemes construction in time for and cash tied up.
Impact on focus on project delivery delivered to time and cost the start of academic year reputation with customers.
and strong relationships with and 2012 13 projects or cost over-runs.
construction partners with similarly on track.
Closure of UMS will not impact future deliveries.
Provision made for UMS is Reduced financial returns.
Careful management Provision set to cover all not sufficient to meet all of future costs.
planning gone into setting provision.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 Risk management cont.
Risk Impact Mitigation Change Commentary Fund management Ability to determine strategy Loss of market position and Established separate fund Strong performance by of Funds JVs not in line asset management fees.
USAF and co-investment with Group strategy and to Focus on investor relations vehicles.
manage potential conflicts and strong Fund level of interest.
Joint ventures mature Forced sales of properties Create infinite life joint USV joint venture brought without agreement for potentially impacting price.
back on to balance sheet: a satisfactory exit.
Work closely with joint good progress with UCC venture partners to agree and OCB partners on future Loss of market position mutually beneficial exit of these vehicles.
Risk of being forced to sell Properties sold below Contractual limits on Valuation of portfolio properties if redemption valuation.
continues to increase requests cannot be met.
Proactive management of NAV up 8% year-on-year.
fund investors, equity raising Emergence of secondary and alternative sources market with 62 million of finance.
of units traded in 2011. Financing Adverse interest rate Reduced profitability.
Hedge exposure with interest Average cost of debt movements.
69% of UNITEs investment debt is hedged using interest rate swaps.
Expiring debt facilities Possible forced sale of Management of debt Good progress has been cannot be replaced or assets potentially leading maturity.
Control of future made in 2011 with over only at high cost.
cash commitments in line 300 million of debt Slowdown of development with progress of disposals arranged and extended.
Plans to Risk further managed through ofprofitability.
encouraging discussions with other lenders eg insurance companies.
Breach of borrowing Debt becomes immediately Regular forecasting of Significant level of headroom covenants.
Proactive in both LTV and ICR management of any potential covenants.
issues and ability to use cash to manage covenants.
Filed tax position cannot Potential loss of equity funds Tax advice from leading Progress being made to be agreed.
Time and cost in tax payments.
34 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Risk Impact Mitigation Change Commentary Market risks Changes in Government May reduce demand Supply demand imbalance Applications to study in policy may affect student and hence prices.
is significant at present and 2012 13 among UNITEs numbers and behaviour.
customer base focused on core demographic largely affluent groups including unaffected by tuition fees overseas students.
Reservation levels sales and marketing at end of February similar expertise.
Development to previous year and of affordable product.
Concentration of assets in Reduced student numbers Geographic diversification Student numbers expected student accommodation impacting financial and in-depth market to flatten out but not fall, and sector.
UNITE is aligned to potential winners across Higher Education sector.
Property markets are cyclical Reduction in asset values Forecast rental growth Maximising portfolio and performance depends reducing financial returns.
mitigates any yield value through programme on general economic movement.
Clear and active of refurbishments and conditions.
Risk of further recession Cost to the business of Select financially robust Development pipeline still causing possible failure dealing with failure, damage construction partners.
Focus on track: no issues with of construction contractor, to market.
Potential impact on major University cities construction partners while competitor, University on values in the sector.
with at least two high quality land and build prices remain or bank.
relationships with banks with good credit ratings.
Impact of changes in Increased cost of compliance Highly developed skill base Abortive costs remained low legislation, particularly in leading to reduced returns for managing planning through 2011 and planning respect of environmental or, in extremis, scheme process and building design.
consent secured on two legislation and planning cancellation.
Minimum investment made London sites in rapid order.
in schemes prior to securing planning.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35
