Principal risks and uncertainties The table below sets out the principal risks currently faced by the Group, with further significant risks noted below.
The report on corporate governance later in the Annual Report describes the risk management framework in place throughout the Group.
Risk Description and Impact Mitigation 1.
UK Car Admiral has typically been able to Admirals UK business has grown every year since the business Insurance produce a significant advantage over was launched in the early 1990s, and has enjoyed regular erosion of the UK market in combined ratio terms.
outperformance against the market throughout that time.
competitive There is a risk that this advantage and or We now insure over 11% of the UK market and continue to write advantage the level of underwriting profit generated very profitable business.
The Directors remain confident that the key strengths of the A number of factors might contribute business which contribute to the outperformance including to this, including: targeted pricing and claims handling on the loss ratio side: lower cost infrastructure, efficient acquisition costs and cost a Flat or falling average premiums as control on the expense ratio side are sustainable.
Admirals portfolio trends towards the market average expense ratio impact There are regular reviews of the interactions between vehicle b A need to either cut rates, or increase growth, pricing and claims experience.
Claims and other rates at a slower rate than the market senior management continue to pay close attention to the key in order to deliver growth loss and indicators of adverse developments in large bodily injury claims.
expense ratio impacts c A deterioration in the ability to obtain The Groups ownership of Confused.
com, which is one or use data to price effectively of the leading UK price comparison websites and operates d Adverse changes in claims costs independently of the UK car insurance business, helps to or ability to handle claims mitigate the risk of over-reliance on this distribution channel.
Admiral also contributes materially to the revenues of the other Admiral has also been able to increase price comparison businesses and therefore it is not considered its market share significantly over recent probable that a material source of new business would be lost.
years, and to varying degrees is dependent on the four main UK price comparison websites as an important source of new business and growth.
The growth in this distribution channel could slow, cease or reverse, or Admiral could lose one or more of the websites as a source of leads.
The impact on the business would be a less profitable UK Car Insurance result and lower return on capital employed.
Many of the potential causes of claims shocks are outside the 2.
UK & The Group is exposed to underwriting control of the Group and focus, therefore, is generally on how International risk through its underwriting of motor to prepare and react to the occurrence of such events.
There is a risk that claims shocks claims costs could rise significantly above In the current economic environment there has been an increased historic or expected levels, for a number focus on the management of claims fraud.
of reasons including: In the case of legislative changes impacting existing claims, a Legislative changes for example, the Group holds an appropriate and explicit buffer in reserves periodic payment orders, Ogden to cover significant changes.
discount rate changes b Weather-related catastrophe events To cover other potential claims shocks, we continue to hold for example severe storm or flood an additional buffer in our reserves over the projected ultimate c Very large, non-catastrophe individual outcomes.
claims d Fraud or other changes in claimant For very large claims catastrophe and otherwise the Group behaviour purchases excess of loss reinsurance, which mitigates the loss e Significant increases in large to the selected deductible amount typically around 5 million bodily injury claims cost inflation at the total claim level.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 25 Business review continued Risk Description and Impact Mitigation 3. International The Group has launched eight new The Groups approach to expansion is cautious.
Our insurance expansion operations outside the UK in the past five businesses start small and are all backed by proportional risk of failure years.
AdmiralDirekt in Germany was sold reinsurance support which provides substantial mitigation in early 2011.
There is an ongoing risk against start-up losses in the early years.
that one or more of the operations fails to become a sustainable long-term business.
New price comparison businesses also focus on modest starts with low set-up costs and relatively small initial media spend The impact on the Group could be higher budgets.
This tends to mean that the losses a new operation than planned losses and potentially can incur are minimised whilst management assess the closure costs and distraction of key likelihood of the business succeeding.
The Directors are mindful of management stretch and monitor this risk on a regular basis though at present the Board is confident there is a suitable management structure in place for the Groups international operations.
The Directors are not prepared to let unprofitable businesses continue to generate losses where there is limited foreseeable chance of success.
Ancillary There is a risk that the level of ancillary Admiral earns ancillary profits from a portfolio of products profits profit earned per customer will diminish.
and seeks to minimise reliance on any single item.
This would potential This might be due to regulatory or legal mitigate the impact of a regulatory change which affected a diminution changes, or customer or market behaviour.
particular product or income stream.
Admiral continuously assesses the value of the ancillary products it offers, and makes The impact on the Group would be changes to ensure the products offer value to policyholders.
less profit earned on the car insurance portfolios and a lower return on capital The Groups risk management framework leads to potential employed.
risks to ancillaries being identified and monitored, providing management time to respond appropriately to any such The most immediate risk to ancillary regulatory changes and minimise financial impacts where profits arises from the OFT market study possible.
Whilst there are a range of possible outcomes from this study, Admiral welcomes any changes that are likely to lead to lower claims costs.
com operates in a highly Confused management continually analyse the success Comparison competitive UK market with four main or otherwise of all media activity.
effects businesses currently attempting to of continued increase their market share through The Directors believe Confused is a fundamentally strong competition aggressive media activity.
business and is well positioned to maintain its position in the UK price comparison market.
Co-insurance Admiral uses proportional co-insurance Admiral mitigates risks to its reinsurance arrangements by and reinsurance and reinsurance across its insurance ensuring that it has a strongly rated and diverse range of partners.
arrangements businesses to reduce its own capital Admiral has enjoyed a long-term relationship with one of the needs and increase return on the capital worlds strongest reinsurers, Munich Re, which has supported it does hold and to mitigate the cost Admiral since 2000.
The Group also has strong relationships and risk of establishing new operations.
with a number of other reinsurers, including Amlin, Hannover Re, Mapfre Re, New Re, Swiss Re and XL Re avoiding reliance on There is a risk that such support will a single partner.
not be available in the future if the results of either the UK business or more In the UK, coand reinsurance arrangements have been agreed realistically one or more of the up to the end of 2014, reflecting confidence in the Admiral UK international operations are not car insurance business.
Pricing on these deals was in line with satisfactory to the coand or reinsurers.
The long-term co-insurance agreement with Munich Re will remain in place at 40% of the business until The impact on the Group would be the at least the end of 2016. need to raise additional capital to support underwriting.
This could be in the form of equity or debt.
Return on capital would potentially be lower than current levels.
7. Credit risk Admiral is exposed to credit risk primarily The mitigation of these risks is discussed in note 17 to the in the form of a default of reinsurer: financial statements.
b failure of banking or investment counterparty.
The Board also considers the following risks to be significant: Operational risk for example, major fraud considered to be relatively low impact, and mitigated by a wide range of internal controls and the resilience of IT systems IT Development risk failure to invest in appropriate technology to support the Groups future business development, mitigated by regular review of the effectiveness of the Groups IT capability by Executive management and the Board People risk failure to recruit, develop and retain suitable talent.
Further detail on how Admiral interacts with its employees is set out in the Corporate Responsibility section following Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 26
