Corporate Governance continued The Committee and subsequently the Board, at Remuneration Committee their meetings in December 2011, considered the The membership at the year-end was John Sussens Groups current Succession Plan.
The Succession Chairman, Martin Jackson, Margaret Johnson Plan considered the senior roles within the Group and Colin Holmes.
The Company Secretary acts and identified whether there was emergency short as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee term cover in place in the event that the individual invites the Chief Executive and Chairman to attend left the organisation, and whether there was meetings where it deems appropriate.
a permanent replacement available within the organisation, or whether the position would need The Committee met six times during 2011. to be filled externally.
It also identified where there were individuals who would be capable of moving During the year the Committee carried out the into particular senior management roles following following activities: the gaining of further experience.
Reviewed the Groups overall remuneration The process of identifying and managing talent policy and strategy across the Group was discussed in detail by the Recommended for approval individual Board at its meeting in February 2012.
A remuneration packages for Executive Directors, presentation by the Executive team identifying key and the Company Secretary individuals within the organisation who could, with Reviewed the rules and performance measures appropriate training and development, succeed, at of the Group share schemes and recommended the appropriate time, to senior management for approval the grant, award, allocation or issue positions was considered.
of shares under such schemes.
The Committee remains satisfied that succession A separate Remuneration report is included within plans for Directors and senior management are in the Report and Accounts.
place to ensure the continued ability of the Group to implement strategy and compete effectively in During the year the Committee purchased the markets in which it operates.
consultancy services from Kepler Associates.
In addition, the Company Secretary circulates market The Committee is mindful of the recommendations survey results as appropriate to enable the made by Lord Davies in his report: Women on Committee to make judgments on the levels of Boards.
The Chairman announced in August 2011 remuneration appropriate for the Directors and to that the Group strongly supports the principle review the remuneration of the Groups senior of boardroom diversity, of which gender is an Executives.
 PwC also important, but not the only aspect.
What is provided advice on the structure of the Groups important is diversity of thought, experience, share plans during the year.
and approach and each new appointment must complement what already exists at the Board Internal control and risk management table.
Accordingly, appointments will always be The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups made on merit against objective criteria, including system of internal control and, through the Audit diversity, and not just to achieve an externally Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of these prescribed number.
The systems of internal control over business, operational, financial, and compliance The Group already has strong female representation risks are designed to manage rather than eliminate in both management and at Board level.
42% of our the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and senior managers are women, and on our Executive can only provide reasonable and not absolute Committees women comprise 30% of that for the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
UK and 42% for our International operations.
In addition, of the total employees in the UK, 48% are The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing women.
The proportion that women constitute of process for identifying, evaluating and managing our plc Board is currently 23%, however, following the Groups internal controls: that it has been in the retirement of Keith James as a Non-Executive place for the year ended 31 December 2011: and Director in April 2012, the Group will already have that, up to the date of approval of the annual report met the 25% target set for 2015 by Lord Davies.
and accounts, it is regularly reviewed by the Board The Group remains committed to providing equal and accords with the internal control guidance for opportunities, eliminating discrimination and Directors provided in the Code.
encouraging diversity amongst its workforce both in the UK and overseas.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 44
