Business review 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties BG Groups businesses around the world are With the prospect of aprolonged period of lower BG Group and its industry partners are working exposed to a number of risks and uncertainties, growth, or even a return to recession in some with regulators and industry groups to continue which could, either on their own or in countries, there remains the possibility of reduced to develop clearer standards and better practices.
combination with others, potentially have a demand for gas and oil and weaker hydrocarbon Developing and maintaining effective working material adverse effect on the Groups strategy, prices which could negatively impact BG Groups relationships with all stakeholders, including business, performance, results, financial or strategy and trading and financial performance.
regulators, and contributing to the debate on trading condition, and or reputation.
In turn, evolving regulation, remains an ongoing priority these may impact shareholder returns, including In response to this economic uncertainty, for BG Group.
dividends and or BG Groups share price.
BGGroup is increasing its sales andmarketing operations to markets in Asia and Latin America BG Group is delivering and financing the largest BG Groups current view on the principal risks that are currently more economically resilient.
capital investment programme in its history and uncertainties facingthe business is set During 2011, the shipment of BGGroup LNG BG Groups growth plans to 2020 are based on outon pages 47 to 51. cargoes to Asia increased by around 40%.
In the successful execution of the Groups programme addition, the Group also signed long-term LNG of major capital projects.
In particular, projects A summary of the Groups approach to risk supply agreements withIndia and Japan in 2011. inBrazil and Australia will make major management, together with the particular contributions to future growth.
In order to increase risks on whichthe Board has focused during There is significant social and political production from around 650 000 boed today to 2011, isset out below.
changein some of BG Groups key countries between 1.2million and 1.6million boed by 2020, 2011 sawsignificant social and political change BGGroup will be continuing to invest significantly Risk management inregions where BG Group operates, most in the period.
Funding these major capital projects balancing riskandreward notably in North Africa.
The Groups emergency will need to be underpinned by strong cash flows Risks and uncertainties are inherent in BGGroups response processes worked successfully in Tunisia from operating assets, as well as access to capital business.
TheGroup recognises that integrated risk and in Egypt.
Nevertheless, inEgypt there was markets, as required.
TheGroupwill continue analysis and management are crucial to enhancing material disruption tonormal patterns of gas to pursue its portfolio rationalisation its performance and competitive advantage.
demand, with a consequent impact on production programme to realise further value, while BGGroups approach is aimed at early identification volumes.
InTunisia, there-start of the Hasdrubal prioritising its investment spend and capital and analysis of potential risks, mitigating identified plant, following planned maintenance, allocation on areas that can add most value.
risks wherever possible, and responding quickly wasdelayed.
and effectively where risks materialise.
BGGroup successfully raised $3billion, The potential impacts of such social and 750million and1billion through bond issuances BG Groups approach to risk management political change are broad and, in the worst in 2011, demonstrating the attractiveness BG Group is committed to an effective risk case, could expose the Group to changes in the ofthe Groups credit and providing material management approach that protects the nature of upstream licensing arrangements.
In 2011, the Groupsrevolving Groups business, people and reputation while The impact of any such developments on the committed facilities, whichare held with a enhancing shareholder value.
One of the key Groups current and future revenues could diversified group of major banks, were increased components of the Groups overall Enterprise bematerial.
As such, political risk and crisis and the expiry dates extended inlight of the Risk Management ERM Framework is the management remain high on the agenda growing scale ofthe Groups activities.
These Business Risk Management Process BRMP, forthe BG Group Board and the GEC.
facilities totalled $4.5billion at 31 December 2011, which is mandatory and operates throughout of which $2.32billion expires in 2013 and the Group.
Accountability for identifying The regulatory regimes in which $2.18billion in 2016.
There are no restrictions on andmanaging business risk lies with line BGGroupoperates continue to evolve the application of funds under these facilities, management, with overall BG Group Board BG Group conducts business world-wideand which were undrawn asat 31December 2011. and Group Executive Committee GEC oversight.
is subject to a variety of regulatory regimes For further details ofthe Groups financial In2011, the Group appointed a Chief Risk which continually evolve.
outlook, see the Financial review on pages Officer tolead the ongoing development 40to 44. ofthe Groups ERMFramework.
BG Group has made material investments intheunconventional gas resource sector in The major capital projects in BG Groups Managing an evolving risk profile Australia and the USA.
The scale of these new investment programme are inherently BG Groups risk profile continues to evolve as a unconventional resources, their onshore location, complex, technically demanding, and require result of a dynamic external environment, as well the rapid expansion of the industry and the effective management of a wide rangeof as the growth and changes in the Groups portfolio.
hydraulic fracturing technology thatis often stakeholders.
Given their importance, the The main external and internal developments that involved in developing these resources, all BGGroup Board and the GEC receive regular have impacted BGGroups risk profile since inform the evolution of regulation in this area updates on the management, operational thelast annual report, and the Groups response toensure valuable resources are developed andbudgetary progress and financing of to these changes, are discussed below.
responsibly and to minimise environmental theseprojects.
Aswith all of BGGroups harm.
Regulatory changes may require projects, fide-risking ofthe capital programme There is turbulence and a high level additional investment or limit operations, remains a key focus area for theBoard and ofuncertainty in the global economy potentially impacting the Groups strategy Executive Management.
The financial crisis in the eurozone, the Japanese andconstraining Group financial performance tsunami and political upheaval in North Africa for example, a move by regulators to restrict and the Middle East all contributed to difficult orprohibit hydraulic fracturing ina particular economic conditions in 2011.
Economic uncertainty area where BG Group operates could have looks set to continue in 2012, and possibly beyond.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 47 Further information on BGGroups  to sustainability canbefound in the Sustainability Report at www.
com sustainability Important notes The summary of principal risks and uncertainties set out on the following pages is not presented in order ofpotential magnitude, materiality orprobability of occurrence.
Not all of these risks and uncertainties are withinBG Groups control.
Some of the major risks involved in BG Group activities cannot, or may not, reasonably and economically be insured.
While the Group has developed processes for identifying and managing risk, these processes provide reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance and are designed to help manage, rather than eliminate, risk.
It is not possible to be certain that these processes will be successful in managing these risks effectively or at all.
In addition to the principal risks and uncertainties listed here, the Group may alsobe affected adversely by other risks as yetunforeseen orcurrently considered not tobematerial.
Shareholders should consider the principal risks and uncertainties described in this section inconjunction with theLegal notice setout onpage 150.
Asset integrity, safety, health and security Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Oil and gas exploration and production activities carry significant inherent risks, Asset integrity and safety are overriding priorities for BGGroup.
especially deepwater drilling and operations in high pressure high temperature TheGroup designs and operates management systems and tools wells.
Major accidents or incidents and or the failure to manage these risks could tohelpitmanage risks in these areas.
The Groups mandatory HSSE result in injury or loss of life, damage to the environment, and or loss of certain and Asset Integrity Standards are regularly reviewed to ensure they facilities, with an associated loss or deferment of exploration, production and are in line with industry best practice and are embedded in the revenues, as well as costs associated with mitigation, recovery and compensation.
organisation through extensive training backedup by regular audits and assessments.
Contractor management isrecognised BG Group is also subject to health and safety laws in numerous jurisdictions asan essential part of good safety management, and the Group around the world.
Failure to comply with such laws could significantly impact the seeks to ensure that its worldwide contractor community Groups reputation, which could have a subsequent effect upon the willingness understands and applies the Groups safety culture and processes to ofstakeholders to work with theGroup.
Any new laws and regulations may result theirown operations.
Toreduce to as low asreasonably practicable inBGGroup havingto curtail or cease certain operations or implement temporary the risk of asset failure, it ismandatory for every operated asset shutdowns of facilities, which could diminish its productivity and materially to have Safety Cases inplace which identify and describe the andadversely impact the results of operations, including theGroups profits.
hazards associated with that asset and to have measures in place tomanage those hazards.
BG Group also faces security threats.
Acts of terrorism, piracy orcivil unrest which may affect BG Groups plants and offices, pipelines, transportation or computer In order to protect its information, BG Group is continually improving systems could severely disrupt its businessand could cause harm to people.
the security of its information technology infrastructure, reviewing key business processes inthe context of information security Information security breaches may also result intheloss ofBG Groups andensuring there is heightened consideration of information  data.
In addition, a training and awareness programme is ensuring that staff have an increased awareness andunderstanding of the threat.
Capital requirements, liquidity and interest rates Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary BG Group has substantial capital expenditure requirements in its business BG Group policy requires a specified minimum amount of andoperations.
The Groups capital requirements depend on abroad range revolvingcommitted borrowing facilities.
These facilities are used offactors including, for example, commodity prices, currency exchange rates, asback-up liquidity tofund operating and capital requirements.
acquisitions and proceeds realised from disposals, some of which are outside In2011, the Groups revolving committed facilities, which are theGroups control and may cause capital requirements to vary materially heldwith a diversified group of major banks, were increased fromplanned levels.
Increases in BGGroups capital requirements could adversely andthe expiry dates extended.
These facilities totalled $4.5 billion affect theGroups business and financial performance including gearing, and and were undrawn as at31December 2011.
BGGroupsability toaccess finance on attractive terms maybe limited.
A credit ordebt crisis affecting sovereign states, banks, financial markets and or the The Group invests surplus funds primarily in short-term, highly economy more generally could affect the Groups ability to raise capital.
liquid investments that are readily convertible to cash.
The Group imposes limits on the amount of borrowings that mature within BG Group is also exposed to liquidity risks, including risks associated with any specific period.
refinancing borrowings as they mature and therisk that financial assets cannotreadily be converted to cashwithout loss of value.
BG Groups interest rate risk management policy requires that substantially all borrowings are floating rate.
Exceptions to BG Groups financing costs may be significantly affected byinterest thispolicy require approval from the Groups Finance Committee.
During 2011, in the light of the low interest rate environment, theFinance Committee approved the fixing ofa substantial proportion of the Groups debt.
com Business review 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Climate change Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Policies and initiatives at national and international level to address climate Public policy responses to climate change continue to evolve, and change are likely to affect business conditions and demand for various energy BGGroup closely monitors developments inthis area.
The Groups sources in the medium to long-term.
Worldwide policy and regulatory actions strategy isshaped by its belief thatthe energy industry will necessarily aredriving targeted reductions in GHG emissions which will in turn influence play a role in thesolution to climate change andthat natural gas has a the future of the global energy industry.
Policy approaches that promote the recognised contribution to make.
Many governments are seeking use ofalternative energy sources such as renewables and nuclear power increased natural gas utilisation as alower-carbon alternative mayaffect BG Groups ability to maintain its position in key markets.
tocoaloroil within the context of theirbroader climate change mitigation strategies.
Additionally, new regulatory regimes intended to establish emissions tradingschemes could alter hydrocarbon production economics.
BG Group actively identifies projects to minimise GHG emissions across its existing operations and in new developments, including applying bestavailable techniques to help meet its target of aone million tonne sustainable reduction in emissions compared with a no-action base case between 2007 and 2012.
BG Group also participates in applicable carbon emissions trading schemes.
SeeThe way we work section on pages 36 to 39.
Commodity prices Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary BG Groups cash flows and profitability are sensitive to commodity prices BG Groups sensitivity to oil prices is set to increase due tothe fornatural gas, crude oil, LNG and other hydrocarbons.
TheGroups exposure contribution from significant oil-related revenues, notably from tocommodity prices varies according to a number of factors, including the mix Brazil, and from oil-indexed LNG sales.
However, the Groups of production and sales.
While industry costs tend torise or fall with commodity portfolio also includes a range oflong-term gas contracts that prices inthe long term, there is no guarantee thatmovements in sales prices arenot directly or immediately linked to short-term changes in and costs would align in any year.
This can put pressure on investment and commodity prices.
Additionally, some LNG purchase contracts project economics which depend in part upon thedegree and timing of contain provisions under which the gas suppliers share price commitments in line with particular cost structures.
BG Group does not as a matter of course hedge all commodity prices, but may BG Groups US shale gas business is particularly sensitive to US hedge certain LNG contracts andother revenue streams from time to time.
Management considers a further fall in Inmarketing its energy portfolio, BG Group undertakes commodity hedging long-term US gas prices could result in a review of the carrying andtrading activities, including the use of futures contracts, financial and value of its US shale gas business and the potential recognition physical forward-based contracts and swap contracts.
The stand-alone ofan impairment in future periods.
BG Groups exposure is valueofhedges can move significantly, potentially increasing the volatility mitigated by both price hedges that have been put in place as well ofcashrequired for margin calls andthe accounting profit recognised within as its ability to modify exploration and field development activities.
Projects and investments are screened against a wide range of Demand for LNG, both domestic and international, is dependent upona external sensitivities, including benchmark commodity prices.
numberof macroeconomic factors, andLNG prices can varysignificantly depending uponthesupply and demand balance inamarket.
Credit Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary The challenging credit environment witnessed during thepast four years has Credit exposure risk, including concentration risk and the highlighted the importance of managing credit risk.
BG Groups exposure to credit appropriateness oflimits, is monitored centrally for individual risk takes the form of a loss that would berecognised if counterparties including transactions.
BGGroup considers the financial and credit sovereign entities failed, orwere unable, to meet their payment orperformance condition ofcounterparties including sovereign entities prior obligations.
These risks may arise in all forms of commercial agreements and in toentering intocommercial contracts, trading sales agreements, certain agreements relating to amounts owed for physical product sales, the use swaps, futures and optionscontracts.
of derivative instruments, and the investment of surpluscash balances.
The Group is also exposed to political and economic riskevents that exacerbate country risk BG Group may also seek contractual or other forms ofprotection and which may cause non-payment offoreign currency obligations to BG Group or mitigation, including cash collateral, lettersofcredit, security by governments or government-owned entities, or which may otherwise impact over assetor parent company guarantees.
Where multiple successful project delivery andimplementation.
The impact ofcredit issues transactions are undertaken with a single counterparty or group couldalso leadto the failure ofcompanies in the sector, potentially including ofrelated counterparties, the Group may enter into a netting partners, contractors and suppliers.
Further information can be found in the arrangement.
For physical commodity trading, the Group seeks Financial statements, see note 19, page 118. toput in place bespoke master netting agreements or standard arrangements appropriate to the local market.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 49 Further information on BGGroups  to sustainability canbefound in the Sustainability Report at www.
com sustainability Delivery of projects Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Successful delivery of major projects is material to BG Groups future growth Project delivery is subject to BG Groups internal assurance and substantial delays to, or failure tocomplete, these projects constitute processes tooptimise designs and minimise risk.
Due diligence significant risks tothe Groups prospects, reputation and financial position.
priorto the final investment decision includes: scrutiny of feasibility studies: concept selection and definition: project Delivery of projects including in the pre-sanction phase may be subject to: planning: commercialisation options: andproject economics.
sub-surface uncertainties: cost and time overruns: HSSE risks: technical Projects are screened against a wide range ofexternal mechanical and engineering, commercial, legal or regulatory compliance sensitivities, including commodity prices and input costs.
failures: equipment shortages: insufficient availability or capability of employees orcontractors: unscheduled outages: stakeholder risks: a deterioration of BG Group has an ongoing programme focused on ensuring macroeconomic conditions: and transportation pipeline system constraints.
optimal project management, clear accountabilities for Drilling, completing or operating wells is oftenuncertain and may be subject deliveryand the best possible deployment of project todelays, curtailment or cancellation due to a variety offactors including: management capability across the portfolio.
Performance is unexpected drilling conditions: pressure or irregularities ingeological formations: assured against Group-wide mandatory technical Standards equipment failures or accidents: adverse weather conditions: and compliance andstrict capital andcost discipline is applied toprotect with governmental or regulatory requirements.
Those events could result in value.
The Group seeks toensure that effective stakeholder afailure to deliver sanctioned projects in linewithfinal investment decisions.
alignment enables an adequate degree of control during projectconstruction and operation.
Failure to select the most suitable development concept based on a full-lifecycle understanding of the project canexpose projects to additional cost and risks, andmay contribute to lower than estimatedproduction in future.
In some cases, the cause of delay or cost over-run in  canbe the misalignment of partner objectives.
BG Group has a number of partner-operated joint ventures in which itparticipates.
The Groups ability toinfluence the operations of those joint ventures may be limited.
The Group faces the risk that actions or omissions on the part of the operators of those joint ventures expose the Group to reputational or legal risk, as well as liabilities.
Political factors can often be a significant risk to project delivery.
Unconventional gas, operating in deepwater carbonate reservoirs, andthe inherent complexity ofsome projects given their scale and thenumber and range of stakeholders, allpresent further challenges tosuccessful project delivery.
Environment Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary BG Groups activities may affect the environment.
The potential environmental BG Group is focused on developing processes to minimise the consequences of the Groups activities include the impact of wells, pipelines and impact of its operations on local environments and habitats.
other infrastructure on onshore or marine ecological habitats, with a resulting TheGroups Environmental Management System is designed effect on biodiversity.
Measures undertaken to tackle loss of biodiversity, together togo beyond compliance with local regulation to meet with policies intended to protect local habitats, may limit access to gas and oil internationally accepted best practice.
inareas deemed to be biologically sensitive.
BG Group recognises that an important aspect of working Following BG Groups investments in Australia and the USA, water-related sustainably is to communicate effectively about how the Group issuesaremore prominent for the Group.
In particular, the Group is required to manages the risks in its unconventional gas operations.
As a managenumerous issues related to both the disposal of water produced from result, BG Group has developed a public statement of the Groups CSGproduction and securing and disposing of water related to the hydraulic approach, including arange of commitments about the way we fracturing process required in the extraction of shale gas.
work to develop resources of unconventional gas responsibly andwith minimal impact on the environment.
There are a range of stakeholder concerns related to the production ofunconventional gas.
These include the potential for contamination or depletion A key component of BG Groups risk management approach, oflocal water sources, the long-term impact upon the natural environment, which is applicable to the development of both conventional including flora andfauna, and the possibility that unconventional operations may andunconventional projects, is the quality not only of the site cause minor seismic events.
In addition, local communities may raise concerns andthe approach to well design but of BG Groups processes inrelation to theimpact on their land and their property rights.
This approach is detailed in The way we work on pages 36 to 39 and in the Sustainability Report, There is a risk that the Group may be subject to new laws or regulations in this area availableonline.
which may be costly to the business, attract adverse publicity and ultimately restrict or prohibit the successful delivery of those projects reliant upon this hydraulic fracturing.
Other potential environmental consequences of BG Groups operations include, for example: the release of hydrocarbons or chemicals onto land or into water: noise pollution: the visual impact of gas and oil infrastructure: and the emission ofpollutants that affect air quality.
com Business review 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Exchange rates Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary The Group reports its financial results in US Dollars.
Although alarge percentage BG Group mitigates its exposure to net asset positions in certain of the Groups business activity is conducted in US Dollars, a significant portion currencies other than the US Dollar primarily, the Brazilian Real ofthe Groups operating cash flows, capital expenditure and orincome taxes and Pound Sterling by denominating aportion of its after-swap accrue in and asset and liability positions are held in other currencies, including borrowings in such currencies, with the balance of after-swap the Australian Dollar QCLNG project capital expenditure, Brazilian Real borrowings denominated inUS Dollars.
The Group hedges SantosBasin developments capital expenditure and Pound Sterling.
Specifically, certainexpected cash flows into US Dollars.
Currency hedging the Group is entering a phase where an increasing amount of QCLNGproject isalsoundertaken to mitigate currency exposure in certain expenditure is being incurred in Australian dollars.
results andfinancial position may be significantly affected by exchange ratefluctuations.
Insurance Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Risks associated with the energy industry include: exposure to personalinjury BG Group maintains an insurance programme to provide some andloss of life, asset failures, loss of containment of hydrocarbons, environmental mitigation against significant losses, which, as is consistent with issues and natural disasters, together with associated consequential losses, general industry practice, includes certain limited cover for physical any ofwhich may have an adverse effect on business performance.
The transfer damage, removal ofdebris, control of wells, re-drill, sudden and of risks to the insurance market may be affected and influenced by constraints accidental pollution, andemployers and third-party liabilities.
on theavailability of cover, market appetite and capacity, pricing and the decisions Theinsurance programme incorporates a captive insurance vehicle.
Some of the major risks associated with BG Groups Policies purchased are subject to certain limits, deductibles and activities cannot or may not be reasonably or economically insured.
BG Group specific terms and conditions.
In addition, insurance premium costs mayincur significant losses from different types of risks that are not covered are subject to changes based on a companys loss experience, by insurance.
theoverall loss experience of the insurance markets accessed, and capacity constraints.
Operational performance Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary BG Groups production volumes and therefore revenues are dependent on BG Group has mandatory Policies and Standards governing all thecontinued operational performance of its producing assets.
TheGroups aspects ofits operations, including HSSE and asset integrity.
These producing assets are subject to a number of operational risks including: reduced are supported by assurance processes which are supervised by the availability of those assets due to planned activities such asmaintenance or Groups technical functions and are applied globally.
These Policies shutdowns: unplanned outages which may, for example, be due to equipment and Standards are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, orhuman failure: assetintegrity and HSSE incidents: lower than expected theimpact ofthose risks.
recovery rates: theperformance of joint venture partners: theperformance ofthe Groups contractors: and exposure tonatural hazards, such as extreme weather events.
Each of these factors could adversely affect the Groups ability todeliver itsoperational business and financial performance.
Organisational capacity Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary BG Groups performance, operating results and future growth depend to a BG Group takes a systematic approach to resourcing to ensure it largeextent on its continued ability toattract, retain, motivate andorganise canmeetits long-term human resource needs, operating short and appropriately qualified personnel with the level of expertise and knowledge long-term resourcing demand models to predict and manage the necessary to conduct BG Groups operations.
Competition for talented, suitably people requirements that underpin the Groups business plans.
The experienced and qualified management and employees is intense for Group aims to identify thebest people through succession planning specialists in oil and gas.
and talent management, coupled with effective recruitment.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 51 Further information on BGGroups  to sustainability canbefound in the Sustainability Report at www.
com sustainability Political context andstakeholder relationships Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary BG Group faces a range of political risks.
For instance, governments may alter fiscal The commitments in BG Groups Business Principles form the basis or other terms governing oil and gas industry operations, especially where they face oftheGroups efforts to address these issues andare summarised financial pressures, or may act or fail to act ina way that delays project schedules in Theway we work on pages 36 to 39 and in the Sustainability or increases costs, thus eroding value.
In addition, BGGroup needs to work with Report, available online.
governments and national oil companies in order to secure access to new resources and to ensure the successful monetisation of existing resources.
In such cases, BG Group seeks to ensure that governments and national political considerations can influence decision making.
Inrecent years, some oilcompanies see it as a partner of choice.
The Group aimsto governments and state-owned enterprises have exercised greater authority over, understand its stakeholders priorities and interests and seeks and imposed more stringent conditions on, companies pursuing exploration and alignment with them wherever possible, while making it clear production activities in host countries, thereby increasing the costs and that contract sanctity and stability are essential to attract uncertainties of business operations.
Previously disenfranchised or disengaged andunderpin direct foreign investment.
populations have also become more active and are able, using new channels like social media, to mobilise to pressurise governments ina way that was impossible in BG Group also endeavours to ensure that its portfolio is the past.
These developments have increased thepossibility of unforeseen regime, appropriately diversified as a mitigant against potential as well as legal or regulatory, changes as governments and authorities respond to instability within specific countries or regions where the public pressure.
BG Group also faces increased risk if it does not recognise, and take Grouphas an interest.
account of, the interests of the communities in the areas where it operates, or if it operates in an unethical mannerin its relationships with those communities.
Regulation and legislation Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary BGGroups business activities are conducted in many different countries BGGroups Business Principles require the Group to complywith andaretherefore subject to a broad range of legislation and regulations.
Any legal, regulatory and licence requirements inthe countries in which non-compliance bythe Group with applicable laws and or regulations could it operates.
BGGroup expects to continue to incur capital and leadto legal or regulatory sanctions, as well as reputational damage.
The need operating expenditure to comply with increasingly complex laws tocomply with any new or revised laws orregulations or new orchanged and regulations worldwide, particularly inrelation to environmental interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations may have protection and health andsafety.
amaterial impact on the Groups business and financial position.
Compliance with such laws and regulations may impose additional costsontheGroups The company has an anti-corruption compliance programme business and could potentially restrict or prohibit itsbusiness operations which seeks tomanage corruption risk across BG Groups and or practices.
In addition, insome countries, governments are facing business activities.
Thecompliance programme includes greaterpressure onpublicfinances, leading toarisk ofincreased taxation.
components which recognise the requirements of theUK Bribery Act2010 and which focus on training, monitoring, risk If BGGroup employees, or anyone working on its behalf, violatelaws and management and due diligence.
regulations in jurisdictions in which the Groupoperates including US orUK lawsand regulations with extraterritorial application, the Group may face reputational damage and be subject to significant penalties, including finesorloss of operating licences and or authorities.
Resources discovery, estimation and development Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Delivery of production growth depends upon a number offactors, including: successful BG Group operates a ranking process to select prospect resource discovery and development ofhydrocarbon resources: the acquisition of sufficient new inventory opportunities for exploration drilling.
This process resource opportunities: sufficient field appraisal: reservoir quality and performance: isoverseen by the Exploration and Appraisal Committee which accurate interpretation of received data: drilling conditions or costs: rig availability: and reviews these opportunities against a set of multiple risk criteria, adequate human or technical resources.
Competition for exploration anddevelopment including technical, commercial, economic and political factors, rights, and access to gas and oil resources, isintense.
Afailure to secure appropriate toassess their potential fordevelopment.
newresources could impact upon the Groups production growth prospects beyondthenextdecade.
Changes to the Groups reserves or discovered resources figures are overseen by the Corporate Reserves Group CRG.
The CRG Gas and oil reserves and resources cannot be measured exactly since estimation isresponsible for performing independent reviews of all reserves ofreserves and resources involves subjective judgements, may not align with the and discovered resources estimates and supports the Reserves estimates of total reserves and resources of BG Groups joint venture partners Committee, which reviews andendorses the Groups total including operators, and may be subject to downward revision.
Factors that may resources estimates.
TheReserves Committee reports annually lead to such revisions include: adecline in the price ofoil or gas which may make tothe Audit Committee on the adequacy of the Groups reserves reserves and or resources uneconomic to develop: changes in gas and oil prices in and resources process.
For further details of the Reserves fields subject to production sharing contracts which may result in changes to Committee, see Corporate governance on page 58. entitlements: the quality and quantity of the Groups geological, technicaland economic data may prove to be inaccurate: and the Groups abilitytointerpret that data appropriately may be limited.
In addition, actual production performance may be lower than estimated.
Changes in tax rules and othergovernment For more information see page 136. regulations may also result in reserves or resources becominguneconomic.
com North Everest platform with supply vessel UK The North Everest platform has been operated by BG Group since 2009.
Production from the field began in 1993.
Find out more online at www.
com Corporate governance Directors report: 54 Board of Directors 56 Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary Corporategovernance 58 Corporate governance 66 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Introducing the Board 68 Remuneration report ofDirectorsandsenior 82 Other statutory information management.
Our approach tocorporate governance andremuneration.
