Business review Risk management During 2011 we focused on integrating our risk management framework within day-to-day operations.
This has raised the level of risk awareness across the business and helped the organisation focus on improving and consolidating existing processes.
James Illingworth, Chief Risk Officer risk tolerances are set for each category and helps to ensure that risk and capital 2011 highlights allocated amongst our operating divisions.
Own Risk & Solvency Assessment ORSA implications are recognised in the decision process successfully developed and Risk taken is then regularly assessed against making process and that appropriate control integrated within the business cycle those tolerances.
For example, the table plans are developed to support the successful opposite shows key realistic disaster scenarios Risk Assessment Process further embedded delivery of business strategies and priorities.
across the Group For example, the ORSA summarises realistic Risk event reporting process implemented disaster scenarios for catastrophe events and Effective risk management and governance and actively used also provides an aggregate risk assessment are fundamental to the regulatory regime Awarded Enterprise Risk Management for multiple catastrophes in any one year.
which will be implemented under the Solvency Strategy of the year at 2011 Risk This information is compared with specific II Directive.
During 2011 we made further Management Professional awards risk tolerances.
progress towards meeting these requirements as part of the development of Amlins Target The Amlin plc Board, operating company Setting our risk strategy Operating Model.
boards and risk committees receive quarterly Amlin recognises that delivery of shareholder ORSA reports produced through consistent value comes from actively seeking and Embedding our Own Risk & Solvency risk assessment and reporting processes accepting risk while managing that risk within Assessment across underwriting divisions and other acceptable bounds.
Our risk management The ORSA is a key business process required corporate functions.
These reports were further policy clearly articulates the importance given under Solvency II, that brings a coordinated developed during 2011.
For example, key risk to active management of risk within the Group.
Risk categories are clearly identified, risk view of risk and solvency together for indicators are now integrated into monthly management standards are documented and management and boards.
This information management information reports, including Risk Management Framework Risk Policy & Risk Strategy Risk Standards Risk Appetite & Tolerances Governance Accountability & Ownership Communication Review Risk Report Identify Assessment Process Respond Assess Infrastructure Challenge 44 Framework Foundations Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 the reporting of risk beyond agreed tolerances, the risk of any one event, or series of events, ongoing use and engagement with the wider risk events and emerging risks at both Group causing unacceptable impairment to the business provides a catalyst for refining the and divisional level.
This has proven a key step Groups balance sheet.
in embedding the management of risk within We continue to develop our Dynamic Financial While this actuarial modelling provides a the day-to-day operations of the business and Analysis DFA model, the principal tool for critical ingredient to our risk management ensuring local management accountability.
analysing the range of possible outcomes, in approach, it is ultimately used to inform Our commitment to harnessing Amlins risk terms of expected profitability, for the Group underwriters and management, on whose management framework to the benefit of the and each regulated entity.
Consequently, the judgement and experience we ultimately rely business as a whole was recognised externally modelling provides the principal support for and who remain accountable for exercising when Amlin won the award for the Enterprise assessment of our economic and regulatory prudent judgement.
During 2011, we have Risk Management Strategy of the Year at the capital requirements and is central to our continued to focus on strengthening the use 2011 Risk Management Professional awards.
preparations for Solvency II and Internal Model of the model within key business processes approval.
Amlins DFA modelling is integrated such as business planning, assessment of Modelling and exposure management into the Risk Management Framework which reinsurance purchase, investment decisions, Amlin aims to deliver an attractive cross-cycle supports the determination and assessment risk reporting as described above and strategic return on capital through the maintenance of a of risk.
The modelling captures the distinct business decisions.
This work has been diversified portfolio of business, combined with risk profile of the Group, including the potential conducted to support Syndicate 2001, Amlin excellent capital management.
Diversification aggregation of catastrophe risk, class AG and ACI in a consistent manner.
This model across different business lines and geographies diversification and reinsurance protection.
use provides a continuous feedback loop for provides an effective balance of catastrophe It must always be remembered that financial model improvement.
and non-catastrophe exposures and reduces risk modelling is not an exact science, yet Selected Realistic Disaster Scenarios Jan 2012 million Net Loss Exposed Aggregate Gross Loss Net Loss RI Bad Debt after Bad Debt Tolerance North-East US Windstorm 4,590 626 217 24 241 350 Florida Windstorm Tampa 2,281 590 171 24 195 350 California Earthquake LA 1,960 490 167 17 184 350 European Windstorm 105,762 678 181 34 215 350 Japan Earthquake 972 522 314 18 332 350 New Zealand Earthquake 771 347 246 5 251 350 Risk Governance Structure Amlin plc PLC Risk & Solvency Committee Group Executive Risk Committee Entity Board Entity Board Risk Coordination Group Entity Audit Committee Entity Audit Committee Group Risk function aggregation Entity Risk Committee Entity Risk Committee Group Risk function review Group functions risk report Entity Management Entity Management 45 Risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks Nature of risk Key controls and mitigation strategies Underwriting The risk of claims arising from inherent Underlying strategy and diversity of exposure catastrophe uncertainties in the occurrence of insurance Aggregate exposure limits risk losses associated with natural or man-made Probable maximum loss limits catastrophic events.
Modelling of loss scenarios including stochastic DFA modelling Reinsurance programme Underwriting The risks of unexpected or unbudgeted increase Underwriting authority limits per contract and peer review attritional risk in cost of small or large insurance claims.
Business planning processes Technical pricing assessment and underwriting strategy Reinsurance programme Monitoring and performance review Underwriting The risk of unexpected or unbudgeted increase Reserving process within claims and underwriting management teams reserving risk in claims emanating from business written where In-house actuarial reserve review independent of underwriting teams profit has been declared.
Reserves are carried in excess of actuarial best estimate Reinsurance programme Market risk The risk arising from fluctuations in values Investment policy and strategic asset allocation of investments.
Tactical asset allocation investment Diversified portfolio market volatility Modelling and monitoring of investment risk within agreed tolerances Hedging of market value movements in investments Market risk Impact on the value of balance sheet or earnings Asset liability matching of major currencies currency arising from the movement in value of sterling Hedging of Amlin AG US dollar and ACI euro net asset exposures fluctuation against key non-functional currencies.
Sale of foreign currency profits Reinsurance programme Credit risk The risk of loss if a counter-party fails to perform Reinsurer selection and rating reinsurance its obligations or fails to perform them in a Controls over exposures placed with reinsurers counter-party timely fashion.
Reinsurance debt credit control Collateralised reinsurance Credit risk The risk of loss if an insurance or treasury Credit control procedures intermediary intermediary fails to meet credit obligations Broker credit assessment counter-party in a timely fashion.
Liquidity risk The risk arising from insufficient financial resources Stress testing of liquidity needs relative to major catastrophe events being available to meet liabilities as they fall due.
Maintaining sufficient liquidity in investment portfolio to address claims needs Banking facilities Asset liability matching of major currencies and duration Operational risk Risks resulting from inadequate or failed internal Procedural controls including workflow management processes, people and systems, or from external Monitoring of compliance with established procedures and processes events, including regulatory control failures.
Employee manual and Human Resource policies Risk event and near miss reporting process Business Continuity Management planning Strategic risk Risks associated with the appropriateness Annual Amlin plc Board strategy awayday of business strategy in the face of the Long term strategies developed addressing diversification external environment.
of underwriting platform Executive Risk Committee and Group Management Committee review of emerging risks Risk event and near miss reporting process Acquisition due diligence and risk assessment processes Establishing task forces such as Climate Change and Environment Panel Enterprise-level Risks associated with one or more of a portfolio Mitigation strategies for each underlying risk exposure as outlined above risk of principal risks occurring and providing an Review and consideration of an aggregated group risk profile providing aggregated impact on the organisation as a whole an enterprise-wide view of risk exposures Stress testing of a combination of material risks Reverse stress testing of the ultimate impact of combinations of material risks 46
