Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 61 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk and capital management Qualitative statements on the Groups appetite for taking and Risk management objectives retaining particular risk types, the Groups risk preferences, are As a global insurance group, risk management is at the heart of set out in the risk management framework policy.
The Groups what we do and is the source of value creation as well as a vital position against the quantitative risk appetite statements is form of control.
It is an integral part of maintaining financial monitored and reported to the Board on a regular basis.
stability for our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Economic capital risk appetites by risk type and by business unit Our sustainability and financial strength are underpinned by are set in support of the aggregate Group risk appetite based on effective risk management, which allows us to predict future the Board approved business plan.
More granular risk tolerances changes, move more quickly and take better decisions for our and limits are set out in our risk management policies and customers, giving them prosperity and peace of mind.
The supporting guidance, which are implemented across the Group.
Groups risk strategy is to invest its available capital to optimise the balance between return and risk while maintaining an Risk management appropriate level of economic i. e. risk-based capital and The Groups approach to risk management ensures that regulatory capital in accordance with our risk appetite.
significant existing or emerging risks are actively identified, Consequently, our risk management objectives are to: measured, managed, monitored and reported on a continuous Embed rigorous risk management throughout the basis.
Risks are measured considering the significance of the risk business, based on setting clear risk appetites and staying to the business and its stakeholders both internal and external within these: in the context of our strategy, objectives and risk appetite.
Allocate capital where it will make the highest returns on Monitoring ensures that risk management approaches are a risk-adjusted basis: and effective, and also seeks to identify risk-taking opportunities Meet the expectations of our customers, investors and to improve the risk-adjusted performance of the Group.
Risk regulators that we will maintain sufficient capital surpluses management is not only embedded throughout the business but to meet our liabilities even if a number of extreme risks is also aligned with the strategic planning process.
business plans guided by our overarching strategy, risk appetite and goal of improving risk-adjusted returns.
In 2011, in support of these objectives, the Group continued its We integrate risk considerations and capital needs into daywork to enhance the risk management framework across the to-day management and decision-making processes.
We actively Group and to promote a strong risk management culture manage our risk profile through a wide range of techniques, supported by a robust governance structure.
including product design, pricing, underwriting, asset allocation, investment management, duration matching, hedging, Risk management framework reinsurance, acquisitions and disposals, management of the Avivas risk management framework forms an integral part capital structure and of committed credit facilities.
of the management and Board processes and decision-making The development and evaluation of our business plans and framework across the Group.
The key elements of our risk our various capital and risk management actions are supported management framework are described below: by risk modelling, which has been a key area of further enhancement throughout 2011.
Risk appetite Risk appetite is an expression of the level of risk we are willing Risk modelling and able to accept in pursuit of our strategic objectives and thus For the purposes of risk identification and measurement, risks are provides the context for our risk and capital management.
usually grouped by risk type: credit, market, liquidity, general The following appetite statements, which are reviewed and insurance, life insurance and operational risk.
Risks falling within approved by the Board, demonstrate a key focus on balance these types may affect a number of key metrics including those sheet strength and protection of the franchise value.
They relating to balance sheet strength, liquidity and profit.
They may supplement risk appetite statements relating to the regulatory also affect the performance of the products that we deliver to our solvency position.
customers and the service to our customers and distributors, Economic capital: the Aviva Board requires that the Group which can be categorised as risks to our brand and reputation.
has sufficient capital to remain able to meet its liabilities in To evaluate the impact of these risks, we carry out a range extreme adverse scenarios, on an ongoing basis, calibrated of stress where one risk factor, such as equity returns, is assumed consistently with the Groups strategic target of maintaining to vary and scenario where combinations of risk factors are a credit rating in the AA range.
assumed to vary tests and consider the management actions Liquidity: the Board requires that the Group maintains available to respond to the conditions envisaged.
These stress and significant liquid resources to meet both planned cash scenario tests are sometimes prescribed by supervisory authorities, outflows and cover unexpected cash requirements under but are supplemented by management-defined scenarios drawn stress conditions.
In addition, the Group maintains from historical periods of adverse conditions, from risk models and substantial unutilised committed credit facilities to cover from management discussions.
In addition, reverse stress tests are generated where the Franchise value: we recognise that our long-term intention is to identify the extreme scenarios which would test the sustainability depends upon the protection of our franchise business model to the point of failure.
These are used to facilitate and our relationship with customers.
As such, we will discussions on whether business plans should be modified.
not accept risks that materially impair the reputation of More details on our capital modelling, including our internal the Group and we will require that customers are always risk-based economic capital model, can be found on page 66. treated with integrity.
Risk modelling is an area of focus for continued enhancement and development.
62 Aviva plc Risk and capital management continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk management responsibilities Risk governance and oversight Roles and responsibilities for risk management in Aviva are based As described in the corporate governance report on page 97, the around the three lines of defence model where ownership for Aviva plc Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite risk is taken at all levels in the Group.
Line management in the and monitoring the establishment and operation of prudent and business is accountable for risk-taking, implementing the risk effective controls in order to assess and manage risks associated management framework and embedding a risk culture 1st line with the Groups operations.
The Risk Committee RC assists the of defence.
The risk function is accountable for quantitative Board in its oversight of risk and risk management across the and qualitative oversight and challenge of the identification, Group.
The GEC assists the Group CEO with regard to strategic, measurement, management, monitoring and reporting of monitoring and controls aspects of day-to-day management key risks and for developing the risk management framework including monitoring the development and implementation 2nd line of defence.
Internal audit provides an independent of group strategies, plans and policies, the monitoring of assessment of the risk framework and internal control processes performance, the assessment and control of risk and the 3rd line of defence.
maintenance and ongoing development of a robust framework and environment.
Risk policies and procedures The GEC has established the Asset Liability Committee ALCO To promote a consistent and rigorous approach to risk and the Operational Risk Committee ORC to assist it with the management across all the businesses and locations in which execution of its duties.
The ALCO provides a key focus on we operate, we have a set of formal risk policies and business business and financial risks and the ORC provides a key focus standards.
These set out risk management and control on operational risks.
The group-level committees are in turn requirements for the Groups worldwide operations.
As our supported by similar governance structures in the regions.
business responds to changing market conditions and customer These relationships are summarised in the diagram below.
needs, we regularly monitor the appropriateness of our risk policies and business standards to ensure that they remain Set strategic objectives Board Aviva plc Board Monitor performance up-to-date.
Set risk appetite Audit Risk CR Remuneration Businesses regularly identify and review risk exposures.
Where Set and uphold values Committee Committee Committee Committee Set risk policies risks are outside of tolerance, action plans are required.
Similarly, controls are regularly reviewed for effectiveness and remediation actions implemented where necessary.
This process is supported Set business standards Group Monitor performance Group CEO by a semi-annual sign-off by the business chief executive and Oversee risk & capital chief financial officers of policy compliance and of the management Disclosure Group Executive PMM Provide challenge completeness of the list of risks identified.
This helps to provide Committee Committee Committee Recommend risk assurance to the various risk oversight committees that there are management activity Group ALCO Group ORC appropriate controls in place for all our core business activities, and that the processes for managing risk are understood and ALCO followed consistently across our global businesses.
Sub-committees A top-down, key risk identification and assessment process is carried out monthly in the risk function at Group level based on Region Oversee risk management Monitor risk and Regional Group and regional chief risk officer CRO and functional risk capital prole ExCo director input.
This includes the consideration of emerging risks Monitor business performance Region business and is supported by deeper thematic reviews.
ALCOs and ORCs Operate in line with policy The bottom-up and top-down risk assessment processes Report to Group are used to generate risk reports which are shared with the relevant committees.
As part of the annual business planning process, we formally consider the risks present in, and to, the draft plan, the consistency of the draft plan with the Groups risk appetite and the appropriate management actions and controls to address any risks identified.
The risk assessment forms part of the formal plan submitted to the Group Executive Committee GEC and Board for discussion and approval.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 63 Aviva plc Risk and capital management continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties In accordance with the requirements of the FSA Handbook DTR 4.1.
8 we provide a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group here and in note 56.
Our disclosures covering risks relating to our business in line with reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Commission SEC provide more detail and can be found in the shareholder information section Risks relating to our business on page 155.
Risk environment The first half of 2011 was characterised by relatively benign investment market conditions.
However, the third quarter saw a sharp worsening in the global economic outlook and substantial deterioration in equity and credit markets in the US, the UK and Europe.
While equity markets recovered to some degree in the fourth quarter, the ongoing stressed conditions in the eurozone led to further widening in sovereign bond spreads for a number of countries and weighed heavily on corporate bond prices.
The continued political and economic uncertainty relating to the eurozone combined with the high levels of debt in many western economies act as a brake on economic growth and lead to the potential for a low growth, low interest rate environment to persist for some time.
Risk profile The types of risk to which the Group is exposed have not changed significantly over the year and remain credit, market, insurance, liquidity, operational and reputational risks as described in the risk factors table on pages 6465 and in note 56 of the financial statements.
However, the decision to sell a 15% stake in Delta Lloyd reduced our IFRS balance sheet sensitivity to equity markets and mortgages and the sale of the RAC reduced our strategic equity exposure.
The risk profile was also modified by the extension of the equity hedging programme, implementation of credit and inflation hedges and by reducing sales of products with onerous guarantees.
64 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk factors This table sets out the definitions of each key risk type, the Groups risk preferences, the key risk drivers and a summary of the related risk mitigation in 2011.
Risk type Risk preferences risks we like dislike Credit risk is an area where we can provide the returns required to offer Credit competitive products to our customers and generate returns for our Risk of financial loss as a result of the default or failure shareholders of third parties to meet their payment obligations, or In general we prefer to take credit risk over equity and property risks, due variations in market values as a result of changes in to the better expected risk adjusted return, our credit risk analysis capability expectation related to these risks and the structural investment advantages conferred to insurers with longdated, relatively illiquid liabilities We actively seek some market risks as part of our investment and Market product strategy Risk of adverse financial impacts due to changes in fair We have a limited appetite for interest rate risk as we do not believe this values or future cash flows from fluctuations in interest is adequately rewarded rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices and We actively seek to manage foreign currency risk by matching assets and property values liabilities in functional currencies at business unit level and by hedging The relatively illiquid nature of insurance liabilities is a potential source Liquidity of additional investment return by allowing us to invest in higher yielding, Risk of not being able to make payments as they become but less liquid, assets such as commercial mortgages due because there are insufficient assets in cash form We take measured amounts of life insurance risk provided that the relevant Life insurance business has the appropriate core skills to assess and price the risk and Risk of adverse movements in mortality, morbidity, adequate returns are available longevity, persistency and expenses including commissions, and policyholder behaviour around take-up of insurance guarantees and options We take general insurance risk in measured amounts for explicit reward, General insurance in line with our core skills in underwriting and pricing Risk of adverse movements in claims, underwriting, We have a preference for those risks that we understand well, that are catastrophe experience and reserving intrinsically well managed and where there is a spread of risks in the same category Operational risk should generally be reduced to as low a level as is Operational commercially sensible, on the basis that taking operational risk will rarely Risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from provide us with an upside inadequate or failed internal processes, or from people We continually seek to improve processes through reduction of errors, and systems, or from external events, including changes rework and broken promises with the outcome of reducing operational in the legislative or regulatory environment losses, improved customer proposition and employee satisfaction and reduced operational risk Brand and reputation risk should generally be reduced to as low a level Brand and reputation as is commercially sensible Risk of loss of franchise value due to damage of our brand We continually seek opportunities to improve processes, with the outcome or our reputation with customers, distributors, investors of improved customer proposition, sustained customer confidence and and regulators a positive regulatory reputation For further details refer to Risks relating to our business on page 155 and Financial statements IFRS Note 56 Risk management.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 65 Aviva plc Risk and capital management continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Key drivers Risk mitigation in 2011 Credit spread: changes in the likelihood of default losses Reduction in aggregate direct shareholder assets exposure to the perceived by the market or changes in the default or governments and local authorities and agents of Greece, Ireland, liquidity risk premium demanded by the market Portugal, Italy and Spain Counterparty default: includes a delay in repayments or Credit risk hedging interest payments, restructuring of borrower repayments Investment restrictions on sovereign and corporate exposure to some interest schedule, bankruptcy eurozone countries Rating migration: changes in rating agency perspective Specific asset fide-risking on credit risk Equity: market dynamics e. g. price index moves and Active asset management and hedging in business units volatility Increased size of Group-level equity hedging programme Property: changes in market value or volatility of portfolios Pension fund fide-risking Interest rate: changes in interest rates or shape of the Asset and liability duration matching limits impact of interest rate changes yield curve and actions taken to manage guarantee risk, through product design Currency: changes in spot forward prices, volatility, correlations Cash inflows: from premiums, investment income, capital Maintaining committed borrowing facilities 2.1 billion from banks injections, dividends and loans Asset liability matching methodology develops optimal asset portfolio Cash outflows: for claims and redemptions, debt maturity structures in our businesses to ensure cash flows are sufficient service requirements, tax payments, dividends to group to meet liabilities and expenses Commercial paper issuance Cash collateral requirements The actual experience on mortality, morbidity, longevity, Enhanced pricing risk selection reflected in improved new business internal expenses or persistency lapse rates is adverse to the rate of return IRR pricing assumptions Product mix changes that reduce overall capital strain Poor underwriting criteria allow risks to be accepted at Use of reinsurance to mitigate mortality morbidity risks inadequate premium levels, or proposals to be accepted, Enhanced guidelines to support businesses through the complete cycle which should be declined of product design, development and pricing Policyholder behaviour differs from that assumed such as in the exercise of valuable options Claims incurred from catastrophic events, such as flooding Use of reinsurance to help reduce the financial impact of a catastrophe or windstorm and manage earnings volatility Financial impact of worsening claims ratios and Extensive use of data, financial models and analysis to improve pricing inadequate reserves and risk selection Claims inflation is higher than assumed Underwriting and claims management disciplines Poor design or inadequate pricing of products Digital mapping to better manage property flood risk Focus on personal lines, small and medium-sized enterprises Inflation hedging Failure of key processes and controls resulting in misRoll out of enhanced business standards covering key processes selling, fraud or losses requiring customer compensation Ongoing monitoring of controls Systems errors or failure of information and communications systems that affects the delivery of services to our customers Adverse changes in external environment including competitive landscape, customer behaviour and distribution models Media speculation and negative publicity, adverse market Building our brand prominence and regularly monitoring brand metrics and customer perception Targeting the delivery of exceptional experience to our customers and Products or services recommended by us not performing treating customers fairly in line with the FSA principles as expected Monitoring metrics including customer advocacy, retention and complaints Velocity of near-instantaneous global transmissions of failure and use of social networking sites 66 Aviva plc Risk and capital management continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Accounting basis: Capital management Capital employed by segment and financing of capital Capital management objectives The table below shows how our capital, on an MCEV basis, The primary objective of capital management is to optimise the is deployed by segment and how that capital is funded.
balance between return and risk, while maintaining economic and regulatory capital in accordance with risk appetite.
Avivas capital Restated and risk management objectives are closely interlinked, and 2011 2010 m m support the dividend policy and earnings per share growth, while Long-term savings 15,211 18,533 also recognising the critical importance of protecting policyholder General insurance and health 5,875 4,747 and other stakeholder interests.
Fund management 218 215 Overall capital risk appetite, which is reviewed and approved Other business 1,102 119 1 by the Aviva Board, is set and managed with reference to the Corporate 228 997 requirements of a range of different stakeholders including Delta Lloyd 776 3,892 shareholders, policyholders, regulators and rating agencies.
Risk Total capital employed 20,750 26,271 appetite is expressed in relation to a number of key capital and Financed by: Equity shareholders funds 12,829 15,038 risk measures, and includes an economic capital risk appetite of Non-controlling interests 1,476 3,977 holding sufficient capital resources to enable the Group to meet Direct capital instruments 990 990 its liabilities in extreme adverse scenarios, on an ongoing basis, Preference shares 200 200 calibrated consistently with the Groups strategic target of Subordinated debt 4,550 4,572 maintaining credit ratings in the AA range.
External debt 705 1,494 In managing capital we seek to: Total capital employed 20,750 26,271 maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial strength 1 Corporate includes centrally held tangible net assets, the staff pension scheme surplus and also reflects internal lending arrangements.
These internal lending arrangements, which net out on consolidation, arise in relation to the in accordance with risk appetite, to support new business following: growth and satisfy the requirements of our regulators and Aviva Insurance Limited AI acts as both a UK general insurer and as the primary holding company for our foreign subsidiaries.
Internal capital management mechanisms in place allocate a portion of the total capital of the company other stakeholders giving both our customers and to the UK general insurance operations, giving rise to notional lending between the general insurance and holding shareholders assurance of our financial strength: company activities.
These mechanisms also allow for some of the assets of the general insurance business to be made available for use across the Group.
optimise our overall debt to equity structure to enhance our Certain subsidiaries, subject to continuing to satisfy standalone capital and liquidity requirements, loan funds to returns to shareholders, subject to our capital risk appetite corporate and holding entities.
These loans satisfy arms-length criteria and all interest payments are made when due.
and balancing the requirements of the range of stakeholders: Total capital employed is financed by a combination of equity retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, shareholders funds, preference capital, subordinated debt including significant unutilised committed credit facilities and borrowings.
and access to a range of capital markets: At 31 December 2011 we had 20.8 billion 2010: allocate capital rigorously across the Group, to drive value 26.3 billion of total capital employed in our trading operations, adding growth through optimising risk and return: and measured on an MCEV basis.
The reduction is primarily driven declare dividends on a basis judged prudent, while retaining by the deconsolidation of Delta Lloyd and the impact of capital to support future business growth, using dividend financial markets.
cover on an operating earnings after tax basis in the In May 2011 we issued 450 million of Lower Tier 2 hybrid 1.5 to 2.0 times range as a guide.
capital securities maturing in 2041 which may be called from 2021.
In November 2011 we issued a further $400 million of In line with these objectives, the capital generated and invested Lower Tier 2 hybrid capital securities maturing in 2041 which may by the Groups businesses is a key management focus.
These instruments are expected to comply Operating capital generation, which measures net capital for Tier 2 treatment under Solvency 2.
The transactions had a generated after taking into account capital invested in new positive impact on Group IGD solvency and Economic Capital business before the impact of non-operating items is a core measures.
Also in November 2011 800 million of Lower Tier 2 regulatory capital-based management performance metric used hybrid capital securities were redeemed at first call.
This is embedded in the Group business Financial leverage, the ratio of external senior and planning process and other primary internal performance and subordinated debt to MCEV capital and reserves, was 36.7% management information processes.
Fixed charge cover, which measures the extent to Capital is measured and managed on a number of different which external interest costs, including subordinated debt interest bases.
These are discussed further in the following sections.
and preference dividends, are covered by MCEV operating profit, and was 8.9 times 2010: 9.4 times.
Regulatory capital overview Individual regulated subsidiaries measure and report solvency based on applicable local regulations, including in the UK the regulations established by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
These measures are also consolidated under the European Insurance Groups Directive IGD to calculate regulatory capital adequacy at an aggregate group level, where we have a regulatory obligation to have a positive position at all times.
This measure represents the excess of the aggregate value of regulatory capital employed in our business over the aggregate minimum solvency requirements imposed by local regulators, The Groups accounting policy for operating profit also referred to as Group adjusted excluding the surplus held in the UK and Ireland with-profit life operating profit remains consistent with prior periods and is set out on page 168. funds.
The minimum solvency requirement for our European Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 67 Aviva plc Risk and capital management continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Regulatory capital UK Life with-profit funds businesses is based on the Solvency 1 Directive.
In broad terms, for EU operations, this is set at 4% and 1% of non-linked and The available capital of the with-profit funds is represented by the realistic inherited estate.
The estate represents the assets of the unit-linked life reserves respectively and for our general insurance portfolio of business is the higher of 18% of gross premiums or long-term with-profit funds less the realistic liabilities for nonprofit policies within the funds, less asset shares aggregated 26% of gross claims, in both cases adjusted to reflect the level of reinsurance recoveries.
For our major non-European businesses across the with-profit policies and any additional amounts expected at the valuation date to be paid to in-force policyholders the US and Canada a risk charge on assets and liabilities approach is used.
in the future in respect of smoothing costs, guarantees and promises.
Realistic balance sheet information is shown below for Regulatory capital group the three main UK with-profit funds: Old With-Profit Sub-Fund European Insurance Groups Directive OWPSF, New With-Profit Sub-Fund NWPSF and With-Profit Sub-Fund WPSF.
These realistic liabilities have been included UK Life Other funds business 2011 2010 within the long-term business provision and the liability for bn bn bn bn insurance and investment contracts on the consolidated IFRS IGD capital resources 5.6 8.5 14.1 16.3 statement of financial position at 31 December 2011 and Less: capital resource requirement CRR 5.6 6.3 11.9 12.5 31 December 2010.
IGD excess solvency 2.2 2.2 3.8 Cover of EU minimum calculated 1.3 1.6 Estimated Estimated excluding UK Life funds times times Estimated Estimate realistic Support risk 2010 realistic realistic inherited arrangecapital Estimated Estimated 1 2 3 5 assets liabilities estate ment Margin excess excess The EU IGD regulatory capital solvency surplus has decreased by bn bn bn bn bn bn bn 1.6 billion since 31 December 2010 to 2.2 billion.
The key NWPSF 18.6 18.6 1.1 0.4 0.7 0.8 OWPSF 3.0 2.7 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.2 movements over the period are set out in the following table: 4 WPSF 19.4 17.8 1.6 0.6 1.0 1.4 Aggregate 41.0 39.1 1.9 1.1 1.1 1.9 2.4 bn 1 These realistic liabilities include the shareholders share of future bonuses of 0.3 billion 31 December 2010: IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2010 3.8 0.7 billion.
Realistic liabilities adjusted to eliminate the shareholders share of future bonuses are 38.8 billion Operating profits net of other income and expenses 1.0 31 December 2010: 41.5 billion.
These realistic liabilities make provision for guarantees, options and promises Dividends net of scrip 0.5 on a market consistent stochastic basis.
The value of the provision included within realistic liabilities is 1.9 billion, 0.3 billion and 3.1 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively 31 December 2010: 1.9 billion, 0.3 billion Market movements including foreign exchange 1.9 and 3.1 billion.
Pension scheme funding 0.3 2 Estimated realistic inherited estate at 31 December 2010 was nil billion, 0.3 billion and 1.8 billion for NWPSF, Impact of Delta Lloyd sell down 0.1 OWPSF and WPSF respectively.
Impact of RAC sale 0.2 3 The support arrangement represents the reattributed estate RIEESA of 1.1 billion at 31 December 2011 Restructuring of UK regulated general insurance entities 0.2 31 December 2010: 1.2 billion.
4 The WPSF fund includes the Provident Mutual PM fund which has realistic assets and liabilities of 1.7 billion, and Increase in CRR 0.3 therefore does not impact the realistic inherited estate.
Other regulatory adjustments 0.1 5 The risk capital margin RCM is 2.7 times covered by the inherited estate and support arrangement 31 December 2010: 3.7 times.
Estimated IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2011 2.2 Investment mix The aggregate investment mix of the assets in the three main with-profit funds at 31 December 2011 was: 2011 2010 % % Equity 22% 26% Property 17% 16% Fixed interest 54% 57% Other 7% 1% The equity backing ratios, including property, supporting withprofit asset shares are 71% in NWPSF and OWPSF, and 74% in WPSF.
Economic capital We use a risk-based capital model to assess economic capital requirements and to aid in risk and capital management across the Group.
The model is based on a framework for identifying the risks to which business units, and the Group as a whole, are exposed.
Where appropriate, businesses also supplement these with additional risk models and stressed scenarios specific to their own risk profile.
When aggregating capital requirements at business unit and group level, we allow for diversification benefits between risks and between businesses, with restrictions to allow for non-fungibility of capital where appropriate.
This means that the aggregate capital requirement is less than the sum of capital required to cover all of the individual risks.
The capital requirement reflects the cost of mitigating the risk of insolvency to a 99.5% confidence level over a one year time horizon equivalent to events occurring in 1 out of 200 years against financial and non-financial tests.
68 Aviva plc Risk and capital management continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Capital generation and utilisation The financial modelling techniques employed in economic capital enhance our practice of risk and capital management.
They The active management of the generation and utilisation of capital is a primary Group focus, with the balancing of new enable understanding of the impact of the interaction of different risks, allowing us to direct risk management activities business investment and shareholder distribution with operating capital generation a key financial priority.
These same techniques are employed to enhance product pricing and capital allocation processes.
Unlike more The full-year 2011 result of 2.1 billion reinforces our confidence in the capital generation of the Group.
Profits from traditional regulatory capital measures, economic capital also recognises the value of longer-term profits emerging from inexisting life business remain strong, generating 2.3 billion of capital 2010: 2.1 billion, with a further 0.6 billion 2010: 0.6 force and new business, allowing for consideration of longer-term value emergence as well as shorter-term net worth volatility in our billion generated by the general insurance, fund management and non-insurance businesses.
Capital invested in new business risk and capital management processes.
We continue to develop our economic capital modelling capability for all our businesses has reduced to 0.8 billion 2010: 1.0 billion.
Investment in life new business was 0.9 billion, a reduction of 0.3 billion as part of our development programme to increase the focus on economic capital management and meeting the emerging compared with full-year 2010.
This is mainly a result of actions taken to manage the consumption of capital on writing new life requirements of the Solvency II framework and external agencies.
products, in particular managing volumes, product mix and Solvency II pricing.
This reduction is partly offset by a smaller release of The development of Solvency II continues in 2012 with a view capital from non-life business investment of 0.1 billion to complete discussions about legislation.
The key priority is 2010: 0.2 billion release.
concluding the discussions on the Omnibus II directive to provide clarity about the implementation date as well as the role of 2011 2010 bn bn transitionals in the level 2.
Once this is concluded we expect the Operating capital generation: European Commission to complete the development of the 1 Life in-force profits 2.3 2.1 Level 2 implementing measures that will establish the technical General insurance, fund management and non-insurance requirements governing the practical application of Solvency II.
profits 0.6 0.6 Aviva continues to actively participate in these developments Operating capital generation before investment in new business 2.9 2.7 through the key European industry working groups and by Capital invested in new business 0.8 1.0 engaging with the FSA and HM Treasury to inform the ongoing Operating capital generation after investment negotiations in Brussels.
in new business 2.1 1.7 1 The life in-force profits in full year 2010 excludes the negative impact of the Delta Lloyd longevity assumption change Rating agency of 0.2 billion which is included in the MCEV analysis of free surplus generated.
Credit ratings are an important indicator of financial strength and Operating capital generation comprises the following components: Operating free surplus emergence, including release of required capital, for the life in-force business net of tax and support access to debt markets as well as providing assurance to non-controlling interests : Operating profits for the general insurance and non-life businesses net of tax and non-controlling interests.
: business partners and policyholders over our ability to service Capital invested in new business.
For life business this is the impact of initial and required capital on free surplus.
In recognition of this we have solicited For general insurance business this reflects the movement in required capital, which has been assumed to equal the regulatory minimum multiplied by the local management target level.
Where appropriate movements in capital relationships with a number of rating agencies.
The agencies requirements exclude the impact of foreign exchange and other movements deemed to be non-operating in nature.
Post disposal, all Delta Lloyd capital generation, including life business, has been included within general insurance, generally assign ratings based on an assessment of a range of fund management and non-insurance profits on an IFRS basis.
financial factors e. g. capital strength, gearing, liquidity and fixed charge cover ratios and non-financial factors e. g. strategy, As well as financing new business investment, the operating competitive position and quality of management.
capital generated is used to finance corporate costs, service the Certain rating agencies have proprietary capital models which Groups debt capital and to finance shareholder dividend they use to assess available capital resources against capital distributions.
After taking these items into account the net requirements as a component in their overall criteria for assigning operating capital generated after financing is 1.0 billion.
Managing our capital and liquidity position in accordance with our target rating levels is a core consideration in all material 2011 2010 capital management and capital allocation decisions.
bn bn The Groups overall financial strength is reflected in our credit Operating capital generation after investment in new business 2.1 1.7 ratings.
The Groups rating from Standard & Poors is AAvery Interest, corporate and other costs 0.6 0.6 strong with a Negative outlook: Aa3 excellent with a Negative External dividend net of scrip 0.5 0.5 outlook from Moodys: and A excellent from A M Best.
The Net operating capital generation after financing 1.0 0.6 outlook on the groups rating from AM Best is Under review with Negative Implications.
These ratings continue to reflect our strong competitive position, positive strategic management, strong and diversified underlying earnings profile and strong liquidity position.
Financial flexibility The Groups borrowings are comprised primarily of long dated hybrid instruments with maturities spread over many years, minimising refinancing risk.
In addition to central liquid asset holdings of 1.5 billion, the Group also has access to unutilised committed credit facilities of 2.1 billion provided by a range of leading international banks.
