Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 155 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging Risks relating to our business markets where these risks are heightened.
Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in You should carefully review the following risk factors different economic, social and political conditions.
together with other information contained in this Credit risks relating to Avivas business Annual Report before making an investment decision Market developments and government actions regarding the relating to our ordinary shares or ADSs.
Our business, sovereign debt crisis in Europe, particularly in Greece, Ireland, financial position, results of our operations and cash Italy, Portugal and Spain, could have a material adverse effect flow could be materially affected by any of these risks, on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
Global markets and economic conditions recently have been the trading price of our ordinary shares or ADSs could negatively impacted by the ability of certain European Union decline due to any of these risks and investors may EU member states to service their sovereign debt obligations.
lose part or all of their investment.
The continued uncertainty over the outcome of various EU and international financial support programs and the possibility that Ongoing difficult conditions in the global financial markets and other EU member states may experience similar financial pressures the economy generally may adversely affect our business and could further disrupt global markets.
In particular, this crisis has results of operations, and these conditions may continue.
disrupted and could further disrupt equity and fixed income Our results of operations are materially affected by uncertainty in markets and result in volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt the worldwide financial markets and macro-economic conditions of EU members.
A wide variety of factors, including concerns over The issues arising out of the current sovereign debt crisis may slowing growth, high sovereign debt within, and to a lesser transcend Europe, cause investors to lose confidence in the safety degree outside, the eurozone, the stability and solvency of and soundness of European financial institutions and the stability financial institutions, longer-term low interest rates in developed of European member economies, and likewise affect UK and US markets, inflationary threats as well as geopolitical issues in the based financial institutions, the stability of the global financial Middle East and North Africa, have contributed to increased markets and any economic recovery.
The Group holds volatility in the financial markets and diminished expectations for investments in UK and non-UK securities.
See Performance the global economy going forward.
Global fixed income markets Review Analysis of Investments for more information.
continue to experience both volatility and limited market liquidity, If an EU member state were to default on its obligations or which have affected a broad range of asset classes and sectors.
seek to leave the eurozone, or the eurozone were broken up Factors relating to general economic conditions, such as entirely, the impact on the financial and currency markets consumer spending, business investment, government spending, would be significant and could impact materially all financial the volatility and strength of both debt and equity markets, and institutions, including the Group.
Such events could adversely inflation, all affect the profitability of our business.
In a sustained affect our business and results of operations, financial condition economic phase of low growth and high public debt, and liquidity.
characterised by higher unemployment, lower household income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower Credit spread volatility may adversely affect the net unrealised consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance value of the investment portfolio and our results of operations.
products could be adversely affected.
In addition, we may Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price experience an elevated incidence of claims or surrenders of variability associated with changes in credit spreads in our policies.
Any potential material adverse affect will also be investment portfolio, which is largely held to maturity.
Credit dependent upon customer behaviour and confidence.
spread moves may be caused by changes in the perception of the credit worthiness of the issuer, or from market factors such as the As a global business, we are exposed to various local political, markets risk appetite and liquidity.
A widening of credit spreads regulatory and economic conditions, business risks and will generally reduce the value of fixed income securities we hold.
challenges which may affect the demand for our products and Conversely, credit spread tightening will generally increase the services, the value of our investment portfolios and the credit value of fixed income securities we hold.
It can be difficult to quality of local counterparties.
value certain of our securities if trading becomes less liquid.
We offer our products and services in Europe including the UK, Accordingly, valuations of investments may include assumptions North America and the Asia Pacific region through wholly owned or estimates that may have significant period to period changes and majority-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, companies in that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated which we hold non-controlling equity stakes, agents and results of operations or financial condition.
Downturns in the independent contractors.
Our international operations expose us net unrealised value of our investment portfolio may also have to different local political, regulatory, business and financial risks a material adverse effect on our regulatory capital surplus based and challenges which may affect the demand for our products on the EU Insurance Groups Directive.
Although our financial and services, the value of our investment portfolio, the required statements reflect the market value of assets, our priority remains levels of capital and surplus, and the credit quality of local the management of assets and liabilities over the longer term.
These risks include, for example, political, social or economic instability in countries in which we operate, Losses due to defaults by counterparties, including potential discriminatory regulation, credit risks of our counterparties, lack of sovereign debt defaults or restructurings, could adversely local business experience in certain markets, risks associated with affect the value of our investments and reduce our profitability exposure to insurance industry insolvencies through policyholder and shareholders equity.
guarantee funds or similar mechanisms set up in markets in which We choose to take and manage credit risk through our we are present and, in certain cases, risks associated with the investment assets partly to increase returns to policy holders potential incompatibility with foreign partners, especially in whose policies the assets back, and partly to optimise the return countries in which we are conducting business through entities for shareholders.
Some of our international insurance 156 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 We have a significant exposure to third parties that owe us investment return.
Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem money, securities or other assets who may not perform under the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and their payment obligations.
These parties include private sector and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with government or government-backed issuers whose debt securities greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, which we hold in our investment portfolios including mortgage-backed, increases this risk.
Lowering interest crediting rates can help offset asset-backed, government bonds and other types of securities, decreases in investment margins on some products.
However, our borrowers under residential and commercial mortgages and other ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or loans, re-insurers to which we have ceded insurance risks, contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the customers, trading counterparties, and counterparties under swap timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields.
As a result, our and other derivative contracts.
We also execute transactions with spread could decrease or potentially become negative.
Our other counterparties in the financial services industry, including expectation for future spreads is an important component in the brokers and dealers, commercial and investment banks, hedge amortisation of policy acquisition costs and significantly lower funds and other investment funds, insurance groups and spreads may cause us to accelerate amortisation, thereby institutions.
Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk reducing net income in the affected reporting period.
In addition, in the event of default of our counterparty.
during periods of declining interest rates, the guarantees within In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit existing life insurance and annuity products may be more risk may be increased when the collateral held by us cannot be attractive to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments realised or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full on products with flexible premium features, and a higher amount of the loan or other value due.
We also have exposure percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt year, during a period when our new investments carry lower instruments and derivative transactions.
Accordingly, during periods of declining interest rates, impairments to the carrying value of these assets could our profitability may suffer as the result of a decrease in the materially and adversely affect our financial condition and spread between interest rates credited to policyholders and results of operations.
returns on our investment portfolio.
We use reinsurance and hedging programs to hedge various Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained our profitability.
Surrenders of life insurance policies and fixed in many of our long-term insurance and fund management annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek higher products.
These programs cannot eliminate all of the risks and no returns and higher guaranteed minimum returns.
Obtaining cash assurance can be given as to the extent to which such programs to satisfy these surrenders may require us to liquidate fixed will be effective in reducing such risks.
We enter into a variety of maturity investments at a time when market prices for those derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate assets are depressed which may result in realised investment and currency swaps, with a number of counterparties.
Regardless of whether we realise an investment loss, these obligations under our fund management and life products are cash payments would result in a decrease in total invested assets, not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our and may decrease our net income.
Premature withdrawals may obligations even if our derivative counterparties do not pay us.
also cause us to accelerate amortisation of policy acquisition costs, Defaults by such counterparties could have a material adverse which would also reduce our net income.
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are We are also susceptible to an adverse financial outcome primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with from a change in third-party credit standing.
As well as having diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration a potential impact on spreads, rating movements can trigger approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash solvency and accounting impacts and can drive management flow profile.
However, it may not be possible to hold assets that actions and the realisation of losses, particularly where investment will provide cash flows to exactly match those relating to mandates set counterparty and portfolio limits based on ratings.
policyholder liabilities, in particular in jurisdictions with less For additional information about our investments, see developed bond markets and in certain markets where regulated Performance review Analysis of investments.
surrender value or maturity values are set with reference to the interest rate environment prevailing at the time of policy issue.
Market risks relating to Avivas business This is due to the duration and uncertainty of the liability Changes in interest rates may cause policyholders to cash flows and the lack of sufficient assets of suitable duration.
surrender their contracts, reduce the value of our investment This results in a residual asset liability mismatch risk that can be portfolio and impact our asset and liability matching, managed but not eliminated.
In addition, our estimate of the which could adversely affect our results of operation and liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate for other reasons, financial condition.
such as varying mortality or general insurance claims, and we may Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in price and cash flow variability of assets and liabilities associated order to cover the liability.
Such a loss could have a material with changes in interest rates.
adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Some of our products, principally traditional participating See Financial statements IFRS Note 56 Risk management.
products, universal life insurance and annuities, including fixed and equity indexed annuities, expose us to the risk that changes Falls in equity or property prices could have an adverse impact in interest rates will reduce our spread, or the difference on our investment portfolio and impact our results of between the amounts that we are required to pay under operations and shareholders equity.
the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on We are subject to equity and property price risk due to holdings investments intended to support obligations under the contracts.
of equities and investment properties in a variety of locations Our spread is a key component of our net income.
Downturns in equity markets will depress equity As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be prices and have a negative impact on our capital position in that forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured unrealised losses in our net investment portfolio will increase, or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our and our defined benefit pension scheme surplus deficit will Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 157 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 reduce increase as the market value of scheme assets invested may also have a material adverse effect on our regulatory capital in equities decreases.
surplus based on the EU Insurance Groups Directive.
Downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material For a discussion of the impact of changes in foreign exchange adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our unit-linked, rates on our results of operations, see Financial statements IFRS participating and fund management business.
The unit-linked and Note 56 Risk management.
fund management business depends on fees related primarily to Market fluctuations may cause the value of options and the value of assets under management and would therefore be guarantees embedded in some of our life insurance products reduced by declines in equity and property markets.
Profits could to exceed the value of the assets backing their reserves, also be reduced as a result of current investors withdrawing funds which could adversely affect our results of operations or reducing their rates of ongoing investment with our fund or financial condition.
management companies or as a result of our fund management As a normal part of their operating activities, various Group companies failing to attract funds from new investors.
Similarly, companies have given guarantees and options, including interest bonuses credited to participating policyholders will reduce, rate and investment return guarantees, in respect of certain longfollowing declines in equity and property markets and this will term insurance and fund management products.
In providing generally also lead to reductions in transfers to shareholders.
these guarantees and options, our capital position is sensitive to Downturns in equity markets may also have a material adverse fluctuations in financial variables, including foreign currency effect on our regulatory capital surplus as measured under the EU exchange rates, interest rates, property values and equity prices.
We provide certain guarantees within Interest rate guaranteed returns, such as those available on some of our products that protect policyholders against significant guaranteed annuity options GAOs, are sensitive to interest rates downturns in the equity markets.
In volatile or declining equity falling below the guaranteed level.
Other guarantees, such as market conditions, we may need to increase liabilities for future maturity value guarantees and guarantees in relation to minimum policy benefits and policyholder account balances, negatively rates of return, are sensitive to fluctuations in the investment affecting net income.
For a discussion of guarantees we have return below the level assumed when the guarantee was made.
given for our insurance and investment products, see Financial Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity statements IFRS Note 41 Financial guarantees and options.
markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates could In our US business in particular, market downturns and result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit volatility may discourage purchases of accumulation products, or policyholder account balance liabilities associated with such such as equity-indexed annuities and equity-indexed life products, resulting in a reduction to net income.
We use insurance, that have returns linked to the performance of the reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to equity markets and may cause some of our existing customers to mitigate some of the liability exposure and the volatility of net withdraw cash values or reduce investments in those products.
income associated with these liabilities, and while we believe that A sustained weakness in the markets will decrease revenues and these and other actions mitigate the risks related to these earnings in these types of products.
benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event For property investment, we are subject to counterparty, that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling valuation and liquidity risks.
These investments may be adversely to pay.
affected by weakness in property markets and increased We are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging these mortgage delinquencies.
We are also subject to property risk guaranteed minimum benefits increases, resulting in a reduction indirectly in our investments in residential mortgage-backed to net income.
In addition, we are subject to the risk that securities RMBS and commercial mortgage-backed securities unanticipated policyholder behaviour or mortality, combined with CMBS.
There is the risk that the underlying collateral may fall adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the in value causing the investment in securities to fall in value.
scope of the risk management techniques employed.
These, The markets for these property investments and instruments individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on can become illiquid, and issues relating to counterparty credit our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.
ratings and other factors may increase pricing and valuation uncertainties.
The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect If our business does not perform well, we may be required our results of operations and financial condition.
to recognise an impairment of our goodwill or intangibles We operate internationally and are exposed to foreign currency with indefinite and finite useful lives, which could adversely exchange risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates of affect our results of operations or financial condition.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, over The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments half of our premium income arises in currencies other than vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation sterling, and our net assets are denominated in a variety of and assessment of known risks associated with the respective currencies, of which the largest are the euro, sterling and US asset class.
Such evaluations and assessments are revised as dollar.
In managing our foreign currency exposures, we do not conditions change and new information becomes available and hedge revenues as these are substantially retained locally to additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances support the growth of the business and meet local regulatory and provided for in the future.
If the carrying value of an investment market requirements.
Nevertheless, the effect of exchange rate is greater than the recoverable amount, the carrying value is fluctuations on local operating results could lead to significant reduced through a charge to the income statement in the period fluctuations in our consolidated financial statements upon of impairment.
There can be no assurance that management has translation of the results into sterling.
Although we take certain accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate reflected in our financial statements.
fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate their net assets at the date of acquisition.
We test goodwill and fluctuation.
Any adverse foreign currency exchange fluctuation 158 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 intangible assets with indefinite useful lives at least annually for our financial flexibility.
Our results of operations, financial impairment or when circumstances or events indicate there may condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.
be uncertainty over this value.
We test intangibles with finite lives Insurance risks relating to Avivas business when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty The cyclical nature of the insurance industry may cause over this value.
For impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles fluctuations in our results.
have been allocated to cash-generating units by geographical Historically, the insurance industry has been cyclical and operating reporting unit and business segment.
results of insurers have fluctuated because of volatile and The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the sometimes unpredictable developments, many of which are performance of the business.
Goodwill, negative unallocated beyond the direct control of any insurer.
Although we have a divisible surplus and indefinite life intangibles are written down geographically diverse group of businesses providing a wide range for impairment where the recoverable amount is insufficient to of products, we expect to experience the effects of this cyclical support its carrying value.
Such write downs could have a material nature, including changes in sales and premium levels.
The adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
unpredictability and competitive nature of the general insurance business has contributed historically to significant quarter-toLiquidity risks relating to Avivas business Adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect quarter and year-to-year fluctuations in underwriting results and our ability to meet liquidity needs and to access capital net earnings.
which could adversely affect our results of operations The use of inaccurate assumptions in pricing and reserving or financial condition.
for insurance business may have an adverse effect on our At a Group level, we need some of our invested assets to be business profitability.
liquid to pay our operating expenses, taxes, interest on our debt, The Groups life insurance companies are required to make dividends on our capital stock and repay maturing debt.
At an a number of assumptions in relation to the business written, operational level we also need liquidity to meet insurance claims.
including the mortality and morbidity rates of our customers, the Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our development of interest rates, persistency rates the rates at which operations and our business would suffer.
The principal sources customers terminate existing policies prior to their maturity dates of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, and future levels of expenses.
These assumptions may turn out to deposit funds and cash flow from our investment portfolio and be incorrect.
assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily When establishing their liabilities, our life insurance companies convertible into cash.
Sources of liquidity in normal markets also allow for changes in the assumptions made, monitor their include a variety of short and long-term instruments, including experience against the actuarial assumptions used and assess repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium and longthe information gathered to refine their long-term assumptions, term debt, junior subordinated debt, securities, capital securities together with taking actual claims experience into account.
However, it is not possible to determine precisely the total We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity such as amounts that will ultimately be paid under the policies written privately placed fixed-maturity securities, and unlisted equities, by the business as amounts may vary from estimates.
Changes as the inputs used for their valuation are not directly observable in assumptions may also lead to changes in the level of capital in the market.
These asset classes represented approximately required to be maintained, meaning that we may need to 4.3% of the total assets held at fair value as of 31 December increase the amount of our reserves.
As has been the case across the industry, even some of adverse impact on the Groups value, the results of our operations our higher-quality assets have been more illiquid as a result and financial condition.
of the recent challenging market conditions.
Additionally, our management of the general insurance The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of business requires the general insurance companies to make a investments, our investments in the asset classes described in the number of assumptions in relation to the business written.
These paragraph above and, at times, our higher-quality, generally liquid assumptions include the costs of writing the business and settling asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market claims, and the frequency and severity of claims.
The assumptions price for the asset.
If we were forced to sell certain of our assets may turn out to be incorrect, thereby adversely impacting our in the current market, there can be no assurance that we will be profit.
Additionally, man-made disasters, including accidents and able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them intentional events, are difficult to predict with a high degree of and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices.
These would also have an adverse impact on our profit We may need to seek additional financing in the event due to higher than expected claims.
internal resources are not sufficient to meet our needs.
The Furthermore, outstanding claims provisions for the general availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of insurance business are based on the best-estimate ultimate cost factors such as market conditions, the general availability of of all claims incurred but not settled at a given date, whether credit and the overall availability of credit to the financial services reported or not, together with related claims handling costs.
Disruptions and uncertainty or volatility in the capital Any provisions for re-opened claims are also included.
A range and credit markets may exert downward pressure on availability of methods, including stochastic projections, may be used to of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers and may limit determine these provisions.
Underlying these methods are a our access to capital required to operate and grow our business.
number of explicit or implicit assumptions relating to the Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely expected settlement amount and settlement pattern of claims.
manner, maturing debt, satisfy statutory capital requirements If the assumptions underlying the reserving basis were to and generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet prove incorrect, we might have to increase the amount of the liquidity needs.
general insurance provisions, which would adversely impact our As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue financial condition or results of operations.
shorter-term securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and reduce Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 159 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 We have a significant exposure to annuity business and a have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural significant life insurance risk is associated with longevity.
disasters in certain parts of the world and created additional Longevity statistics are monitored in detail, compared with uncertainty as to future trends and exposure.
emerging industry trends, and the results are used to inform both Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of the reserving and pricing of annuities.
It is likely that uncertainty catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that will remain in the development of future longevity that cannot causes a large number of deaths.
The effectiveness of external be mitigated.
parties, including governmental and non-governmental A strengthening in the longevity assumption, either to reflect organisations, in combating the spread and severity of such changes in the underlying life expectancy of the population or of a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses our particular portfolio used to calculate our long-term business experienced by us.
liabilities, would result in an increase in these reserves and reduce The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both our shareholders equity.
See Financial statements IFRS Note 56 the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the Risk management.
event and the severity of the event.
Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas: however, pandemics, If our business does not perform well or if actual experience hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may versus estimates used in valuing and amortising deferred produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that acquisition costs DAC and acquired value of in-force business are heavily populated.
Catastrophic events could also harm the AVIF vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the the amortisation and or impair the DAC and AVIF which probability of default on reinsurance recoveries and could also could adversely affect our results of operations or reduce our ability to write new business.
natural disasters, terrorism and fires could disrupt our operations We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and and result in significant loss of property, key personnel and renewal business.
Those costs that vary with and are driven by information about our clients and our business if our business the production of new and renewal business are deferred and continuity plans fail to cope with the scale or nature of the referred to as DAC.
The recovery of DAC is dependent upon the catastrophe.
Such events could adversely affect our business, future profitability of the related business.
The amount of future results or operations, corporate reputation and financial condition profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns for a substantial period of time.
in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, Furthermore, market conditions beyond our control determine morbidity, persistency and expenses to administer the business.
the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we Of these factors, investment margins and general insurance purchase.
Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional underwriting profit are most likely to impact the rate of expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient amortisation of such costs.
The aforementioned factors enter reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect into managements estimates of gross profits or margins, which our ability to write future business.
generally are used to amortise such costs.
If the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated, then the amortisation of such Operational risks relating to Avivas business costs would be accelerated in the period the actual amount is All of our businesses are subject to operational risks, including known and would result in a charge to income.
Significant or the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration failed internal and external processes, systems and human of amortisation of the DAC related to UK unit-linked business, error or from external events.
resulting in a charge to income.
Such adjustments could have a Our business is dependent on processing a large number of material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial complex transactions across numerous and diverse products.
Furthermore, the long-term nature of the majority of our AVIF reflects the estimated present value of future profits that business means that accurate records have to be maintained will emerge over the remaining life of certain in-force contracts for significant periods.
in a life insurance company, acquired either directly or through We also outsource several operations, including certain the purchase of a subsidiary, and represents the portion of the servicing and IT functions and are therefore partially reliant purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive upon the operational processing performance of our future cash flows from the insurance and investment contracts outsourcing partners.
in-force at the acquisition date.
AVIF is based on actuarially Our systems and processes on which we are dependent to determined projections.
Actual experience may vary from the serve our customers are designed to appropriately identify and projections.
Revisions to estimates result in changes to the address the operational risks associated with our activities.
amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions However, they may nonetheless fail due to IT malfunctions, are made and could result in impairment and a charge to income.
human error, intentional disruption or hacking of IT systems by Where AVIF is amortised, an acceleration of the amortisation of third parties, business interruptions, non-performance by third AVIF would occur if the estimates of gross profits or margins were parties or other external events.
This could disrupt business overstated in the period in which the actual experience is known operations resulting in material reputational damage and the loss and would result in a charge to net income.
Such adjustments of customers, and have a consequent material adverse effect on could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or our results of operations and financial condition.
have taken steps to upgrade systems and processes to reduce these operational risks, we cannot anticipate the details or timing Catastrophic events, which are often unpredictable by nature, of all possible operational and systems failures which may could result in material losses and abruptly and significantly adversely impact our business.
Our business is exposed to volatile natural and man-made disasters such as pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, terrorism, riots, fires and explosions.
Over the past several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions 160 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 We operate in several markets through arrangements with funding deficit or surplus arises, the position will be discussed third parties.
These arrangements involve certain risks that we with the scheme trustees to agree appropriate actions.
This may do not face with our subsidiaries.
include a plan to fund the deficit over a period of years.
Any Our ability to exercise management control over our partnership surplus or deficit in the defined benefit pension scheme will affect operations, our joint ventures and our investment in them our shareholders equity, although the IFRS position may diverge depends on the terms of the legal agreements.
In particular, the from the scheme funding position.
relationships depend on the allocation of control among, and Our process for valuing investments may include continued co-operation between, the participants.
methodologies, estimations and assumptions which require We may also face financial or other exposure in the event judgement and could result in changes to investment that any of our partners fail to meet their obligations under valuations.
the agreement or encounter financial difficulty.
For example, We value our AFS and FV securities using designated a significant proportion of our product distribution, such as methodologies, estimation and assumptions.
These securities, bancassurance, is carried out through arrangements with third which are reported at fair value on the consolidated statement parties not controlled by us and is dependent upon the of financial position, represent the majority of our total cash and continuation of these relationships.
A temporary or permanent invested assets.
We have categorised the measurement basis disruption to these distribution arrangements could affect our for assets carried at fair value into a fair value hierarchy in financial condition.
Some of these arrangements require our accordance with the valuation inputs and consistent with IFRS 7 third-party partners to participate in and provide capital to our Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The fair value hierarchy gives joint venture, associate and subsidiary undertakings.
Our partners the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical may change their strategic priorities or encounter financial assets or liabilities Level 1 : the middle priority to fair values other difficulties preventing them from providing the necessary capital than quoted prices based on observable market information Level to promote future growth.
2 : and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that reflect the In addition, we outsource certain customer service, assumptions that we consider market participants would normally technology and legacy policy administration functions to third use Level 3.
The majority of our financial assets are valued based parties and may do so increasingly in the future.
If we do not on quoted market information Level 1 or observable market effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, thirddata Level 2.
At 31 December 2011, 4.3% of total financial party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience investments, loans and investment properties at fair value were technological or other problems with a transition to or between classified as Level 3, amounting to 11,369 million.
Where such providers, we may not realise the full extent of productivity estimates were used for inputs to Level 3 fair values, these were improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational based on a combination of independent third-party evidence and difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business.
internally developed models, intended to be calibrated to market The failure to attract or retain the necessary personnel observable data where possible.
could have a material adverse effect on our results and or An asset or liabilitys classification within the fair value financial condition.
hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its As a global financial services organisation with a decentralised valuation.
See IFRS critical accounting policies Investments.
management structure, we rely to a considerable extent on the Any change to investment valuations may affect our results of quality of local management in the regions and countries in which operations and reported financial condition.
The success of our operations is dependent, among Systems errors or regulatory changes may affect the other things, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified calculation of unit prices or deduction of charges for our professional employees.
Competition for such key employees unit-linked products which may require us to compensate is intense.
Our ability to attract and retain key employees is customers retrospectively.
dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market A significant proportion of our product sales are unit-linked conditions and compensation packages offered by companies contracts, where product benefits are linked to the prices of competing for the same talent.
While comprehensive controls are in place, There are inherent funding risks associated with our there is a risk of error in the calculation of the prices of these participation in defined benefit staff pension schemes.
funds due to human error in data entry, IT-related issues or other We operate both defined benefit and defined contribution staff causes.
Additionally, it is possible that policy charges which are pension schemes.
The defined benefit section of the UK staff deducted from these contracts are taken incorrectly, or the pension scheme was closed to new members from 1 April 2011, methodology is subsequently challenged by policyholders or with entry into the defined contribution sections being offered regulators and changed retrospectively.
Any of these can give rise to the staff members affected.
Closure of the defined benefit to compensation payments to customers.
Controls are in place to scheme will remove the volatility associated with adding future mitigate these risks, but errors could give rise to future liabilities.
Payments due to errors or compensation may negatively impact There are inherent funding risks associated with the defined our profits.
Events could result in a material reduction in the Brand and reputation risks relating to Avivas business funding position of such schemes and, in some cases, may result We are rated by several rating agencies, and a decline in any in a deficit between the pension schemes assets and liabilities.
of these ratings could affect our standing among customers, The factors that affect the schemes position include: poor broker-dealers, agents, wholesalers and other distributors of investment performance of pension fund investments: greater life our products and services and cause our sales and earnings expectancy than assumed: adverse changes in interest rates or to decrease.
inflation: and other events occurring that increase the costs of A rating downgrade, or the perceived potential for such a past service benefits over the amounts predicted in the actuarial downgrade, of Aviva plc or any of our rated insurance subsidiaries assumptions.
In the short term, the funding position is inherently may, among other things, materially increase the number of volatile due to movements in the market value of assets.
Where a policy surrenders and withdrawals by policyholders of cash values Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 161 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 from their policies.
The outcome of such activities may be cash management performance and historical bonus levels.
In some payments requiring the sale of invested assets, including illiquid of our markets, the Group faces competitors that are larger, assets, at a price that may result in realised investment losses.
have greater financial resources or greater market share, offer These cash payments to policyholders would result in a decrease a broader range of products, benefit from more advantageous in total invested assets and a decrease in net income.
Among tax treatments, or have higher bonus rates or claims-paying other things, early withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate ratios.
Further, heightened competition for talented and skilled amortisation of policy acquisition costs, which would reduce net employees with local experience, particularly in the emerging, income.
A rating downgrade may also impact sales volumes, high-growth markets, may limit our potential to grow our particularly in the US where there is more focus on ratings when business as quickly as planned.
The ratings provided by AM Best are Our principal competitors in the life market include many of widely considered to be the most important for distribution in the the major financial services businesses including, in particular, US, and a downgrade could lead to a significant loss of sales.
Axa, Allianz, Generali, Prudential and Standard Life.
Our principal Similarly, a rating downgrade may increase our cost of borrowing competitors in the general insurance market include Royal Bank or limit our access to some forms of financing.
of Scotland Insurance, RSA, Zurich, Axa and Allianz.
We also face competitors who specialise in many of the niche We are dependent on the strength of our brand, the brands markets in which we operate.
We believe that competition will of our partners and our reputation with customers and agents intensify across all regions in response to consumer demand, in the sale of our products and services.
technological advances, the impact of consolidation, regulatory Our results are, to a certain extent, dependent on the strength actions and other factors.
of our brand and reputation.
While we as a Group are well Our ability to generate an appropriate return depends recognised, we are vulnerable to adverse market and customer significantly upon our capacity to anticipate and respond perception.
We operate in an industry where integrity, customer appropriately to these competitive pressures.
trust and confidence are paramount.
We are exposed to the risk that litigation, employee misconduct, operational failures, the Our regulated business is subject to extensive regulatory outcome of regulatory investigations, press speculation and supervision both in the UK and internationally.
negative publicity, disclosure of confidential client information, We are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are inadequate services, among others, whether true or not, could administered and enforced by a number of different impact our brand or reputation.
Our brand and reputation could governmental authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory also be affected if products or services recommended by us or agencies, including the FSA and other regulators.
In light of wider any of our intermediaries do not perform as expected whether financial and economic conditions, some of these authorities are or not the expectations are founded or in line with the considering, or may in the future consider, enhanced or new customers expectations for the product range.
Such a change to regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or our brand strength could adversely affect our results of operations otherwise assure the stability of institutions under their and financial condition.
These authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more robust ways.
We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and All of these possibilities, if they occurred, could affect the way we may be subject to infringement claims by a third party.
conduct our business and manage our capital, and may require Our primary brand in the UK Aviva is a registered trade mark in the us to satisfy increased capital requirements.
We own other registered or pending trade marks Insurance regulation in the UK is largely based on the in the UK, including Community trade marks having effect in the requirements of EU directives.
Inconsistent application of entire EU.
We rely on a combination of contractual rights, copyright directives by regulators in different EU member states may place and trademark laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.
our business at a competitive disadvantage to other European Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our financial services groups.
In addition, changes in the local intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or regulatory regimes of designated territories could affect the misappropriate our intellectual property.
The loss of intellectual calculation of our solvency position.
property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection Our insurance subsidiaries worldwide are subject to detailed of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse affect and comprehensive government regulation in each of the on our business and our ability to compete.
jurisdictions in which they conduct business.
Regulatory agencies Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents or have broad administrative power over many aspects of the other protections that could be infringed by our products, methods, insurance business, which may include premium rates, marketing processes or services or could limit our ability to offer certain product and selling practices, advertising, licensing agents, policy forms, features.
In recent years, there has been increasing intellectual capital adequacy and permitted investments.
Government property litigation in the financial services industry challenging, regulators are concerned primarily with the protection of among other things, product designs and business processes.
If a policyholders rather than our shareholders or creditors.
In the UK, third party were to successfully assert an intellectual property our business is subject to regulation by the FSA, which has broad infringement claim against us, or if we were otherwise precluded powers under the FSMA, including the authority to grant, vary the from offering certain features or designs, or utilising certain processes, terms of, or cancel a regulated firms authorisation, to investigate it could have a material effect on our business, results of operation marketing and sales practices and to require the maintenance of and financial condition.
The FSA has the power to take a range of investigative, disciplinary or enforcement actions, Our businesses are conducted in highly competitive including public censure, restitution, fines or sanctions and to environments.
There are many factors which affect our ability to sell our The FSA may make enquiries of the companies which it products, including fiscal incentives, price and yields offered, regulates regarding compliance with regulations governing the financial strength and ratings, range of product lines and product operation of business and, similar to the other UK regulated quality, brand strength and name recognition, investment financial services companies, we face the risk that the FSA could 162 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 find that we have failed to comply with applicable regulations securities issuer, employer, investment adviser, investor and or have not undertaken corrective action as required.
Certain of these lawsuits and investigations seek Issues and disputes may arise from time to time from the way significant or unspecified amounts of damages, including punitive in which the insurance industry or fund management industry has damages, and certain of the regulatory authorities involved in sold or administered an insurance policy or other product or in the these proceedings have substantial powers over the conduct and way in which they have treated policyholders or customers, either operations of our business.
Due to the nature of certain of these lawsuits and Where larger groups or matters of public policy are investigations, we cannot make an estimate of loss or predict concerned, the FSA may intervene directly.
There have been with any certainty the potential impact of these lawsuits or several industry-wide issues in recent years in which the FSA has investigations.
intervened directly, including the sale of personal pensions, the In the course of conducting insurance business, we receive sale of mortgage-related endowments and investments in split general insurance liability claims, and become involved in actual or capital investment trusts.
threatened related litigation arising therefrom, including claims in Outside of the UK, our business is regulated by local respect of pollution and other environmental hazards.
Given the regulators that often have similar powers to the FSA and could significant delays that are experienced in the notification of these therefore have a similar negative impact on perceptions of our claims, the potential number of incidents that they cover and the business or have a material adverse effect on our business.
uncertainties associated with establishing liability and the Furthermore, various jurisdictions in which we operate, availability of reinsurance, the ultimate cost cannot be determined including the UK, have created investor compensation schemes with certainty.
that require mandatory contributions from market participants Additionally, it is possible that a regulator in one of our major in some instances in the event of a failure of another market markets may conduct a review of products previously sold, either participant.
As a major participant in the majority of our chosen as part of an industry-wide review or specific to us.
The result of markets, circumstances could arise where we, along with other this review may be to compensate customers for losses they have companies, may be required to make such contributions.
incurred as a result of the products they were sold.
A determination that we have failed to comply with applicable All of the above could adversely impact our results of regulation could have a negative impact on our results of operations or financial condition.
operations or on our relations with current and potential From time to time, changes in the interpretation of existing tax customers.
Regulatory action against a member of the Group laws, amendments to existing tax rates or the introduction of could result in adverse publicity for, or negative perceptions new tax legislation may adversely impact our business.
regarding, the Group, or could have a material adverse effect on We operate in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world and our business, our results of operations and financial condition and face risks associated with changes in tax law, interpretation of tax divert managements attention from the day-to-day management law, changes in tax rates and the risk of failure to comply with of the business.
procedures required by tax authorities.
Failure to manage tax risks We will not always be able to predict the impact of future could lead to an additional tax charge or a financial penalty.
legislation or regulation or changes in the interpretation or If, as a result of a particular tax risk materialising, the tax costs operation of existing legislation or regulation on our business, associated with certain transactions are greater than anticipated, results of operations and financial condition.
Changes in it could affect the profitability of those transactions.
government policy, legislation or regulatory interpretation There are also specific rules governing the taxation of applying to companies in the financial services and insurance policyholders.
We are unable to predict accurately the impact of industries in any of the markets in which we operate, which may future changes in tax law on the taxation of life insurance and be applied retrospectively, may adversely affect our product pension policies in the hands of policyholders.
Amendments to range, distribution channels, capital requirements, dividends existing legislation, particularly if there is the withdrawal of any payable by subsidiaries and, consequently, results and financing tax relief, or an increase in tax rates, or the introduction of requirements.
new rules, may affect the future long-term business and the We may face increased compliance costs due to the need to decisions of policyholders.
The impact of such changes upon set up additional compliance controls or the direct cost of such us might depend on the mix of business in-force at the time compliance because of changes to financial services legislation of such change.
The design of life insurance products by our life insurance The Solvency II Directive Solvency II, an insurance industry companies takes into account a number of factors, including risks regulation agreed by the European Parliament in 2009, will and taxation.
The design of long-term insurance products is based require European domiciled insurers to move to more risk-based on the tax legislation in force at that time.
Changes in tax capital requirements.
The implementation date for Solvency II has legislation or in the interpretation of tax legislation may therefore, been extended to January 2014.
There continue to be material when applied to such products, have a material adverse effect on uncertainties around the impact of the more detailed technical the financial condition of the relevant long-term business fund of requirements of Solvency II and there is a risk that this could the company in which the business was written.
lead to a significant increase in the capital required to support our business.
Risks related to ownership of the ADSs and We are involved in various legal proceedings, regulatory ordinary shares investigations and examinations and may be involved in more As a holding company, we are dependent on our operating in the future.
subsidiaries to cover operating expenses and dividend We have been named as defendants in lawsuits, including class payments.
We have been subject to Our insurance and fund management operations are generally regulatory investigations or examinations in the various conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries.
As a holding jurisdictions where we operate.
These actions arise in various company, Aviva plcs principal sources of funding are dividends contexts, including in connection with our activities as an insurer, from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds and any amounts Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 163 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 that may be raised through the issuance of debt and commercial These provisions of the Deposit Agreement will limit the ability of paper.
Certain subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions that may holders of our ADSs to obtain recourse if we or the depositary fail limit the payment of dividends, which in some circumstances to meet our obligations under the Deposit Agreement or if they could limit our ability to pay dividends to shareholders.
In the wish to involve us or the depositary in a legal proceeding.
current economic environment, such restrictions could become The holders of our ADSs in the US may not be able to more stringent.
participate in offerings of rights, warrants or similar securities to holders of our ordinary shares on the same terms and The trading price of our ADSs and dividends paid on our ADSs conditions as holders of our ordinary shares.
may be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in the In the event that we offer rights, warrants or similar securities to exchange rate for converting sterling into US dollars.
An ADS is a negotiable US security representing ownership in the holders of our ordinary shares or distribute dividends payable, in whole or in part, in securities, the Deposit Agreement provides one share.
An ADR is denominated in US dollars and represents ownership of any number of ADSs.
ADRs are publicly traded that the depositary after consultation with us shall have discretion as to the procedure to be followed in making such shares in a non-US corporation, quoted and traded in US dollars in the US securities market.
Any dividends are paid to investors rights or other securities available to ADR holders including disposing of such rights or other securities and distributing the in US dollars.
ADRs were specifically designed to facilitate the purchase, holding and sale of non-US securities by US investors.
net proceeds in US dollars to ADR holders.
Given the significant number of our ADR holders in the US, we generally would be The term ADR is often used to mean both the certificates and the securities themselves.
required to register with the SEC any public offering of rights, warrants or other securities made to our ADR holders unless an Fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting pound sterling into US dollars may affect the value of our ADSs.
exemption from the registration requirements of the US securities laws is available.
Registering such an offering with the SEC can be Specifically, as the relative value of the pound sterling against the US dollar declines, each of the following values will also decline: a lengthy process which may be inconsistent with the timetable for a global capital raising operation.
Consequently, we have in the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling trading price of our ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange which the past elected and may in the future elect not to make such an offer in the US, including to our ADR holders in the US, and may consequently cause the trading price of our ADSs in the US to also decline: rather only conduct such an offering in an offshore transaction in accordance with Regulation S under the US Securities Act of the US dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of our ADSs would receive upon the sale in the UK of any our 1933, as amended.
Therefore, there can be no assurance that our ADR holders will be able to participate in such an offering in the ordinary shares withdrawn from the depositary: and the US dollar equivalent of cash dividends paid in pound same manner as our ordinary shareholders.
sterling on our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs.
The ADS and ordinary share price of Aviva has been, and may continue to be, volatile.
The holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their voting rights due to delays in notification to, and by, the The share price of our ADS and ordinary shares has been volatile depositary.
in the past and the share price and trading volume of our ADSs The depositary for our ADSs may not receive voting materials for may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due, in part, our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in time to ensure to changes in our actual or forecast operating results and the that holders of our ADSs can instruct the depositary to vote their inability to fulfil the profit expectations of securities analysts, as shares.
In addition, the depositarys liability to holders of our well as to the high volatility in the securities markets generally and ADSs for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner more particularly in shares of financial institutions.
Other factors, of carrying out voting instructions is limited by the Deposit besides our financial results, that may impact out share price Agreement governing our ADR facility.
As a result, holders of our include, but are not limited to: ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote and may have market expectations of the performance and capital limited recourse against the depositary or us, if their shares are adequacy of financial institutions in general: not voted according to their request.
investor perceptions of the success and impact of our strategies: Holders of our ADSs will have limited recourse if we or the a downgrade or review of our credit ratings: depositary fail to meet our respective obligations under the potential litigation or regulatory action involving Aviva or Deposit Agreement.
sectors we have exposure to through our insurance and The Deposit Agreement expressly limits our obligations and fund management activities: liability and those of the depositary.
Neither we nor the depositary announcements concerning financial problems or any will be liable if either of us: investigations into the accounting practices of other financial are prevented from or delayed in performing any obligation institutions: and by circumstances beyond our their control: general market circumstances.
exercise or fail to exercise discretion under the Deposit Agreement: or As a foreign private issuer in the US we are exempt from take any action based upon the advice of, or information certain rules under the US securities laws and are permitted from, legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting to file less information with the SEC than US companies.
ordinary shares for deposit, any holder or owner of an Aviva As a foreign private issuer we are exempt from certain rules plc ADR or any other person believed by us or the depositary under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended the in good faith to be competent to give such advice or Exchange Act, that impose certain disclosure obligations and information.
procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act.
In addition, our officers, directors and In addition, the depositary has the obligation to participate in principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and shortany action, suit or other proceeding with respect to our ADSs swing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange which may involve it in expense or liability only if it is indemnified.
Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their 164 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 purchases and sales of our ordinary shares and ADRs.
Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as US companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act.
In addition, we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information.
Although we must comply with UK listing rules on insider reporting of share ownership and on protection of inside information, there may be less publicly available information concerning us than there is for US public companies.
Judgments of US courts may not be enforceable against us.
Judgments of US courts, including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the Federal securities laws of the US, may not be enforceable in courts in the United Kingdom.
As a result, our shareholders who obtain a judgment against us in the US may not be able to require us to pay the amount of the judgment.
Limitations on Enforceability of Civil Liabilities under US Federal Securities Laws.
We are an English company.
Any experts working on our behalf are likely to be residents of the United Kingdom and not the United States.
In addition, most of our officers and directors are residents of the United Kingdom and not the United States.
It may be difficult or impossible to serve legal process on persons located outside the United States and to force them to appear in a US court.
It may also be difficult or impossible to enforce a judgment of a US court against persons outside the United States, or to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against such persons in the United States.
We believe that there may be doubt as to the enforceability against persons in the United Kingdom, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of US courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the laws of the United States, including its federal securities laws.
Individual shareholders of an English company including US persons have the right under English law to bring lawsuits on behalf of the company in which they are a shareholder, and on their own behalf against the company, in certain limited circumstances.
English law does not permit class action lawsuits by shareholders, except in limited circumstances.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 165 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financial statements IFRS Page Page In this section 24 Securitised mortgages and related assets 236 Independent auditors report 166 25 Financial investments 237 Accounting policies 168 26 Receivables 243 Consolidated financial statements 183 27 Deferred acquisition costs and other assets 244 Consolidated income statement 183 28 Assets held to cover linked liabilities 245 Pro forma reconciliation of Group operating 29 Ordinary share capital 245 profit to profit before tax 184 30 Groups share plans 246 Consolidated statement of 31 Shares held by employee trusts 249 comprehensive income 186 32 Preference share capital 250 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 187 33 Direct capital instruments 250 Consolidated statement of financial position 189 34 Merger reserve 251 Consolidated statement of cash flows 190 35 Other reserves 251 36 Retained earnings 252 Notes to the consolidated 37 Non-controlling interests 252 financial statements 38 Contract liabilities and associated 1 Exchange rates 191 reinsurance 253 2 Presentation changes 191 39 Insurance liabilities 253 3 Subsidiaries 192 40 Liability for investment contracts 263 4 Segmental information 195 41 Financial guarantees and options 265 5 Details of income 203 42 Reinsurance assets 268 6 Details of expenses 204 43 Effect of changes in assumptions and 7 Finance costs 206 estimates during the year 269 8 Long-term business economic volatility 207 44 Unallocated divisible surplus 270 9 Longer-term investment return and 45 Tax assets and liabilities 271 economic assumption changes for 46 Provisions 272 non-long-term business 208 47 Pension obligations 273 10 Employee information 210 48 Borrowings 281 11 Directors 211 49 Payables and other financial liabilities 285 12 Auditors remuneration 211 50 Other liabilities 285 13 Tax 212 51 Contingent liabilities and other risk factors 286 14 Earnings per share 214 52 Commitments 287 15 Dividends and appropriations 218 53 Statement of cash flows 288 16 Goodwill 218 54 Group capital structure 289 17 Acquired value of in-force business 55 Capital statement 290 AVIF and intangible assets 222 56 Risk management 293 18 Interests in, and loans to, joint ventures 223 57 Derivative financial instruments 19 Interests in, and loans to, associates 227 and hedging 308 20 Property and equipment 229 58 Assets under management 310 21 Investment property 230 59 Related party transactions 310 22 Fair value methodology 230 Financial statements of the Company 312 23 Loans 234 166 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Aviva plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements of Aviva plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Accounting Policies, the Consolidated and Parent Company Income Statements, the Pro Forma Reconciliation of Group Operating Profit to Profit before Tax, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, and the related notes 1 to 59 and A to I.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 to the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 105, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Aviva plc Annual Report on pages 1 to 164 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the Groups and the Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the Accounting Policies to the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement, set out on pages 101 to 103, with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 167 Aviva plc Independent auditors report to the Annual Report and Accounts 2011 shareholders of Aviva plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 105, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
James W Dean Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 7 March 2012 1 The maintenance and integrity of Aviva plcs website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
168 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Accounting policies Aviva plc the Company, a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, together with its subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Aviva transacts life assurance and long-term savings business, fund management and most classes of general insurance and health business through its subsidiaries, associates and branches in the UK, Ireland, continental Europe, United States US, Canada, Asia and other countries throughout the world.
The Group is managed on a regional basis, reflecting the management structure whereby a member of the executive management team is accountable to the group chief executive for the operating segment for which he or she is responsible.
Further details of the reportable segments are given in note 4.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
A Basis of presentation Since 2005, all European Union EU listed companies have been required to prepare consolidated financial statements using International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and endorsed by the EU.
The date of transition to IFRS was 1 January 2004.
In addition to fulfilling their legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Group and Company have also complied with IFRS as issued by the IASB and applicable at 31 December 2011.
During 2009 and 2010, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 1, First Time Adoption of IFRS, IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, and IAS 32, Financial Instruments Presentation, and the results of its annual improvements project, all of which have been endorsed by the EU.
In addition, IFRIC interpretation 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, and an amendment to interpretation 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, issued in 2008 and 2009 respectively, have now been endorsed by the EU.
These are all applicable for the first time in the current accounting period and are now reflected in the Groups financial reporting, with no material impact.
Further amendments to IFRS 1, IFRS 7, Financial Instruments Disclosures, IAS 12, Income Taxes, and IAS 32 have been issued but have not yet been endorsed.
These are applicable prospectively for accounting periods commencing 1 July 2011 or later, and are therefore not applicable for the current accounting period.
On adoption, they will not have any material impact on the Groups financial reporting.
In 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9, Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement, followed by additional requirements on accounting for financial liabilities in 2010.
These are the first two parts of a replacement standard for IAS 39.
They are applicable prospectively for accounting periods commencing 1 January 2015 or later, and are therefore not applicable for the current accounting period.
IFRS 9 has not yet been endorsed by the EU but, on adoption, will require us to review the classification of certain financial instruments while allowing us to retain fair value measurement as we deem necessary.
We have not yet completed our assessment of its impact which is, to a large extent, dependent on the finalisation of the IASBs insurance contracts accounting project.
During 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement, and reissued IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements, and IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
It also issued amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, and IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
They are applicable for accounting periods commencing 1 July 2012 or later, and are therefore not applicable for the current accounting period.
None of these has yet been endorsed by the EU but, on adoption, IFRS 10 will require us to review the entities we classify as subsidiaries, and we are currently assessing its impact.
The other new and amended standards deal mainly with disclosures and we are currently assessing the changes required to our current financial statement disclosures.
IFRIC interpretation 20, Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine, was issued in 2011 but has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
It is applicable prospectively for accounting periods commencing 1 January 2013 or later, and is therefore not applicable for the current accounting period.
On adoption, it will not have any impact on our financial reporting.
In accordance with IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, the Group has applied existing accounting practices for insurance and participating investment contracts, modified as appropriate to comply with the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
Further details are given in policy F below.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured in the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are stated in sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Unless otherwise noted, the amounts shown in these financial statements are in millions of pounds sterling m. The separate financial statements of the Company are on pages 312 to 320.
B Operating profit The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means that, for managements decision-making and internal performance management, short-term realised and unrealised investment gains and losses are treated as non-operating items.
The Group focuses instead on an operating profit measure also referred to as adjusted operating profit that incorporates an expected return on investments supporting its long-term and non-long-term businesses.
Operating profit for long-term business is based on expected investment returns on financial investments backing shareholder and policyholder funds over the reporting period, with allowance for the corresponding expected movements in liabilities.
Variances between actual and expected investment returns, and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on liabilities, are disclosed separately outside operating profit.
For non-long-term business, the total investment income, including realised and unrealised gains, is analysed between that calculated using a longer-term return and shortterm fluctuations from that level.
Further details of this analysis and the assumptions used are given in notes 8 and 9.
Operating profit also excludes: amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangibles: the profit or loss on disposal of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates: integration and restructuring costs: and exceptional items.
Details of all of these are provided in the relevant notes.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 169 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 C Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect items reported in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of financial position, other primary statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Critical accounting policies The major areas of judgement on policy application are considered to be whether Group entities should be consolidated set out in policy D, product classification set out in policy F and the classification of financial investments set out in policy S. The loss of control of Delta Lloyd in May 2011, and its classification as a discontinued operation in the current and preceding years, is discussed in notes 2 and 3 b.
Use of estimates All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge and their predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results may differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.
The table below sets out those items we consider particularly susceptible to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the relevant accounting policy.
Accounting Item policy Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities F&K Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets N Fair values of financial investments S Impairment of financial investments S Fair value of derivative financial instruments T Deferred acquisition costs and other assets W Provisions and contingent liabilities Z Pension obligations AA Deferred income taxes AB D Consolidation principles Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities including special purpose entities in which the Group, directly or indirectly, has power to exercise control over financial and operating policies in order to gain economic benefits.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which effective control is transferred to the Group and are excluded from consolidation from the date the Group no longer has effective control.
All inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised surpluses and deficits on transactions between Group companies have been eliminated.
From 1 January 2004, the date of first time adoption of IFRS, the Group was required to use the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Under this method, the cost of an acquisition was measured as the fair value of assets given up, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired was recorded as goodwill see policy N below.
Any surplus of the acquirers interest in the subsidiarys net assets over the cost of acquisition was credited to the income statement.
For business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after 1 January 2010, the Group is required to use the acquisition method of accounting.
Under this method, the cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group has the option to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Acquisition-related costs incurred are expensed as incurred.
Transactions that do not result in a loss of control are treated as equity transactions with non-controlling interests.
Merger accounting and the merger reserve Prior to 1 January 2004, certain significant business combinations were accounted for using the pooling of interests method or merger accounting, which treats the merged groups as if they had been combined throughout the current and comparative accounting periods.
Merger accounting principles for these combinations gave rise to a merger reserve in the consolidated statement of financial position, being the difference between the nominal value of new shares issued by the Parent Company for the acquisition of the shares of the subsidiary and the subsidiarys own share capital and share premium account.
These transactions have not been restated, as permitted by the IFRS 1 transitional arrangements.
The merger reserve is also used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under the Companies Act 1985 and, from 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006.
170 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Investment vehicles In several countries, the Group has invested in a number of specialised investment vehicles such as Open-ended Investment Companies OEICs and unit trusts.
These invest mainly in equities, bonds, cash and cash equivalents, and properties, and distribute most of their income.
The Groups percentage ownership in these vehicles can fluctuate from day to day according to the Groups and third-party participation in them.
Where Group companies are deemed to control such vehicles, with control determined based on an analysis of the guidance in IAS 27 and SIC 12, they are consolidated, with the interests of parties other than Aviva being classified as liabilities.
These appear as Net asset value attributable to unitholders in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Where the Group does not control such vehicles, and these investments are held by its insurance or investment funds, they do not meet the definition of associates see below and are, instead, carried at fair value through profit and loss within financial investments in the consolidated statement of financial position, in accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain European long-term business policyholder funds have invested in a number of property limited partnerships PLPs, either directly or via property unit trusts PUTs, through a mix of capital and loans.
The PLPs are managed by general partners GPs, in which the long-term business shareholder companies hold equity stakes and which themselves hold nominal stakes in the PLPs.
The PUTs are managed by a Group subsidiary.
Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint ventures or other financial investments depends on the shareholdings in the GPs and the terms of each partnership agreement.
Where the Group exerts control over a PLP, it has been treated as a subsidiary and its results, assets and liabilities have been consolidated.
Where the partnership is managed by a contractual agreement such that there is joint control between the parties, notwithstanding that the Groups partnership share in the PLP including its indirect stake via the relevant PUT and GP may be greater than 50%, such PUTs and PLPs have been classified as joint ventures.
Where the Group holds minority stakes in PLPs, with no significant influence or control over their associated GPs, the relevant investments are carried at fair value through profit and loss within financial investments.
Associates and joint ventures Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but which it does not control.
Generally, it is presumed that the Group has significant influence if it has between 20% and 50% of voting rights.
Joint ventures are entities whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity which is subject to joint control arising from a contractual agreement.
In a number of these, the Groups share of the underlying assets and liabilities may be greater than 50% but the terms of the relevant agreements make it clear that control is not exercised.
Such jointly controlled entities are referred to as joint ventures in these financial statements.
Gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates and joint ventures.
Losses are also eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred between entities.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method, the cost of the investment in a given associate or joint venture, together with the Groups share of that entitys post-acquisition changes to shareholders funds, is included as an asset in the consolidated statement of financial position.
As explained in policy N, the cost includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of their post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
Equity accounting is discontinued when the Group no longer has significant influence or joint control over the investment.
If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the undertaking, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the entity.
The Companys investments In the Company statement of financial position, subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at their fair values, estimated using applicable valuation models underpinned by the Companys market capitalisation.
These investments are classified as available for sale AFS financial assets, with changes in their fair value being recognised in other comprehensive income and recorded in a separate investment valuation reserve within equity.
E Foreign currency translation Income statements and cash flows of foreign entities are translated into the Groups presentation currency at average exchange rates for the year while their statements of financial position are translated at the year-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other comprehensive income and taken to the currency translation reserve within equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, such exchange differences are transferred out of this reserve and are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
The cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero at the transition date to IFRS.
Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income statement.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 171 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Translation differences on debt securities and other monetary financial assets measured at fair value and designated as held at fair value through profit or loss FV see policy S are included in foreign exchange gains and losses in the income statement.
For monetary financial assets designated as AFS, translation differences are calculated as if they were carried at amortised cost and so are recognised in the income statement, while foreign exchange differences arising from fair value gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income and included in the investment valuation reserve within equity.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities which are designated as FV, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss, whereas such differences on AFS equities are included in the investment valuation reserve.
F Product classification Insurance contracts are defined as those containing significant insurance risk if, and only if, an insured event could cause an insurer to make significant additional payments in any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance, at the inception of the contract.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Contracts can be reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if insurance risk becomes significant.
Any contracts not considered to be insurance contracts under IFRS are classified as investment contracts.
Some insurance and investment contracts contain a discretionary participating feature, which is a contractual right to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
These are referred to as participating contracts.
As noted in policy A above, insurance contracts and participating investment contracts in general continue to be measured and accounted for under existing accounting practices at the later of the date of transition to IFRS or the date of the acquisition of the entity, in accordance with IFRS 4.
Accounting for insurance contracts in UK companies is determined in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers, the most recent version of which was issued in December 2005 and amended in December 2006.
In certain businesses, the accounting policies or accounting estimates have been changed, as permitted by IFRS 4 and IAS 8 respectively, to remeasure designated insurance liabilities to reflect current market interest rates and changes to regulatory capital requirements.
When accounting policies or accounting estimates have been changed, and adjustments to the measurement basis have occurred, the financial statements of that year will have disclosed the impacts accordingly.
One such example is our adoption of Financial Reporting Standard 27, Life Assurance, FRS 27 which was issued by the UKs Accounting Standards Board ASB in December 2004.
Aviva, along with other major insurance companies and the ABI, signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the ASB, under which we voluntarily agreed to adopt in full the standard from 2005 in the Groups IFRS financial statements.
FRS 27 adds to the requirements of IFRS but does not vary them in any way.
The additional requirements of FRS 27 are detailed in policy K below and in note 55.
G Premiums earned Premiums on long-term insurance contracts and participating investment contracts are recognised as income when receivable, except for investment-linked premiums which are accounted for when the corresponding liabilities are recognised.
For single premium business, this is the date from which the policy is effective.
For regular premium contracts, receivables are recognised at the date when payments are due.
Premiums are shown before deduction of commission and before any sales-based taxes or duties.
Where policies lapse due to non-receipt of premiums, then all the related premium income accrued but not received from the date they are deemed to have lapsed is offset against premiums.
General insurance and health premiums written reflect business incepted during the year, and exclude any sales-based taxes or duties.
Unearned premiums are those proportions of the premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the statement of financial position date.
Unearned premiums are calculated on either a daily or monthly pro rata basis.
Premiums collected by intermediaries, but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates from underwriting or past experience, and are included in premiums written.
Deposits collected under investment contracts without a discretionary participating feature non-participating contracts are not accounted for through the income statement, except for the fee income covered in policy H and the investment income attributable to those contracts, but are accounted for directly through the statement of financial position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
H Other investment contract fee revenue Investment contract policyholders are charged fees for policy administration, investment management, surrenders or other contract services.
The fees may be for fixed amounts or vary with the amounts being managed, and will generally be charged as an adjustment to the policyholders balance.
The fees are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are collected unless they relate to services to be provided in future periods, in which case they are deferred and recognised as the service is provided.
Initiation and other front-end fees fees that are assessed against the policyholder balance as consideration for origination of the contract are charged on some non-participating investment and investment fund management contracts.
Where the investment contract is recorded at amortised cost, these fees are deferred and recognised over the expected term of the policy by an adjustment to the effective yield.
Where the investment contract is measured at fair value, the front-end fees that relate to the provision of investment management services are deferred and recognised as the services are provided.
172 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 I Other fee and commission income Other fee and commission income consists primarily of fund management fees, income from the RACs non-insurance activities, distribution fees from mutual funds, commissions on reinsurance ceded, commission revenue from the sale of mutual fund shares and transfer agent fees for shareholder record keeping.
Reinsurance commissions receivable are deferred in the same way as acquisition costs, as described in policy W. All other fee and commission income is recognised as the services are provided.
J Net investment income Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents receivable for the year, movements in amortised cost on debt securities, realised gains and losses, and unrealised gains and losses on FV investments as defined in policy S. Dividends on equity securities are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the investment.
It includes the interest rate differential on forward foreign exchange contracts.
Rental income is recognised on an accruals basis.
A gain or loss on a financial investment is only realised on disposal or transfer, and is the difference between the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, and its original cost or amortised cost, as appropriate.
Unrealised gains and losses, arising on investments which have not been derecognised as a result of disposal or transfer, represent the difference between the carrying value at the year end and the carrying value at the previous year end or purchase value during the year, less the reversal of previously recognised unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made during the year.
Realised gains or losses on investment property represent the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the property.
K Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities Claims Long-term business claims reflect the cost of all claims arising during the year, including claims handling costs, as well as policyholder bonuses accrued in anticipation of bonus declarations.
General insurance and health claims incurred include all losses occurring during the year, whether reported or not, related handling costs, a reduction for the value of salvage and other recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding from previous years.
Claims handling costs include internal and external costs incurred in connection with the negotiation and settlement of claims.
Internal costs include all direct expenses of the claims department and any part of the general administrative costs directly attributable to the claims function.
Long-term business provisions Under current IFRS requirements, insurance and participating investment contract liabilities are measured using accounting policies consistent with those adopted previously under existing accounting practices, with the exception of liabilities remeasured to reflect current market interest rates and those relating to UK with-profit and non-profit contracts, to be consistent with the value of the backing assets.
For liabilities relating to UK with-profit contracts, the Group has adopted FRS 27, Life Assurance, as described in policy F above, in addition to the requirements of IFRS.
In the United States, shadow adjustments are made to the liabilities or related deferred acquisition costs and are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
This means that the measurement of these items is adjusted for unrealised gains or losses on the backing assets such as AFS financial investments see policy S, that are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, in the same way as if those gains or losses had been realised.
The long-term business provisions are calculated separately for each life operation, based either on local regulatory requirements or existing local GAAP at the later of the date of transition to IFRS or the date of the acquisition of the entity, and actuarial principles consistent with those applied in the UK.
Each calculation represents a determination within a range of possible outcomes, where the assumptions used in the calculations depend on the circumstances prevailing in each life operation.
The principal assumptions are disclosed in note 39 b.
For liabilities of the UK with-profit funds, FRS 27 requires liabilities to be calculated as the realistic basis liabilities as set out by the UKs Financial Services Authority FSA, adjusted to remove the shareholders share of future bonuses.
For UK non-profit insurance contracts, the Group applies the realistic regulatory basis as set out in the FSA Policy Statement 06 14, Prudential Changes for Insurers, where applicable.
Present value of future profits on non-participating business written in a with-profit fund For UK with-profit life funds falling within the scope of the FSA realistic capital regime, and hence FRS 27, an amount may be recognised for the present value of future profits PVFP on non-participating business written in a with-profit fund where the determination of the realistic value of liabilities in that with-profit fund takes account, directly or indirectly, of this value.
This amount is recognised as a reduction in the liability rather than as an asset in the statement of financial position, and is then apportioned between the amounts that have been taken into account in the measurement of liabilities and other amounts which are shown as an adjustment to the unallocated divisible surplus.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 173 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Unallocated divisible surplus In certain participating long-term insurance and investment business, the nature of the policy benefits is such that the division between shareholder reserves and policyholder liabilities is uncertain.
Amounts whose allocation to either policyholders or shareholders has not been determined by the end of the financial year are held within liabilities as an unallocated divisible surplus.
If the aggregate carrying value of liabilities for a particular participating business fund is in excess of the aggregate carrying value of its assets, then the difference is held as a negative unallocated divisible surplus balance, subject to recoverability from margins in that funds participating business.
Any excess of this difference over the recoverable amount is charged to net income in the reporting period.
Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives that meet the definition of an insurance contract or correspond to options to surrender insurance contracts for a set amount or based on a fixed amount and an interest rate are not separately measured.
All other embedded derivatives are separated and measured at fair value if they are not considered as closely related to the host insurance contract or do not meet the definition of an insurance contract.
Fair value reflects own credit risk to the extent the embedded derivative is not fully collateralised.
Liability adequacy At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the recognised long-term business provisions are adequate, using current estimates of future cash flows.
If that assessment shows that the carrying amount of the liabilities less related assets is insufficient in light of the estimated future cash flows, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up an additional provision in the statement of financial position.
General insurance and health provisions i Outstanding claims provisions General insurance and health outstanding claims provisions are based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the statement of financial position date, whether reported or not, together with related claims handling costs.
Significant delays are experienced in the notification and settlement of certain types of general insurance claims, particularly in respect of liability business, including environmental and pollution exposures, the ultimate cost of which cannot be known with certainty at the statement of financial position date.
Any estimate represents a determination within a range of possible outcomes.
Further details of estimation techniques are given in note 39 c. Provisions for latent claims are discounted, using rates based on the relevant swap curve, in the relevant currency at the reporting date, having regard to the expected settlement dates of the claims.
The discount rate is set at the start of the accounting period with any change in rates between the start and end of the accounting period being reflected below operating profit as an economic assumption change.
The range of discount rates used is described in note 39 c. Outstanding claims provisions are valued net of an allowance for expected future recoveries.
Recoveries include non-insurance assets that have been acquired by exercising rights to salvage and subrogation under the terms of insurance contracts.
ii Provision for unearned premiums The proportion of written premiums, gross of commission payable to intermediaries, attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as a provision for unearned premiums.
The change in this provision is taken to the income statement as recognition of revenue over the period of risk.
iii Liability adequacy At each reporting date, the Group reviews its unexpired risks and carries out a liability adequacy test for any overall excess of expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over unearned premiums, using the current estimates of future cash flows under its contracts after taking account of the investment return expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant general business provisions.
If these estimates show that the carrying amount of its insurance liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs is insufficient in light of the estimated future cash flows, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up a provision in the statement of financial position.
Other assessments and levies The Group is subject to various periodic insurance-related assessments or guarantee fund levies.
Related provisions are established where there is a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event.
Such amounts are not included in insurance liabilities but are included under Provisions in the statement of financial position.
174 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 L Non-participating investment contract liabilities Claims For non-participating investment contracts with an account balance, claims reflect the excess of amounts paid over the account balance released.
Contract liabilities Deposits collected under non-participating investment contracts are not accounted for through the income statement, except for the investment income attributable to those contracts, but are accounted for directly through the statement of financial position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
The majority of the Groups contracts classified as non-participating investment contracts are unit-linked contracts and are measured at fair value.
Certain liabilities for non-linked non-participating contracts are measured at amortised cost.
The fair value liability is determined in accordance with IAS 39, using a valuation technique to provide a reliable estimate of the amount for which the liability could be settled between knowledgeable willing parties in an arms length transaction.
For unit-linked contracts, the fair value liability is equal to the current unit fund value, plus additional non-unit reserves if required based on a discounted cash flow analysis.
For non-linked contracts, the fair value liability is based on a discounted cash flow analysis, with allowance for risk calibrated to match the market price for risk.
Amortised cost is calculated as the fair value of consideration received at the date of initial recognition, less the net effect of payments such as transaction costs and front-end fees, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest rate method of any difference between that initial amount and the maturity value, and less any write-down for surrender payments.
The effective interest rate is the one that equates the discounted cash payments to the initial amount.
At each reporting date, the amortised cost liability is determined as the value of future best estimate cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
M Reinsurance The Group assumes and cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business, with retention limits varying by line of business.
Premiums on reinsurance assumed are recognised as revenue in the same manner as they would be if the reinsurance were considered direct business, taking into account the product classification of the reinsured business.
The cost of reinsurance related to long-duration contracts is accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured policies, using assumptions consistent with those used to account for these policies.
Where general insurance liabilities are discounted, any corresponding reinsurance assets are also discounted using consistent assumptions.
Gains or losses on buying retroactive reinsurance are recognised in the income statement immediately at the date of purchase and are not amortised.
Premiums ceded and claims reimbursed are presented on a gross basis in the consolidated income statement and statement of financial position as appropriate.
Reinsurance assets primarily include balances due from both insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded insurance liabilities.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant reinsurance contract.
Reinsurance contracts that principally transfer financial risk are accounted for directly through the statement of financial position and are not included in reinsurance assets or liabilities.
A deposit asset or liability is recognised, based on the consideration paid or received less any explicitly identified premiums or fees to be retained by the reinsured.
If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount accordingly and recognises that impairment loss in the income statement.
A reinsurance asset is impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract, and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
N Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 the date of transition to IFRS is carried at its book value original cost less cumulative amortisation on that date, less any impairment subsequently incurred.
Goodwill arising before 1 January 1998 was eliminated against reserves and has not been reinstated.
Goodwill arising on the Groups investments in subsidiaries since that date is shown as a separate asset, while that on associates and joint ventures is included within the carrying value of those investments.
Acquired value of in-force business AVIF The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or through the purchase of a subsidiary, is recognised as an asset.
If the AVIF results from the acquisition of an investment in a joint venture or an associate, it is held within the carrying amount of that investment.
In all cases, the AVIF is amortised over the useful lifetime of the related contracts in the portfolio on a systematic basis.
The rate of amortisation is chosen by considering the profile of the additional value of in-force business acquired and the expected depletion in its value.
The value of the acquired in-force long-term business is reviewed annually for any impairment in value and any reductions are charged as expenses in the income statement.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 175 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Intangible assets Intangibles consist primarily of brands, certain of which have been assessed as having indefinite useful lives, and contractual relationships such as access to distribution networks and customer lists.
The economic lives of the latter are determined by considering relevant factors such as usage of the asset, typical product life cycles, potential obsolescence, maintenance costs, the stability of the industry, competitive position and the period of control over the assets.
These intangibles are amortised over their useful lives, which range from five to 30 years, using the straight-line method.
The amortisation charge for the year is included in the income statement under Other operating expenses.
For intangibles with finite lives, a provision for impairment will be charged where evidence of such impairment is observed.
Intangibles with indefinite lives are subject to regular impairment testing, as described below.
Impairment testing For impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives have been allocated to cash-generating units.
The carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is reviewed at least annually or when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value.
Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles are written down for impairment where the recoverable amount is insufficient to support its carrying value.
Further details on goodwill allocation and impairment testing are given in note 16.
O Property and equipment Owner-occupied properties are carried at their revalued amounts, which are supported by market evidence, and movements are recognised in other comprehensive income and taken to a separate reserve within equity.
When such properties are sold, the accumulated revaluation surpluses are transferred from this reserve to retained earnings.
These properties are depreciated down to their estimated residual values over their useful lives.
All other items classed as property and equipment within the statement of financial position are carried at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Investment properties under construction are included within property and equipment until completion, and are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in their values until construction is completed or fair value becomes reliably measurable.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to write-down the cost of other assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Land No depreciation Properties under construction No depreciation Owner-occupied properties, and related mechanical and electrical equipment 25 years Motor vehicles Three years, or lease term if longer Computer equipment Three to five years Other assets Three to five years The assets residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation are reviewed regularly, and at least at each financial year end, and adjusted if appropriate.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal of property and equipment are determined by reference to their carrying amount.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition and construction of property and equipment are capitalised.
All repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of major renovations is included in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the most recently assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will flow to the Group and the renovation replaces an identifiable part of the asset.
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
P Investment property Investment property is held for long-term rental yields and is not occupied by the Group.
Completed investment property is stated at its fair value, which is supported by market evidence, as assessed by qualified external valuers or by local qualified staff of the Group in overseas operations.
Changes in fair values are recorded in the income statement in net investment income.
As described in policy O above, investment properties under construction are included within property and equipment, and are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in their values until construction is completed or fair value becomes reliably measurable.
Q Impairment of non-financial assets Property and equipment and other non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment losses whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an assets net selling price and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
176 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 R Derecognition and offset of financial assets and financial liabilities A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised where: The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired.
The Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement.
The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and has either transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
S Financial investments The Group classifies its investments as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FV or financial assets available for sale AFS.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired, and is determined by local management at initial recognition.
The FV category has two subcategories those that meet the definition as being held for trading and those the Group chooses to designate as FV referred to in this accounting policy as other than trading.
In general, the FV category is used as, in most cases, the Groups investment or risk management strategy is to manage its financial investments on a fair value basis.
Debt securities and equity securities, which the Group buys with the intention to resell in the short term, are classified as trading, as are non-hedge derivatives see policy T below.
All other securities in the FV category are classified as other than trading.
The AFS category is used where the relevant long-term business liability including shareholders funds is passively managed, as well as in certain fund management and non-insurance operations.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the assets, at their fair values.
Debt securities are initially recorded at their fair value, which is taken to be amortised cost, with amortisation credited or charged to the income statement.
Investments classified as trading, other than trading and AFS, are subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of trading and other than trading investments are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Changes in the fair value of securities classified as AFS are recognised in other comprehensive income and recorded in a separate investment valuation reserve within equity.
Investments carried at fair value are measured using a fair value hierarchy, described in note 22, with values based on quoted bid prices or amounts derived from cash flow models.
Fair values for unlisted equity securities are estimated using applicable price earnings or price cash flow ratios refined to reflect the specific circumstances of the issuer.
When securities classified as AFS are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are transferred out of the investment valuation reserve to the income statement with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive income.
Financial guarantees are recognised initially at their fair value and are subsequently amortised over the duration of the contract.
A liability is recognised for amounts payable under the guarantee if it is more likely than not that the guarantee will be called upon.
Impairment The Group reviews the carrying value of its loans and receivables and AFS investments on a regular basis.
If the carrying value of a loan, receivable or AFS investment is greater than the recoverable amount, the carrying value is reduced through a charge to the income statement in the period of impairment.
The following policies are used to determine the level of any impairment, some of which involve considerable judgement: AFS debt securities: An AFS debt security is impaired if there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred which has impaired the expected cash flows, i. e. where all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the security are not considered collectible.
An impairment charge, measured as the difference between the securitys fair value and amortised cost, is recognised when the issuer is known to be either in default or in financial difficulty.
Determining when an issuer is in financial difficulty requires the use of judgement, and we consider a number of factors including industry risk factors, financial condition, liquidity position and near-term prospects of the issuer, credit rating declines and a breach of contract.
A decline in fair value below amortised cost due to changes in risk-free interest rates does not necessarily represent objective evidence of a loss event.
For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative unrealised net loss previously recognised within the investment valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year, with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive income.
Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired securities is recognised in other comprehensive income and recorded in the investment valuation reserve unless this increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement.
In such an event, the reversal of the impairment loss is recognised as a gain in the income statement.
AFS equity securities: An AFS equity security is considered impaired if there is objective evidence that the cost may not be recovered.
In addition to qualitative impairment criteria, such evidence includes a significant or prolonged decline in fair value below cost.
Unless there is evidence to the contrary, an equity security is considered impaired if the decline in fair value relative to cost has been either at least 20% for a continuous six-month period or more than 40% at the end of the reporting period, or being in an unrealised loss position for a continuous period of more than 12 months at the end of the reporting period.
We also review our largest equity holdings for evidence of impairment, as well as individual equity holdings in industry sectors known to be in difficulty.
Where there is objective evidence that impairment exists, the security is written down regardless of the size of the unrealised loss.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 177 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative unrealised net loss previously recognised within the investment valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive income.
Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired securities is recognised in other comprehensive income and recorded in the investment valuation reserve.
Mortgages and securitised loans: Impairment is measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the effective rate of interest of the loan, subject to the fair value of the underlying collateral.
When a loan is considered to be impaired, the income statement is charged with the difference between the carrying value and the estimated recoverable amount.
Interest income on impaired loans is recognised based on the estimated recoverable amount.
Reversals of impairments on any of these assets are only recognised where the decrease in the impairment can be objectively related to an event occurring after the write-down such as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, and are not recognised in respect of equity instruments.
T Derivative financial instruments and hedging Derivative financial instruments include foreign exchange contracts, interest rate futures, currency and interest rate swaps, currency and interest rate options both written and purchased and other financial instruments that derive their value mainly from underlying interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit indices, commodity values or equity instruments.
All derivatives are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at their fair value, which usually represents their cost.
They are subsequently remeasured at their fair value, with the method of recognising movements in this value depending on whether they are designated as hedging instruments and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices or, if these are not available, by using valuation techniques such as discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
All derivatives are carried as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Premiums paid for derivatives are recorded as an asset on the statement of financial position at the date of purchase, representing their fair value at that date.
Derivative contracts may be traded on an exchange or over-the-counter OTC.
Exchange-traded derivatives are standardised and include certain futures and option contracts.
OTC derivative contracts are individually negotiated between contracting parties and include forwards, swaps, caps and floors.
Derivatives are subject to various risks including market, liquidity and credit risk, similar to those related to the underlying financial instruments.
Many OTC transactions are contracted and documented under International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA master agreements or their equivalent, which are designed to provide legally enforceable set-off in the event of default, reducing the Groups exposure to credit risk.
The notional or contractual amounts associated with derivative financial instruments are not recorded as assets or liabilities on the statement of financial position as they do not represent the fair value of these transactions.
These amounts are disclosed in note 57.
The Group has collateral agreements in place between the individual Group entities and relevant counterparties.
Accounting policy V below covers collateral, both received and pledged, in respect of these derivatives.
Interest rate and currency swaps Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements between two parties to exchange periodic payments in the same currency, each of which is computed on a different interest rate basis, on a specified notional amount.
Most interest rate swaps involve the net exchange of payments calculated as the difference between the fixed and floating rate interest payments.
Currency swaps, in their simplest form, are contractual agreements that involve the exchange of both periodic and final amounts in two different currencies.
Both types of swap contracts may include the net exchange of principal.
Exposure to gain or loss on these contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as a function of maturity dates, interest and foreign exchange rates, and the timing of payments.
Interest rate futures, forwards and options contracts Interest rate futures are exchange-traded instruments and represent commitments to purchase or sell a designated security or money market instrument at a specified future date and price.
Interest rate forward agreements are OTC contracts in which two parties agree on an interest rate and other terms that will become a reference point in determining, in concert with an agreed notional principal amount, a net payment to be made by one party to the other, depending what rate in fact prevails at a future point in time.
Interest rate options, which consist primarily of caps and floors, are interest rate protection instruments that involve the potential obligation of the seller to pay the buyer an interest rate differential in exchange for a premium paid by the buyer.
This differential represents the difference between current rate and an agreed rate applied to a notional amount.
Exposure to gain or loss on all interest rate contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as interest rates fluctuate.
Foreign exchange contracts Foreign exchange contracts, which include spot, forward and futures contracts, represent agreements to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed price and settlement date.
Foreign exchange option contracts are similar to interest rate option contracts, except that they are based on currencies, rather than interest rates.
Exposure to gain or loss on these contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as currency exchange and interest rates fluctuate.
178 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Derivative instruments for hedging On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Group designates certain derivatives as either: i a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge : ii a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised asset or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction or a firm commitment cash flow hedge : or iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way, provided certain criteria are met.
At the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, as well as the risk management objective and the strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment of whether the hedge is expected to be, and has been, highly effective in offsetting the risk in the hedged item, both at inception and on an ongoing basis.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as net investment or cash flow hedges, and that prove to be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk, are recognised in other comprehensive income and a separate reserve within equity.
Gains and losses accumulated in this reserve are included in the income statement on disposal of the relevant investment or occurrence of the cash flow as appropriate.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges against assets carried at amortised cost are adjusted against the carrying value of the hedged asset to the extent those changes relate to the hedged risk.
This adjustment is then amortised to the income statement over the anticipated remaining life of the hedged instrument.
Where the hedge is against the value of AFS securities, changes in its value are recognised in the income statement, partially or wholly offset by a transfer from the investment valuation reserve for the change in value of the hedged item.
The Group discontinues hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
For a variety of reasons, certain derivative transactions, while providing effective economic hedges under the Groups risk management positions, do not qualify for hedge accounting under the specific IFRS rules and are therefore treated as derivatives held for trading.
Their fair value gains and losses are recognised immediately in other trading income.
U Loans Loans with fixed maturities, including policyholder loans, mortgage loans on investment property, securitised mortgages and collateral loans, are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers.
The majority of these loans are carried at their unpaid principal balances and adjusted for amortisation of premium or discount, non-refundable loan fees and related direct costs.
These amounts are deferred and amortised over the life of the loan as an adjustment to loan yield using the effective interest rate method.
Loans with indefinite future lives are carried at unpaid principal balances or cost.
For certain mortgage loans, the Group has taken advantage of the revised fair value option under IAS 39 to present the mortgages, associated borrowings and derivative financial instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a portfolio on a fair value basis.
This presentation provides more relevant information and eliminates any accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise from using different measurement bases for these three items.
The fair values of mortgages classified as FV are estimated using discounted cash flow forecasts, based on a risk-adjusted discount rate which reflects the risks associated with these products, calibrated using the margins available on new lending or with reference to the rates offered by competitors.
They are revalued at each period end, with movements in their fair values being taken to the income statement.
At each reporting date, we review loans carried at amortised cost for objective evidence that they are impaired and uncollectable, either at the level of an individual security or collectively within a group of loans with similar credit risk characteristics.
To the extent that a loan is uncollectable, it is written down as impaired to its recoverable amount, measured as the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate of the loan, including any collateral receivable.
Subsequent recoveries in excess of the loans written-down carrying value are credited to the income statement.
V Collateral The Group receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash or non-cash assets in respect of stock lending transactions, certain derivative contracts and loans, in order to reduce the credit risk of these transactions.
Collateral is also pledged as security for bank letters of credit.
The amount and type of collateral required depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty.
Collateral received in the form of cash, which is not legally segregated from the Group, is recognised as an asset in the statement of financial position with a corresponding liability for the repayment in financial liabilities note 49.
However, where the Group has a currently enforceable legal right of set-off, the collateral liability and associated derivative balances are shown net, in line with market practice.
Non-cash collateral received is not recognised in the statement of financial position unless the Group either a sells or repledges these assets in the absence of default, at which point the obligation to return this collateral is recognised as a liability: or b the counterparty to the arrangement defaults, at which point the collateral is seized and recognised as an asset.
Collateral pledged in the form of cash, which is legally segregated from the Group, is derecognised from the statement of financial position with a corresponding receivable recognised for its return.
Non-cash collateral pledged is not derecognised from the statement of financial position unless the Group defaults on its obligations under the relevant agreement, and therefore continues to be recognised in the statement of financial position within the appropriate asset classification.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 179 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 W Deferred acquisition costs and other assets The costs directly attributable to the acquisition of new business for insurance and participating investment contracts excluding those written in the UK are deferred to the extent that they are expected to be recoverable out of future margins in revenues on these contracts.
For participating contracts written in the UK, acquisition costs are generally not deferred as the liability for these contracts is calculated in accordance with the FSAs realistic capital regime and FRS 27.
For non-participating investment and investment fund management contracts, incremental acquisition costs and sales enhancements that are directly attributable to securing an investment management service are also deferred.
Where such business is reinsured, an appropriate proportion of the deferred acquisition costs is attributed to the reinsurer, and is treated as a separate liability.
Long-term business deferred acquisition costs are amortised systematically over a period no longer than that in which they are expected to be recoverable out of these future margins.
Deferrable acquisition costs for non-participating investment and investment fund management contracts are amortised over the period in which the service is provided.
General insurance and health deferred acquisition costs are amortised over the period in which the related revenues are earned.
The reinsurers share of deferred acquisition costs is amortised in the same manner as the underlying asset.
Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed by category of business at the end of each reporting period and are written-off where they are no longer considered to be recoverable.
Other assets include vehicles which are subject to repurchase agreements and inventories of vehicle parts.
The former are carried at the lower of their agreed repurchase price or net realisable value, while the latter are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, where cost is arrived at on the weighted average cost formula or first in first out FIFO basis.
Provision is made against inventories which are obsolete or surplus to requirements.
X Statement of cash flows Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Such investments are those with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition, or which are redeemable on demand with only an insignificant change in their fair values.
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are included in payables and other financial liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Operating cash flows Purchases and sales of investment property, loans and financial investments are included within operating cash flows as the purchases are funded from cash flows associated with the origination of insurance and investment contracts, net of payments of related benefits and claims.
Y Leases Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership is retained by the lessor, are classified as operating leases.
Assets held for use in such leases are included in property and equipment, and are depreciated to their residual values over their estimated useful lives.
Rentals from such leases are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant leases.
Payments made as lessee under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant leases.
Z Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more probable than not that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed if there is a possible future obligation as a result of a past event, or if there is a present obligation as a result of a past event but either a payment is not probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.
AA Employee benefits Annual leave and long service leave Employee entitlements to annual leave and long service leave are recognised when they accrue to employees.
A provision is made for the estimated liability for annual leave and long service leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the statement of financial position date.
180 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Pension obligations The Group operates a large number of pension schemes around the world, whose members receive benefits on either a defined benefit basis generally related to a members final salary and length of service or a defined contribution basis generally related to the amount invested, investment return and annuity rates, the assets of which are generally held in separate trustee-administered funds.
The pension plans are generally funded by payments from employees and the relevant Group companies.
For defined benefit plans, the pension costs are assessed using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method, the cost of providing pensions is charged to the income statement so as to spread the regular cost over the service lives of employees.
The pension obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated future cash outflows, using a discount rate based on market yields for high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The resulting pension scheme surplus or deficit appears as an asset or liability in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Costs charged to the income statement comprise the current service cost the increase in pension obligation resulting from employees service in the current period, together with the schemes administration expenses, past service cost resulting from changes to benefits with respect to previous years service, and gains or losses on curtailment when the employer materially reduces the number of employees covered by the scheme or on settlements when a schemes obligations are transferred outside the Group.
In addition, the difference between the expected return on scheme assets, less investment expenses, and the interest cost of unwinding the discount on the scheme liabilities to reflect the benefits being one period closer to being paid out is credited to investment income.
All actuarial gains and losses, being the difference between the actual and expected returns on scheme assets, changes in assumptions underlying the liability calculations and experience gains or losses on the assumptions made at the beginning of the period, are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension plans.
Once the contributions have been paid, the Group, as employer, has no further payment obligations.
The Groups contributions are charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate and are included in staff costs.
Other post-employment obligations Some Group companies provide post-employment healthcare or other benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually based on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
Unlike the pension schemes, no assets are set aside in separate funds to provide for the future liability but none of these schemes is material to the Group.
The costs of the Canadian scheme are included within those for the defined benefit pension schemes in that country.
For such schemes in other countries, provisions are calculated in line with local regulations, with movements being charged to the income statement within staff costs.
Equity compensation plans The Group offers share award and option plans over the Companys ordinary shares for certain employees, including a Save As You Earn plan SAYE plan, details of which are given in the Directors Remuneration Report and in note 30.
The Group accounts for options and awards under equity compensation plans, which were granted after 7 November 2002, until such time as they are fully vested, using the fair value based method of accounting the fair value method.
Under this method, the cost of providing equity compensation plans is based on the fair value of the share awards or option plans at date of grant, which is recognised in the income statement over the expected vesting period of the related employees and credited to the equity compensation reserve, part of shareholders funds.
In certain jurisdictions, awards must be settled in cash instead of shares, and the credit is taken to liabilities rather than reserves.
The fair value of these cash-settled awards is recalculated each year, with the income statement charge and liability being adjusted accordingly.
As described in policy AD below, shares purchased by employee share trusts to fund these awards are shown as a deduction from shareholders funds at their original cost.
When the options are exercised and new shares are issued, the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to share capital par value and the balance to share premium.
Where the shares are already held by employee trusts, the net proceeds are credited against the cost of these shares, with the difference between cost and proceeds being taken to retained earnings.
In both cases, the relevant amount in the equity compensation reserve is then credited to retained earnings.
AB Income taxes The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the year, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Tax, including tax relief for losses if applicable, is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts charged or credited to components of other comprehensive income and equity, as appropriate.
Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken for deferred tax assets, using the liability method, on all material temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation of property and equipment, revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative contracts, provisions for pensions and other post-retirement benefits and tax losses carried forward: and, in relation to acquisitions, on the difference between the fair values of the net assets acquired and their tax base.
The rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date are used to determine the deferred tax.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 181 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
In countries where there is a history of tax losses, deferred tax assets are only recognised in excess of deferred tax liabilities if there is convincing evidence that future profits will be available.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred taxes are not provided in respect of temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or from goodwill for which amortisation is not deductible for tax purposes, or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity are similarly recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity respectively.
Deferred tax related to fair value re-measurement of available for sale investments, owner-occupied properties and other amounts charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income is recognised in the statement of financial position as a deferred tax asset or liability.
Current tax on interest paid on Direct Capital instruments is credited directly in equity.
In addition to paying tax on shareholders profits, the Groups life businesses in the UK, Ireland and Singapore pay tax on policyholders investment returns policyholder tax on certain products at policyholder tax rates.
Policyholder tax is accounted for as an income tax and is included in the total tax expense.
The Group has decided to show separately the amounts of policyholder tax to provide a more meaningful measure of the tax the Group pays on its profits.
In the pro forma reconciliations, operating profit has been calculated after charging policyholder tax.
AC Borrowings Borrowings are classified as being for either core structural or operational purposes.
They are recognised initially at their issue proceeds less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently, most borrowings are stated at amortised cost, and any difference between net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
All borrowing costs are expensed as they are incurred except where they are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of property and equipment as described in policy O above.
Where loan notes have been issued in connection with certain securitised mortgage loans, the Group has taken advantage of the revised fair value option under IAS 39 to present the mortgages, associated liabilities and derivative financial instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a portfolio on a fair value basis.
This presentation provides more relevant information and eliminates any accounting mismatch which would otherwise arise from using different measurement bases for these three items.
AD Share capital and treasury shares Equity instruments An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities.
Accordingly, a financial instrument is treated as equity if: i there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities on terms that may be unfavourable: and ii the instrument is a non-derivative that contains no contractual obligation to deliver a variable number of shares or is a derivative that will be settled only by the Group exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other assets for a fixed number of the Groups own equity instruments.
Share issue costs Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds of the issue and disclosed where material.
Dividends Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends on these shares are recognised when they have been approved by shareholders.
Dividends on preference shares are recognised in the period in which they are declared and appropriately approved.
Treasury shares Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys share capital or obtain rights to purchase its share capital, the consideration paid including any attributable transaction costs net of income taxes is shown as a deduction from total shareholders equity.
The Groups only such holding comprises shares purchased by employee trusts to fund certain awards under the equity compensation plans described in policy AA above.
Gains and losses on sales of own shares are charged or credited to the treasury share account in equity.
182 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 AE Fiduciary activities Assets and income arising from fiduciary activities, together with related undertakings to return such assets to customers, are excluded from these financial statements where the Group has no contractual rights in the assets and acts in a fiduciary capacity such as nominee, trustee or agent.
AF Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held as Treasury shares.
Earnings per share has also been calculated on the operating profit before impairment of goodwill and other adjusting items, after tax, attributable to ordinary shareholders, as the directors believe this figure provides a better indication of operating performance.
Details are given in note 14.
For the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as convertible debt and share options granted to employees.
Potential or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive when their conversion to shares would decrease net earnings per share.
AG Operations held for sale Assets and liabilities held for disposal as part of operations which are held for sale are shown separately in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The relevant assets are recorded at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair value, less the estimated selling costs.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 183 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 m m m m Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Note operations operations operations operations Income 5 Gross written premiums 30,000 2,118 31,805 4,469 Premiums ceded to reinsurers 1,673 75 1,734 129 Premiums written net of reinsurance 28,327 2,043 30,071 4,340 Net change in provision for unearned premiums 236 56 73 2 Net earned premiums G 28,091 1,987 29,998 4,338 Fee and commission income H & I 1,479 97 1,450 332 Net investment income J 5,991 436 18,749 3,244 Share of loss profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 123 28 141 10 Profit loss on the disposal and re-measurement of subsidiaries and associates 3b 565 32 163 4 36,003 2,516 50,501 7,900 Expenses 6 Claims and benefits paid, net of recoveries from reinsurers 26,934 1,475 24,918 4,234 Change in insurance liabilities, net of reinsurance 3,730 909 6,608 569 Change in investment contract provisions 1,224 94 8,693 48 Change in unallocated divisible surplus 2,721 19 362 33 Fee and commission expense 4,554 192 5,433 434 Other expenses 3,297 291 2,573 964 Finance costs 7 798 262 699 723 35,368 3,242 48,562 7,005 Profit loss before tax 635 726 1,939 895 Tax attributable to policyholders returns 13 178 394 Profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders profits 813 726 1,545 895 Tax expense credit AB & 13 51 202 717 225 Less: tax attributable to policyholders returns 13 178 394 Tax attributable to shareholders profits 229 202 323 225 Profit loss after tax 584 524 1,222 670 Loss profit from discontinued operations 524 670 Profit for the year 60 1,892 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of Aviva plc 225 1,463 Non-controlling interests 37b 165 429 60 1,892 Earnings per share AF & 14 Basic pence per share 5.8p 50.4p Diluted pence per share 5.7p 49.6p Continuing operations Basic pence per share 17.0p 37.6p Continuing operations Diluted pence per share 16.7p 37.0p The accounting policies identified alphabetically on pages 168 to 182 and notes identified numerically on pages 191 to 311 are an integral part of these financial statements.
184 Aviva plc Consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Pro forma reconciliation of Group operating profit to profit before tax For the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2010 m m Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Note operations operations Total operations operations Total Operating profit before tax attributable to shareholders profits Long-term business 2,123 185 2,308 1,988 330 2,318 General insurance and health 935 1 936 904 146 1,050 Fund management 99 11 110 98 103 201 Other: Other operations and regional costs 207 2 209 177 43 220 Corporate centre 138 138 143 143 Group debt costs and other interest 657 4 661 644 12 656 Operating profit before tax attributable to shareholders profits excluding Delta Lloyd as an associate 2,155 191 2,346 2,026 524 2,550 Share of operating profit before tax of Delta Lloyd as an associate 157 157 Operating profit before tax attributable to shareholders profits 2,312 191 2,503 2,026 524 2,550 Adjusted for the following: Investment return variances and economic assumption changes on long-term business 8 796 820 1,616 219 1,010 791 Short-term fluctuation in return on investments on non-long-term business 9a 266 60 326 199 44 243 Economic assumption changes on general insurance and health business 9a 90 90 61 61 16a, 18, Impairment of goodwill, associates and joint ventures 19dii 392 392 23 1 24 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 171 5 176 193 23 216 Profit loss on the disposal of subsidiaries and associates 3b 565 32 533 163 4 159 6 Integration and restructuring costs 268 268 225 18 243 Exceptional items 6 57 57 276 549 273 Non-operating items before tax excluding Delta Lloyd as an associate 1,475 917 2,392 481 371 110 Share of Delta Lloyds non-operating items before tax as an associate 10 10 Non-operating items before tax 1,465 917 2,382 481 371 110 Share of Delta Lloyds tax expense, as an associate 34 34 Profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders profits 813 726 87 1,545 895 2,440 14a i Tax on operating profit 625 25 650 529 96 625 Tax on other activities 14a i 396 227 623 206 129 77 229 202 27 323 225 548 Profit loss for the year 584 524 60 1,222 670 1,892 The accounting policies identified alphabetically on pages 168 to 182 and notes identified numerically on pages 191 to 311 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 185 Aviva plc Consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Pro forma reconciliation of Group operating profit to profit before tax continued Operating profit can be further analysed into the following segments: General Fund Long-term insurance manageOther business and health ment operations Total Year ended 31 December 2011 m m m m m UK 917 552 11 61 1,419 Aviva Europe 898 137 98 937 North America 197 254 18 433 Asia Pacific 108 8 30 70 Aviva Investors 3 88 91 2,123 935 99 207 2,950 Corporate centre 138 Group debt costs and other interest 657 Share of operating profit before tax of Delta Lloyd as an associate 157 Total continuing operations 2,312 Total discontinued operations 191 2,503 General Fund Long-term insurance manageOther business and health ment operations Total Year ended 31 December 2010 m m m m m UK 850 579 3 21 1,411 Aviva Europe 893 109 104 898 North America 174 222 20 376 Asia Pacific 71 6 2 32 31 Aviva Investors 97 97 1,988 904 98 177 2,813 Corporate centre 143 Group debt costs and other interest 644 Total continuing operations 2,026 Total discontinued operations 524 2,550 The accounting policies identified alphabetically on pages 168 to 182 and notes identified numerically on pages 191 to 311 are an integral part of these financial statements.
186 Aviva plc Consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2010 Note m m Profit for the year from continuing operations 584 1,222 Loss profit for the year from discontinued operations 524 670 Total profit for the year 60 1,892 Other comprehensive income from continuing operations: Investments classified as available for sale Fair value gains 414 505 Fair value gains transferred to profit on disposals 148 73 Impairment losses on assets previously revalued through other comprehensive income now taken to the income statement 21 78 Owner-occupied properties Fair value gains losses 2 14 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates 134 47e iv Actuarial gains on pension schemes 996 1,078 Other pension scheme movements 22 18 35 & 37b Foreign exchange rate movements 254 55 Aggregate tax effect shareholder tax 13b 261 116 Other comprehensive income, net of tax from continuing operations 614 1,495 Other comprehensive income, net of tax from discontinued operations 82 64 Total other comprehensive income, net of tax 696 1,431 Total comprehensive income for the year from continuing operations 1,198 2,717 Total comprehensive income for the year from discontinued operations 442 606 Total comprehensive income for the year 756 3,323 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of Aviva plc 923 2,950 Non-controlling interests 37b 167 373 756 3,323 The accounting policies identified alphabetically on pages 168 to 182 and notes identified numerically on pages 191 to 311 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 187 Aviva plc Consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December 2011 Equity Shares Ownerattributable Ordinary Preference held by Currency occupied Investment Hedging Equity to Direct Nonshare share Share Merger employee translation properties valuation instruments compensation Retained shareholders capital controlling Total capital capital premium reserve trusts reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings of Aviva plc instruments interests equity m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 705 2001,194 3,271 32 2,183 83 573 693 995,411 12,994 9903,74117,725 Profit for the year 225 225 165 60 Other comprehensive income 165 4 72 30 757 698 2 696 Total comprehensive 165 4 72 30 982 923 167 756 income for the year Owner-occupied properties fair value gains transferred to retained earnings on 6 6 disposals Dividends and 813 813 813 appropriations Shares issued in lieu 21 21 307 307 307 of dividends Capital contributions from non-controlling 68 68 interests 1,770 Effect of deconsolidation 485 2 115 2 600 2,370 of Delta Lloyd Non-controlling interests share of dividends 126 126 declared in the year Transfer to profit on 3 3 3 disposal of subsidiaries Changes in noncontrolling interests in 11 11 existing subsidiaries Shares acquired by 29 29 29 employee trusts Shares distributed by 18 18 employee trusts Reserves credit for equity 48 48 48 compensation plans Shares issued under equity compensation 61 61 plans Reclassification to 205 205 financial liabilities Aggregate tax effect shareholder tax note 13 c 16 16 16 Balance at 31 December 726 200 1,173 3,271 43 1,530 79 530 663 86 5,954 12,843 990 1,530 15,363 The accounting policies identified alphabetically on pages 168 to 182 and notes identified numerically on pages 191 to 311 are an integral part of these financial statements.
188 Aviva plc Consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Consolidated statement of changes in equity continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 Equity Shares Ownerattributable Ordinary Preference held by Currency occupied Investment Hedging Equity to Direct Nonshare share Share Merger employee translation properties valuation instruments compensation Retained shareholders capital controlling Total capital capital premium reserve trusts reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings of Aviva plc instruments interests equity m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 692 200 1,207 3,271 68 2,224 104 163 771 109 3,425 10,556 990 3,54015,086 Profit for the year 1,463 1,463 4291,892 Other comprehensive 38 21 411 78 1,057 1,487 56 1,431 income Total comprehensive income for the year 38 21 411 78 2,520 2,950 3733,323 Dividends and 757 757 757 appropriations Shares issued in lieu of dividends 13 13 209 209 209 Capital contributions from non-controlling interests 42 42 Dilution of shareholding in Delta Lloyd 3 1 4 8 8 Non-controlling interests share of dividends declared in the year 187 187 Non-controlling interests in acquired disposed subsidiaries 3 3 Changes in noncontrolling interests in existing subsidiaries 38 38 Shares acquired by employee trusts 14 14 14 Shares distributed by employee trusts 50 50 Reserves credit for equity compensation plans 41 41 41 Shares issued under equity compensation plans 51 51 Aggregate tax effect shareholder tax note 13 c 17 17 17 Balance at 31 December 705 200 1,194 3,271 32 2,183 83 573 693 99 5,411 12,994 990 3,741 17,725 The accounting policies identified alphabetically on pages 168 to 182 and notes identified numerically on pages 191 to 311 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 189 Aviva plc Consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Consolidated statement of financial position As at 31 December 2011 2011 2010 Note m m Assets Goodwill N & 16 2,640 3,391 Acquired value of in-force business and intangible assets N & 17 2,021 2,806 Interests in, and loans to, joint ventures D & 18 1,700 1,994 Interests in, and loans to, associates D & 19 1,118 643 Property and equipment O & 20 510 750 Investment property P & 21 11,638 13,064 Loans U & 23 28,116 43,074 Financial investments R, S & 25 216,058 253,288 Reinsurance assets M & 42 7,112 7,084 Deferred tax assets AB & 45b 238 288 Current tax assets 45a 140 198 Receivables 26 7,937 8,295 Deferred acquisition costs and other assets W & 27 6,444 6,072 Prepayments and accrued income 27d 3,235 3,691 Cash and cash equivalents X & 53d 23,043 25,455 Assets of operations classified as held for sale AG & 3c 426 14 Total assets 312,376 370,107 Equity Capital AD Ordinary share capital 29 726 705 Preference share capital 32 200 200 926 905 Capital reserves Share premium 29b 1,173 1,194 Merger reserve D & 34 3,271 3,271 4,444 4,465 Shares held by employee trusts 31 43 32 Other reserves 35 1,562 2,245 Retained earnings 36 5,954 5,411 Equity attributable to shareholders of Aviva plc 12,843 12,994 Direct capital instruments 33 990 990 Non-controlling interests 37 1,530 3,741 Total equity 15,363 17,725 Liabilities Gross insurance liabilities K & 39 150,101 177,700 Gross liabilities for investment contracts L & 40 110,644 117,787 Unallocated divisible surplus K & 44 650 3,428 Net asset value attributable to unitholders D 10,352 9,032 Provisions Z, AA & 46 992 2,943 Deferred tax liabilities AB & 45b 1,171 1,758 Current tax liabilities 45a 232 314 Borrowings AC & 48 8,450 14,949 Payables and other financial liabilities R & 49 11,230 20,292 Other liabilities 50 2,828 4,179 Liabilities of operations classified as held for sale AG & 3c 363 Total liabilities 297,013 352,382 Total equity and liabilities 312,376 370,107 Approved by the Board on 7 March 2012.
Patrick Regan Chief financial officer The accounting policies identified alphabetically on pages 168 to 182 and notes identified numerically on pages 191 to 311 are an integral part of these financial statements.
190 Aviva plc Consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Consolidated statement of cash flows For the year ended 31 December 2011 The cash flows presented in this statement cover all the Groups activities and include flows from both policyholder and shareholder activities.
All cash and cash equivalents are available for use by the Group.
2011 2010 Notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from continuing operations 53a 107 1,337 Tax paid 434 412 Net cash used in from operating activities continuing operations 327 925 Net cash used in from operating activities discontinued operations 15 882 Total net cash used in from operating activities 342 1,807 Cash flows from investing activities 53b Acquisitions of, and additions to, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, net of cash acquired 114 542 53c Disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, net of cash transferred 877 222 New loans to joint ventures 18 64 Repayment of loans to joint ventures 17 5 18a & 19a Net new loans to joint ventures 1 59 20 Purchases of property and equipment 97 161 Proceeds on sale of property and equipment 48 18 Purchases of intangible assets 17 123 131 Net cash from investing activities continuing operations 590 431 Net cash used in investing activities discontinued operations 512 82 Total net cash from investing activities 78 349 Cash flows from financing activities Treasury shares purchased for employee trusts 29 14 New borrowings drawn down, net of expenses 3,646 2,885 Repayment of borrowings 3,602 2,059 Net drawdown of borrowings 44 826 Interest paid on borrowings 708 696 15 Preference dividends paid 17 17 Ordinary dividends paid 431 472 15 Coupon payments on direct capital instruments 58 59 37b Capital contributions from non-controlling interests 68 42 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests of subsidiaries 126 157 Changes in controlling interest in subsidiary 15 Net cash used in financing activities continuing operations 1,257 532 Net cash used in financing activities discontinued operations 516 821 Total net cash used in financing activities 1,773 1,353 Total net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 2,037 803 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 24,695 24,251 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 257 359 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 53d 22,401 24,695 The accounting policies identified alphabetically on pages 168 to 182 and notes identified numerically on pages 191 to 311 are an integral part of these financial statements.
