The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 67 Risk management 67 Risk management 68 Barclays risk management strategy 74 Risk factors 79 Credit risk management 79 Overview of Barclays Group credit risk exposures 86 Impairment charges 87 Credit risk management overview 92 Loans and advances to customers and banks 95 Potential credit risk loans 96 Retail credit risk 101 Wholesale credit risk 104 Credit quality of loans and advances 106 Debt securities 107 Derivatives 108 Reverse repurchase agreements and other financial assets 109 Other credit risk assets 110 Barclays Capital credit market exposures 112 Group exposures to selected Eurozone countries 121 Market risk 130 Funding risk Capital 139 Funding risk Liquidity 151 Operational risk management 154 Supervision and regulation Build a Bike After completing the Build a Bike course, students can keep the bikes that they have built, gaining access to affordable transport.
68 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Barclays risk management strategy Barclays risk management strategy Barclays has clear risk management objectives and a well-established strategy to deliver them, through core risk management processes.
At a strategic level, our risk management objectives are to: Assigning responsibilities Identify the Groups significant risks: Responsibility for risk management resides at all levels within the Group, from the Board and the Executive Committee down through the Formulate the Groups risk appetite and ensure that business prole and plans are consistent with it: organisation to each business manager and risk specialist.
Barclays distributes these responsibilities so that risk return decisions are taken Optimise risk return decisions by taking them as closely as possible at the most appropriate level: as close as possible to the business, and to the business, while establishing strong and independent review and subject to robust and effective review and challenge.
The responsibilities challenge structures: for effective review and challenges reside with senior managers, risk oversight committees, Barclays Internal Audit, the independent Group Ensure that business growth plans are properly supported by effective risk infrastructure: Risk function, the Board Risk Committee and, ultimately, the Board.
Manage risk prole to ensure that specic financial deliverables remain The Board is responsible for approving risk appetite see page 71, which possible under a range of adverse business conditions: and is the level of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business Help executives improve the control and co-ordination of risk taking objectives.
The Chief Risk officer regularly presents a report to the Board summarising developments in the risk environment and performance across the business.
trends in the key portfolios.
The Board is also responsible for the Internal Control and Assurance Framework Group Control Framework.
It oversees The Groups approach is to provide direction on: understanding the principal risks to achieving Group strategy: establishing risk appetite: and the management of the most significant risks through the regular review of risk exposures and related key controls.
Executive management establishing and communicating the risk management framework.
The process is then broken down into five steps: identify, assess, control, report responsibilities relating to this are set via the Groups Principal Risks Policy.
Each of these steps is broken down further, to establish end-to-end activities within the risk management process and the infrastructure needed to support it see panel below.
The Groups risk management strategy is broadly unchanged from 2010.
Steps Activity Identify Establish the process for identifying and understanding business-level risks.
Assess Agree and implement measurement and reporting standards and methodologies.
Control Establish key control processes and practices, including limit structures, impairment allowance criteria and reporting requirements.
Monitor the operation of the controls and adherence to risk direction and limits.
Provide early warning of control or appetite breaches.
Ensure that risk management practices and conditions are appropriate for the business environment.
Report Interpret and report on risk exposures, concentrations and risk-taking outcomes.
Interpret and report on sensitivities and Key Risk Indicators.
Manage and Challenge Review and challenge all aspects of the Groups risk prole.
Advise on optimising the Groups risk prole.
Review and challenge risk management practices.
com annualreport 69 Governance structure at Group level Board oversight Board Approves overall Group Risk Appetite.
Board Corporate Board Audit Board Risk Board Remuneration Board Citizenship Governance and Committee Committee Committee Committee Nominations Committee Reviews Board composition Considers the adequacy Reviews the Group Reviews remuneration Reviews and approves and recommends new and effectiveness of the risk profile.
Approves the Group Approves remuneration and associated policies.
Considers succession Reviews reports on control Control Framework.
based on risk-adjusted Monitors, considers and plans for Chairman, issues of Group-level Approves minimum performance.
evaluates reputational risk Chief Executive and significance.
control requirements issues and exposures.
Oversees annual Board performance review.
Authority controls appetite Assurance Reporting and control Governance and Control Committee Chief Executive Group Executive Committee Reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the Monitors and manages risk adjusted performance of businesses.
Monitors compliance with the Framework including remediation of significant control issues.
Reviews reports on control issues of Group-level significance.
Financial Risk Treasury Operational Risk Tax Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Monitors risk profile in respect to risk appetite.
Sets policy controls for Reviews, challenges and Monitors the tax risk profile in Debates and agrees actions on the financial risk liquidity, maturity recommends appetite for respect of risk appetite.
profile and risk strategy across the Group.
transformation and structural Operational Risk.
Assesses the quality of the Considers issues escalated by Risk Type Heads interest rate exposure.
Monitors risk profile against application of the control and Business Risk Directors.
Monitors the Groups liquidity risk appetite for relevant Key framework.
and interest rate maturity Risk types.
Considers issues that arise as a mismatch.
Reviews the Group's aggregate result of developing trends.
Monitors usage of regulatory Operational Risk profile.
Reviews and challenges Oversees the management of presentations on individual Key the Groups capital plan.
Credit Risk Market Risk Funding Risk Operational Risk Assurance Internal Audit Assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Control Framework.
70 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued The Board Risk Committee BRC monitors the Groups risk prole against and management of their business risk proles and for implementing appropriate controls.
These teams also assist Group Risk in the the agreed appetite.
Where actual performance differs from expectations, the actions being taken by management are reviewed to ensure that formulation of Group policies and their implementation across the businesses.
The business risk directors report jointly to their respective the BRC is comfortable with them.
After each meeting, the Chair of the BRC prepares a report for the next meeting of the Board.
Barclays first business heads and to the Chief Risk officer.
established a separate Board Risk Committee in 1999 and all members are non-executive directors.
The Finance Director and the Chief Risk officer The risk type heads within the central Group Risk function and the BCROs within the business units report to the Chief Risk officer and are members attend each meeting as a matter of course.
The BRC receives regular and comprehensive reports on risk methodologies and the Groups risk prole of the Financial Risk Committee or Operational Risk Committee as including the key issues affecting each business portfolio and forward risk appropriate.
The Committee also commissions in-depth analyses of significant risk topics, which are presented by the Chief Risk officer or senior risk For further details on the management of each of the Principal Risks, see managers in the businesses.
Further details are provided on pages 43 to 44. pages 74 to 78.
The Board Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on control issues Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk of signicance and a half-yearly review of the adequacy of impairment management and the control environment.
Its objective is to provide allowances, which it reviews relative to the risk inherent in the portfolios, reliable, valued and timely assurance to the Board and Executive the business environment, the Groups policies and methodologies and the Management over the effectiveness of controls, mitigating current and performance trends of peer banks.
The Chair of the Board Audit Committee evolving high risks and in so doing enhancing the controls culture within also sits on the BRC.
Further details are provided on pages 40 to 42. the Group.
The Board Audit Committee reviews and approves Internal Audits plans and resources, and evaluates the effectiveness of Internal The Board Citizenship Committee provides oversight of reputational risk Audit.
An assessment by external advisers is also carried out periodically.
management and reviews emerging issues with potentially significant reputational impact.
The Committee also reviews performance against Risk management responsibilities are laid out in the Principal Risks Policy, Citizenship priorities, looking at the way we do business, how we are which covers the categories of risk in which Barclays has its most contributing to growth in the real economy, and supporting communities significant actual or potential risk exposures.
through investment programmes and efforts of employees.
Further detail is provided on pages 18 and 32.
The Principal Risks Framework: creates clear ownership and accountability: The Board Remuneration Committee receives a detailed report on risk management performance from the BRC which is considered in the ensures the Groups most significant risk exposures are understood and setting of performance objectives in the context of incentive packages.
managed in accordance with agreed risk appetite for financial risks Further details are provided on pages 54 to 65. and risk tolerances for non-financial risks : and ensures regular reporting of both risk exposures and the operating The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee has a key effectiveness of controls.
role in reviewing new appointments and succession plans to ensure that we have a Board and an executive management team with the Each Principal Risk comprises individual Key Risk Types.
During 2011, the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to operate effectively in an Principal Risks Policy was updated, resulting in risks being grouped into ever challenging environment.
Further details on the Committee are four categories with no significant change to the underlying risk types.
The four Principal Risks are : Credit, Market, Funding and Operational, each owned by a senior individual within the Group Risk function Summaries of the relevant business, professional and risk management known as the Group Principal Risk Owner.
The first three Principal Risks experience of the Directors of the Board are given on pages 50 to 52.
The are risks that Barclays actively seeks to manage and have direct income terms of reference for each of the principal Board Committees are available implications.
The fourth Principal Risk relates to operational risks, from the Corporate Governance section at: http: group.
com exposure which arises directly from undertaking business processes About-us Management-structure Corporate-governance.
in support of Barclays activities, which the Group seeks to minimise.
The Chief Risk officer is a member of the Executive Committee and has The five steps required by the Principal Risks Policy are: Identify, Assess, overall day-to-day accountability for risk management under delegated Control, Report, and Manage and Challenge see page 68 for more detail.
authority from the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive must consult the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee in respect of the Chief Risk Each Key Risk is owned by a senior individual known as the Group Key Risk Ofcers performance appraisal and compensation as well as all Owner who is responsible for proposing a risk appetite statement and appointments to or departures from the role.
managing the risk in line with the Principal Risks Policy.
This includes the documentation, communication and maintenance of a risk control The Chief Risk officer manages the independent Group Risk function and framework which makes clear, for every business across the rm, the chairs the Financial Risk Committee and the Operational Risk Committee, mandated control requirements in managing exposures to that Key Risk.
which monitor the Groups financial and non-financial risk prole relative to established risk appetite.
Reporting to the Chief Risk officer, and These control requirements are given further specication, according to working in the Group Risk function, are risk-type heads for retail credit risk, the business unit or risk type, to provide a complete and appropriate wholesale credit risk, market risk, operational risk and fraud risk.
Along system of internal control.
with their teams, the risk-type heads are responsible for establishing a Group-wide framework for oversight of the risks and controls of their risk Business Unit and Group Centre function heads are responsible for type.
These risk-type teams liaise with each business as part of the obtaining ongoing assurance that the key controls they have put in place monitoring and management processes.
to manage the risks to their business objectives are operating effectively.
Six-monthly reviews support the regulatory requirement for Barclays to In addition, each business unit has an embedded risk management make its annual external statement about its system of internal controls.
function, headed by a Business Chief Risk officer BCRO.
BCROs and their teams are responsible for assisting business heads in the identication The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 71 Group Key Risk Owners report their assessments of the risk exposure and The business plans are prepared with reference to a consistent set of economic assumptions which are reviewed within Group Risk to ensure control effectiveness to Group-level oversight committees and their assessments form the basis of the reports that go to the Board Risk that they appropriately reect emerging risk trends.
They are used as baseline scenarios in the stress testing and risk appetite processes.
Committee see chart on page 69 : Financial Risk Committee has oversight of Credit and Market Risks: The output from the business plan forms the basis of all strategic Treasury Committee has oversight of Funding Risk: and, processes.
In particular, the plans comprise projections of capital resources and requirements given profit generation, dividend policy and capital Operational Risk Committee has oversight of all Operational Risk types, issuance.
Risk variables are also considered, most importantly in the with the exception of Tax Risk, which is overseen by the Tax Risk forecasting of the Groups impairment charge, and in sensitivity analyses Committee.
of the plans which include risk appetite and stress testing.
Each Group Key Risk Owner also undertakes an annual programme of Risk appetite risk-based conformance reviews.
Risk appetite is dened as the level of risk that Barclays is prepared to sustain whilst pursuing its business strategy, recognising a range of Risk management in the setting of strategy possible outcomes as business plans are implemented.
Barclays The planning cycle is centred on the medium-term planning MTP framework combines a top-down view of its capacity to take risk with a process, performed once a year.
This sets out the Groups objectives bottom-up view of the business risk prole associated with each business in detailed plans which take account of the likely business environment.
The appetite is ultimately approved by the The risk functions at Group and business levels are heavily involved in Board.
Taken as a whole, the risk appetite framework provides a basis for the In addition to supporting transaction decisions, the measurement and allocation of risk capacity across Barclays Group and consists of two control of credit, market, operational and other risks have considerable elements: Financial Volatility and Mandate & Scale.
The Board is solely responsible for approving the MTP, the associated risk appetite statement, and the capital Financial volatility plans.
As such, the business plans of Barclays must incur a level of risk Financial volatility is dened as the level of potential deviation from that falls within the Boards tolerance, or be modied accordingly.
The BRC expected financial performance that Barclays is prepared to sustain at has been in place since 1999 and is devoted to review the rms risk and relevant points on the risk prole.
The Board sets the Groups financial make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
For details of the volatility risk appetite in terms of broad, top down, financial objectives for activities of the Board and the BRC in 2011 see pages 35 and 43 to 44. a through-the-cycle, a moderate stress and a severe stress events: these scenarios are dened more generically through a level of probability of The risk appetite and the Group-wide stress testing processes, described occurrence rather than through a specic set of economic variables like below, are closely linked to the MTP process and also support strategic in stress tests.
Our top-down appetite is quantied through an array of planning and capital adequacy.
The risk appetite process ensures that financial performance and capital metrics which are reviewed on an senior management and the Board understand the Plans sensitivities to annual basis.
key risk types, and includes a set of mandate and scale limits to ensure the Group stays within appetite.
Stress testing informs management on the The Groups risk prole is assessed via a bottom-up analysis of the impact to the business of detailed scenarios.
Integral to the Group-wide Groups business plans to establish the volatility of the key metrics.
If stress testing process is a set of actions that management would take to the projections entail too high a level of risk i. e. breach the top-down mitigate the impact of a stress.
financial objectives at the through-the-cycle, moderate or severe level, management will challenge each area to rebalance the risk prole to bring One of the main objectives of managing risk is to ensure that Barclays the bottom-up risk appetite back within top-down appetite.
Performance achieves an adequate balance between capital requirements and against risk appetite usage is measured and reported to the Executive resources.
The capital planning cycle is fully integrated within strategic Committee and the Board regularly throughout the year.
MTP process The MTP process, performed annually, requires each business unit to present its plans for business performance over the coming three years.
Achieving the planned performance in each business is dependent upon the ability of the business to manage its risks.
It is an iterative process featuring weekly reviews at the most senior levels as the plan is updated until final agreement.
The output includes a detailed statement of the Risk Appetite concepts diagram not to scale groups strategy over the medium-term, as well as detailed financial Mean projections.
Loss Risk managers support the MTP by providing robust review and challenge of the business plans to ensure that the financial projections are internally consistent, achievable given risk management capabilities and that they Expected Loss present a suitable balance between risk and reward.
This culminates in the Moderate Stress Risk Executive Dialogue process in which the Chief Risk officer and senior management in each of our businesses discuss the findings from the risk Severe Stress reviews, and changes to the business plans are mandated as necessary.
Extreme Stress Potential size of loss in one year Probability of loss 72 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued To measure the risk entailed by the business plans, management Stress testing Group-wide stress tests are an integral part of the annual MTP process estimates potential earnings volatility from each business under various scenarios: and annual review of Barclays risk appetite and ensure that Barclays financial position and risk prole provide sufficient resilience to withstand through-the-cycle: the average losses based on measurements over the impact of stress.
many years: 1 in 7 moderate loss: the worst level of losses out of a random sample The BRC agrees the range of scenarios to be tested and the independent Group Risk function leads the process.
Barclays macroeconomic stress of 7 years: and test scenarios are designed to be both severe and plausible and can 1 in 25 severe loss: the worst level of losses out of a random sample include specic ad hoc scenarios, for example, a Euro break-up scenario.
Barclays scenarios have been tested against the FSAs scenario framework and were shown to be appropriately conservative.
These potentially larger but increasingly less likely levels of loss are illustrated in the risk appetite concepts chart on page 71.
Since the level of At the Group level, stress test scenarios capture a wide range of loss at any given probability is dependent on the portfolio of exposures in macroeconomic variables that are relevant to the current environment, each business, the statistical measurement for each key risk category such as GDP, unemployment, asset prices, foreign exchange rates and gives the Group clearer sight and better control of risk-taking throughout interest rates.
Specically, Barclays believes that this framework enables it to: The stress testing process is detailed and comprehensive using bottom-up improve management confidence and debate regarding the Groups analysis performed by each of Barclays businesses, and includes all risk prole: aspects of the Groups balance sheet across all risk types and is forward looking over a five year period.
The businesses stress test results are re-balance the risk prole of the MTP where breaches are indicated, subject to a detailed review and challenge both within the businesses and thereby achieving a superior risk-return prole: by Barclays Group Functions.
The impact on profitability, capital and identify unused risk capacity, and thus highlight the need to identify liquidity are documented and presented to the Executive Committee, the further profitable opportunities: and BRC, the Board and the FSA.
Should the BRC nd that the impact falls outside of its expectations, the business plans will be appropriately improve executive management control and co-ordination of risk-taking amended.
In addition, the framework also includes reverse stress testing techniques Mandate & scale which aim to identify the increased severity that would be needed over The second element to the setting of risk appetite in Barclays is an and above the stressed scenarios to result in the business model being no extensive system of Mandate & Scale limits, which is a risk management longer viable, for example, extreme macroeconomic downturn scenarios approach that seeks to formally review and control business activities to or specic idiosyncratic events.
This is used to help support ongoing risk ensure that they are within Barclays mandate i. e. aligned to the management and is fully integrated into the risk appetite framework.
expectations of external stakeholders, and are of an appropriate scale relative to the risk and reward of the underlying activities.
Barclays Barclays also uses stress testing techniques at portfolio and product level achieves this by using limits and triggers to avoid concentrations which to support risk management.
For example, portfolio management in the would be out of line with external expectations, and which may lead to US cards business employs stressed assumptions of unemployment to unexpected losses of a scale that would be detrimental to the stability determine profitability hurdles for new accounts.
In the UK mortgage of the relevant business line or the Group.
These limits are set by the business, affordability thresholds incorporate stressed estimates of interest independent Risk function, formally monitored each month and subject rates.
In Barclays Capital, global scenario testing is used to gauge potential to Board-level oversight.
losses that could arise in conditions of extreme market stress.
Stress testing is also conducted on positions in particular asset classes, including For example, in our commercial property finance and construction interest rates, commodities, equities, credit and foreign exchange.
portfolios, a comprehensive series of limits are in place to control exposure within each business and geographic sector.
To ensure that limits are During 2011, along with 91 other banks, Barclays was included in the aligned to the underlying risk characteristics, the Mandate & Scale limits European Banking Authority stress test.
The stress test was designed to differentiate between types of exposure.
There are, for example, individual assess the resilience of the EU banking sector and each of the selected limits for property investment and property development, and for senior banks ability to absorb possible shocks on credit and market risks, and subordinated lending.
Property limits have been managed down including sovereign risks.
The results supported Barclays own internal view through the course of 2011, with decreases evident across most that Barclays is well placed to withstand economic stress.
businesses and geographic segments, particularly in South Africa and Europe.
Information on the Groups stress testing specically relating to liquidity risk is set out on pages 142 to 143.
Barclays uses the Mandate & Scale framework to: limit concentration risk: keep business activities within Group and individual business mandate: ensure activities remain of an appropriate scale relative to the underlying risk and reward: and ensure risk-taking is supported by appropriate expertise and capabilities.
As well as Group-level Mandate & Scale limits, further limits are set by risk managers within each business unit, covering particular portfolios.
com annualreport 73 All new models are subject to validation before they can be signed off for Modelling of risk implementation.
The model validation exercise must demonstrate that the Barclays makes extensive use of quantitative estimates of the risks it model is t for purpose and provides accurate estimates.
Independent takes in the course of its business.
Risk models are used in a wide range reviews ensure that the model development has followed a robust process of decisions, from credit grading, pricing and approval to portfolio and that the standards of the GMRP have been met, as well as ensuring management, risk appetite setting, economic capital allocation and that the model satisfies business and regulatory requirements.
In addition, regulatory capital calculations.
The types of risks that are covered by the most material models are subject to independent review by Group such models include credit, market and operational risks.
Once implemented, all models are subject to post-implementation review.
This confirms that the model has been implemented correctly and The Group uses a wide range of models including estimations of behaves as predicted.
Probability of Default PD, Exposure at Default EAD and Loss Given Default LGD, as well as those covering other types.
The models are The GMRP sets the requirements for ongoing performance monitoring.
developed and owned by each business unit.
The risk of loss through Once implemented, all models are subject to ongoing performance model failure is minimised through the Group Model Risk Policy GMRP monitoring to ensure that any deficiencies are identied early, and that which is managed by the independent Group Risk function and is remedial action can be taken before the decision-making process is reviewed annually.
As part of this process, model owners set performance triggers and define appropriate actions in the event that a trigger level is breached.
The GMRP helps reduce the potential for model failure by setting Group-wide minimum standards for the model development and In addition to regular monitoring, models are subject to an annual implementation process.
The GMRP also sets the governance processes validation process to ensure that they will continue to perform as for models across the Group, which allows model performance and risk expected, and that assumptions used in model development are still to be monitored, and seeks to identify and escalate any potential problems appropriate.
In line with initial sign-off requirements, annual validations at an early stage.
are also formally reviewed at the appropriate technical committee.
To ensure that the governance process is focused on the more material Within Barclays Capital, where models are used to value positions within models, each model is provided with a materiality rating.
The GMRP the trading book, the positions are subject to regular independent price defines the materiality ranges for all model types, based on an assessment testing, which covers all trading positions.
Prices are compared with direct of the impact to the Group in the event of a model error.
The final level of external market data where possible or if not possible, more analytic model sign-off is based on materiality, with all of a business units models techniques are used, such as industry consensus pricing services.
These initially being approved in business unit committees.
The more material services enable peer banks to compare structured products and model models are also approved at the Group Material Models Technical input parameters on an anonymous basis.
Conclusions and any Committee, and the most material models require further approval by the exceptions to this exercise are communicated to senior business Executive Models Committee.
This process ensures that the most management.
significant models are subject to the most rigorous review, and that senior management has a good understanding of the most material models in Externally developed models must be approved for use following the the Group.
Although the final level of model sign-off will vary, depending validation and independent review and are subject to the same on model materiality, the standards required by the GMRP do not change governance standards as internal models, including ongoing monitoring with the materiality level.
The GMRP also sets standards that a model must meet during development and subsequent use.
For new models, documentation must be sufciently detailed to allow an expert to understand all aspects of model development, including a description of the data used for model development, the methodology used and the rationale for choosing such a methodology, a description of any assumptions made and details of the strengths and weaknesses of the model.
Model Governance Oversight and Policy Model Sign-off Financial Risk Committee Executive Models Committee Group Risk Technical Committee Group Material Models Technical Committee Business Unit Technical Committee 74 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Risk factors Risk factors The Groups approach to identifying, assessing, controlling, reporting and managing risks is formalised in its Principal Risks framework and supporting processes.
During 2011, the Principal Risks Policy was updated, resulting in risks being significant uncertainties by Principal Risk include: grouped into four categories with no significant change to the underlying risk types.
Denitions of the four Principal Risks are provided on pages 75 Credit risk to 78.
This summary also includes discussions of the impact of business Impact of potentially deteriorating sovereign credit quality, particularly conditions and the general economy and regulatory changes which debt servicing and renancing capability: can impact risk factors and so inuence the Groups results.
The Principal Extent and sustainability of economic recovery, including impact Risks described below can also potentially impact the Groups reputation of austerity measures on the European economies: and brand.
Increase in unemployment due to weaker economies in a number The following information describes the risk factors which the Group of countries in which the Group operates, scal tightening and other believes could cause its future results to differ materially from measures: expectations.
However, other factors could also adversely affect the Impact of rising ination and potential interest rate rises on consumer Groups results and so the factors discussed in this report should not be debt affordability and corporate profitability: considered to be a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties.
Possibility of further falls in residential property prices in the UK, South Business conditions and the general economy Africa and Western Europe: The Group has significant activities in a large number of countries.
Potential liquidity shortages increasing counterparty risks: Consequently there are many ways in which changes in business conditions and the general economy can adversely impact profitability, Potential for large single name losses and deterioration in specic whether at Group level, the individual business units or specic countries sectors and geographies: of operation.
Possible deterioration in remaining credit market exposures: and During 2011, the economic environment in Barclays main markets was Potential exit of one or more countries from the Euro as a result of the marked by generally weaker than expected growth and the ongoing European debt crisis.
sovereign debt crisis in the Eurozone.
In the UK, the economy recovered slightly during 2011 although GDP declined slightly in the fourth quarter Market risk leading to uncertainty in the near term.
The potential for persistent Reduced client activity leading to lower revenues: unemployment, higher interest rates and rising ination may increase the Decreases in market liquidity due to economic uncertainty: pressure on disposable incomes, affecting an individuals debt service ability with the potential to adversely impact performance in the Groups Impact on banking book income from uncertain interest and exchange retail sector.
US economic conditions were better than the UK in 2011. rate environment: and However, unemployment is still high, which increases uncertainty in the Asset returns underperforming pension liabilities.
Credit conditions in Europe remain weak and a depressed housing sector and high unemployment may, in the near term, adversely Funding risk affect Barclays business operations in this region.
The global wholesale Impact of Basel 3 as regulatory rules are nalised: environment has been affected by the sovereign debt crisis and the business confidence has generally declined.
Performance in the near term, Impacts on capital ratios from weak profit performance: therefore, remains uncertain.
Availability and volatility in cost of funding due to economic uncertainty: and The business conditions facing the Group in 2012 globally and in many markets in which the Group operates are subject to significant Reduction in available depositor and wholesale funding.
uncertainties which may in some cases lead to material adverse impacts on the Groups operations, financial condition and prospects including, Operational risk for example, changes in credit ratings, share price and solvency of Implementation of strategic change and integration programmes across counterparties as well as higher levels of impairment, lower revenues the Group: or higher costs.
Continued regulatory and political focus, driven by the global economic climate: Impact of new, wide ranging, legislation in various countries coupled with changing regulatory landscape: Increasingly litigious environment: and The crisis management agenda and breadth of regulatory change required in global financial institutions.
com annualreport 75 Economic weakness 1. Credit risk The implementation of austerity measures to tackle high levels of public Credit Risk is the risk of the Group suffering financial loss if any of its debt has negatively impacted economic growth and led to rising customers, clients or market counterparties fails to full their contractual unemployment in some European countries and the monetary, interest obligations to the Group.
rate and other policies of central banks and regulatory authorities may also have a significant adverse effect on a number of countries in which the The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from wholesale and Group operates.
retail loans and advances together with the counterparty credit risk arising from derivative contracts entered into with its clients.
Other sources of The threat of weaker economies in a number of countries in which the credit risk arise from trading activities, including debt securities, Group operates could lead to even higher increasing levels of settlement balances with market counterparties, available for sale assets unemployment, rising ination, potentially higher interest rates and falling and reverse repurchase loans.
It can also arise when an entitys credit property prices.
For example, the Spanish and Portuguese housing sectors rating is downgraded, leading to a fall in the value of Barclays investment continue to be depressed, impacting the Groups wholesale and retail in its issued financial instruments.
Risk management The Group has experienced elevated impairment across its operations in The Board and management have established a number of key these two regions, although impairment in Spain decreased in 2011, committees to review credit risk management, approve overall Group following a marked reduction in construction activity and shrinking credit policy and resolve all significant credit policy issues.
The Group has reduced its credit risk appetite to the the BRC, the Financial Risk Committee, the Wholesale Credit Risk most severely affected segments of the economy.
In Spain, new lending to Management Committee and the Retail Credit Risk Committee.
the property and construction sector ceased and workout team resources have been increased signicantly.
Barclays constantly reviews its concentration in a number of areas including, for example, portfolio segments, geography, maturity, industry In addition, if funding capacity in either the wholesale markets or central and credit rating.
bank operations were to change signicantly, liquidity shortages could result which may lead to increased counterparty risk with other financial Diversication is achieved through setting maximum exposure guidelines institutions.
This could also have an impact on renancing risks in the and mandate and scale limits to portfolio segments, individual corporate and retail sectors.
The Group continues to actively manage this counterparties, sectors and countries, with excesses reported to the risk including through its extensive system of Mandate and Scale limits.
Financial Risk Committee and the BRC.
For further information see Retail Credit Risk and Wholesale Credit Risk For further information see Credit Risk Management pages 79 to 120. pages 96 to 103.
Key specic risks and mitigation Eurozone crisis Specic areas and scenarios where credit risk could lead to higher Concerns about credit risk including that of sovereigns and the Eurozone impairment charges in future years include: crisis remain very high.
The large sovereign debts and or scal deficits of a number of European countries have raised concerns regarding the Sovereign risk financial condition of financial institutions, insurers and other corporates Fiscal deficits continue to remain high, leading to high levels of public debt i located in these countries: ii that have direct or indirect exposure to in some countries at a time of modest GDP growth.
This has led to a loss these countries both to sovereign debt and private sector debt : and or of market confidence in certain countries to which the Group is exposed iii whose banks, counterparties, custodians, customers, service causing deteriorating sovereign credit quality, particularly in relation to providers, sources of funding and or suppliers have direct or indirect debt servicing and renancing.
The Group has put certain countries on exposure to these countries.
The default, or a further decline in the credit watch list status with detailed monthly reporting to the Wholesale Credit rating, of one or more sovereigns or financial institutions could cause Risk Management Committee.
severe stress in the financial system generally and could adversely affect the markets in which the Group operates and the businesses, economic For further information see Group exposures to selected Eurozone condition and prospects of the Groups counterparties, customers, countries pages 112 to 120. suppliers or creditors, directly or indirectly, in ways which it is difficult to predict.
For further information see Group exposures to selected Eurozone countries pages 112 to 120. Credit market exposures Barclays Capital holds certain exposures to credit markets that became illiquid during 2007.
These exposures primarily relate to commercial real estate and leveraged finance loans.
The Group continues to actively manage down these exposures.
For further information see Barclays Capital Credit Market Exposures pages 110 to 111.
76 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Risk factors continued 2.
Funding risk Market Risk is the risk of the Group suffering financial loss due to the Funding Risk is the risk that the Group is unable to achieve its business Group being unable to hedge its balance sheet at prevailing market levels.
plans due to liquidity risk and capital risk or the management of structural balance sheet risks.
The Group can be impacted by changes in both the level and volatility of prices e. g. interest rates, credit spreads, commodity prices, equity prices Liquidity Risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations as and foreign exchange rates.
they fall due resulting in: an inability to support normal business activity: failing to meet liquidity regulatory requirements: or changes to credit The risk is reported as Traded Risk where Barclays supports customer ratings.
activity primarily via Barclays Capital: Non-Traded Risk to support customer products primarily in the retail bank: and Pension Risk where Capital Risk is the risk that the Group is unable to maintain appropriate the investment prole is reviewed versus the dened benefit scheme.
capital ratios which could lead to an inability to support business activity: failing to meet regulatory requirements: or changes to credit ratings.
Risk management The Board approves Market Risk appetite for trading and non-trading Structural Risk relates to the management of non-contractual risks and activities, with limits set within this context by the Group Market Risk predominantly arises from the impact on the Groups balance sheet of Director.
changes in primarily interest rates on income or foreign exchange rates on capital ratios.
Group Risk is responsible for the overall Barclays Market Risk Control Framework which implements the five step risk management process.
Risk management The Board approves the Groups Liquidity Risk Appetite, Capital Plan Business specic Market Risk teams are responsible for implementing and approach for Structural Hedging.
Oversight and challenge is provided by business committees, group committees and the central Group Market Risk team.
Group Risk provides oversight review and challenge to the Liquidity, Capital and Structural Risk Control Frameworks.
The Risk function also For further information see Market Risk pages 121 to 129. provides direct input into as well as approval of various aspects of the calibration, calculation and reporting for these key risks.
Key specic risks and mitigation Specic areas and scenarios where market risk could lead to lower Group Treasury has responsibility for implementing the Key Risk control revenues in future years include: frameworks for Liquidity, Capital and Structural Risks at both the Group and Legal Entity level and for ensuring that the rm maintains compliance Reduced client activity and decreased market liquidity with all local regulatory minimum limit requirements relating to these key While the Group is exposed to continued market volatility, Barclays risks.
Capitals trading activities are principally a consequence of supporting customer activity.
Oversight and challenge is provided by local and Group Asset Liability Committees all reporting up to Group Treasury Committee which meets The impact of ongoing economic uncertainty on client volumes, reduced at least monthly.
market liquidity and higher volatility could lead to lower revenues.
The cost base and risk positions are constantly reviewed to ensure that they are For further information see Funding risk Capital pages 130 to 138 calibrated appropriately.
The portfolios are constantly reviewed to ensure and Funding risk Liquidity pages 139 to 150. that inventories are sized appropriately to support customer activity taking into account market volatility.
Key specic risks and mitigation Specic areas and scenarios where funding risk could lead to higher costs For further information see Market Risk pages 121 to 129. or limit Barclays ability to execute its business plans include: Non-traded interest rate risk Increasing capital requirements Interest rate volatility can impact the rms net interest margin.
The There are a number of regulatory developments that impact capital potential for future volatility and margin changes remain and it is difficult requirements.
Most signicantly Basel 3 as adopted into EU law through to predict with any accuracy, changes in absolute interest rate levels, yield the fourth Capital Requirements Directive CRD4 and Capital curves and spread.
Requirements Regulation which are still going through the EU legislative process.
Additional capital requirements may arise from other proposals For further information see Market Risk pages 121 to 129. including the recommendations of the Independent Commission on Banking.
Pension fund risk Adverse movements between pension assets and liabilities for dened Barclays continues to prepare for the implementation of CRD4 and benefit could contribute to a pension deficit.
Barclays and the Pension includes the estimated impact of future regulatory changes in its capital Trustees dedicated Investment Management team constantly review the planning framework.
Current forecasts already include the impact of Basel asset liability mismatch to ensure appropriate investment strategy.
3 as currently understood, and forecasts will be continually updated as CRD4 and other proposals for regulatory developments are nalised.
For further information see Market Risk pages 121 to 129 and Note 39.
Further detail on the regulatory developments impacting capital is included on pages 137 to 138.
com annualreport 77 Maintaining capital strength 4.
Operational risk A material adverse deterioration in the Groups financial performance can Operational Risk is the risk of direct or indirect impacts resulting from affect the capacity to support further capital deployment.
The Capital Plan human factors, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems or is continually monitored against the internal target capital ratios with Risk, external events.
Operational risks are inherent in the Groups business the business and legal entities through a proactive and forward looking activities.
approach to capital risk management which ensures that the Plan remains appropriate.
The capital management process also includes an internal The Key Risks that this Principal Risk includes are External Suppliers, and regulatory stress testing process which informs the Group capital Financial Reporting, Fraud, Information, Legal, Product, Payment Process, plan.
Further detail on the Groups regulatory capital resources is included on pages 130 to 138.
People, Premises & Security, Regulatory, Taxation, Technology and Transaction operations.
For denitions of these key risks see page 151.
Changes in funding availability and costs Risk management Market liquidity, the level of customer deposits and the Groups ability to raise wholesale funding impacts both the Groups net interest margin, The Operational risk framework enables Barclays to manage and measure its Operational risk prole and to calculate the amount of Operational risk which is sensitive to volatility in cost of funding, and its ability to both full its obligations and support client lending, trading activities and capital that it needs to hold.
The minimum mandatory requirements applicable to all Business Units are set out in the Group Operational risk investments.
Large unexpected outows, for example from customer withdrawals, ratings downgrades or loan drawdowns, could also result in policies.
forced reduction in the balance sheet, inability to full lending obligations and regulatory breaches.
The Liquidity Prole is monitored constantly and Group Key Risk Owners are required to monitor information relevant to their Key Risk from each Operational risk framework element.
In addition, is supported by a range of early warning indicators to ensure the prole remains appropriate and sufficient liquid resources are held to protect each Key Risk Owner mandates control requirements specic to their Key Risk through a Key Risk Control Framework.
Further details are provided in the Funding Risk Liquidity section on pages 139 to 150.
For further information see Operational risk management pages 151 to Local balance sheet management and redenomination risk 153.
The introduction of capital controls or new currencies by countries for example in the Eurozone to mitigate current stresses could have Key specic risks and mitigation Specic areas and scenarios where Operational risk could lead to financial an ongoing or point-in-time impact on the performance of local balance sheets of certain Group companies based on the asset quality, types of and or non-financial impacts including legal or regulatory breaches or reputational damage include: collateral and mix of liabilities.
Local assets and liability positions are carefully monitored by local asset and liability committees with oversight Regulatory risk by Group Treasury.
For further information see the Groups exposures to selected Eurozone countries pages 112 to 120.
Regulatory risk arises from a failure or inability to comply fully with the laws, regulations or codes applicable specically to the financial services industry which are currently subject to significant changes.
Noncompliance could lead to fines, public reprimands, damage to reputation, increased prudential requirements, enforced suspension of operations or, in extreme cases, withdrawal of authorisations to operate.
The regulatory response to the financial crisis has led and will continue to lead to very substantial regulatory changes in the countries in which the Group operates.
It has also amongst other things led to i a more assertive approach being demonstrated by the authorities in many jurisdictions: and ii enhanced capital and liquidity requirements for example pursuant to CRD4.
Current examples of specic areas of concern include: The Independent Commission on Banking ICB The ICB was charged by the UK Government with reviewing the UK banking system and its findings were published on 12 September 2011.
The ICB recommended amongst other things that: i the UK and EEA retail banking activities of a UK bank or building society should be placed in a legally distinct, operationally separate and economically independent entity so-called ring-fencing : and ii the loss-absorbing capacity of ring-fenced banks and UK-headquartered global systemically important banks such as Barclays Bank PLC should be increased to levels higher than the Basel 3 proposals.
78 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Risk factors continued The UK Government published its response to the ICB recommendations Key legal risks to which the Group was exposed during 2011 have included litigation in relation to: in December 2011 and indicated that primary and secondary legislation relating to the proposed ring-fence will be completed by May 2015, with Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc: UK banks and building societies expected to be compliant as soon as practicable thereafter, and the requirements relating to increased American Depository Shares: loss-absorbing capacity of ring-fenced banks and UK-headquartered US Federal Housing Finance Agency and Other Residential Mortgageglobal systemically important banks will be applicable from 1 January Backed Securities: and 2019.
Changes to the structure of UK banks and an increase in the amount of loss-absorbing capital issued by UK banks may have a material Devonshire Trust.
adverse impact on the Banks and the Groups results and financial condition.
It is also not possible to predict the detail of the implementation For further information see Legal Proceedings pages 248 to 249. legislation or the ultimate consequences to the Group.
Payment protection insurance PPI The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act DFA During 2011 Barclays agreed with the FSA that it would process all DFA will have an impact on the Group and its business.
A significant on-hold and any new complaints from customers about PPI policies that number of rules and draft rules have been issued through 2011.
Barclays also announced that, as a goodwill gesture, it would impact of this rule-making will be substantial, the full scale of this impact pay out compensation to customers who had PPI complaints put on hold remains unclear as many of the provisions of the Act require rules to be during the judicial review.
Barclays took a provision of 1bn in the second made to give them effect and this process is still underway.
Barclays has quarter of 2011 to cover the cost of future redress and administration.
For taken a centralised approach to monitoring this process and to ensuring further information see Provisions pages 246 to 247. compliance with the rules that are developed as a result.
CyberSecurity risk Recovery and resolution plans Barclays recognises the growing threats from cyberspace to its systems, The strong regulatory focus on resolvability has continued in 2011, both including in respect of customer and its own information held on them from UK and international regulators.
The Group has been engaged, and and transactions processed through these systems.
The implementation continues to be engaged, with the authorities on taking forward recovery of measures to manage the risk is involving increasing investment and use planning and identifying information that would be required in the event of internal resources.
However, given the increasing sophistication and of a resolution.
The Group will be required to prepare an initial plan for the scope of potential attacks from cyberspace, it is possible that in the future UK and US regulators in the first half of 2012. such attacks may lead to significant breaches leading to associated costs and reputational damage.
Any future regulatory changes may restrict the Groups operations, mandate certain lending activity and impose other, significant compliance The Group has invested for many years in building defences to counter costs.
For further information see Supervision and Regulation pages 154 these threats and continues to do so, recognising that this is an area of to 158. risk that changes rapidly and requires continued focus.
Legal risk To date the Group is not aware of any significant breaches of its systems The Group is subject to a comprehensive range of legal obligations in all from cyberspace.
countries in which it operates and so is exposed to many forms of legal risk, which may arise in a number of ways: i business may not be Taxation risk conducted in accordance with applicable laws around the world: ii Taxation risk is the risk that the Group suffers losses arising from contractual obligations may either not be enforceable as intended or may additional tax charges, financial penalties or reputational damage be enforced in an adverse way: iii intellectual property may not be associated with failure to comply with procedures required by tax adequately protected: and iv liability for damages may be incurred to authorities, changes in tax law and the interpretation of tax law.
third parties harmed by the conduct of the Groups business.
The Group The Group is subject to the tax laws in all countries in which it also faces risk where legal proceedings are brought against it.
The Group operates, including tax laws adopted at an EU level, and is impacted is, and may in the future be, involved in various disputes, legal proceedings by a number of double taxation agreements between countries.
and regulatory investigations in various jurisdictions, including in the US.
Furthermore, the Group, like many other financial institutions, has come HMRC, being the Groups primary taxation authority, recently took the under greater regulatory scrutiny in recent years and expects that unusual step of issuing a public statement that the Government was environment to continue particularly as it relates to compliance with new drafting retrospective tax legislation.
Such steps add to the need to and existing corporate governance, employee compensation, conduct of closely monitor changes in the way in which HMRC approaches the business, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws and regulations, application of its Code of Practice for Taxation of Banks.
For all tax as well as applicable international sanctions regimes.
jurisdictions, within which the Group operates, we continue to monitor the potential impact of proposed and recently enacted taxes aimed at banks.
In 2011 the Group continued to settle open tax issues in a number of jurisdictions and in meeting its tax obligations made global tax payments totalling 6.4bn.
The profit forecasts that support the Groups deferred tax assets, principally in the US and Spain, have been subject to close scrutiny by management.
For further information see the Financial review pages 168 to 169 and Tax pages 213 to 216.
com annualreport 79 Risk management Credit risk All disclosures in this section pages 79 to 120 are unaudited unless otherwise stated Overview of Barclays Group credit risk exposures Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss should the Groups customers, clients or market counterparties fail to full their contractual obligations to the Group.
The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from wholesale and retail loans and advances, together with the counterparty credit risk arising from derivative contracts entered into with clients.
Other sources of credit risk arise from trading activities, including debt securities, settlement balances with market counterparties, available for sale assets and reverse repurchase agreements.
Losses arising from assets held for trading derivatives, debt securities are accounted for as trading losses, rather than impairment charges, even though the fall in value causing the loss may be attributable to credit deterioration.
Analysis of the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk and collateral and other credit enhancements held The following table presents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December and the financial effects of collateral, credit enhancements and other actions taken to mitigate the Groups exposure.
For financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, maximum exposure to credit risk represents the balance sheet carrying value after allowance for impairment.
For off-balance sheet guarantees, the maximum exposure is the maximum amount that Barclays would have to pay if the guarantees were to be called upon.
For loan commitments and other credit related commitments that are irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, the maximum exposure is the full amount of the committed facilities.
This and subsequent analyses of credit risk include only financial assets subject to credit risk.
They exclude other financial assets not subject to credit risk, mainly equity securities held in the trading portfolio, as available for sale or designated at fair value, and commodities.
Assets designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have not been included as the Group is not exposed to credit risk on these assets.
Credit losses in these portfolios, if any, would lead to a reduction in the linked liabilities and not result in a loss to the Group.
80 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Maximum exposure and effects of collateral and other credit enhancements audited Maximum Netting and Risk Net exposure set-off Collateral transfer exposure As at 31 December 2011 m m m m m On-balance sheet: Cash and balances at central banks 106,894 106,894 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,812 1,812 Trading portfolio assets: Debt securities 123,364 123,364 Traded loans 1,374 1,374 Total trading portfolio assets 124,738 124,738 Financial assets designated at fair value: Loans and advances 21,960 7,887 76 13,997 Debt securities 2,095 22 2,073 Other financial assets 7,574 5,541 2,033 Total financial assets designated at fair value 31,629 13,450 76 18,103 Derivative financial instruments 538,964 440,592 57,294 7,544 33,534 Loans and advances to banks 47,446 1,886 8,653 171 36,736 Loans and advances to customers: Home loans 171,272 167,581 1,130 2,561 Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 64,492 11 16,159 2,564 45,758 Wholesale 196,170 8,873 53,616 9,550 124,131 Total loans and advances to customers 431,934 8,884 237,356 13,244 172,450 Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 153,665 150,337 3,328 Available for sale debt securities 63,610 219 3,532 59,859 Other assets 2,620 2,620 Total on-balance sheet 1,503,312 451,362 467,309 24,567 560,074 Off-balance sheet: Securities lending arrangements 35,996 35,996 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 14,181 1,699 523 11,959 Acceptances and endorsements 475 9 466 Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 1,358 39 49 1,270 Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 240,282 15,522 3,829 220,931 Total off-balance sheet 292,292 53,265 4,401 234,626 Total 1,795,604 451,362 520,574 28,968 794,700 The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 81 Maximum exposure and effects of collateral and other credit enhancements audited Maximum Netting and Risk Net exposure set-off Collateral transfer exposure As at 31 December 2010 m m m m m On-balance sheet: Cash and balances at central banks 97,630 97,630 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,384 1,384 Trading portfolio assets: Debt securities 139,240 139,240 Traded loans 2,170 2,170 Total trading portfolio assets 141,410 141,410 Financial assets designated at fair value: Loans and advances 22,352 9,997 8 12,347 Debt securities 1,918 150 1,768 Other financial assets 10,101 7,368 2,733 Total financial assets designated at fair value 34,371 17,515 8 16,848 Derivative financial instruments 420,319 340,467 42,795 3,202 33,855 Loans and advances to banks 37,799 1,699 8,915 442 26,743 Loans and advances to customers: Home loans 168,055 163,602 1,053 3,400 Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 59,269 8 13,670 2,263 43,328 Wholesale 200,618 9,477 60,099 12,443 118,599 Total loans and advances to customers 427,942 9,485 237,371 15,759 165,327 Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 205,772 200,665 5,107 Available for sale debt securities 59,629 218 4,532 54,879 Other assets 2,824 2,824 Total on-balance sheet 1,429,080 351,651 507,479 23,943 546,007 Off-balance sheet: Securities lending arrangements 27,672 27,672 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 13,783 1,282 396 12,105 Acceptances and endorsements 331 8 323 Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 1,194 23 85 1,086 Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 222,963 12,461 3,990 206,512 Total off-balance sheet 265,943 41,446 4,471 220,026 Total 1,695,023 351,651 548,925 28,414 766,033 82 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Overview The Group may also obtain collateral in the form of oating charges over receivables and inventory of corporate and other business customers.
As at 31 December 2011, the Groups net exposure to credit risk after taking into account netting and set-off, collateral and risk transfer The value of this collateral varies from period to period depending on the level of receivables and inventory.
It is impracticable to provide an estimate remained broadly at at 794,700m 2010: 766,033m.
The extent to which the Group holds mitigation on its assets rose marginally from 55% of the amount fair value or nominal value of this collateral.
The Group may in some cases obtain collateral and other credit enhancements at a to 56%.
counterparty level, which are not specic to a particular class of financial instrument.
The fair value of the credit enhancement gained has been Of the remaining exposure left unmitigated, a significant portion relates to cash held at central bank, available for sale debt securities issued by apportioned across the relevant asset classes.
governments, cash collateral and settlement balances, all of which are considered lower risk.
Trading portfolio liability positions, which to a The carrying value of non-cash collateral reects the fair value of the physical assets limited to the carrying value of the asset where the significant extent economically hedge trading portfolio assets but which are not held specically for risk management purposes, are excluded from exposure is over-collateralised.
In certain cases where active markets or recent valuations of the assets are not available, estimates are used.
The credit quality of counterparties to derivative, available for sale and wholesale loan assets are predominantly investment assets collateralised by residential or commercial property and certain other physical assets, where it is not practicable to assess current market grade.
Further analysis on the credit quality of assets is presented on pages 104 to 109. valuations of each underlying property, values reect historical fair values updated for movements in appropriate external indices.
Netting and set-off For assets collateralised by traded financial instruments, values reect The Group has the ability to offset asset and liability positions on default or bankruptcy of the borrower.
This includes master netting agreements mark to market or mark to model values of those assets, applying a haircut where appropriate.
For further information on loan-to-value ratios for loans and advances whether held at amortised cost or fair value.
in principal home loans portfolios and the Groups policy regarding the valuation of wholesale collateral, refer to pages 97 to 98 and 103 Derivatives may also be settled net where there is a master agreement in place providing for this in the event of default, reducing the Groups respectively.
exposure to counterparties on derivative asset positions.
The reduction in risk is the amount of the liability held.
The Group offsets asset and liability The net realisable value from a distressed sale of collateral obtained by the Group upon default or insolvency of a counterparty will in some cases amounts on the balance sheet when it has both the ability and the intention to settle net.
The amounts above represent available netting be lower than the carrying value recognised above.
Assets obtained are normally sold, generally at auction, or realised in an orderly manner for the in the event of default of the counterparty.
maximum benefit of the Group, the borrower and the borrowers other creditors in accordance with the relevant insolvency regulations.
For Collateral The Group has the ability to call on collateral in the event of default business customers, in some circumstances, where excess funds are available after repayment in full of the outstanding loan, they are offered of the borrower or other counterparty, comprising: to any other, lower ranked, secured lenders.
Any additional funds are Home loans: a xed charge over residential property in the form returned to the customer.
Barclays does not, as a rule, occupy repossessed of houses, ats and other dwellings: properties for its business use or use assets obtained in its operations.
Wholesale lending: a xed charge over commercial property and other physical assets, in various forms: Risk transfer The Group in some cases holds guarantees, letters of credit and similar Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending: includes charges instruments from third parties which enable it to claim settlement from over motor vehicle and other physical assets: second lien charge over them in the event of default on the part of the counterparty.
The balances residential property, which is subordinate to first charge held either shown represent the notional value of the guarantees held by the Group by the Group or by another party: and finance lease receivables, for issued by corporate and financial institutional counterparties.
In addition, which typically the Group retains legal title to the leased asset and has the Group obtains guarantees from customers in respect of personal loans the right to repossess the asset on the default of the borrower: and smaller business loans, which are not reected in the above table.
Derivatives: cash and non-cash collateral may be held against derivative trades with certain counterparties: Reverse repurchase agreements: collateral typically comprises highly liquid securities which have been legally transferred to Barclays subject to an agreement to return them for a xed price: and Financial guarantees and similar off-balance sheet commitments: cash collateral may be held against these arrangements.
com annualreport 83 Collateral and other credit enhancements obtained The carrying value of assets held by the Group as at 31 December 2011 as a result of the enforcement of collateral was as follows: Assets received audited 2011 2010 Carrying Carrying amount amount As at 31 December m m Residential property 173 71 Commercial and industrial property 267 14 Other credit enhancements 30 210 Total 470 295 Concentrations of credit risk A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are located in a geographical region, or are engaged in similar activities and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
The analyses of credit risk concentrations presented below are based on the location of the counterparty or customer or the industry in which they are engaged.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Credit risk concentrations by industrial sector audited Cards, Wholesale unsecured ConGovernand retail loans and Financial struction ment and Energy distribuBusiness other instiManuand central and tion and and other Home personal tutions facturing property bank water leisure services loans lending Other Total m m m m m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2011 On-balance sheet: Cash and balances at central 106,894 106,894 banks Items in the course of collection 1,810 2 1,812 from other banks Trading portfolio assets 32,849 1,585 480 83,631 3,191 448 1,773 781 124,738 Financial assets designated 9,370 75 10,447 6,354 1,053 332 3,547 1 450 31,629 at fair value Derivative financial instruments 498,246 4,044 4,853 8,321 12,960 3,309 3,928 19 3,284 538,964 Loans and advances to banks 44,707 2,739 47,446 Loans and advances to customers 89,650 12,904 28,711 6,129 7,414 16,206 26,300 171,272 50,062 23,286 431,934 Reverse repurchase agreements 148,474 195 201 3,842 127 63 235 528 153,665 and other similar secured lending Available for sale financial 23,103 213 137 38,511 126 90 820 370 240 63,610 investments Other assets 880 54 492 7 310 2 818 57 2,620 Total on-balance sheet 849,089 19,016 44,883 256,915 24,871 20,455 36,913 171,644 50,900 28,626 1,503,312 Off-balance sheet: Securities lending arrangements35,996 35,996 Guarantees and letters of credit 4,937 1,534 757 630 1,615 913 2,213 310 1,272 14,181 pledged as collateral security Acceptances and endorsements 145 108 52 2 115 53 475 Documentary credits and other 556 40 1 215 480 65 1 1,358 short-term trade related transactions Standby facilities, credit lines 33,296 23,429 9,114 3,573 20,764 12,052 17,012 15,663 90,062 15,317 240,282 and other commitments Total off-balance sheet 74,930 25,111 9,924 4,203 22,381 13,295 19,758 15,663 90,437 16,590 292,292 Total 924,019 44,127 54,807 261,118 47,252 33,750 56,671 187,307 141,337 45,216 1,795,604 The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
86 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Impairment charges audited Loan impairment charges reduced 33% to 3,790m, reecting generally improving underlying trends across the majority of retail and wholesale businesses.
Combined with a 2% increase in loans and advances, this resulted in a lower overall Group loan loss rate of 77bps 2010: 118bps: 2009: 156bps.
Further detail can be found in the Retail Credit Risk and Wholesale Credit Risk sections on pages 96 to 103. Credit impairment charges and other provisions by business audited Available for Reverse Loans and Sale Financial Repurchase a Advances Investments Agreements Total m m m m Year ended 31 December 2011 UK RBB 536 536 Europe RBB 241 20 261 Africa RBB 464 464 Barclaycard 1,259 1,259 b Barclays Capital 129 12 48 93 Barclays Corporate 1,122 27 1,149 Barclays Wealth 41 41 Head Ofce Functions and Other Operations 2 1 1 Total 3,790 60 48 3,802 Year ended 31 December 2010 UK RBB 819 819 Europe RBB 314 314 Africa RBB 562 562 Barclaycard 1,688 1,688 b Barclays Capital 642 95 4 543 Barclays Corporate 1,551 145 1,696 Barclays Wealth 48 48 Head Ofce Functions and Other Operations 1 1 2 Total 5,625 51 4 5,672 Year ended 31 December 2009 UK RBB 1,031 1,031 Europe RBB 334 4 338 Africa RBB 688 688 Barclaycard 1,798 1,798 b Barclays Capital 1,898 650 43 2,591 Barclays Corporate 1,544 14 1,558 Barclays Wealth 51 51 Head Ofce Functions and Other Operations 14 2 16 Total 7,358 670 43 8,071 Notes a Excludes 1,800m impairment of BlackRock, Inc. 2010: nil, 2009: nil recorded in Investment Management.
b Credit market related impairment charges within Barclays Capital comprised a write back of 14m 2010: 660m charge: 2009: 1,205m charge against loans and advances and a write back of 35m 2010: 39m writeback: 2009: 464m charge against available for sale financial investments.
com annualreport 87 C. Reporting Credit risk management overview The Group dedicates considerable resources to gaining a clear and Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss should any of the Groups accurate understanding of credit risk across the business and ensuring customers, clients or market counterparties fail to full their contractual that its balance sheet correctly reects the value of the assets in obligations to the Group.
The granting of credit is one of the Groups major accordance with applicable accounting principles.
This process can sources of income and, as the most significant risk, the Group dedicates be summarised in five broad stages: considerable resources to its control.
Mitigation techniques and measuring exposures and concentrations: measurement and internal ratings are discussed in more detail in the Basel 2 Pillar 3 Disclosures 2011. monitoring weaknesses in portfolios: identifying potential problem loans and credit risk loans collectively A. Overview audited known as potential credit risk loans or PCRLs : The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from wholesale and retail loans and advances together with the counterparty credit risk arising raising allowances for impaired loans: and from derivative contracts entered into with our clients.
Other sources of writing off assets when the whole or part of a debt is considered credit risk arise from trading activities, including debt securities, irrecoverable.
settlement balances with market counterparties, available for sale assets and reverse repurchase loans.
D. Measuring exposures and concentrations Loans and advances to customers provide the principal source of credit Credit risk management objectives are to: risk to the Group although Barclays can also be exposed to other forms of establish a framework of controls to ensure credit risk-taking is based credit risk through, for example, loans to banks, loan commitments and on sound credit risk management principles: debt securities.
Barclays risk management policies and processes are designed to identify and analyse risk, to set appropriate risk appetite, limits identify, assess and measure credit risk clearly and accurately across and controls, and to monitor the risks and adherence to limits by means of the Group and within each separate business, from the level of reliable and timely data.
One area of particular review is concentration risk.
individual facilities up to the total portfolio: A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are control and plan credit risk-taking in line with external stakeholder engaged in similar activities and have similar economic characteristics that expectations and avoiding undesirable concentrations: would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions.
As a result, monitor credit risk and adherence to agreed controls: and Barclays constantly reviews its concentration in a number of areas ensure that risk-reward objectives are met.
including, for example, geography, maturity and industry see pages 83 to 85 and 148 to 149.
B. Organisation and structure Barclays has structured the responsibilities of credit risk management Diversication is achieved through setting maximum exposure guidelines so that decisions are taken as close as possible to the business, whilst to individual counterparties.
Excesses are reported to the Financial Risk ensuring robust review and challenge of performance, risk infrastructure Committee and the BRC.
Mandate & Scale limits are used to limit the and strategic plans.
The credit risk management teams in each business stock of current exposures in a loan portfolio and the ow of new are accountable to the business risk directors in those businesses who, exposures into a loan portfolio.
Limits are typically based on the nature in turn, report to the heads of their businesses and also to the Chief Risk of the lending and the amount of the portfolio meeting certain standards officer.
The role of the Group Risk function is to provide Group wide direction, oversight and challenge of credit risk-taking.
Group Risk sets the Credit Risk Control Framework, which provides a structure within which credit risk is managed together with supporting Group Credit Risk Policies.
Group Risk also provides technical support, review and validation of credit risk measurement models across the Group.
Increasing state of delinquency Increasing state of delinquency 88 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued E. Monitoring weaknesses in portfolios a full review of all facilities on, at least, an annual basis, more frequent interim reviews may be undertaken should circumstances dictate.
Whilst the basic principles for monitoring weaknesses in wholesale and retail exposures are broadly similar, they will reect the differing nature Specialist recovery functions deal with clients in default, collection or insolvency.
Their mandate is to maximise shareholder value via the orderly of the assets.
As a matter of policy all facilities granted to corporate or wholesale customers are subject to a review on, at least, an annual basis, and timely recovery of impaired debts.
even when they are performing satisfactorily.
Within the retail portfolios, which tend to comprise homogeneous assets, statistical techniques more readily allow potential weaknesses to be Corporate accounts that are deemed to contain heightened levels of risk are recorded on graded early warning lists EWLs or watchlists WLs monitored on a portfolio basis.
The approach is consistent with the Groups policy of raising a collective impairment allowance as soon as comprising three categories graded in line with the perceived severity of the risk attached to the lending, and its probability of default.
Examples of objective evidence of impairment is identied.
Retail accounts can be classied according to specified categories of arrears status or cycle, heightened levels of risk may include, for example: a material reduction in profits: a material reduction in the value of collateral held: a decline in net which reects the level of contractual payments which are overdue on a loan.
tangible assets in circumstances which are not satisfactorily explained: or periodic waiver requests or changes to the terms of the credit agreement The probability of default increases with the number of contractual over an extended period of time.
These lists are updated monthly and circulated to the relevant risk control points.
Once an account has been payments missed, thus raising the associated impairment requirement.
placed on WL or EWL, the exposure is carefully monitored and, where appropriate, exposure reductions are effected.
Should an account become Once a loan has passed through all six cycles it will charge-off and enter recovery status.
In most cases, charge-off will result in the account impaired, it will normally, but not necessarily, have passed through each of the three categories, which reect the need for increasing caution and moving to a legal recovery function or debt sale.
This will typically occur after an account has been treated by a collections function.
Where an obligors financial health gives grounds for concern, it is immediately placed into the appropriate category.
While all obligors, certain cases, an account may be charged off directly from a performing up to date status, such as in the case of insolvency or death.
regardless of financial health, are subject to Monitoring weaknesses in portfolios Wholesale account status Retail account status Performing Performing Current Including EWL 1-2, WL 1-3 Areas Status 0 Watchlist Committee flags Business support assists Customer misses contractual Customer pays total overdue client on the basis of evidence the client to return to in payment and moves to payments and returns back of financial difficulty.
Business Support Delinquent Collections EWL 3, WL 3.5 Arrears Status 1-6 Customers financial difficulty Customer reaches high requires a decision on the arrears status and is moved form of future relationship.
to the recovery function where legal action is taken.
Default Recovery Default Charge-off Recovery Arrears Status 6 Asset is considered Asset is considered irrecoverable and is irrecoverable and is written off.
Write Off The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 89 As a general principle, charge-off marks the point at which it becomes G. Allowances for impairment and other credit provisions Barclays establishes, through charges against profit, impairment more economically efficient to treat an account through a recovery function or debt sale rather than a collections function.
Economic allowances and other credit provisions for the incurred loss inherent in the lending book.
Under IFRS, impairment allowances are recognised where efficiency includes the discounted expected amount recovered and operational and legal costs.
Whilst charge-off is considered an irreversible there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more loss events that have occurred after initial recognition, and where these events state, in certain cases, it may be acceptable for mortgage and vehicle finance accounts to move back from charge-off to performing or have had an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the financial asset or portfolio of financial assets.
Impairment of loans and receivables is delinquent states.
This is only considered acceptable where local legislation requirements are in place, or where it is deemed that the measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the present customer has a renewed willingness to pay and there is a strong chance value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the financial assets that they will be able to meet their contractual obligations in the original effective interest rate.
If the carrying amount is less than the foreseeable future.
discounted cash ows, then no further allowance is necessary.
For the majority of products, the standard period for charging off accounts Impairment allowances are measured individually for assets that are is 180 days past due of contractual obligation.
However, in the case of individually significant, and collectively where a portfolio comprises customer bankruptcy or insolvency, the associated accounts will be homogenous assets and where appropriate statistical techniques are charged off within 60 days.
Within UK RBB Local Business, accounts available.
In terms of individual assessment, the principal trigger point for that are deemed to have a heightened level of risk, or that exhibit some impairment is the missing of a contractual payment which is evidence that unsatisfactory features which could affect viability in the short to an account is exhibiting serious financial problems, and where any further medium term, are transferred to a separate caution stream.
Accounts deterioration is likely to lead to failure.
Details of other trigger points can be on the caution stream are reviewed on at least a quarterly basis, at found on page 210.
Two key inputs to the cash ow calculation are the which time consideration is given to continuing with the agreed strategy, valuation of all security and collateral, as well as the timing of all asset returning the customer to a lower risk refer stream, or instigating realisations, after allowing for all attendant costs.
This method applies recovery exit action.
mainly in the corporate portfolios.
F. Identifying potential credit risk loans For collective assessment, the principal trigger point for impairment is the In line with disclosure requirements from the SEC in the US, the Group missing of a contractual payment which is the policy consistently adopted reports potentially and actually impaired loans as Potential Credit Risk across all credit cards, unsecured loans, mortgages and most other retail Loans PCRLs.
PCRLs comprise two categories of loans: Potential Problem lending.
Details of other trigger points can be found on page 210.
The Loans PPLs and Credit Risk Loans CRLs.
calculation methodology relies on the historical experience of pools of similar assets: hence the impairment allowance is collective.
The PPLs are loans that are currently complying with repayment terms but impairment calculation is based on a roll-rate approach, where the where serious doubt exists as to the ability of the borrower to continue percentage of assets that move from the initial delinquency to default is to comply with such terms in the near future.
If the credit quality of a loan derived from statistical probabilities based on historical experience.
on an EWL or WL deteriorates to the highest category wholesale or Recovery amounts and contractual interest rates are calculated using a deteriorates to delinquency cycle 2 retail, consideration is given to weighted average for the relevant portfolio.
This method applies mainly including it within the PPL category.
to the Groups retail portfolios and is consistent with Barclays policy of raising an allowance as soon as impairment is identied.
Should further evidence of deterioration be observed, a loan may move to the CRL category.
Events that would trigger the transfer of a loan from The impairment allowance in the retail portfolios is mainly assessed on a the PPL to the CRL category include a missed payment or a breach of collective basis and is based on the drawn balances adjusted to take into covenant.
CRLs comprise three classes of loans: account the likelihood of the customer defaulting at a particular point in time PDpit and the amount estimated as not recoverable LGD.
Impaired loans comprise loans where an individual identied The basic calculation is: impairment allowance has been raised and also include loans which are fully collateralised or where indebtedness has already been written Impairment allowance Total outstandings x Probability of Default PDpit down to the expected realisable value.
This category includes all retail x Loss Given Default LGD loans that have been charged off to legal recovery.
The impaired loan category may include loans, which, while impaired, are still performing: The PDpit increases with the number of contractual payments missed The category accruing past due 90 days or more comprises loans that thus raising the associated impairment requirement.
are 90 days or more past due with respect to principal or interest.
An impairment allowance will be raised against these loans if the expected Impairment in the wholesale portfolios is generally calculated by valuing cash ows discounted at the effective interest rate are less than the each impaired asset on a case by case basis, i. e. on an individual carrying value: and assessment basis.
A relatively small amount of wholesale impairment relates to unidentified or collective impairment: in such cases impairment The category impaired and restructured loans comprises loans not is calculated using modelled PD x LGD x EAD Exposure at default included above where, for economic or legal reasons related to the adjusted for an emergence period.
debtors financial difficulties, a concession has been granted to the debtor that would not otherwise be considered.
Where the concession results in the expected cash ows discounted at the effective interest rate being less than the loans carrying value, an impairment allowance will be raised.
90 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued unidentified impairment allowances are also raised to cover losses which Appropriate coverage ratios will vary according to the type of product but can be broadly bracketed under three categories: secured retail home are judged to be incurred but not yet specically identied in customer exposures at the balance sheet date, and which, therefore, have not been loans: credit cards, unsecured and other personal lending products: and corporate facilities.
Analysis and experience has indicated that, in general, specically reported.
The incurred but not yet reported calculation is based on the assets probability of moving from the performing portfolio to being the severity rates for these types of products are typically within the following ranges: specically identied as impaired within the given emergence period and then on to default within a specified period.
This is calculated on the Secured retail Home loans: 5%-20%: present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The emergence periods vary across Credit cards, unsecured and other personal lending products: businesses and are based on actual experience and are reviewed on an 65%-75%: and annual basis.
This methodology ensures that the Group captures the loss Corporate facilities: 30%-50%.
incurred at the correct balance sheet date.
These impairment allowances are reviewed and adjusted at least quarterly by an appropriate charge or CRL coverage ratios would therefore be expected to be at or around these release of the stock of impairment allowances based on statistical analysis levels over a dened period of time.
In principle, a number of factors may and management judgement.
Where appropriate, the accuracy of this affect the Groups coverage ratios, including: analysis is periodically assessed against actual losses see modelling of risk on page 73.
As one of the controls to ensure that adequate The mix of products within total CRL balances.
Coverage ratios will impairment allowances are held, movements in impairment allowances to tend to be lower when there is a high proportion of secured retail and individual names with total impairment of more than 10m are presented corporate balances within total CRLs.
This is due to the fact that the to the Credit Committee for agreement.
recovery outlook on these types of exposures is typically higher than retail unsecured products with the result that they will have lower The loan loss rate LLR provides Barclays with one way of monitoring impairment requirements: the trends in the quality of the loan portfolio at the Group, business and The stage in the economic cycle.
Coverage ratios will tend to be lower product levels.
At Barclays, the LLR represents the annualised impairment in the earlier stages of deterioration in credit conditions.
At this stage, charges on loans and advances to customers and banks and other credit retail delinquent balances will be predominantly in the early delinquency provisions as a percentage of the total, period-end loans and advances to cycles and corporate names will have only recently moved to CRL customers and banks, gross of impairment allowances.
As such balances attract a lower impairment requirement, the CRL coverage ratio will be lower: The impairment allowance is the aggregate of the identied and unidentified impairment balances.
Impairment allowance coverage, The balance of PPLs to CRLs.
The impairment requirements for PPLs or the coverage ratio, is reported at two levels: are lower than for CRLs, so the greater the proportion of PPLs, the lower the PCRL coverage ratio: and Credit risk loans coverage ratio impairment allowances as a percentage of CRL balances : and Write off policies.
The speed with which defaulted assets are written off will affect coverage ratios.
The more quickly assets are written off, Potential credit risk loans coverage ratio impairment allowances as the lower the ratios will be, since stock with 100% coverage will tend to a percentage of total CRL and PPL balances.
roll out of PCRL categories more quickly.
com annualreport 91 H. Writing off of assets Impairment of loans under forbearance Loans in forbearance programmes are subject to impairment in line After an advance has been identied as impaired and is subject to an impairment allowance, the stage may be reached whereby it is concluded with normal impairment policy.
In both retail and wholesale portfolios, identied impairment is raised for such accounts, recognising the that there is no realistic prospect of further recovery.
Write off will occur when, and to the extent that, the whole or part of a debt is considered agreement between the bank and customer to pay less than the original contractual payment and is measured using a future discounted cash ow irrecoverable.
The timing and extent of write offs may involve some element of subjective judgement.
Nevertheless, a write off will often be approach comparing the debt outstanding to the expected repayment on the debt.
This usually results in higher impairment being held for loans prompted by a specic event, such as the inception of insolvency proceedings or other formal recovery action, which makes it possible to under forbearance than for fully performing assets, reecting the additional credit risk attached to loans subject to forbearance.
establish that some or the entire advance is beyond realistic prospect of recovery.
In any event, the position of impaired loans is reviewed at least Where a retail account is in forbearance, the additional risk characteristics quarterly to ensure that irrecoverable advances are being written off in a prompt and orderly manner and in compliance with any local regulations.
are reected by way of a management overlay as the only practical means of factoring certain recent conditions into impairment calculations until During 2011 there was a change in the period between charge-off and write off from 18 months to 12 months across the majority of unsecured the Groups models can be recalibrated.
As more comprehensive data on the performance of loans in forbearance is gathered the Groups models retail portfolios.
Such assets are only written off once all the necessary procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Sustainability of loans under forbearance The Group closely monitors the sustainability of loans for which Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are written back and hence decrease the amount of the reported loan impairment charge forbearance has been granted.
In the retail portfolios, the Group Risk Forbearance Policy prescribes that when a programme of forbearance in the income statement.
In 2011, total write offs of impaired financial assets increased 20% to 5,165m.
is offered to the customer, it is both appropriate and sustainable for that customer.
Sustainable terms are dened as revised contractual terms I. Forbearance where the asset can be fully serviced over its full life.
The Group offers forbearance and similar programmes to assist customers and clients in financial difficulty through agreements to accept less than This is controlled through qualication criteria, which will include an affordability assessment, minimum payment thresholds and previous contractual amounts due where financial distress would otherwise prevent satisfactory repayment within the original terms and conditions of the forbearance activity.
Regular reviews for programmes of a temporary nature are undertaken to reassess the customers financial circumstances contract.
These agreements may be initiated by the customer, Barclays or a third party.
The primary aim of forbearance is to recover the customer and continued appropriateness into a sustainable position on their obligations.
For further detail on the Groups impairment policy and the way loans In the retail portfolios, as part of the Group Risk Forbearance Policy, are separated into pools reecting similar risk characteristics, see programmes offered to customers include approved debt counselling pages 88 to 89. plans, minimum due reductions, interest rate concessions, term extensions and switches from capital and interest repayments to For disclosure on the Groups accounting policy with respect to interest-only payments either from a position of delinquency or to terms impairment, see pages 210 to 211.
For further detail on the credit quality and conditions which are outside current underwriting criteria.
The of loans under forbearance, see pages 104 to 105. denition also extends to accounts that are partially rehabilitated.
For further detail, see pages 99 to 100.
Total write offs of impaired financial assets m In the wholesale portfolios, Barclays will on occasion participate in 5,165 debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-asset swaps, debt standstills or debt restructuring agreements as part of the business support process.
Debt 4,310 restructuring agreements may include actions to improve security: such as changing an overdraft to a factoring or invoice discounting facility or 3,380 moving debt to asset owning companies.
Consideration is also given to 2,919 the waiving or relaxing of covenants where this is the optimum strategy for the survival of the clients business.
For further detail, see page 103.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Loans and advances to customers and banks Total gross loans and advances to customers and banks increased 2% to 513,311m.
Loans and advances at amortised cost were 489,977m and loans and advances at fair value were 23,334m.
Loans and advances at amortised cost Gross loans and advances to customers and banks at amortised cost increased 2% to 489,977m with a 2% rise in both the retail and wholesale portfolios.
Included in this balance are cash collateral and settlement balances in Barclays Capital of 75,707m.
The principal drivers for this increase were: Barclays Capital where loans and advances increased 6% to 161,194m driven by an increase in cash collateral balances partially offset by the acquisition of Protium and a reduction in corporate lending: UK RBB where loans and advances increased 5% to 123,055m primarily reecting growth in mortgage balances: Barclaycard where loans and advances increased 9% to 32,214m mainly due to the acquisition of credit card portfolios in 2011, partially offset by balance run-offs in FirstPlus: and Barclays Wealth where loans and advances increased 17% to 19,255m reecting growth in collateralised lending to High Net Worth individuals.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in: Africa RBB where loans and advances decreased 19% to 38,361m principally reecting the depreciation in the value of the Rand against Sterling.
See page 111 for further information.
b Loan impairment charges, comprising impairment on loans and advances, and charges in respect of undrawn facilities and guarantees, see page 86.
com annualreport 93 Risk management Credit risk continued Group loans and advances held at amortised cost, by industry sector and geography Total loans and advances held at amortised cost increased by 3% to 479,380m.
This movement was primarily driven by lending to banks, with cash collateral balances, principally to European and UK counterparties, comprising the majority of this.
Home loans to customers in the UK, and cards, unsecured and other personal lending to customers in the Americas, Africa and Middle East and the UK, also rose in line with business growth.
Further detail on movements in loans and advances is presented on pages 96 to 102.
94 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Group loans and advances held at fair value, by industry sector and geography Total loans and advances held at fair value reduced 5% to 23,334m, principally reecting the liquidation of loans to financial institutions in Europe and commercial real estate loans in the Americas and Europe as part of the Groups strategy of winding down Barclays Capitals credit market exposures.
This reduction was offset partially by an increase in the fair value of Barclays Corporate lending to UK commercial real estate, government and business and other services counterparties, and the consolidation of Protium assets in the Americas.
Loans and advances held at fair value, by industry sector and geography United Africa and Kingdom Europe Americas Middle East Asia Total m m m m m m As at 31 December 2011 Banks 11 364 10 126 1 512 Other financial institutions 142 76 892 134 21 1,265 Manufacturing 16 211 154 7 18 406 Construction 158 19 2 179 Property 8,443 1,147 575 133 3 10,301 Government 5,609 19 8 5,636 Energy and water 32 203 46 104 385 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 63 15 243 36 2 359 Business and other services 3,381 76 201 34 3,692 Other 90 66 55 317 71 599 Total loans and advances held at fair value 17,945 2,158 2,176 929 126 23,334 As at 31 December 2010 Banks 49 766 5 193 52 1,065 Other financial institutions 90 230 439 252 49 1,060 Manufacturing 39 67 187 49 5 347 Construction 199 45 5 249 Property 7,003 2,793 1,858 43 237 11,934 Government 4,848 189 51 5,088 Energy and water 14 259 57 34 6 370 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 70 14 705 11 800 Business and other services 2,650 69 442 80 5 3,246 Other 103 114 76 69 1 363 Total loans and advances held at fair value 15,065 4,312 3,769 965 411 24,522 Impairment allowances Impairment allowances decreased 1,835m to 10,597m, driven primarily by a reduction in the retail portfolios due to a change in the write-off policy against most unsecured portfolios, debt sales and lower severity.
Wholesale impairment allowances at 31 December 2010 included 532m held against the loan to Protium.
Excluding this balance, wholesale impairment allowances increased slightly reecting higher levels of impairment in Europe, particularly the property sector in Portugal, and some large single names in Barclays Capital.
Amounts written off increased 855m to 5,165m driven, in part, by the change in write-off policy.
Movements in allowance for impairment by asset class audited Amounts Acquisitions Exchange charged to At beginning and Unwind of and other Amounts income Balance at of year disposals discount adjustments written off Recoveries statement 31 December m m m m m m m m 2011 Home loans 854 2 80 101 184 14 333 834 Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 5,919 4 154 145 3,292 139 2,077 4,540 Wholesale 5,659 12 9 194 1,689 112 1,356 5,223 Total impairment allowance 12,432 18 243 440 5,165 265 3,766 10,597 2010 Home loans 639 18 54 63 134 6 316 854 Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 5,538 74 153 121 2,618 138 2,819 5,919 Wholesale 4,619 14 6 147 1,558 57 2,414 5,659 Total impairment allowance 10,796 78 213 331 4,310 201 5,549 12,432 The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
CRL balances in the wholesale portfolio decreased 7% primarily due to falls in: Barclays Corporate, where lower balances in the UK reected the high level of write-offs and balance reductions.
Balances in Europe remained stable with higher balances in Portugal and Italy reecting deteriorating credit conditions offset by lower balances in Spain: and Africa RBB, principally due to the depreciation in the value of the Rand against Sterling, repayments and a slowdown in new CRLs.
CRL balances in retail portfolios decreased 17%, reecting the write-off of balances following a reduction in the period between accounting charge-off and write-off from 18 months to 12-months across the majority of unsecured portfolios, as well as lower rate of inows, debt sales and customer repayments.
The main exception was Europe RBB where the overall balance was largely unchanged as decreases in Spain, principally resulting from a series of unsecured portfolio sales in 2011, were offset by increases, mainly in the mortgage portfolios as a consequence of higher delinquent balances in deteriorating economic conditions.
Potential Problem Loans PPLs PPLs fell 27% to 1,972m.
PPL balances in the wholesale portfolio decreased 30% primarily due to improved credit grading of a small number of Barclays Capital customers.
PPL balances in the retail portfolio decreased 19% reecting lower balances in early delinquency arrears across the majority of businesses.
Coverage ratios The CRL coverage ratio increased slightly to 49.7% 2010: 48.9% reecting an increase in the wholesale portfolio ratio to 47.8% 2010: 42.7% and a decrease in the retail portfolio ratio to 51.6% 2010: 54.8%.
The PCRL coverage ratio increased slightly to 45.5% 2010: 44.0% reecting an increase in the wholesale portfolio ratio to 42.4% 2010: 36.6% and a decrease in the retail portfolio ratio to 48.9% 2010: 51.8%.
Notes a Refer to page 111 for further information on Protium.
96 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Retail credit risk Gross loans and advances to customers in the retail portfolios increased 2% to 241,138m.
In UK RBB, the increase of 6% to 120,312m primarily reected growth in mortgage balances.
Barclaycard loans and advances increased 8% to 31,738m mainly due to the acquisition of credit card portfolios in 2011, partially offset by balance run-offs in FirstPlus.
Barclays Wealth loans and advances increased 24% to 16,784m reecting growth in collateralised lending to High Net Worth individuals.
These increases were partially offset by a 19% decrease in Africa RBB to 26,363m primarily due to the depreciation in the value of the Rand against Sterling and lower originations in South Africa Home Loans.
Balances in Europe RBB remained broadly stable at 44,488m as growth in Italian Home Loans was offset by lower balances in Spain as new mortgage business reduced.
Retail impairment allowances decreased 22% to 5,374m principally due to changes in the write-off policy, debt sales and lower severity.
The total loan impairment charge across the retail portfolios reduced 27% to 2,422m as a result of lower charges across all businesses.
The loan impairment charge at Barclaycard decreased 26% to 1,232m as a result of reduced delinquency rates and customer balance repayments, principally in the US.
The loan impairment charge at UK RBB decreased 34% to 491m mainly reecting the low interest rate environment, low arrears rates and lower ows in collections in UK personal loans.
The Africa RBB loan impairment charge decreased 12% to 386m, mainly reecting improved economic conditions in South Africa and better recoveries across the continent.
Lower impairment charges coupled with higher loan balances led to a fall in the retail loan loss rate to 100bps 2010: 140bps.
CRLs in the retail portfolios decreased 17% to 10,416m reecting the write-off of balances following a reduction in the period between accounting charge-off and write-off from 18 months to 12-months across the majority of unsecured portfolios, as well as lower rate of inows, debt sales and customer repayments.
b Barclays Corporate primarily includes retail portfolios in India and UAE.
For 2010 it also included retail portfolios in Russia which were sold in 2011.
Home Loans as a proportion of retail gross loans and advances remained broadly unchanged at 71%.
The principal home loan portfolios listed below account for 93% of total home loans in the Groups retail portfolios.
b Home loans principal portfolios Recoveries proportion Recoveries Gross loans Gross of impairment and 90 day charge-off outstanding coverage advances arrears rates balances ratio m % % % % As at 31 December 2011 UK 107,775 0.3 0.6 0.6 15.3 c South Africa 17,585 3.2 3.7 6.9 19.4 Spain 14,918 0.5 0.6 1.6 32.5 Italy 15,935 1.0 0.5 1.3 29.3 Portugal 3,891 0.6 1.1 2.0 15.0 As at 31 December 2010 UK 101,281 0.3 0.5 0.7 8.6 c South Africa 22,575 3.9 3.5 6.7 23.0 Spain 16,264 0.4 0.7 1.6 32.0 Italy 13,809 0.8 0.6 1.2 29.0 Portugal 3,713 0.4 0.7 1.5 12.6 Notes a Other Secured Retail Lending includes Absa Vehicle and Auto Finance in Africa RBB, FirstPlus in Barclaycard and Investment Leverage portfolio in Barclays Wealth.
b Excluded from the above analysis are: Wealth Home Loans, which are managed on the basis of individual customer exposures, France Home Loans and other small home loan portfolios.
c South Africa Home Loans recoveries impairment coverage ratio has been revised to exclude interest and fees in suspense.
98 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Arrears rates remained stable in the UK as targeted balance growth and better customer affordability criteria continued to be supported by the low base rate environment.
Arrears rates for South Africa Home Loans decreased but gross charge-off rates increased as contracts in debt counselling were terminated and legal actions were commenced which resulted in an increase in the recoveries book.
The fall in recoveries impairment coverage ratio for South Africa Home Loans reected, in part, the impact of a revised LGD model implementation in the second half of 2011.
The lower LGD reected higher levels of cash collected in the recoveries portfolio.
Arrears rates in Spain remained broadly stable, but increased in Portugal and Italy due to the deterioration in economic conditions including the impact of austerity measures.
Although period end marked to market LTVs have increased marginally across all principal home loan portfolios compared to December 2010, the portfolios continued to remain well secured.
The increase in average LTV for new mortgage business in the UK was driven by more tailored lending criteria which allowed for additional business to be written at higher LTVs within the existing underwriting criteria.
There was no material impact on impairment as a result, in 2011.
Any increase to impairment from the change in risk prole is factored into impairment models.
In the UK, buy to let mortgages comprised 6% of the total stock 2010: 6%.
The average LTV on new mortgages for Spain remained stable and was within the Group approved risk prole.
New lending has primarily been driven by new mortgages for house purchase rather than remortgages, for which the demand contracted signicantly.
Notes a Excluded from the above analysis are: Wealth Home Loans, which are managed on the basis of individual customer exposures, France Home Loans and other small Home Loans portfolios.
b Spain and Portugal marked to market methodology based on balance weighted approach.
c Portfolio marked to market based on current valuations, including recoveries balances.
com annualreport 99 Credit cards, overdrafts and unsecured loans The principal portfolios listed below account for 79% of total credit cards, overdrafts and unsecured loans in the Groups retail portfolios.
Total credit cards, overdrafts and unsecured loans increased 1% primarily due to increased lending in UK Cards and the acquisitions of credit card portfolios in 2011.
90 day arrears reduced to 1.2% 2010: 1.5% in UK cards and to 1.5% 2010: 2.5% in US cards, reecting better, although still subdued, economic conditions during 2011, the impact of customer loan repayments and a continued revision of the credit approval policy in Barclaycard.
Retail forbearance programmes Retail forbearance is available to customers experiencing financial difficulties.
Forbearance solutions take a number of forms depending on individual customer circumstances.
Short term solutions focus on temporary reductions to contractual payments and may change from capital and interest payments to interest only.
For customers with longer term financial difficulties, term extensions may be offered, which may also include interest rate concessions.
When an account is placed into a programme of forbearance, the asset will be classied as such for the remainder of its term.
Accounts may be up to date on a programme of forbearance but will continue to be classied as subject to forbearance and therefore will be included as forborne until the loan is repaid, a programme of rehabilitation is agreed or the loan is written off.
When Barclays agrees to a forbearance programme with a customer, the impairment allowance recognises the impact on cashows of the agreement to receive less than the original contractual payments.
The Group Retail Impairment Policy prescribes the methodology for impairment of forbearance assets, which is measured by comparing the debt outstanding to the revised expected repayment.
This results in higher impairment than for fully performing assets, reecting the additional credit risk attached to loans subject to forbearance.
During 2011, Barclays continued to assist customers in financial difficulty through the use of forbearance programmes.
However, the extent of forbearance offered by the Group to customers and clients is immaterial to the size of the loan book.
Forbearance on the Groups principal portfolios in US, UK and Europe are presented below.
Additional portfolios will be added to this disclosure should the forbearance in respect of such portfolios become material.
Notes a UK cards excludes 1.5bn relating to Egg credit card assets, which were recognised on acquisition at fair value with no related impairment allowance.
An impairment allowance of 20m is held on Egg balances post acquisition.
b Risk metrics exclude the impact of the $1.4bn Upromise portfolio acquired in December 2011. c Gross loans and advances for UK personal loans as at 31 December 2010 have been revised to exclude 740m of UK smaller specialist loans as they are no longer considered to be principal portfolio.
d South Africa cards 30 and 90 days arrears revised to include approved debt counselling accounts.
e Europe RBB includes Spain, Portugal and Italy card assets.
f The recoveries impairment coverage ratio for Italy salary advance loans is lower than other unsecured portfolios as these loans are extended to customers where the repayment is made via a salary deduction at source by qualifying employers and Barclays is insured in the event of termination of employment or death.
Recoveries represent balances where insurance claims are pending that we believe are largely recoverable, hence the lower coverage.
100 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued The level of forbearance extended to customers in other retail portfolios is not material and, typically, does not currently play a significant part in the way customer relationships are managed.
Barclays would not consider a retail loan to be renegotiated where the amendment is at the request of the customer, there is no evidence of actual or imminent financial difficulty and the amendment meets with all Barclays underwriting criteria.
In this case it would be treated as a new loan.
In addition Barclays will allow re-ageing of an account once in 12-months or twice in 5 years, providing strict qualication criteria are met including making three consecutive monthly payments.
An account so re-aged is not considered to be restructured because the contractual monthly payments remain unchanged.
Principal portfolios Forbearance Impairment programmes coverage on Marked to Gross L&A proportion gross L&A market LTV subject to of subject to of home loan forbearance outstanding forbearance forbearance programmes balances programmes balances m % % % As at 31 December 2011 Home loans UK 1,613 1.5 0.8 31.6 Spain 145 1.0 3.7 67.4 Italy 171 1.1 2.6 46.5 Credit cards, overdrafts and unsecured loans a 946 7.1 38.2 n a UK cards UK personal loans 201 3.8 28.2 n a US cards 125 1.7 19.7 n a As at 31 December 2010 Home loans UK 1,446 1.4 0.9 31.8 Spain 151 1.0 0.8 61.6 Italy 186 1.4 0.6 47.4 Credit cards, overdrafts and unsecured loans b UK cards 908 7.2 30.6 n a UK personal loans 215 3.7 31.7 n a US cards 150 2.1 18.4 n a Forbearance in principal home loans portfolios increased 8% to 1,929m 2010: 1,783m, principally in the UK.
Within UK home loans, term extensions accounted for the majority of forbearance balances.
Since January 2008 an additional 1.5bn of interest only mortgages have received a term extension, which have not been classied as forbearance as the contractual monthly payments did not alter.
In Spain, forbearance accounts are usually full account restructures.
In Italy, the majority of balances relate to specic schemes required by the Government e. g. debt relief scheme following the earthquake of 2009 and are weighted towards payment holidays and interest suspensions.
Forbearance in principal credit cards, overdrafts and unsecured loans portfolios remains stable at 1,272m 2010: 1,273m.
Impairment allowances against UK cards forbearance increased to reect revised expectations on debt repayment.
As a result, the impairment coverage ratio increased to 36.5% 2010: 30.6%.
For detail on how loans are separated into pools reecting similar risk characteristics, refer to page 89.
Notes a UK cards excludes 43m relating to credit card assets acquired from Egg UK, which were recognised on acquisition at fair value with no related impairment allowance.
b UK cards revised to include partnership card assets.
com annualreport 101 Wholesale credit risk Gross loans and advances to customers and banks in the wholesale portfolios increased 2% to 248,839m principally as a result of a rise of 6% in Barclays Capital to 161,194m.
For more detail, see analysis of Barclays Capital wholesale loans and advances on page 102.
This increase was partially offset by an 18% decrease in balances in Africa RBB to 11,998m, primarily due to the depreciation in the value of the Rand against Sterling and from lower demand.
Excluding this balance, wholesale impairment allowances increased 4% to 5,223m reecting higher levels of new impairment in Europe, particularly the property sector in Portugal and some large single names in Barclays Capital.
The total loan impairment charge across the wholesale portfolios improved 41% to 1,368m principally reecting lower charges in Barclays Capital, mainly as a result of charges in leveraged finance being partially offset by a release of 223m relating to the loan to Protium which has now been repaid: and in Barclays Corporate due to lower credit impairment charges in Spain reecting lower exposure to the property and construction sector.
Charges also reduced in the Barclays Corporate UK business, reecting lower default rates and tightly controlled exposure to commercial real estate loans.
However, weak credit conditions in Portugal led to a higher charge in 2011.
The substantial reduction in the impairment charge and higher loan balances led to a lower wholesale loan loss rate of 55bps in 2011 2010: 96bps.
CRLs in the wholesale portfolio, excluding Protium, decreased 7% to 10,926m primarily due to falls in Barclays Corporate where lower balances in the UK reected the high level of write-offs and balance reductions: and Africa RBB, principally due to the depreciation in the value of the Rand against Sterling, repayments and a slowdown in new CRLs.
Balances in Barclays Corporate Europe remained stable with higher balances in Portugal and Italy reecting deteriorating credit conditions, offset by lower balances in Spain.
Presented below is further information related to the Groups wholesale lending portfolios by business, with additional analysis of portfolios in Barclays Capital in relation to wholesale credit risk.
c Barclays Capital gross loans and advances includes cash collateral and settlement balances of 75,707m as at 31 December 2011 and 56,486m as at 31 December 2010.
Excluding these balances CRLs as a proportion of gross loans and advances were 6.1% and 5.6% respectively.
d Barclays Capital credit risk loans exclude the loan to Protium of 7,560m held as at 31 December 2010.
102 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Analysis of Barclays Capital wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost Barclays Capital wholesale loans and advances increased 6% to 161,194m 2010: 152,711m.
This was driven by an increase in cash collateral balances partially offset by the acquisition of Protium and a reduction in corporate lending.
Included within corporate lending and other wholesale lending portfolios are 3,204m 2010: 3,787m of loans backed by retail mortgage collateral classied as lending to financial institutions.
Analysis of Barclays Capital wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost Loan Impairment L&A net of Credit risk CRLs % of impairment Loan loss a a Gross L&A allowance impairment loans gross L&A charges rates m m m m % m bps As at 31 December 2011 Loans and advances to banks Interbank lending 19,655 45 19,610 34 0.2 5 3 Cash collateral and settlement balances 23,066 23,066 Loans and advances to customers Corporate lending 38,326 730 37,596 1,515 4.0 194 51 Government lending 3,276 3,276 ABS CDO Super Senior 3,390 1,548 1,842 3,390 100.0 6 18 Other wholesale lending 20,840 232 20,608 314 1.5 66 32 Cash collateral and settlement balances 52,641 52,641 Total 161,194 2,555 158,639 5,253 3.3 129 8 As at 31 December 2010 Loans and advances to banks Interbank lending 21,547 48 21,499 35 0.2 18 8 Cash collateral and settlement balances 14,058 14,058 Loans and advances to customers Corporate lending 41,891 798 41,093 1,483 3.5 285 68 Government lending 2,940 2,940 ABS CDO Super Senior 3,537 1,545 1,992 3,537 100.0 137 387 Other wholesale lending 26,310 645 25,665 315 1.2 512 195 Cash collateral and settlement balances 42,428 42,428 Total 152,711 3,036 149,675 5,370 3.5 642 42 Note a Barclays Capital credit risk loans as at 31 December 2010 exclude the loan to Protium.
Other wholesale lending CRLs and CRLs % of Gross L&A including the loan to Protium were 7,875m and 29.9% respectively.
com annualreport 103 Wholesale forbearance programmes Whilst there are no standardised wholesale forbearance programmes, as part of the ongoing provision of lending facilities to corporates and businesses, credit terms are reviewed and may be revised where this is the optimum strategy for the performance of our customers businesses and therefore Barclays loans and advances.
Wholesale client relationships are individually managed with lending decisions made with reference to specic circumstances and on bespoke terms.
As changes in original terms are made for a variety of reasons and in a variety of ways including those not related to the customers ability to repay a loan, comprehensive data is not currently compiled to quantify the lending where changes in original terms have been agreed as a result of forbearance.
Impairment is assessed for each individual counterparty and recognised where relevant impairment triggers have been reached, including where customers are in arrears and require renegotiation of terms.
A control framework exists along with regular sampling to ensure watch list and impairment policies are implemented as dened and to ensure that all assets have suitable levels of impairment applied.
Portfolios are subject to independent assessment.
Corporate loans modied on a commercial basis in the normal course of business are not considered to be renegotiated or restructured forborne loans.
Wholesale collateral When property is taken as collateral it is monitored to ensure that the current value is not less than its value at origination.
Monitoring is undertaken at least once every three years for residential property, and annually for commercial property.
More frequent monitoring is carried out where the property sector is subject to significant deterioration.
Deterioration is monitored principally by geography.
Specic exercises to monitor property values may be undertaken where the property sector in a given geography has been subject to significant deterioration and where Barclays has a material concentration of property collateral.
Monitoring may be undertaken either at the level of an individual property or at a portfolio level.
Monitoring on a portfolio level refers to a more frequent process of indexing collateral values on each individual loan, using a regional or national index, and updating LGD values.
Where an appropriate local index is not available, property values are monitored on an individual basis as part of the annual review process for the loan.
For larger loans property valuation is reviewed by an independent valuer at least every 3 years, and an independent valuer also reviews the property valuation where information indicates that the value of the property may have declined materially relative to general market prices.
In addition, trigger points are dened under which property values must be reviewed.
Liens over uctuating assets of a borrower such as inventory and trade receivables, known as oating charges, are monitored regularly.
The valuation of this type of collateral takes into account the ability to establish objectively a price or market value, the frequency with which the value can be obtained including a professional appraisal or valuation, and the volatility or a proxy for the volatility of the value of the collateral.
Additional revaluations are usually performed when a loan is moved to EWL or WL.
More detail of when a corporate account may be moved to an EWL or WL may be found on page 88.
Exceptions to this may be considered where it is clear a revaluation is not necessary, for instance where there is a very high margin of security or a recent valuation has been undertaken.
Conversely, a material reduction in the value of collateral held represents an increase in credit risk and will often cause a loan to be placed on the EWL or WL.
Any one of these events may also trigger a test for impairment, depending on individual circumstances of the loan.
When calculating impairment, the difference between an assets carrying amount and the present value of all estimated cash ows discounted at the original effective interest rate will be recognised as an impairment.
Such cash ows include the estimated fair value of the collateral which reects the results of the monitoring and review of collateral values as detailed above and valuations undertaken as part of our impairment process.
Whether property values are updated as part of the annual review process, or by indexation of collateral values, the updated collateral values feed into the calculation of risk parameters for example LGD which, in turn, feed into identied and unidentified impairment calculations at each balance sheet date.
See the impairment allowances section on page 94 for more detail.
Trends in loan loss rates incorporate the impact of any decrease in the fair value of collateral held.
For further information on collateral and other credit enhancements held against the Groups assets, refer to pages 79 to 83.
104 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Credit quality of loans and advances audited All loans and advances are categorised as neither past due nor impaired, past due but not impaired, or impaired.
Impaired loans include restructured loans.
For the purposes of these disclosures: A loan is considered past due when the borrower has failed to make a payment when due under the terms of the loan contract: The impairment allowance includes allowances both against financial assets that have been individually impaired and those subject to collective impairment: Loans neither past due nor impaired consist predominantly of wholesale and retail loans that are performing.
These loans, although unimpaired, may carry an unidentified impairment allowance: Loans that are past due but not impaired consist predominantly of wholesale loans that are past due but individually assessed as not being impaired.
These loans, although individually assessed as unimpaired, may carry an unidentified impairment allowance: Impaired loans that are individually assessed for impairment consist predominantly of wholesale loans that are past due and for which an individual allowance has been raised: and Impaired loans that are collectively assessed for impairment consist predominantly of retail loans that are 1 day or more past due for which a collective allowance is raised.
Wholesale loans that are past due, individually assessed as unimpaired, but which carry an unidentified impairment allowance, are excluded from this category.
Refer to pages 89 to 91 for further detail on the Groups impairment policy.
Home loans and credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending are subject to forbearance in the retail portfolios and are included in the collectively assessed impaired loans column in the table below.
Included within wholesale loans that are neither past due nor impaired are a portion of loans that have been subject to forbearance or similar strategies as part of the Groups ongoing relationship with customers.
The loans will have an internal rating reective of the level of risk to which the Group is exposed, bearing in mind the circumstances of the forbearance and the overall performance and prospects of the customer.
Loans on forbearance programmes will typically, but not always, attract a higher risk rating than similar loans which are not.
A portion of wholesale loans under forbearance is included in the past due but not impaired column, although not all loans subject to forbearance are necessarily impaired or past due.
Where wholesale loans under forbearance have been impaired, these form part of individually assessed impaired loans.
b For 2011 reporting, loans that were previously classied as past due but not individually impaired have been disaggregated between loans past due but not impaired and collectively assessed impaired loans.
com annualreport 105 For the purposes of the analysis of credit quality, the following internal measures of credit quality have been used: Retail lending Wholesale lending Probability Probability Default Financial statements description of default of default grade Strong 0.0-0.60% 0.0-0.05% 1-3 0.05-0.15% 4-5 0.15-0.30% 6-8 0.30-0.60% 9-11 Satisfactory 0.60-10.00% 0.60-2.15% 12-14 2.15-11.35% 15-19 Higher risk 10.00% 11.35% 20-21 Financial statement descriptions can be summarised as follows: Strong there is a very high likelihood of the asset being recovered in full.
Satisfactory whilst there is a high likelihood that the asset will be recovered and therefore, of no cause for concern to the Group, the asset may not be collateralised, or may relate to retail facilities, such as credit card balances and unsecured loans, which have been classied as satisfactory, regardless of the fact that the output of internal grading models may have indicated a higher classication.
At the lower end of this grade there are customers that are being more carefully monitored, for example, corporate customers which are indicating some evidence of some deterioration, mortgages with a high loan to value ratio, and unsecured retail loans operating outside normal product guidelines.
Higher risk there is concern over the obligors ability to make payments when due.
However, these have not yet converted to actual delinquency.
There may also be doubts over value of collateral or security provided.
However, the borrower or counterparty is continuing to make payments when due and is expected to settle all outstanding amounts of principal and interest.
An age analysis of loans and advances that are past due but not impaired is set out below.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Debt securities Credit quality of debt securities audited Trading portfolio assets, financial assets designated at fair value and available for sale assets are measured on a fair value basis.
The fair value will reect, among other things, the credit risk of the issuer.
Most listed and some unlisted securities are rated by external rating agencies.
The Group mainly uses external credit ratings provided by Standard & Poors or Moodys.
Where such ratings are not available or are not current, the Group will use its own internal ratings for the securities.
Included in the table below are impaired available for sale debt securities with a carrying value at 31 December 2011 of 61m 2010: 358m, after a write down of 145m 2010: 583m.
Collateral is not generally obtained directly from the issuers of debt securities.
Certain debt securities may be collateralised by specically identied assets that would be obtainable in the event of default.
Debt securities and other bills decreased by 11.7bn, with the most significant decreases relating to investment grade trading portfolio securities, however the overall mix remained stable.
This movement reects the group reducing its exposure to Eurozone countries as well as in the emerging markets business.
Securities rated as investment grade amounted to 92.9% of the portfolio 2010: 93.0%.
An analysis of the credit quality of the Groups debt securities is set out below: Debt securities audited 2011 2010 AAA to BBBAAA to BBBinvestment Band investment Band grade BB to B below Total grade BB to B below Total As at 31 December m m m m m m m m Trading portfolio 116,743 4,922 1,699 123,364 130,744 6,663 1,833 139,240 Financial assets designated at fair value 1,163 184 748 2,095 942 644 332 1,918 Available for sale financial investments 57,793 3,253 2,564 63,610 55,107 2,022 2,500 59,629 Total debt securities 175,699 8,359 5,011 189,069 186,793 9,329 4,665 200,787 % of total 92.9% 4.4% 2.7% 100.0% 93.0% 4.7% 2.3% 100.0% Debt securities 2011 2010 As at 31 December m % m % Of which issued by: Governments and other public bodies 117,489 62.1% 107,922 53.7% Corporate and other issuers 40,041 21.2% 47,321 23.6% US agency 17,249 9.1% 30,048 15.0% Mortgage and asset-backed securities 13,713 7.3% 13,993 7.0% Bank and building society certicates of deposit 577 0.3% 1,503 0.7% Total 189,069 100.0% 200,787 100.0% Debt securities include government securities held as part of the Groups treasury management portfolio for asset and liability, liquidity and regulatory purposes and are for use on a continuing basis in the activities of the Group.
The Group held the following government securities which exceeded 10% of shareholders equity in any of the last three years.
These securities are held at fair value.
Government securities 2011 2010 2009 Fair value Fair value Fair value As at 31 December m m m United States 45,932 25,553 17,356 United Kingdom 19,722 21,999 6,892 Japan 8,221 7,210 7,609 Germany 6,823 3,008 9,698 Italy 4,432 6,443 6,297 Spain 3,152 6,573 4,948 The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 107 Derivatives audited The Groups use of derivative contracts is outlined in the derivative financial instruments note on pages 220 to 223.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on derivative contracts, which arises as a result of counterparty credit risk and movements in the fair value of credit derivatives.
The Groups exposure to counterparty risk is affected by the nature of the trades, the credit worthiness of the counterparty, and netting and collateral arrangements.
Nature of derivative trades The Group buys and sells financial instruments that are traded or cleared on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures and options on futures.
Holders of exchange traded instruments provide margin daily with cash or other security at the exchange, to which the holders look for ultimate settlement.
The Group also buys and sells financial instruments that are traded over the counter, rather than on a recognised exchange.
These instruments range from standardised transactions in derivative markets, to trades where the specic terms are tailored to the requirements of the Groups customers.
In many cases, industry standard documentation is used, most commonly in the form of a master agreement, with individual transaction conrmations.
The existence of a signed master agreement is intended to give the Group protection in situations where a counterparty is in default.
Counterparty credit quality The credit quality of the Groups derivative assets according to the credit quality of the counterparty is discussed in the table below.
Credit quality audited 2011 2010 AAA to BBBAAA to BBBinvestment Band investment Band grade BB to B below Total grade BB to B below Total As at 31 December m m m m m m m m Derivatives 515,109 19,875 3,980 538,964 401,242 15,598 3,479 420,319 % of total 95.6% 3.7% 0.7% 100.0% 95.5% 3.7% 0.8% 100.0% Netting and collateral arrangements Credit risk from derivatives is mitigated where possible through netting agreements whereby derivative assets and liabilities with the same counterparty can be offset.
Group policy requires all netting arrangements to be legally documented.
The ISDA Master Agreement is the Groups preferred agreement for documenting over the counter OTC derivatives.
It provides the contractual framework within which dealing activities across a full range of OTC products are conducted and contractually binds both parties to apply close-out netting across all outstanding transactions covered by an agreement if either party defaults or other predetermined events occur.
Collateral is obtained against derivative assets, depending on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and or nature of the transaction.
Any collateral taken in respect of OTC trading exposures will be subject to a haircut which is negotiated at the time of signing the collateral agreement.
A haircut is the valuation percentage applicable to each type of collateral and will be largely based on liquidity and price volatility of the underlying security.
The collateral obtained for derivatives is either cash, direct debt obligation government G14 bonds denominated in the domestic currency of the issuing country, debt issued by supranationals or letters of credit issued by an institution with a long-term unsecured debt rating of A A3 or better.
Where the Group has ISDA master agreements, the collateral document will be the ISDA Credit Support Annex CSA.
The collateral document must give Barclays the power to realise any collateral placed with it in the event of the failure of the counterparty, and to place further collateral when requested or in the event of insolvency, administration or similar processes, as well as in the case of early termination.
Under IFRS, netting is permitted only if both of the following criteria are satisfied: the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts: and the entity intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Under US GAAP, netting is also permitted, regardless of the intention, to settle on a net basis, where there is a counterparty master agreement that would be enforceable in the event of bankruptcy.
108 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued The tables below set out the fair values of the derivative assets together with the value of those assets subject to enforceable counterparty netting arrangements for which the Group holds offsetting liabilities and eligible collateral.
Derivative assets audited Gross Counterparty Net assets netting exposure m m m As at 31 December 2011 Foreign exchange 63,886 53,570 10,316 Interest rate 376,162 315,924 60,238 Credit derivatives 63,313 51,930 11,383 Equity and stock index 13,202 8,944 4,258 Commodity derivatives 22,401 10,224 12,177 Total derivative assets 538,964 440,592 98,372 Cash collateral held 51,124 Net exposure less collateral 47,248 As at 31 December 2010 Foreign exchange 60,494 49,405 11,089 Interest rate 272,386 224,124 48,262 Credit derivatives 47,017 39,786 7,231 Equity and stock index 14,586 10,523 4,063 Commodity derivatives 25,836 16,629 9,207 Total derivative assets 420,319 340,467 79,852 Cash collateral held 37,289 Net exposure less collateral 42,563 Derivative asset exposures would be 492bn 2010: 378bn lower than reported under IFRS if netting were permitted for assets and liabilities with the same counterparty or for which we hold cash collateral.
Derivative liabilities would be 478bn 2010: 362bn lower reecting counterparty netting and collateral placed.
Exposure relating to derivatives, repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, stock borrowing and loan transactions is calculated using internal FSA approved models.
These are used as the basis to assess both regulatory capital and capital appetite and are managed on a daily basis.
The methodology encompasses all relevant factors to enable the current value to be calculated and the future value to be estimated, for example, current market rates, market volatility and legal documentation including collateral rights.
Reverse repurchase agreements and other financial assets audited Credit quality audited 2011 2010 AAA to BBBAAA to BBBinvestment Band investment Band grade BB to B below Total grade BB to B below Total As at 31 December m m m m m m m m Reverse repurchase agreements 117,719 34,653 1,293 153,665 179,625 24,801 1,346 205,772 Financial assets designated at fair value: Reverse repurchase agreements 4,018 1,554 207 5,779 7,285 271 3 7,559 Other financial assets 655 1,079 61 1,795 1,115 1,312 115 2,542 Total reverse repurchase agreements and other financial assets 122,392 37,286 1,561 161,239 188,025 26,384 1,464 215,873 % of total 75.9% 23.1% 1.0% 100.0% 87.1% 12.2% 0.7% 100.0% No reverse repurchase agreements held by the Group at 31 December 2011 or 2010 were individually impaired, however during the year, the Group wrote back 48m of impairment on reverse repurchase agreements 2010: 4m write back.
com annualreport 109 Other credit risk assets audited Other assets subject to credit risk included: cash and balances at central banks of 106,894m 2010: 97,630m on which there is a reduced level of credit risk: items in the course of collection from other banks were 1,812m 2010: 1,384m, on which there is a reduced credit risk in light of the banking industry clearing system: and other financial assets of 2,620m 2010: 2,824m.
Off-balance sheet The Group applies fundamentally the same risk management policies for off-balance sheet risks as it does for its on-balance sheet risks.
In the case of commitments to lend, customers and counterparties will be subject to the same credit management policies as for loans and advances.
Collateral may be sought depending on the strength of the counterparty and the nature of the transaction.
Risk features in the portfolio Risk features in the portfolio are business activities that are considered to be higher risk than the Groups normal activities and are subject to a higher level of scrutiny in our management of credit risk.
As at 31 December 2011 these items comprised: Barclays Capital credit market exposures: and Group exposures to selected Eurozone countries.
110 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Barclays Capital credit market exposures audited a Barclays Capital credit market exposures 2011 Fair value losses Impairment Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 gains and release losses As at 31 December $m $m m m net funding charge gains b Protium assets 3,508 10,884 2,272 7,028 555 223 332 US Residential Mortgages ABS CDO Super Senior 2,844 3,085 1,842 1,992 29 6 35 US sub-prime and Alt-A 644 1,025 416 662 4 35 31 Commercial Mortgages Commercial real estate loans and properties 8,228 11,006 5,329 7,106 486 486 Commercial Mortgaged-Backed Securities 156 184 101 119 Monoline protection on CMBS 14 18 9 12 32 32 Other Credit Market c Leveraged Finance 6,278 7,636 4,066 4,930 43 203 160 SIVs, SIV-Lites and CDPCs 9 618 6 399 32 32 Monoline protection on CLO and other 1,729 2,541 1,120 1,641 13 13 Total 23,410 36,997 15,161 23,889 72 49 23 Barclays Capitals credit market exposures primarily relate to commercial real estate, leveraged finance, and collateral previously securing the loan to Protium.
These exposures arose before the market dislocation in mid-2007.
During 2011, credit market exposures decreased by 8,728m to 15,161m, reecting net sales and paydowns and other movements of 8,442m, foreign exchange rate movements of 263m and fair value losses and impairment of 23m.
The net sales, paydowns and other movements of 8,442m included: 4,218m relating to assets formerly held as collateral for the loan to Protium Finance LP, comprising 2,697m net sales, 959m loan and interest repayments and 562m paydowns and other movements: 2,141m of commercial real estate loans and properties sales and paydowns: and 820m reduction in leveraged loans primarily relating to five counterparties.
In January 2012, Barclays completed the sale of 405m $628m of a commercial real estate equity security at fair value representing 50% of its stake in Archstone.
Notes a As the majority of exposure is held in US Dollars, the exposures above are shown in both US Dollars and Sterling.
b Prior to 27 April 2011 when Protium was acquired by the Group the exposure was a loan.
This was carried at the amount equivalent to the fair value of the underlying collateral from 31 December 2010. c Includes undrawn commitments of 180m 31 December 2010: 264m.
As part of the transaction, Barclays extended a $12,641m 10 year loan to Protium.
In April 2011, Barclays entered into several agreements to acquire all third party interests in Protium in order to help facilitate the Groups early exit from the underlying exposures.
As a result, Protium was then consolidated by the Group.
Subsequently, Protium sold its assets to Barclays entities and the loan has been repaid.
As part of this transaction, 459m $750m was invested in Helix, an existing fund managed by Protiums investment manager.
The original investment represented 86% of the Helix fund, which has been consolidated by the Group.
The funds investments primarily comprise government and agency securities.
As at 31 December 2011, the fair value of Barclays investment in the fund was $729m.
112 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Group exposures to selected Eurozone countries audited Overview Credit conditions will deteriorate in a recessionary environment, such as that recently seen in the UK, US, the Eurozone and other economies.
Deteriorating credit conditions will impact exposures to retail and wholesale counterparties, including a countrys government or its agencies via sovereign risk thus impairing or reducing the value of Barclays credit assets.
The impact of these conditions could adversely affect Barclays and the solvency of its counterparties, custodians, customers and service providers: its credit rating: its share price: the value and liquidity of its assets and liabilities: and the ability of the Group to meet its debt obligations more generally.
The following disclosures present the Groups exposures to selected Eurozone countries, representing Eurozone countries that have a credit rating of AA or below from Standard and Poors and where the Group has an exposure of over 0.5bn.
The Groups exposure to Greece, though under 0.5bn, is also presented due to continuing market focus.
The Group continues to closely monitor its exposure to Eurozone countries: Spanish sovereign exposure reduced 45% to 2.5bn due to the disposal of available for sale government bonds, held for the purpose of interest rate hedging and liquidity, that have been replaced by interest rate swaps with alternative counterparties: Italian sovereign exposure increased 57% to 3.5bn principally due to the acquisition of government issued bonds reecting improved yields and holdings as part of the Treasury liquidity management portfolio: Italian non-sovereign exposures increased 0.8bn to 21.9bn, principally due to a 2.2bn increase in new mortgage lending with an average LTV of 59.6%, offset by 1.1bn reduction in exposures to financial institutions: Portuguese sovereign exposure reduced 21% to 0.8bn, principally due to a reduction in government bonds held as available for sale: Ireland exposures increased 5% to 5.7bn, principally reecting increased lending to financial institutions of 4.3bn 31 December 2010: 3.8bn, including 0.9bn of trading assets and 1.3bn of loans to entities domiciled in Ireland whose principal business and exposures are outside of Ireland.
Exposure to domestic Irish banks remains minimal: Exposure to Greece remains minimal and the sovereign exposure is predominantly marked to market on a daily basis through income: and Belgium is included in the following disclosures because its credit rating was downgraded to AA in November 2011.
Exposure increased marginally to 2.4bn 2010: 2.2bn principally relating to available for sale holdings of sovereign debt.
Exposure by country and counterparty audited Spain Italy Portugal Ireland Greece Belgium m m m m m m As at 31 December 2011 Sovereign 2,530 3,493 810 244 14 2,033 Financial institutions 987 669 51 4,311 2 42 Residential mortgages 14,654 15,934 3,651 94 5 10 Corporate 5,345 2,918 3,295 977 67 282 Other retail lending 3,031 2,335 2,053 86 18 Total on-balance sheet exposure 26,547 25,349 9,860 5,712 106 2,367 Total off-balance sheet contingent liabilities and commitments 3,842 3,140 2,536 1,807 26 881 Total exposure 30,389 28,489 12,396 7,519 132 3,248 a As at 31 December 2010 Sovereign 4,641 2,224 1,023 296 31 1,780 Financial institutions 1,586 1,756 165 3,769 21 98 Residential mortgages 15,977 13,741 3,476 109 4 10 Corporate 6,473 2,938 3,728 1,123 103 304 Other retail lending 3,081 2,599 2,074 125 19 1 Total on-balance sheet exposure 31,758 23,258 10,466 5,422 178 2,193 Total off-balance sheet contingent liabilities and commitments 3,716 3,588 3,010 1,786 34 897 Total exposure 35,474 26,846 13,476 7,208 212 3,090 Note a 2010 comparatives have been updated from those reported in the preliminary announcement to include certain additional exposures held at fair value through profit and loss relating to corporates in Spain 75m, Italy 110m and Portugal 130m, and 184m in relation to financial institutions in Italy.
com annualreport 113 Management and monitoring of country exposures The management of country risk forms an integral part of the Groups broader credit risk framework focusing on concentration risk.
For further information on the Groups management of concentration risk, and the credit risk management framework more generally, refer to pages 87 to 91.
Stress testing Barclays has a detailed and comprehensive stress testing framework applicable to both the Barclays Group as well as on individual portfolios and asset classes.
The Groups macroeconomic stress test scenarios are designed to be both severe and plausible.
Specic scenarios are also considered as part of reverse stress testing, for example, a Euro break-up scenario.
Data gained from the tests is used to initiate management actions to mitigate the risks to the Group of a deterioration in economic and trading conditions within the Eurozone.
For further information on the Groups stress testing, refer to page 72.
In July 2011 the European Banking Authority EBA published the results of their macroeconomic stress scenario for the 90 selected banks who participated in the European stress test which included a Eurozone sovereign specic component.
In December 2011, the EBA published the results of the bank recapitalisation plan which included a capital buffer against sovereign debt exposures.
Barclays uses stress tests and Mandate and Scale to ensure its risk prole remains appropriate and this was confirmed by passing both EBA tests.
Basis of preparation The following analysis presents the maximum direct balance sheet exposure to credit risk by selected Eurozone country, with the totals reecting allowance for impairment, netting and cash collateral held where appropriate, including: Trading and derivatives balances relate to investment banking activities, principally as market-maker for government bond positions.
Positions are held at fair value, with daily movements taken through profit and loss: Available for sale assets are principally investments in government bonds and other debt securities held for the purposes of interest rate hedging and liquidity for local banking activities.
Balances are reported on a fair value basis, with movements in fair value going through equity: Loans and advances held at amortised cost comprise: i retail lending portfolios, predominantly mortgages secured on residential property: and ii corporate lending portfolios, largely reecting established corporate banking businesses in Spain, Italy and Portugal and investment banking services provided to multinational and large national corporate clients.
Settlement balances and cash collateral are excluded from this analysis: a Sovereign exposures reect direct exposures to central and local governments, the majority of which are used for hedging interest rate risk relating to local activities.
These positions are being actively replaced by non-government instruments such as interest rate swaps.
The remaining portion is actively managed reecting our role as leading primary dealer, market maker and liquidity provider to our clients: Financial institution and corporate exposures reect the country of operations of the counterparty including foreign subsidiaries and without reference to cross-border guarantees : Retail exposures reect the country of residence of retail customers: and Off-balance sheet exposure consists primarily of undrawn commitments and guarantees issued to third parties on behalf of corporate clients.
Information on the terms and potential limitations of such facilities is presented on pages 141 and 248.
The Group enters into credit mitigation arrangements for which the reference asset is government debt.
The selected countries pages 114 to 119 include only credit mitigation arrangements with counterparties in the relevant country.
The analysis of credit derivatives referencing sovereign debt reects derivative counterparty netting and includes all credit derivatives, regardless of counterparty location.
Note a In addition, the Group held cash with the central banks of these countries totalling 0.8bn as at 31 December 2011.
Other immaterial balances with central banks are classied within loans to financial institutions.
114 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Spain audited Fair value through profit and loss Trading portfolio Derivatives Trading Trading Net Designated portfolio portfolio trading Gross Gross Cash Net at FV 2011 2010 assets liabilities portfolio assets liabilities collateral derivatives through P&L Total Total As at 31 December m m m m m m m m m m Sovereign 684 684 64 64 Financial institutions 367 247 120 7,359 7,023 336 101 221 422 Corporate 167 155 12 656 251 405 212 629 431 Available for sale assets AFS 2011 2010 Fair value through equity a Cost reserve Total Total As at 31 December m m m m Sovereign 2,519 51 2,468 4,491 Financial institutions 507 17 490 669 Corporate 2 2 36 Loans and advances Impairment 2011 2010 Held at amortised cost Gross allowances Total Total As at 31 December m m m m Sovereign 62 - 62 150 Financial institutions 282 6 276 495 Residential mortgages 14,729 75 14,654 15,977 Corporate 5,901 1,187 4,714 6,006 Other retail lending 3,144 113 3,031 3,081 Contingent liabilities and commitments 2011 2010 As at 31 December m m Sovereign 188 179 Financial institutions 22 179 Residential mortgages 20 26 Corporate 2,510 2,116 Other retail lending 1,102 1,216 Note a Cost refers to the fair value of the asset at recognition, less any impairment booked.
AFS reserve is the cumulative fair value gain or loss on the assets that is held in equity.
Total is the fair value of the assets at the balance sheet date.
com annualreport 115 Italy audited Fair value through profit and loss Trading portfolio Derivatives Trading Trading Net Designated portfolio portfolio trading Gross Gross Cash Net at FV 2011 2010 assets liabilities portfolio assets liabilities collateral derivatives through P&L Total Total As at 31 December m m m m m m m m m m Sovereign 2,097 1,531 566 1,083 506 577 1 1,144 1,004 Financial institutions 429 142 287 6,224 4,791 1,319 114 55 456 978 Corporate 134 134 502 325 92 85 86 171 203 Available for sale assets AFS 2011 2010 Fair value through equity a Cost reserve Total Total As at 31 December m m m m Sovereign 2,457 123 2,334 1,220 Financial institutions 141 3 138 226 Corporate 28 1 27 19 Loans and advances Impairment 2011 2010 Held at amortised cost Gross allowances Total Total As at 31 December m m m m Sovereign 15 15 Financial institutions 83 8 75 552 Residential mortgages 16,023 89 15,934 13,741 Corporate 2,850 130 2,720 2,716 Other retail lending 2,515 180 2,335 2,599 Contingent liabilities and commitments 2011 2010 As at 31 December m m Financial institutions 17 35 Residential mortgages 101 92 Corporate 2,034 2,549 Other retail lending 988 912 Note a Cost refers to the fair value of the asset at recognition, less any impairment booked.
116 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Portugal audited Fair value through profit and loss Trading portfolio Derivatives Trading Trading Net Designated portfolio portfolio trading Gross Gross Cash Net at FV 2011 2010 assets liabilities portfolio assets liabilities collateral derivatives through P&L Total Total As at 31 December m m m m m m m m m m Sovereign 143 76 67 216 216 2 69 121 Financial institutions 24 13 11 336 336 11 106 Corporate 129 21 108 445 223 2 220 328 193 Available for sale assets AFS 2011 2010 Fair value through equity a Cost reserve Total Total As at 31 December m m m m Sovereign 875 159 716 886 Financial institutions 2 2 9 Corporate 675 2 677 896 Loans and advances Impairment 2011 2010 Held at amortised cost Gross allowances Total Total As at 31 December m m m m Sovereign 25 25 16 Financial institutions 38 38 50 Residential mortgages 3,665 14 3,651 3,476 Corporate 2,484 194 2,290 2,639 Other retail lending 2,252 199 2,053 2,074 Contingent liabilities and commitments 2011 2010 As at 31 December m m Sovereign 3 Financial institutions 3 6 Residential mortgages 52 15 Corporate 1,101 1,622 Other retail lending 1,377 1,367 Note a Cost refers to the fair value of the asset at recognition, less any impairment booked.
com annualreport 117 Ireland audited Fair value through profit and loss Trading portfolio Derivatives Trading Trading Net Designated portfolio portfolio trading Gross Gross Cash Net at FV 2011 2010 assets liabilities portfolio assets liabilities collateral derivatives through P&L Total Total As at 31 December m m m m m m m m m m Sovereign 98 64 34 45 4 36 5 39 59 Financial institutions 1,416 39 1,377 5,889 3,909 1,846 134 50 1,561 1,149 Corporate 73 30 43 658 658 9 52 164 Available for sale assets AFS 2011 2010 Fair value through equity a Cost reserve Total Total As at 31 December m m m m Sovereign 215 10 205 237 Financial institutions 274 25 249 584 Loans and advances Impairment 2011 2010 Held at amortised cost Gross allowances Total Total As at 31 December m m m m Financial institutions 2,651 150 2,501 2,036 Residential mortgages 104 10 94 109 Corporate 946 21 925 959 Other retail lending 86 86 125 Contingent liabilities and commitments 2011 2010 As at 31 December m m Financial institutions 927 871 Corporate 872 906 Other retail lending 8 9 Note a Cost refers to the fair value of the asset at recognition, less any impairment booked.
118 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Greece audited Fair value through profit and loss Trading portfolio Derivatives Trading Trading Net Designated portfolio portfolio trading Gross Gross Cash Net at FV 2011 2010 assets liabilities portfolio assets liabilities collateral derivatives through P&L Total Total As at 31 December m m m m m m m m m m Sovereign 7 7 1 1 8 15 Financial institutions 2 2 1,109 253 856 2 21 Corporate 3 3 3 7 Available for sale assets AFS 2011 2010 Fair value through equity a Cost reserve Total Total As at 31 December m m m m Sovereign 6 6 16 Loans and advances Impairment 2011 2010 Held at amortised cost Gross allowances Total Total As at 31 December m m m m Residential mortgages 5 5 4 Corporate 64 64 96 Other retail lending 27 9 18 19 Contingent liabilities and commitments 2011 2010 As at 31 December m m Financial institutions 1 1 Corporate 3 15 Other retail lending 22 18 Note a Cost refers to the fair value of the asset at recognition, less any impairment booked.
com annualreport 119 Belgium audited Fair value through profit and loss Trading portfolio Derivatives Trading Trading Net Designated portfolio portfolio trading Gross Gross Cash Net at FV 2011 2010 assets liabilities portfolio assets liabilities collateral derivatives through P&L Total Total As at 31 December m m m m m m m m m m Sovereign 735 414 321 442 442 321 431 Financial institutions 46 5 41 9,713 6,362 3,351 41 86 Corporate 59 42 17 362 329 33 47 97 67 Available for sale assets AFS 2011 2010 Fair value through equity a Cost reserve Total Total As at 31 December m m m m Sovereign 1,738 26 1,712 1,349 Corporate 15 1 16 Loans and advances Impairment 2011 2010 Held at amortised cost Gross allowances Total Total As at 31 December m m m m Financial institutions 1 1 12 Residential mortgages 10 10 10 Corporate 204 35 169 237 Other retail lending 1 Contingent liabilities and commitments 2011 2010 As at 31 December m m Financial institutions 8 Corporate 879 888 Other retail lending 2 1 Note a Cost refers to the fair value of the asset at recognition, less any impairment booked.
120 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Credit risk continued Analysis of indirect exposures Indirect exposure to sovereigns can arise through a number of different sources, including credit derivatives referencing sovereign debt: guarantees to savings and investment funds which hold sovereign risk: lending to financial institutions who themselves hold exposure to sovereigns and guarantees, implicit or explicit, by the sovereign to the Groups counterparties.
A geographic and industrial analysis of the Groups loans and advances, including lending to European counterparties by type, is set out on pages 93 to 94. Credit derivatives referencing sovereign debt The Group enters into credit mitigation primarily for risk management purposes for which the reference asset is government debt.
These have the net effect of reducing the Groups exposure in the event of sovereign default.
An analysis of the Groups credit derivatives referencing sovereign debt is presented below.
Spain Italy Portugal Ireland Greece Belgium As at 31 December 2011 m m m m m m Fair value Bought 919 1,934 1,047 538 2,197 223 Sold 917 1,836 1,023 538 2,257 227 Net derivative fair value 2 98 24 60 4 Contract notional amount Bought 9,429 14,056 3,659 2,782 3,300 2,755 Sold 9,270 13,584 3,609 2,733 3,379 2,755 Net derivative notional amount 159 472 50 49 79 Impact of credit derivatives in the event of sovereign default 157 374 26 49 19 4 notional less fair value of protection The fair values and notional amounts of credit derivative assets and liabilities would be lower than reported under IFRS if netting was permitted for assets and liabilities with the same counterparty or for which we hold cash collateral.
An analysis of the effects of such netting is presented below.
Spain Italy Portugal Ireland Greece Belgium As at 31 December 2011 m m m m m m Fair value Bought 326 681 346 170 669 69 Sold 324 583 322 170 729 73 Net derivative fair value 2 98 24 60 4 Contract notional amount Bought 2,924 4,742 1,027 854 1,019 859 Sold 2,765 4,270 977 805 1,098 859 Net derivative notional amount 159 472 50 49 79 Impact of credit derivatives in the event of sovereign default 157 374 26 49 19 4 notional less fair value of protection Credit derivatives principally credit default swaps CDS and total return swaps are arrangements whereby the default risk of an asset reference asset is transferred from the buyer to the seller of protection.
The majority of credit derivatives referencing sovereign assets are bought and sold to support customer transactions and for risk management purposes.
Wherever possible, the Group matches the maturity of derivative protection bought with the maturity of the underlying reference assets to help maximise the effectiveness of the mitigation against the exposure.
The contract notional amount represents the value of the reference asset being insured, while the fair value represents the change in value of the reference asset, adjusted for the creditworthiness of the counterparty providing the protection.
The net derivative notional amount, representing a reduction in exposures, is not included in the country tables but should be considered alongside the direct exposures shown.
Sovereign CDS would trigger on the occurrence of a credit event as determined by ISDAs Determination Committee.
CDS positions are monitored considering counterparty, country of counterparty and concentration level with respect to counterparties and sovereigns.
Further information on the credit quality of the Groups derivative assets is presented on page 107.
Group guarantees relating to savings and investment funds The Group has indirect sovereign exposure through the guarantee of certain savings and investment funds, which hold a proportion of their assets in sovereign debt.
As at 31 December 2011, the recognised liability in respect of these guarantees was 41m, with a 1.5bn gross notional exposure.
In addition, a Group associate, Vida Y Pensiones Compania fide Seguros, holds investments with a total fair value of 1.2bn relating to certain customer investment products, of which a proportion are guaranteed and the majority comprise sovereign, financial institution and corporate debt in Eurozone countries.
com annualreport 121 Risk management Market risk All disclosures in this section pages 121 to 129 are unaudited unless otherwise stated Market risk Market risk is the risk of the Group suffering financial loss due to the Group being unable to hedge its balance sheet at prevailing market levels.
The Group can be impacted by changes in both the level and volatility of prices e. g. interest rates, credit spreads, commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
Overview audited The main sources of risk are traded market risk, non-traded risk and pension risk.
Traded risk in the businesses resides primarily in Barclays Capital while non-traded market risk resides mainly in Retail and Business Banking, Barclays Corporate, Barclays Wealth and Group Treasury.
Pensions risk is monitored centrally with the cost borne across businesses.
Barclays market risk objectives are to: Understand and control market risk by robust measurement, limit setting, reporting and oversight: Facilitate business growth within a controlled and transparent risk management framework: Ensure that traded market risk in the businesses resides primarily in Barclays Capital: and Minimise non-traded market risk.
Organisation and structure audited The BRC reviews and approves market risk appetite for the group.
The Group Market Risk Director is responsible for the Barclays Market Risk Control Framework and, under delegated authority from the Chief Risk officer, sets a limit framework within the context of the approved market risk appetite.
Daily market risk reports summarise Barclays market risk exposures against agreed limits and are distributed to the principal risk owners.
Overview of the business control structure Group Market Risk Director Risk type Traded Non-traded Pension risk Interest rate risk Interest rate risk Credit spread risk Foreign exchange risk Commodity risk Asset management risk Equity risk Foreign exchange risk managed by Barclays Retail and Barclays Barclays Barclays Wealth Group Treasury Pension Fund Capital Business Banking Corporate Wealth Absa Retail and Trustees and Corporate Banking Barclays Central Functions with oversight and challenge provided by Group including Market Risk Committee and Traded Products Asset and Liability Committees Barclays Wealth Treasury Pension Risk Review New Product Process team Asset and Liability Committee Management Meeting Supervisory visits from business centre team Committee Treasury Hedge Group Investment Absa Market Committee Pension Committee Risk Committee Executive Board 122 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Market risk continued The Market Risk Committee approves, and makes recommendations concerning the market risk prole across Barclays.
This includes approving Barclays Market Risk Control Framework and Group Policies: reviewing current and forward issues, limits and utilisation: and proposing risk appetite levels for the Board.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Market Risk Director and attendees include the Chief Risk officer, respective business risk managers, group treasury and senior managers from Group Market Risk as well as Internal Audit.
The head of each business, assisted by market risk management, is accountable for all market risks associated with its activities.
The head of each business market risk team is responsible for implementing the risk control framework for non-traded market risk, while Barclays Capital Market Risk implements the risk control framework for traded market risk.
The control frameworks for traded, non-traded and pensions risk are all governed by the Barclays Market Risk Control Framework, which sets out how market risk should be identied, measured, controlled, reported and reviewed.
The Framework also outlines and references Group Market Risk policies.
Market risk oversight and challenge is provided by business committees, Group committees including the Market Risk Committee and Group Market Risk.
The chart above gives an overview of the business control structure.
Traded market risk audited Traded market risk arises primarily as a result of client facilitation in wholesale markets.
This involves market making, risk management solutions and execution of syndications.
Mismatches between client transactions and hedges result in market risk.
In Barclays Capital, trading risk is measured for the trading book, as dened for regulatory purposes, and certain banking books.
Risk measurement Barclays uses a range of complementary technical approaches to measure and control traded market risk including: Daily Value at Risk DVaR, Expected Shortfall, 3W, primary and secondary stress testing and combined scenario stress testing.
DVaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising from unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day.
For management purposes Barclays Capital uses a historical simulation methodology with a two-year equally weighted historical period, at the 95% confidence level for all trading portfolios and certain banking books.
Market volatility in 2011 was heightened, particularly in the second half, by uncertainty on the future economic growth and the sovereign debt crisis.
The high volatility observations of early 2009 rolled-out of the two year DVaR historical data set, however new tail points were added in the second half of 2011.
As dened by the FSA, a green model is consistent with a good working DVaR model and is achieved for models that have four or fewer back-testing exceptions in a 12-month period.
Back-testing counts the number of days when a loss as dened by the FSA exceeds the corresponding DVaR estimate, measured at the 99% confidence level.
For Barclays Capitals DVaR model, green model status was maintained for 2011.
The DVaR model is regularly assessed and reviewed internally by Group Executive Models Committee and within Barclays Capital.
When reviewing DVaR estimates the following considerations should be taken into account: Historical simulation uses the most recent two years of past data to generate possible future market moves, but the past may not be a good indicator of the future: The one day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be closed out or hedged within one day: DVaR is based on positions as at close of business and consequently intra-day risk, the risk from a position bought and sold on the same day, is not captured: and DVaR does not indicate the potential loss beyond the 95th percentile.
In part to mitigate these issues, Barclays also uses Expected Shortfall and 3W metrics which use the same two year historical simulation data set as used to calculate DVaR.
Expected Shortfall is the average of all one day hypothetical losses beyond the 95% confidence level DVaR while 3W is the average of the three largest one day estimated losses.
Stress testing provides an estimate of potential significant future losses that might arise from extreme market moves or scenarios.
Primary stress tests apply stress moves to key liquid risk factors for each of the major trading asset classes including interest rate, credit, commodity, equity foreign exchange and securitised products.
Secondary stress tests apply stress moves to less liquid risks.
Combined scenarios apply simultaneous shocks to several risk factors, reecting dened extraordinary, but plausible macro scenarios.
This is assessed by applying respective changes on foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit spreads, commodities and equities to the portfolio.
In 2011, Barclays Capital implemented new regulatory risk models to comply with the CRD3 revisions to the market risk capital requirement.
These were Stressed VaR SVaR, Incremental Risk Charge IRC and the All Price Risk APR.
All three models were approved by the FSA for calculation of regulatory capital for designated trading book portfolios.
The SVaR approval matches the scope of the DVaR model as used for regulatory capital calculations.
SVaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising from a 12 month period of significant financial stress.
SVaR uses DVaR methodology based on inputs calibrated to historical data from a continuous 12 month period that maximises the DVaR based capital at a 99% one-tailed confidence limit.
IRC is computed on all xed income positions subject to specic market risk.
It calculates the incremental risk arising from rating migrations and defaults, beyond what is already captured in specic market risk, to a 99.9% confidence level over a one year holding period.
com annualreport 123 APR replaces specic risk for the correlation trading portfolio and is intended to capture all risk factors relevant to corporate nth-to-default and tranched credit derivatives.
As for IRC, the capital requirement is based on a 99.9% confidence interval over a one year holding period.
When reviewing estimates produced by the CRD3 models the following considerations should be taken into account: SVaR uses the same methodology as the DVaR model and hence is subject to the same considerations as this model.
In addition, SVaR is calibrated to a specic 12 month historical stress period which may not reect a stress period that could arise in the future: In common with DVaR, neither IRC nor APR indicate the potential loss beyond the 99th percentile, and they do not measure risk from trades which are bought and sold in between weekly runs: and Both IRC and APR are computed to a 1-in-1,000 year confidence level which cannot be meaningfully backtested.
This is in contrast to DVaR, which can be meaningfully backtested.
Risk control Market risk is controlled through the use of an appropriate limit framework.
Limits are set at the total Barclays Capital level, risk factor level e. g. interest rate risk and business line level e. g. Emerging Markets.
Stress limits and many book limits, such as foreign exchange and interest rate sensitivity limits, are also used to control risk appetite.
The total DVaR limit, risk factor DVaR limits, and 3W limit are approved by BRC.
Primary stress limits are approved by the Chief Risk officer and are tabled for noting by BRC.
Compliance with limits is monitored by Barclays Capital Market Risk with oversight provided by Group Market Risk.
In 2011, Group Market Risk continued its ongoing programme of conformance visits to Barclays Capital business areas.
These visits review both the current market risk prole and potential market risk developments, as well as verifying conformance with Barclays Market Risk Control Framework.
Risk reporting Barclays Capital Market Risk produce a number of detailed and summary market risk reports daily, weekly, fortnightly and monthly for business and risk managers.
These are also sent to Group Market Risk for review and inclusion in the Group Daily Market Risk Report.
A risk summary is presented at the Market Risk Committee and Barclays Capital Traded Positions Risk Review.
Analysis of traded market risk exposures Audited The trading environment in 2011 was characterised by weak underlying economic growth as well as uncertain market direction resulting in lower client activity particularly in the second half of 2011.
In this environment, Barclays Capitals market risk exposure, as measured by average total DVaR, increased 8% to 57m 2010: 53m.
The three main risk factors affecting DVaR were spread, interest rate and equity risk.
From 2010 levels, average DVaR for spread risk fell by 3m 6% and interest rate DVaR fell by 16m 48% reecting cautious positioning.
Equity DVaR increased by 4m 29% on continued growth of the global equities business and product offerings.
The diversication effect fell 38% to an average of 40m in 2011 due to increasing cross asset correlation as the European crisis worsened.
However, the tail risk indicated by the expected shortfall and 3W measures fell 9% to 71m and 16% to 121m respectively from 2010 levels.
The daily average, maximum and minimum values of DVaR, Expected Shortfall and 3W were calculated as below: The daily average, maximum and minimum values of DVaR, Expected Shortfall and 3W audited Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 a a a a Average High Low Average High Low DVaR 95% m m m m m m Interest rate risk 17 47 7 33 50 21 Spread risk 45 69 25 48 62 30 Commodity risk 12 18 7 16 25 9 Equity risk 18 34 9 14 29 6 Foreign exchange risk 5 8 2 6 15 2 Diversication effect 40 na na 64 na na Total DVaR 57 88 33 53 75 36 Expected Shortfall 71 113 43 78 147 47 3W 121 202 67 144 311 72 Note a The high and low DVaR gures reported for each category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the high and low DVaR reported as a whole.
Consequently a diversication effect balance for the high and low DVaR gures would not be meaningful and is therefore omitted from the above table.
124 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Market risk continued Barclays Capital daily trading revenue 2011 and 2010 m Total DVaR 2010 and 2011 m 100 Number of days b 20 2011 20 2 2010 80 c 31 20 to 0 13 40 0 to 20 60 39 52 20 to 40 75 40 53 40 to 60 58 a 24 60 to 80 28 20 11 80 to 100 17 17 100 0 21 2010 2011 Analysis of trading revenue The histogram above shows the distribution of daily trading revenue for Barclays Capital in 2011 and 2010.
Trading revenue excludes income from Private Equity and Principal Investments.
The average daily revenue in 2011 was 41m, 21% lower than the 2010 average.
In 2011, there were more negative days than in 2010, with the majority of these days occurring during the highly volatile second half of 2011.
Non-traded interest rate risk audited Non-traded interest rate risk arises from the provision of retail and wholesale non-traded banking products and services, when the interest rate repricing date for loans assets is different to the repricing date for deposits liabilities.
This includes current accounts and equity balances which do not have a dened maturity date and an interest rate that does not change in line with Base rate changes.
The risk resides mainly in Retail and Business Banking, Barclays Corporate, and Group Treasury.
Barclays objective is to minimise non-traded interest rate risk and this is achieved by transferring interest rate risk from the business to a local or Group Treasury, which in turn hedges the net exposure via Barclays Capital with the external market.
Limits exist to ensure no material risk is retained within any business or product area.
Trading activity is not permitted outside Barclays Capital.
Risk measurement The risk in each business is measured and controlled using both an income metric Annual Earnings at Risk and value metrics Economic Value of Equity, Economic Capital, DVaR, risk factor stress testing, scenario stress testing.
Annual Earnings at Risk AEaR measures the sensitivity of net interest income over the next 12 month period.
It is calculated as the difference between the estimated income using the current yield curve and the lowest estimated income following a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates, subject to a minimum interest rate of 0%.
The main model assumptions are: The balance sheet is kept at the current level i. e. no growth is assumed: and Balances are adjusted for an assumed behavioural prole.
This includes the treatment of xed rate loans including mortgages.
Economic Value of Equity EVE calculates the change in the present value of the banking book for a 100 basis point upward and downward rate shock.
This calculation is equivalent to that of AEaR except EVE is a present value sensitivity while AEaR is an income sensitivity.
Economic Capital EC consistent models are used to measure: recruitment risk, the risk from customers not taking up their xed rate loan offer: and prepayment risk, the risk of a customer deciding not to carry on with their xed rate loan.
Behavioural proles are also used when modelling the balance sheet.
A combination of DVaR, stress limits, net open position and specic currency or tenor limits are in place for all local Treasury activities.
Notes a DVaR continues to fall from 2010 levels reaching a low of 33m for the year.
b A high of 88m was reached in August as the euro sovereign crisis continued to deteriorate, impacting market liquidity.
c Towards the end of 2011, total DVaR remained elevated in part due to decreased cross asset diversication, but remains well within the dened risk appetite.
com annualreport 125 Risk control Market risk is controlled through the use of limits on the above risk measures.
Limits are set at the total business level and then cascaded down.
The total business level limits for AEaR, EVE, EC, DVaR and stress are agreed by the Market Risk Committee.
Compliance with limits is monitored by the respective business market risk team with oversight provided by Group Market Risk.
Market risk is also controlled through an ongoing programme of conformance reviews by both the business market risk departments and Group Market Risk.
These reviews examine both the current market risk prole and potential market risk developments, as well as verifying adherence with Barclays policies and standards as detailed in the Barclays Market Risk Control Framework.
The interest rate risk for balances with no dened maturity date and an interest rate that is not linked to the base rate is managed by Group Treasury.
A series of continuous rolling hedges are used to mitigate the interest rate risk in the banking book.
In 2011, the maturity of the rolling hedge programme was extended following a review by Group Treasury Committee of the most appropriate maturity.
This revision was agreed by the Group Executive Committee.
Risk reporting Each business area is responsible for their respective market risk reports.
A combination of daily and monthly risk reports are produced and used by the business.
These are also sent to Group Market Risk for review and inclusion in the daily market risk report.
A risk summary is also presented at the Market Risk Committee and respective Asset and Liability Committees.
Analysis of net interest income sensitivity The table below shows sensitivity analysis on the pre-tax net interest income for the non-trading financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010.
The sensitivity has been measured using AEaR methodology as described above.
The benchmark interest rate for each currency is set as at 31 December 2011.
The gures include the effect of hedging instruments but exclude banking book exposures held or issued by Barclays Capital as these are measured and managed using DVaR.
Net interest income sensitivity AEaR by currency audited 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 100 basis -100 basis 100 basis -100 basis points points points points m m m m GBP 68 321 297 377 US$ 9 11 12 8 EUR 41 5 16 12 ZAR 31 29 13 10 Others 14 5 Total 63 371 282 383 As percentage of net interest income 0.52% 3.04% 2.25% 3.06% Non-traded interest rate risk, as measured by AEaR, was 371m as at 31 December 2011, a decrease of 12m compared to 31 December 2010.
The decrease in risk reects a reduction between Group Equity Balances and associated hedges, partly offset by margin compression in the retail bank.
If the interest rate hedges had not been in place the AEaR for 2011 would have been 553m 2010: 601m.
AEaR is measured for a reduction in rates for the purposes of this analysis.
Analysis of equity sensitivity Analysis of equity sensitivity audited 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 100 basis -100 basis 100 basis -100 basis points points points points m m m m Net interest income 63 371 282 383 Taxation effects on the above 21 122 71 96 Effect on profit for the year 42 249 211 287 As percentage of net profit after tax 1.06% 6.30% 4.64% 6.31% Effect on profit for the year per above 42 249 211 287 Available for sale reserve 1,108 1,102 2,051 2,051 Cash ow hedge reserve 2,248 2,280 1,298 1,288 Taxation effects on the above 1,101 1,109 837 835 Effect on equity 2,213 2,024 2,301 2,217 As percentage of equity 3.39% 3.10% 3.70% 3.56% 126 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Market risk continued Margins and Balances 2011 2010 Analysis of net interest income m m Retail and Business Banking, Corporate and Wealth customer interest income Customer assets 6,983 6,956 Customer liabilities 2,866 2,167 9,849 9,123 Retail and Business Banking, Corporate and Wealth non-customer interest income a Product structural hedge 1,168 1,403 b Equity structural hedge 824 731 Other 148 116 Total Retail and Business Banking, Corporate and Wealth net interest income 11,989 11,373 c Barclays Capital 1,177 1,121 c Head Ofce and Investment Management 965 29 Group net interest income 12,201 12,523 Retail and Business Banking, Corporate and Wealth Net Interest Income Barclays distinguishes the relative net interest contribution from each of customer assets and customer liabilities, and separates this from the contribution delivered by non-customer net interest income, which principally arises from the Group hedging activities.
Customer interest income Customer net interest income increased 8% to 9,849m, driven by increases in the customer liability margin and growth in average customer asset and liability balances.
Retail customer liabilities grew principally due to demand for savings products in the UK.
The customer asset margin declined to 2.20% 2010: 2.25%, reecting an increase in the cost of funds across each of the individual RBB, Corporate and Wealth businesses.
This was partially offset by increased customer pricing across most of the businesses.
The customer liability margin increased to 1.06% 2010: 0.86% reecting the increase in the cost of funds and therefore value generated from RBB, Corporate and Wealth customer liabilities.
Non-customer interest income Non-customer net interest income decreased 5% to 2,140m, reecting a 7% reduction in the benets from Group hedging activities to 1,992m.
Group hedging activities utilise structural interest rate hedges to mitigate the impact of the low interest rate environment on customer liabilities and the Groups equity.
Product structural hedges generated a lower contribution of 1,168m 2010: 1,403m, as hedges were maintained at lower market interest rates.
The extended duration prole constructed in H1 2011 continues to moderate this impact.
Based on the market curve as at the end of 2011 and the on-going hedging strategy, xed rate returns on product structural hedges are expected to continue to make a significant but declining contribution in 2012.
The contribution from equity structural hedges in RBB, Corporate and Wealth increased to 824m 2010: 731m including a 216m increase in gains on sale of hedging instruments.
Other Group Net Interest Income Barclays Capital net interest income increased 5% to 1,177m, including a 247m increase in gains on sale of hedging instruments.
Head Ofce and Investment Management net interest expense of 965m 2010: 29m income principally reects a reduction in income which is transferred from trading income within Head Ofce relating to interest rate swaps used for hedge accounting purposes, together with an increase in amounts transferred to businesses relating to gains arising from the sale of hedging instruments.
Notes a Product structural hedges convert short term interest margin volatility on product balances such as non-interest bearing current accounts and managed rate deposits into a more stable medium term rate and are built on a monthly basis to achieve a targeted maturity prole.
b Equity structural hedges are in place to manage the volatility in net earnings generated by businesses on the Groups equity, with the impact allocated to businesses in line with their economic capital usage.
c Includes contribution from equity structural hedging.
Total Group income from equity structural hedges increased to 2,109m 2010: 1,788m including 1,285m 2010: 1,057m that was allocated to Barclays Capital and Head Ofce, primarily due to increased gains on sale of hedging instruments partially offset by a decline in ongoing hedging contribution.
com annualreport 127 Net Interest Margin The net interest margin for RBB, Corporate and Wealth remained stable at 2.04% 2010: 2.03%.
Consistent with prior periods the net interest margin is expressed as a percentage of the sum of average customer assets and liabilities, to reect the impact of the margin generated on retail and commercial banking liabilities.
The net interest margin expressed as a percentage of average customer assets only, improved to 3.77% 2010: 3.67%.
An analysis is provided below for RBB, Corporate and Wealth for each of the component parts of net interest income.
The customer liability margin is calculated as the interest on customer liabilities excluding the impact of hedging, relative to the average internal funding rate, divided by average customer liabilities.
The non-customer generated margin is calculated as non-customer interest income principally comprising the impact of both the product and equity structural hedge as a percentage of the sum of average customer assets and liabilities, consistent with the presentation of the net interest margin.
The Groups internal funding rate prices intra-group funding and liquidity to appropriately give credit to businesses with net surplus liquidity and to charge those businesses in need of wholesale funding at a rate that is driven by prevailing market rates including a term premium.
The objective is to price internal funding for assets and liabilities in line with the cost of alternative funding, which ensures there is consistency between retail and wholesale sources.
128 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Market risk continued Foreign exchange risk audited The Group is exposed to two sources of foreign exchange risk.
a Transactional foreign currency exposure Transactional foreign exchange exposures represent exposure on banking assets and liabilities, denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the transacting entity.
The Groups risk management policies prevent the holding of significant open positions in foreign currencies outside the trading portfolio managed by Barclays Capital which is monitored through DVaR.
There were no material net transactional foreign currency exposures outside the trading portfolio at either 31 December 2011 or 2010.
Due to the low level of non-trading exposures no reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates would have a material effect on either the Groups profit or movements in equity for the year ended 31 December 2011 or 2010. b Translational foreign exchange exposure The Groups investments in overseas subsidiaries and branches create capital resources denominated in foreign currencies principally US$, Euro and South African Rand.
Changes in the Sterling value of the investments due to foreign currency movements are captured in the currency translation reserve, resulting in a movement in Core Tier 1 capital.
During 2011, total structural currency exposures net of hedging instruments increased from 15.3bn to 16.7bn, driven by redemption of $2bn Reserve Capital Instruments that formed part of the economic hedges.
Structural currency exposures pre economic hedges remained broadly at.
US$ exposures increased by $8bn due to the restructuring of our holding in BlackRock, Inc from a GBP entity to a US$ entity, offset by the increase in USD derivatives which hedge net investments.
South African Rand exposures increased 1.1bn as a result of a reduction in the hedging of the investment in Absa Group.
Euro exposures reduced by 0.8bn driven by the Spain goodwill write off, which had no impact on Euro denominated Core Tier 1 capital as goodwill is deducted for regulatory capital purposes.
Functional currency of operations audited Structural Foreign Borrowings Derivatives currency Remaining currency which hedge which hedge exposures structural net the net the net pre economic Economic currency investments investments investments hedges hedges exposures m m m m m m As at 31 December 2011 US Dollar 30,335 7,217 8,094 15,024 5,072 9,952 Euro 6,568 4,096 280 2,192 2,017 175 Rand 4,258 4,258 4,258 Japanese Yen 681 293 336 52 52 Other 3,144 930 2,214 2,214 Total 44,986 11,606 9,640 23,740 7,089 16,651 As at 31 December 2010 US Dollar 22,646 7,406 15,240 6,330 8,910 Euro 7,327 3,072 1,294 2,961 2,069 892 Rand 4,826 1,626 3,200 3,200 Japanese Yen 5,304 3,603 1,683 18 18 Swiss Franc 152 157 5 5 Other 3,139 824 2,315 2,315 Total 43,394 14,081 5,584 23,729 8,399 15,330 The economic hedges primarily represent the US Dollar and Euro Preference Shares and Reserve Capital Instruments in issue that are treated as equity under IFRS, and do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.
During the year $2bn Reserve Capital Instruments were redeemed.
The impact of a change in the exchange rate between Sterling and any of the major currencies would be: A higher or lower Sterling equivalent value of non-Sterling denominated capital resources and risk weighted assets.
This includes a higher or lower currency translation reserve within equity, representing the retranslation of non-Sterling subsidiaries, branches and associated undertakings net of the impact of foreign exchange rate changes on derivatives and borrowings designated as hedges of net investments: A higher or lower profit after tax, arising from changes in the exchange rates used to translate items in the consolidated income statement: and A higher or lower value of available for sale investments denominated in foreign currencies, impacting the available for sale reserve.
com annualreport 129 Other market risks Barclays maintains a number of dened benefit pension schemes for past and current employees.
The ability of the pension fund to meet the projected pension payments is maintained through investments and regular bank contributions.
Pension risk arises because the estimated market value of the pension fund assets might decline: or their investment returns might reduce: or the estimated value of the pension liabilities might increase.
In these circumstances, Barclays could be required or might choose to make extra contributions to the pension fund.
Financial details of the pension fund are in Note 39 on page 261.
Asset management structural risk arises where the fee and commission income earned by asset management products is affected by a change in market levels, primarily through the link between income and the value of assets under management.
Asset management structural risk mainly resides in Barclays Wealth.
It is Barclays policy that businesses monitor and regularly assess potential hedging strategies.
Disclosures about certain trading activities including non-exchange traded commodity contracts The Group provides a fully integrated service to clients for base metals, precious metals, oil, power, natural gas, coal, freight, emission credits, structured products and other related commodities.
This service offering continues to expand, as market conditions allow, through the addition of new products and markets.
The Group offers both OTC and exchange traded derivatives, including swaps, options, forwards and futures and enters into physically settled contracts in base metals, power and gas, oil and related products.
Physical commodity positions are held at fair value and reported under the Trading Portfolio in Note 15 on page 219.
The fair values of physical and derivative positions are primarily determined through a combination of recognised market observable prices, exchange prices, and established inter-commodity relationships.
Further information on fair value measurement of financial instruments can be found in Note 20 on page 225. Credit risk exposures are actively managed by the Group.
Refer to the Credit Risk section on page 107 for more information on the Groups approach to credit risk management and the credit quality of derivative assets.
The tables below analyse the overall fair value of the OTC commodity derivative contracts by movement over time and contractual maturity.
As at 31 December 2011 the fair value of the commodity derivative contracts reects a gross positive fair value of 20,588m 2010: 22,521m and a gross negative value of 20,133m 2010: 22,884m.
2011 2010 Movement in fair value of commodity derivative positions m m Fair value of contracts outstanding as at 1 January 363 907 Contracts realised or otherwise settled during the period 1,494 3,124 Fair value of new contracts entered into during the period 33 1,068 Other changes in fair values 643 2,922 Fair value of contracts outstanding as at 31 December 455 363 2011 2010 Maturity analysis of commodity derivative fair value m m Not more than one year 447 1,859 Over one year but not more than five years 35 977 Over five years 27 519 Total 455 363 On occasion, Barclays will hold dominant positions in base metals on the London Metal Exchange LME, as per the Exchanges denition.
Barclays complies fully with LMEs Lending Guidance, which is the Exchanges mechanism for limiting the impact of dominant market positions by prescribing the amount and level at which positions must be lent.
130 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Funding risk Capital All disclosures in this section pages 130 to 138 are unaudited unless otherwise stated Capital risk Capital risk is the risk that the Group is unable to maintain appropriate capital ratios which could lead to: i an inability to support business activity: ii a failure to meet regulatory requirements: or iii changes to credit ratings.
Capital Management is integral to the Groups approach to financial stability and sustainability management and is therefore embedded in the way our businesses and legal entities operate.
Our Capital Management strategy is driven by the strategic aims of the Group and the risk appetite set by the Board.
Our objectives are achieved through well embedded capital management practices: Primary Objectives Core Practices Provide a viable and sustainable business offering by maintaining Monitor internal targets for capital demand and ratios adequate capital to cover the Groups current and forecast business Meet minimum regulatory requirements at all times in the UK and in needs and associated risks all other jurisdictions that the Group operates in, such as the United States and South Africa where regulated activities are undertaken Ensure the Group and legal entities maintain adequate capital to Perform Group-wide internal and regulatory stress tests withstand the impact of the risks that may arise under the stressed Maintain capital buffers over regulatory minima conditions analysed by the Group Develop contingency plans for severe stress management actions and extreme stress tests recovery actions Support a strong credit rating Maintain capital ratios aligned with rating agency expectations Implementation of the Capital Principal Risk management framework and ensure alignment with leading international and regulatory practices Support the Groups growth and strategic options Maintain a capital plan on a short-term and medium term basis aligned with strategic objectives Our approach to capital risk management We adopt a forward-looking, risk based approach to Capital Risk Management.
Capital demand and supply is actively managed on a centralised basis, at a business level, at a local entity level and on a regional basis taking into account the regulatory, economic and commercial environment in which Barclays operates.
Capital planning Capital forecasts are managed on a top-down and bottom-up analysis through both Short Term Year 1 monthly and Medium Term 3 year financial planning cycles.
The Group capital plan is developed with the objective of maintaining capital that is adequate in quantity and quality to support our risk prole and business needs.
As a result the Group holds a diversied pool of capital resources that provides strong loss absorbing capacity and optimised returns.
Local management ensures compliance with an entitys minimum regulatory capital requirements by reporting to local Asset and Liability Committees with oversight by the Treasury Committee, as required.
Capital allocation Capital allocations are approved by the Group Executive committee and monitored by the Treasury Committee, taking into consideration the risk appetite, growth and strategic aims of the Group.
Barclays Bank PLC is the primary source of capital to its legal entities.
Regulated legal entities are, at a minimum, allocated adequate capital to meet their current and forecast regulatory and business requirements.
com annualreport 131 Risk identication Capital demand is assessed and quantied for credit, market, operational, interest rate risk on the banking book, pension obligation risk and securitisation risks, in line with the FSAs regulatory requirements.
Treasury works closely with Group Risk, businesses and legal entities to support a proactive approach to identifying sources of capital ratio volatilities which are incorporated in the Groups capital plan.
We monitor capital risks against rm-specic and macroeconomic early warning indicators and report to the Treasury Committee, associated with clear escalation channels to senior management.
Following the financial crisis, managing for regulatory change has become fundamental to our capital planning process as it provides a forward looking assessment of the impact of mandated changes which allows us to understand the commercial implications.
Stress testing Internal stress testing is undertaken to quantify and understand the impact of sensitivities on the capital plan and capital ratios, arising from 1 in 7 year and 1 in 25 year stresses.
Actual recent economic, market and peer institution stresses are used to inform the assumptions of our stress tests and assess the effectiveness of our mitigation strategies.
Group also undertakes stress tests prescribed by the FSA and EBA.
Legal entities undertake stress tests prescribed by their local regulators.
These stress tests inform decisions on the size and quality of capital buffers required and the results are incorporated into the Group capital plan to ensure adequacy of capital under normal and severe, but plausible stressed conditions.
Risk mitigation As part of the stress testing process we identify the actions that should be taken to mitigate the risks that could arise in the event of material adverse changes in the current economic and business outlook.
As an additional layer of protection, the Barclays Recovery Plan also defines the actions and implementation strategies for these actions available for the Group to increase or preserve our capital resources in the event that stress events are more extreme than originally forecast.
Barclays has participated in the FSAs Pilot project of developing a Recovery Plan since 2010 and is progressing with compliance by June 2012.
Transferability of capital The Groups policy is for surplus capital held in Group entities to be repatriated to Barclays Bank PLC in the form of dividends and or capital repatriation, subject to local regulatory requirements, exchange controls and tax implications.
This approach provides optimal exibility on the re-deployment of capital across legal entities.
The Group is not aware of any material impediments to the prompt transfer of capital resources or repayment of intra-group liabilities when due.
Governance Our capital plans are underpinned by the Capital Management Framework, which includes our capital management policies and practices that are approved by the Capital Committee, implemented consistently and aimed at delivering on our objectives.
The Treasury Committee and the Board approve the Group capital plan, stress tests and Recovery Plan.
The Group Treasury Committee manages compliance with the Groups capital management objectives.
The Committee reviews actual and forecast capital demand and resources on a monthly basis.
The BRC annually reviews risk appetite and then analyses the impacts of stress scenarios on the Group capital forecast see pages 142 and 143 in order to understand and manage the Groups projected capital adequacy, amongst other things.
Resources Global teams operate in accordance with the Groups policies and procedures, having direct access to local regulators and businesses in order to support individual capital management at a legal entity level.
Senior Management awareness and transparency Capital ratios, early warning indicators and movements in capital demand and supply are reported to Treasury Committee monthly.
Capital management information is readily available at all times to support the Executive Managements strategic and day-to-day business decision making, as may be required.
The Group submits its Board approved ICAAP document to the FSA on an annual basis, which forms the basis of the Individual Capital Guidance set by the FSA.
Pillar 3 disclosures are publicly available as a separate document in line with the Basel 2 and FSA requirements.
132 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Funding risk Capital continued Capital adequacy Key capital ratios Basel 2 Basel 3 As at As at As at Minimum Minimum 31.12.11 31.12.10 31.12.09 Core Tier 1 n a 7.0% 11.0% 10.8% 10.0% Tier 1 n a n a 12.9% 13.5% 13.0% Total capital 8.0% 10.0% 16.4% 16.9% 16.6% Barclays has continued to maintain a capital buffer over the FSAs minimum regulatory capital requirements.
Capital supply Regulatory capital summary audited 2011 2010 2009 m m m Core Tier 1 capital 43,066 42,861 38,437 Tier 1 capital 50,473 53,546 49,637 Tier 2 capital 16,063 16,019 14,703 Deductions from total capital 2,588 2,250 880 Total capital resources 63,948 67,315 63,460 Core Tier 1 capital increased by 0.2bn to 43.1bn primarily driven by: 2.6bn capital generated from retained profits excluding own credit gain, impairment of investment in BlackRock, Inc. and goodwill impairment, which are added back for regulatory capital purposes: 1.1bn reduction in the value of the investment in BlackRock, Inc. prior to impairment: 0.5bn net increase from the impact of share awards on shareholders funds: 1.3bn reduction reecting contributions made to the UK Retirement Fund in 2011: 1.3bn reduction due to foreign currency movements, primarily depreciation of the South African Rand and Euro against Sterling: and 0.8bn increase resulting from lower regulatory deductions.
Total capital resources decreased by 3.4bn to 63.9bn principally as a result of the debt buy-back in December 2011 of 1.9bn Reserve Capital Instruments and 0.5bn Tier 1 notes that will not qualify as Tier 1 capital under Basel 3 and the further redemption of 1.3bn of Reserve Capital Instruments.
com annualreport 133 Capital composition Key capital ratios 2011 2010 2009 Core Tier 1 11.0% 10.8% 10.0% Tier 1 12.9% 13.5% 13.0% Total capital 16.4% 16.9% 16.6% 2011 2010 2009 Capital Resources m m m Shareholders' equity excluding non-controlling interests per balance sheet 55,589 50,858 47,277 Non-controlling interests per balance sheet 9,607 11,404 11,201 Less: Other Tier 1 capital - preference shares 6,235 6,317 6,256 Less: Other Tier 1 capital - Reserve Capital Instruments 1,275 1,980 Less: Non-controlling Tier 2 capital 573 572 547 Other regulatory adjustments 138 317 67 Regulatory adjustments and deductions: Own credit cumulative gain net of tax 2,680 621 340 Dened benefit pension adjustment 1,241 99 431 Unrealised losses on available for sale debt securities 555 340 83 Unrealised gains on available for sale equity recognised as Tier 2 capital 828 309 Cash ow hedging reserve 1,442 152 252 Goodwill and intangible assets 7,560 8,326 8,345 50% excess of expected losses over impairment net of tax 506 268 17 50% of securitisation positions 1,577 2,360 2,799 Other regulatory adjustments 95 368 357 Core Tier 1 capital 43,066 42,861 38,437 Other Tier 1 capital: Preference shares 6,235 6,317 6,256 a Tier 1 notes 530 1,046 1,017 Reserve Capital Instruments 2,895 6,098 6,724 Regulatory adjustments and deductions: 50% of material holdings 2,382 2,676 2,805 50% tax on excess of expected losses over impairment 129 100 8 Total Tier 1 capital 50,473 53,546 49,637 Tier 2 capital: Undated subordinated liabilities 1,657 1,648 1,350 Dated subordinated liabilities 15,189 16,565 15,657 Non-controlling Tier 2 capital 573 572 547 Reserves arising on revaluation of property 25 29 26 Unrealised gains on available for sale equity 828 309 Collectively assessed impairment allowances 2,385 2,409 2,443 Tier 2 deductions: 50% of material holdings 2,382 2,676 2,805 50% excess of expected losses over impairment gross of tax 635 168 25 50% of securitisation positions 1,577 2,360 2,799 Total capital regulatory adjustments and deductions: Investments that are not material holdings or qualifying holdings 1,991 1,622 137 Other deductions from total capital 597 628 743 Total regulatory capital 63,948 67,315 63,460 Note a Tier 1 notes are included in subordinated liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
134 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Funding risk Capital continued Capital demand 2011 2010 Risk weighted assets by risk m m Credit risk 245,224 260,998 Counterparty risk Internal model method 33,131 29,466 Non-model method 4,953 14,397 Market risk Modelled VaR 26,568 9,209 Modelled Charges add-on and Non-VaR 17,560 3,769 Standardised 27,823 48,073 Operational risk 35,740 32,119 Total risk weighted assets 390,999 398,031 Total assets and risk weighted assets by business Total assets Risk weighted assets 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m UK RBB 127,845 121,590 33,956 35,274 Europe RBB 51,310 53,609 17,436 17,269 Africa RBB 50,759 60,264 33,419 38,401 Barclaycard 33,838 30,324 34,186 31,913 Barclays Capital 1,158,351 1,094,799 186,700 191,275 Barclays Corporate 88,674 85,735 69,712 70,796 Barclays Wealth 20,866 17,849 13,076 12,398 Investment Management 4,066 4,612 125 74 Head Ofce Functions and Other Operations 27,818 20,863 2,389 631 Total 1,563,527 1,489,645 390,999 398,031 Group risk weighted assets decreased by 2% to 391bn 2010: 398bn driven by: approximately 30bn increase from implementation of CRD3 incorporating Basel 2.5, predominantly in modelled market risk: 26bn reduction across credit, counterparty and market risk in Barclays Capital, due to lower levels of activity combined with risk reduction, offset by a 4bn increase relating to market stress.
11bn reduction from currency movements, primarily depreciation of the Rand and Euro against Sterling: 9bn reduction due to credit market exposure sell down in Barclays Capital: and 5bn increase from business growth, 2bn relating to UK RBB and Barclays Corporate, reecting delivery against Project Merlin targets, and 3bn from Barclaycard acquisitions.
com annualreport 135 Adjusted gross leverage 2011 2010 Adjusted gross leverage as at 31 December m m a Total assets 1,563,527 1,489,645 b Counterparty net collateralised derivatives 491,716 377,756 c Assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 1,681 1,947 Net settlement balances and cash collateral 61,913 48,108 Goodwill and intangible assets 7,846 8,697 Adjusted total tangible assets 1,000,371 1,053,137 Total qualifying Tier 1 capital 50,473 53,546 Adjusted gross leverage 20 20 Adjusted gross leverage excluding liquidity pool 17 17 Ratio of total assets to shareholders' equity 24 24 Ratio of total assets to shareholders' equity excluding liquidity pool 22 21 Barclays continues to manage its balance sheet within limits and targets for balance sheet usage.
The adjusted gross leverage was 20x as at 31 December 2011 2010: 20x principally as a result of a reduction in qualifying Tier 1 capital to 50.5bn 2010: 53.5bn, offset by a reduction in adjusted total tangible assets by 5% to 1,000bn.
At month ends during 2011 the ratio moved in a range from 20x to 23x, with uctuations arising primarily within collateralised reverse repurchase lending and high quality trading portfolio assets.
significant monthly uctuations comprised: an increase from 20x at December 2010 to 22x at February 2011 driven by an increase in reverse repurchase agreements and holdings of trading portfolio assets and a decrease in Tier 1 capital: a fall in June 2011 from 22x to 20x driven by an increase in Tier 1 capital, and decreases in holdings of trading portfolio assets, cash balances and reverse repurchase agreements: a steady increase to 23x in August 2011, driven by a decrease in Tier 1 capital, and an increase in reverse repurchase agreements as well as an increase in cash balances: and a decrease to 20x in December 2011 resulting from decreases in reverse repurchase agreements and holdings of trading portfolio assets.
Adjusted total tangible assets include cash and balances at central banks of 106.9bn 2010: 97.6bn.
Excluding these balances, the balance sheet leverage would be 18x 2010: 18x.
Excluding the liquidity pool, leverage would be 17x 2010: 17x.
The ratio of total assets to total shareholders equity was 24x as at 31 December 2011 2010: 24x.
The ratio moved within a month end range of 24x to 28x, driven by trading activity uctuations noted above and changes in gross interest rate derivatives and settlement balances.
significant drivers of uctuations other than those noted above comprised: the increase from 24x at December 2010 to 26x at April 2011 was affected by increases in settlement balances, offset by decreases in gross derivative balances: a further step up in April 2011 from 26x to 28x in October 2011 arose from an increase in gross derivatives balances: and a decrease from 28x to 24x in December 2011 as a result of decreases in settlement balances in addition to those movements noted above.
Group Treasury agrees adjusted tangible asset targets at a segment level to manage the Barclays balance sheet and leverage ratio.
Barclays Capitals adjusted tangible assets are managed and reviewed monthly by the Corporate and Investment Banking Treasury Committee which includes members of Treasury, Finance and the businesses.
The Committee agrees limits with each business across Barclays Capital and monitors balance sheet usage against those limits.
Businesses were required to manage the balance sheet to dened limits and were not permitted to exceed them without prior approval by nominated Committee members.
Barclays continues to operate within limits and targets for balance sheet usage as part of its balance sheet management activities.
Notes a Includes Liquidity Pool of 152bn 2010: 154bn.
b Comprising counterparty netting of 440,592m 2010: 340,467m and collateral held of 51,124m 2010: 37,289m as disclosed on page 108. c Comprising financial assets designated at fair value and associated cash balances.
136 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Funding risk Capital continued Economic capital Economic capital is an internal measure of the risk prole of the bank expressed as the estimated stress loss at a 99.98% confidence level.
Barclays assesses capital requirements by measuring the Groups risk prole using both internally and externally developed models.
The Group assigns economic capital primarily within the following risk categories: credit risk, market risk, operational risk, xed asset risk property and equipment and pension risk.
The Group regularly reviews its economic capital methodology and benchmarks outputs to external reference points.
The framework uses default probabilities during average credit conditions, rather than those prevailing at the balance sheet date, thus seeking to remove cyclicality from the economic capital calculation.
The economic capital framework takes into consideration time horizon, correlation of risks and risk concentrations.
Economic capital is allocated on a consistent basis across all of Barclays businesses and risk activities.
Economic capital is used as part of the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and for assessing the Groups Financial Volatility within the Risk Appetite framework.
In January 2011, we implemented a new Market Risk economic capital framework.
The new market risk framework calibrates economic capital at the 99.98% confidence level using a consistent stress calibration across all asset classes, rather than the calibration used in the previous model that was based on current market volatility.
abc abc Average economic capital allocation by business m Average economic capital allocation by risk type m Wholesale credit risk 11,1 00 2011 3,700 2011 UK Retail Banking 3,900 e 11,350 2010 2010 incl.
CRLs 3,300 8,100 e Barclaycard Retail credit risk 7,750 3,200 Africa 2,150 2,100 Operational risk 2,000 2,050 Retail Banking Western Europe 2,000 5,150 Market risk 1,800 2,700 Retail Banking 13,550 2,100 Barclays Capital Fixed asset risk 2,300 10,950 4,500 4,700 Barclays Corporate f Other risks 4,850 4,850 600 Barclays Wealth 550 3,300 Investment Management 3,600 Head Office Function 150 d and Other Operations 150 The available capital resources to support economic capital comprise adjusted shareholders equity including preference shares but excluding other non-controlling interests.
a Average Average The average supply of capital to support the economic capital framework 2011 2010 m m g Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests less goodwill 43,800 41,400 Adjusted for: Retirement benets liability representing a non-cash reduction in shareholders' equity 150 450 Cash ow hedging reserve representing amounts that will be offset against gains and losses on hedged items when 450 700 recognised in the income statement Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale securities 550 150 Cumulative gains arising on the fair value changes in own credit 1,300 450 Preference shares included in economic capital supply are issued to optimise the Groups long term capital base 5,850 5,850 Average shareholders equity for economic purposes excluding goodwill 48,600 46,700 Notes a Calculated using an adjusted average over the year and rounded to the nearest 50m.
b Total period end average economic capital requirement including pension risk and excluding goodwill as at 31 December 2011 stood at 35,800m 2010: 34,750m.
c Average economic capital charts exclude the economic capital calculated for pension risk average pension risk for 2011 is 2,550m compared with 3,750m in 2010. d Includes Transition Businesses and capital for central function risks.
f Includes investments in associates, private equity risk, insurance risk, residual value and business risk.
Also includes the Groups investment in BlackRock, Inc. g Total available capital resources for economic capital purposes exclude goodwill and intangible assets related to business acquisitions.
com annualreport 137 Ongoing Capital Management Risks Capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange rate movements The Group has capital resources and risk weighted assets RWAs denominated in foreign currencies.
Changes in foreign exchange rates result in changes in the Sterling equivalent value of foreign currency denominated capital resources and RWAs.
As a result, the Groups regulatory capital ratios are sensitive to foreign currency movements.
The Groups capital ratio hedge strategy is to minimise the volatility of the capital ratios caused by foreign exchange rate movements.
To achieve this, the Group aims to maintain the ratio of foreign currency Core Tier 1, Tier 1 and Total Capital resources to foreign currency RWAs the same as the Groups consolidated capital ratios.
The Groups investments in foreign currency subsidiaries and branches, to the extent that they are not hedged, translate into Sterling upon consolidation creating Core Tier 1 capital resources sensitive to foreign currency movements.
To create foreign currency Tier 1 and Total Capital resources additional to the Core Tier 1 capital resources, the Group issues, where possible, debt capital in non-Sterling currencies.
This is primarily achieved by the issuance of debt capital from Barclays Bank PLC in US$ and EUR, but can also be achieved by subsidiaries issuing capital in local currencies, such as South Africa.
Regulatory developments Regulators assess the Groups capital position and target levels of capital resources on an ongoing basis and there have been a number of recent developments in regulatory capital requirements, including increases, which are likely to have a significant impact on the Group such as Basel 3 and its proposed implementation in the EU under the Capital Requirements Regulation and CRD4.
Increased capital requirements and changes to what is dened to constitute capital may constrain the Groups planned activities and could increase costs and contribute to adverse impacts on the Groups earnings.
During periods of market dislocation, increasing the Groups capital resources in order to meet targets may prove more difficult or costly.
The impact of regulatory changes are therefore assessed and monitored by Group Treasury and Group Risk and factored into the capital planning process which ensures that the Group always maintains adequate capital to meet its minimum regulatory capital requirements.
Basel 3 and CRD4 European Union implementation of Basel 3 In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS, issued the final text of the Basel 3 rules, providing details of the global standards endorsed by the G20 leaders at their November 2010 Seoul summit.
In July 2011, the European Commission published proposals to implement the Basel 3 capital and liquidity standards within Europe.
The proposals consist of a new Regulation and a Directive, collectively known as CRD4.
The measures are subject to agreement by EU member state governments and the European Parliament.
The key elements of the Basel 3 Accord that CRD4 is expected to incorporate are as follows: Quality of Capital The proposals bring more stringent requirements for the eligibility of capital instruments with a focus on common equity as the principal component of regulatory Tier 1 Capital, higher minimum capital ratios and changes to the regulatory deductions from shareholders equity.
The proposals recommend a minimum common equity requirement of 4.5% phased in between 2013 and 2015.
In addition, new regulatory deductions are to be introduced gradually from 2014-2018 with the concept of grandfathering applied to capital instruments that no longer meet CRD4 requirements over a 10 year period.
Capital Buffers To promote the conservation of capital and the build up of adequate buffers that can be drawn down in periods of stress, CRD4 proposes the use of common equity capital buffers, namely: a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of RWAs to be built up during times of positive growth: and a countercyclical capital buffer of up to an additional 2.5% of RWAs to be built up when credit growth exceeds GDP growth, allowing rms to use this additional buffer in times of stress.
These are expected to come into force from 1 January 2016 to 2019.
Counterparty Credit Risk CCR Whilst the central clearing aspects of these rules remain subject to nalisation, the requirements for managing and capitalising counterparty credit risk are to be strengthened with higher capital requirements primarily on OTC exposures and centrally cleared trades.
The increased reliance on observed market data in the capital calculations has the potential to make these charges pro-cyclical.
Net CCR RWAs are forecast to increase by 41.7bn.
This is already reected in our capital plans and Barclays continues to maintain adequate capital to absorb this impact.
Securitisation The proposal calls for securitisation exposures to be risk weighted at 1250% as opposed to being treated as capital deductions 50% Core Tier 1 and 50% Tier 2 under the current Basel 2 rules.
As a result, net RWAs are estimated to increase by 31.7bn.
This is already reected in our capital plans, and Barclays continues to maintain adequate capital to absorb this impact.
138 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Funding risk Capital continued Leverage The CRD4 proposals introduce a non-risk based leverage ratio that is calibrated to act as a supplementary measure to the risk based capital requirements.
The calculation determines a ratio based off the relationship between Tier 1 capital and on and off-balance sheet exposures.
The Committee will test a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 33x during the parallel run period from 1 January 2013 to 1 January 2017 prior to it potentially becoming a directly applicable prudential requirement from 2018.
Based on our interpretation of the current proposals, the Groups CRD4 Leverage Ratio as at 31 December 2011 would be within the proposed limits.
Harmonisation of national regulations In addition to the introduction of new rules, CRD4 attempts to harmonise national regulation across the European Union via the elimination of national discretion and implementation of a common rule book.
If applied as drafted, one of the most significant impacts for UK banks with retail portfolios will be the proposed change in the denition of default for portfolios using advanced internal ratings based models, which could result in an increase in minimum credit risk capital requirements.
Independent Commission on Banking ICB The ICB published its final recommendations to the Cabinet Committee on Banking Reform on 12 September 2011 calling for the ring-fencing of primary retail banking operations and an increase in the minimum capital requirements and the use of bail-in instruments to enhance the loss absorbing capacity of financial institutions.
Following the UK Governments considerations of these recommendations, the HMT published its response to the ICBs recommendations re-enforcing the principles of legal segregation of retail banking activities from other activities and higher Core Tier 1 and total capital requirements in the ring-fenced entity.
Its intention is to complete primary and secondary legislation before the end of the current Parliamentary term in May 2015 and to implement the ring-fencing measures as soon as practicable thereafter and the loss absorbency measures by 2019.
Barclays maintains close engagement with the FSA and HMT to support the UK Government and the Group in understanding the practical implications and potential impacts of these proposals.
EU Crisis Management proposals and the FSAs consultation on Recovery and Resolution Plans The EU Commission issued a consultation on 1 January 2011 on recovery and resolution management tools that should be implemented by institutions and regulators.
This proposal will inform EU legislation and contribute to the requirements for additional capital to be retained by global systemically important financial institutions G-SIFIs.
The FSA has issued its proposal calling on institutions to identify a range of actions that can be implemented by rms and the regulators during stress conditions more severe than originally forecasts Recovery Plans and at the point of non-viability Resolution plans.
Barclays has participated in the FSAs Pilot project of developing a Recovery and Resolution Plan since 2010.
Board approved Plans have been submitted and discussed with the FSA through the development process and Barclays is progressing well with its compliance by June 2012.
Based on the FSAs analysis of Recovery and Resolution Plans, banks could be required to retain additional capital buffers.
Credit Ratings Agency Regulation The provision of the Credit Ratings Agency Regulation comes into force on 1 May 2012.
These provisions restrict the use of ratings for regulatory purposes to those either issued in, or endorsed by the EU.
The change potentially impacts the calculation of regulatory capital requirements, although the impact of the change is not yet known as the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA has not yet determined which non-European countries are eligible to be endorsed.
Further details on these and other regulations that may impact the wider operations of the Group are set out in the Supervision and regulation section on page 154 to 158.
com annualreport 139 Risk management Funding risk Liquidity All disclosures in this section pages 139 to 150 are unaudited unless otherwise stated Liquidity risk The denition of liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations as they fall due as a result of a sudden, and potentially protracted, increase in net cash outows.
Such outows would deplete available cash resources for client lending, trading activities and investments.
These outows could be principally through customer withdrawals, wholesale counterparties removing nancing, collateral posting requirements or loan draw-downs.
This risk is inherent in all banking operations and can be affected by a range of Group-specic and market-wide events which can result in: an inability to support normal business activity: and a failure to meet liquidity regulatory requirements.
During periods of market dislocation, the Groups ability to manage liquidity requirements may be impacted by a reduction in the availability of wholesale term funding as well as an increase in the cost of raising wholesale funds.
Asset sales, balance sheet reductions and the increasing costs of raising funding will affect the earnings of the Group.
In illiquid markets, the Group may decide to hold assets rather than securitising, syndicating or disposing of them.
This could affect the Groups ability to originate new loans or support other customer transactions as both capital and liquidity are consumed by existing or legacy assets.
In addition, the introduction of capital controls or new currencies by countries to mitigate current stresses could have a consequential effect on performance of the balance sheets of certain Group companies based on the asset quality, types of collateral and mix of liabilities.
The efficient management of liquidity is essential to the Group in retaining the confidence of the financial markets and ensuring that the business is sustainable.
Liquidity risk is managed through the Liquidity Risk Framework, which is designed to meet the following objectives: To maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount and quality and a funding prole that is appropriate to meet the liquidity risk framework as expressed by the Board: To maintain market confidence in the Groups name: To set limits to control liquidity risk within and across lines of business and legal entities: To accurately price liquidity costs, benets and risks and incorporate those into product pricing and performance measurement: To set early warning indicators to identify immediately the emergence of increased liquidity risk or vulnerabilities including events that would impair access to liquidity resources: To project fully over an appropriate set of time horizons cash ows arising from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items: and To maintain a contingency funding plan that is comprehensive and proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the business and that is regularly tested to ensure that it is operationally robust.
Governance and organisation Barclays Treasury operates a centralised governance control process that covers all of the Groups liquidity risk management activities.
The Barclays Treasurer is responsible for designing the Group Liquidity Risk Management framework the Liquidity Framework which is sanctioned by the Board Risk Committee BRC.
The Liquidity Framework incorporates liquidity policies, systems and controls that the Group has implemented to manage liquidity risk within tolerances approved by the Board and regulatory agencies.
The Board sets the Groups Liquidity Risk Appetite LRA, being the level of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business objectives and in meeting its regulatory obligations.
The Treasury Committee is responsible for the management and governance of the mandate dened by the Board.
The Group Asset and Liability Committees is a sub-committee of the Treasury Committee with responsibility for review, challenge and approval of the Liquidity Framework.
The Liquidity Framework is reviewed regularly at Treasury Committee and BRC.
Liquidity is recognised as a key risk and the Barclays Treasurer is the Group Key Risk owner, supported by Key Risk Owners at regional and country levels.
Execution of the Groups liquidity risk management strategy is carried out at country level, with the country Key Risk Owners providing reports to Barclays Treasury to evidence conformance with the agreed risk prole.
Further oversight is provided by country, regional and business level Asset and Liability Committees.
140 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Funding risk Liquidity continued Liquidity Risk Governance Structure: Board Board Corporate Board Audit Board Risk Board Remuneration Board Citizenship Governance and Committee Committee Committee Committee Nominations Committee Chief Executive Group Executive Committee Treasury Committee Barclays Treasury Group Asset and Liability Committee Liquidity risk framework Barclays has a comprehensive Liquidity Framework for managing the Groups liquidity risk.
The Liquidity Framework is designed to deliver the appropriate term and structure of funding consistent with the Liquidity Risk Appetite set by the Board.
The Liquidity Framework incorporates a range of ongoing business management tools to monitor, limit and stress test the Groups balance sheet and contingent liabilities.
Limit setting and transfer pricing are tools that are designed to control the level of liquidity risk taken and drive the appropriate mix of funds, which together reduce the likelihood that a liquidity stress event could lead to an inability to meet the Groups obligations as they fall due.
The stress tests assess potential contractual and contingent stress outows under a range of scenarios, which are then used to determine the size of the liquidity buffer that is immediately available to meet anticipated outows if a stress occurred.
In addition the Group maintains a Contingency Funding Plan which details how liquidity stress events of varying severity would be managed.
Since the precise nature of any stress event can not be known in advance, the plans are designed to be exible to the nature and severity of the stress event and provide a menu of options that could be used as appropriate at the time.
Barclays also maintains Recovery Plans which consider actions to generate additional liquidity in order to facilitate recovery in a severe stress and is developing documentation to meet Resolution Planning in line with regulatory requirements.
The overall framework therefore provides the necessary tools to manage the continuum of liquidity risk, as summarised below: Ongoing business Early signs Mild stress Severe stress Recovery management Liquidity Limits Monitoring and review Activate Contingency Asset and Liability actions to Funding Plan generate additional liquidity Pricing and Incentives Low cost actions and balance sheet optimisation Balance sheet reductions Early Warning Indicators and business limitations Risk Appetite and Planning The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 141 Ongoing business management Liquidity limits Barclays manages to limits on a variety of on and off-balance sheet exposures a sample of which are shown in the table below.
These limits serve to control the overall extent and composition of liquidity risk taken by managing exposure to particular sources of liabilities, asset liability mismatches and counterparty concentrations.
Barclays also limits activities permitted at a country level.
Businesses are only allowed to have funding exposure to wholesale markets where they can demonstrate that their market is sufciently deep and liquid and then only relative to the size and complexity of their business.
Liquidity Limits By currency Unsecured Limits FX Limits Conduit Facilities Limits By maturity By liability type By currency Secured Limits Counterparty Off-Balance Sheet By maturity Concentration Limits Commitment Limits By collateral type By counterparty Internal pricing and incentives Barclays actively manages the composition of the balance sheet and contingent liabilities through the appropriate transfer pricing of liquidity costs and induce the correct behaviour and decision making.
These take the form of funds transfer pricing and economic funds allocation of behaviouralised assets and liabilities and contingent liquidity risk charging to the businesses.
These transfer pricing mechanisms are designed to ensure that liquidity risk is reected in product pricing and performance measurement, thereby ensuring that the Liquidity Framework is integrated into business level decision making to drive the appropriate mix of sources and uses of funds.
Early warning indicators Barclays monitors a range of market indicators for early signs of liquidity risk either in the market or specic to Barclays, a sample of which are shown in the table below.
Additionally country and business level Asset and Liability Committees monitor early warning indicators appropriate to their businesses.
These are designed to immediately identify the emergence of increased liquidity risk to maximise the time available to execute appropriate mitigating actions.
A deterioration in Early Warning Indicators can lead to invocation of the Groups Contingency Funding Plan, which provides a framework for how the liquidity stress would be managed.
Early Warning Indicators Change in composition of deposits Level of debt buybacks Rising funding costs Widening CDS spreads Change in maturity profile Repo haircut widening Liquidity Risk appetite Regulatory requirements are complied with at the Group and entity level, with the Liquidity Risk Appetite LRA providing a consistent Group wide perspective that supplements these requirements.
Under the Liquidity Framework, the Group has established the LRA, which is the level of liquidity risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business objectives and in meeting its regulatory obligations.
It is measured with reference to the liquidity pool as a percentage of anticipated stressed net contractual and contingent outows for each of three stress scenarios.
The stress outows are used to determine the size of the Group Liquidity Pool, which represents those resources immediately available to meet outows in a stress.
In addition to the Liquidity Pool, the Liquidity Framework provides for other management actions, including generating liquidity from other liquid assets on the Groups balance sheet in order to meet additional stress outows, or to preserve or restore the Liquidity Pool in the event of a liquidity stress.
Liquidity pool audited The Group liquidity pool is held unencumbered against contractual and contingent stress outows in the LRA stress tests.
The liquidity pool is not used to support payment or clearing requirements.
As of 31 December the Group liquidity pool was 152bn 2010: 154bn and moved within a month-end range of 140bn to 167bn during the year.
Barclays does not include any own-name securities in its liquidity pool.
142 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Funding risk Liquidity continued Barclays manages the liquidity pool on a centralised basis.
As at 31 December 2011, 94% of the liquidity pool was located in Barclays Bank PLC.
The residual liquidity pool is held predominantly within Barclays Capital Inc. BCI against contractual and contingent stress outows in the LRA stress test at the legal entity level.
The Group does not rely on any excess of liquid assets over outows in BCI.
Additionally the Absa Group holds a liquidity pool of 2bn, which is managed independently due to local currency and funding requirements Cash and Other Composition of the group liquidity pool audited deposits with Government available a b c central banks bonds liquidity Total bn bn bn bn As at 31 December 2011 105 36 11 152 As at 31 December 2010 96 40 18 154 Liquidity risk stress testing Under the Liquidity Framework, the Group runs three liquidity stress scenarios, aligned to the FSAs prescribed stresses: a market-wide stress event, a Barclays specic stress event and a combination of the two.
Under normal market conditions, the liquidity pool must be in excess of 100% of three months anticipated outows for a market-wide stress and one months anticipated outows for each of the Barclays specic and combined stresses.
Barclays is primarily focused upon the Barclays specic stress scenario, which also results in the greatest net outows of each of the liquidity stress tests.
Key Liquidity Risk Appetite assumptions include: Liquidity Risk Driver Barclays Specic Stress Net wholesale funding Outows at contractual maturity of wholesale funding and conduit commercial paper, with no rollover new outow issuance Prime Brokerage: 100% loss of excess client derivative margin and 100% loss of excess client cash Loss of secured nancing & Loss of repo capacity at contractual maturity date and incremental haircut widening, depending upon increased haircuts collateral type Retail & commercial bank Substantial outows as Barclays is seen as greater credit risk than competitors deposit outows Intra-day risk Liquid collateral held against intra-day requirement at clearing and payment systems is regarded as encumbered with no liquidity value assumed Liquid collateral is held against withdrawal of unsecured intra-day lines provided by third parties Intra-group risk Risk of cash within subsidiaries becoming unavailable to the wider Group Funding Concentration risk A dditional outows recognised against concentration of providers of wholesale secured nancing Off-balance sheet risk Collateral outows due to market movements, taking account of disputes and mismatches between collateralised and uncollateralised OTC and exchange-traded positions Outow of all collateral owed by Barclays to counterparties but not yet called Anticipated increase in rms derivative initial margin requirement in a stressed environment Collateral outows contingent upon a multi-notch credit rating downgrade of Barclays Bank PLC significant drawdown on committed facilities provided to corporates, based on counterparty type, creditworthiness and facility type Drawdown on retail commitments Franchise Viability Barclays liquidity stress testing recognises that it will be necessary to hold additional liquidity in order to meet outows that are non-contractual in nature, but are necessary in order to support the ongoing franchise for example, market-making activities Mitigating actions Unencumbered marketable assets that are held outside of the liquidity pool, and that are of known liquidity value to the rm, are assumed to be monetised subject to haircut valuation adjustment The market-wide stress scenario allows for a partial roll-over of wholesale funds, maintains repo market capacity albeit at wider haircuts depending upon collateral type and includes lower outows on retail and commercial bank deposits given that Barclays would not be seen as a greater credit risk relative to competitors.
The combined scenario is a combination of the market wide and Barclays specic stress assumptions.
Notes a Of which over 95% is placed with the Bank of England, US Federal Reserve, European Central Bank, Bank of Japan and Swiss National Bank.
b Of which over 80% are comprised of UK, US, Japanese, French, German and Dutch securities.
c 140bn of which is FSA eligible.
com annualreport 143 As at 31 December 2011, the Liquidity Pool exceeded net stress outows under all three stress scenarios.
The results of the stress scenarios expressed as the liquidity pool as a percentage of net anticipated stress outows was: BarclaysMarket wide specic 1 Combined 3 month month 1 month Liquidity pool as a percentage of anticipated net outows 127% 107% 118% Barclays monitors the money markets closely, in particular for early indications of the tightening of available funding.
In these conditions, the nature and severity of the stress scenarios are reassessed and appropriate action taken with respect to the liquidity pool.
This may include further increasing the size of pool or using the pool to meet stress outows.
Contingency Funding Plan and Recovery and Resolution Plan Barclays maintains a Contingency Funding Plan CFP, which is designed to provide a framework under which a liquidity stress could be effectively managed.
The CFP is proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the business and is tested to ensure that it is operationally robust.
The CFP details the circumstances in which the plan could be invoked, including: as a result of adverse movements in Early Warning Indicators.
As part of the plan the Barclays Treasurer has established a Liquidity Management Committee LMC.
On invocation of the CFP, the LMC would meet to identify the likely impact of the event on the Group and determine the response, which would be proportionate to the nature and severity of the stress.
Barclays also maintains Recovery Plans which consider actions to generate additional liquidity in order to facilitate recovery in a stress.
Liquidity regulation Since June 2010, the Group has reported its liquidity position against backstop Individual Liquidity Guidance ILG provided by the FSA.
The FSA defines both eligible liquidity pool assets and stress outows against reported balances.
Barclays also monitors compliance with BCBS LCR and NSFR.
As at 31 December 2011, the Group met 82% of the LCR 2010: 80% and 97% of the NSFR 2010: 94% requirements and is on track to meet the 100% compliance under Basel 3 required by 2015 and 2018 respectively.
The LRA stress scenarios, the FSA ILG and BCBS LCR are all broadly comparable short-term stress scenarios in which the adequacy of dened liquidity resources is assessed against contractual and contingent stress outows.
The ILG and LCR stress tests provide an independent assessment of the Groups liquidity risk prole.
The BCBS NSFR is a longer-term metric designed to establish a minimum acceptable amount of stable funding based on liquidity characteristics of an institutions assets and activities over a one year time horizon.
Barclays Liquidity Risk FSA Individual Liquidity Basel 3 Liquidity Coverage Basel 3 Net Stable Stress Test Appetite LRA Guidance ILG Ratio LCR Funding Ratio NSFR Time Horizon 1 3 months 3 months 30 days 1 year Calculation Liquid assets to net cash Liquid assets to net cash Liquid assets to net cash Stable funding resources to outows outows outows stable funding requirements 144 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Funding risk Liquidity continued Funding structure The basis for sound liquidity risk management is a solid funding structure that reduces the probability of a liquidity stress leading to an inability to meet funding obligations as they fall due.
The Groups overall funding strategy is to develop a diversied funding base both geographically and by depositor type and maintain access to a variety of alternative funding sources, to minimise the cost of funding while providing protection against unexpected uctuations.
Within this, the Group aims to align the sources and uses of funding.
As such, retail and commercial customer loans and advances are largely funded by customer deposits.
Other assets together with other loans and advances and unencumbered assets, are funded by long term wholesale debt and equity.
Trading portfolio assets and reverse repurchase agreements are largely funded in the wholesale markets by repurchase agreements and trading portfolio liabilities, whilst derivative assets are largely matched by derivatives liabilities.
The liquidity pool is predominantly funded through wholesale markets.
These funding relationships are summarised below as of 31 December 2011: Assets Liabilities a a Customer Loans and Advances 379bnCustomer Deposits 329bn 1 year wholesale funding 130bn Group Liquidity Pool 152bn 1 year wholesale funding 135bn b Other Assets 169bn b Equity and Other Liabilities 117bn c c Repo financing and matched assets and liabilities 328bn Repo financing and matched assets and liabilities 328bn Derivatives 536bn Derivatives 525bn Deposit funding audited d Composition of Loan-to-Deposit Ratios by Business audited Loans and Loan to Advances to Customer Deposit Customers Deposits Ratio As at 31 December 2011 bn bn % RBB 231.6 158.7 146 d Barclays Corporate 64.6 77.7 83 Barclays Wealth 18.8 46.5 40 Total funding excluding secured 315.0 282.9 111 Secured funding 28.7 Sub-total including secured funding 315.0 311.6 101 RBB, Corporate and Wealth 315.0 282.9 111 Barclays Capital 63.4 46.0 138 Group Centre 0.9 Trading settlement balances and cash collateral 52.6 37.1 142 Total 431.9 366.0 118 The Group loan to deposit ratio as at 31 December 2011 was 118% 2010: 124% and the loan to deposit and long-term funding ratio was 75% 2010: 77%.
RBB, Barclays Corporate and Barclays Wealth activities are largely funded with customer deposits.
As at 31 December 2011, the loan to deposit ratio for these businesses was 111% 2010: 114% and the loan to deposit and secured funding ratio was 101% 2010: 105%.
The funding gap for these businesses is met using asset backed securities and covered bonds secured primarily over customer loans and advances such as residential mortgages and credit card receivables.
The excess of Barclays Capital loans and advances over customer deposits is funded with long-term debt and equity.
Notes a Excluding cash collateral and settlement balances.
b Absa Group balances other than customer loans and advances of 38.0bn and customer deposits of 33.0bn are included in other assets and other liabilities.
c Comprised of reverse repos that provide nancing to customers collateralised by highly liquid securities on a short term basis or are used to settle short inventory positions: repo nancing of trading portfolio assets and matched cash collateral and settlement balances.
d In addition Barclays Corporate holds 17.2bn 2010: 14.4bn loans and advances as financial assets held at fair value.
com annualreport 145 Included within RBB and Barclays Capital are Absa Group related balances totalling 38.0bn of loans and advances to customers funded by 33.0bn of customer deposits and the gap of 5.0bn is funded with wholesale borrowings.
This is managed separately by the Absa Group due to local currency and funding requirements.
During 2011, the Absa Group has issued additional senior unsecured debt to further extend its funding term and diversify its funding base, reducing its reliance on wholesale money market funding.
Although, contractually, current accounts are repayable on demand and savings accounts at short notice, the Groups broad base of customers numerically and by depositor type helps protect against unexpected uctuations in balances.
Such accounts form a stable funding base for the Groups operations and liquidity needs.
Barclays models the behaviour of both assets and liabilities on a net cash ow basis using our experience of customer behaviour to assess balance sheet behaviouralised funding gaps under business as usual conditions.
These behavioural maturities are used to determine funds transfer pricing interest rates at which businesses are rewarded and charged for sources and uses of funds.
Behavioural Maturity Prole Behavioural Maturity Prole audited Cash Inow Outow Customer Loans and Funding Advances to Customer Surplus Less than Greater than Customers Deposits deficit One Year One Year As at 31 December 2011 bn bn bn bn bn RBB 231.6 158.7 72.9 13.8 59.1 Barclays Corporate 64.6 77.7 13.1 1.1 12.0 Barclays Wealth 18.8 46.5 27.7 4.0 23.7 Total funding excluding secured 315.0 282.9 32.1 8.7 23.4 Secured funding 28.7 28.7 10.1 18.6 Total RBB, Corporate and Wealth funding 315.0 311.6 3.4 1.4 4.8 The relatively low cash outow within one year demonstrates that customer funding remains broadly matched from a behavioural perspective.
Wholesale funding audited a Funding of Other Assets as at 31 December 2011: Assets bn Liabilities bn Repurchase agreements 207 Trading portfolio assets 104 Reverse repurchase agreements 103 Reverse repurchase agreements 45 Trading portfolio liabilities 45 Derivative financial instruments 536 Derivative financial instruments 525 Liquidity pool 152 Less than 1 year wholesale debt 130 b Other unencumbered assets 175 Greater than 1 year wholesale debt and equity 196 Trading portfolio assets are largely funded by repurchase agreements.
The majority of reverse repurchase agreements i. e. secured lending are matched by repurchase agreements.
The remainder of reverse repurchase agreements are used to settle trading portfolio liabilities.
Derivative assets and liabilities are largely matched.
A substantial proportion of balance sheet derivative positions qualify for counterparty netting and the remaining portions are largely offset once netted against cash collateral received and paid.
The liquidity pool is largely funded by wholesale debt maturing in less than one year, with a significant portion maturing in more than one year.
Other unencumbered assets mainly being available for sale investments, trading portfolio assets and loans and advances to banks are largely matched by wholesale debt maturing over an average of 5 years and equity.
Repurchase agreements and other secured funding are largely collateralised by government issued bonds and other highly liquid securities.
The percentage of secured funding using each asset class as collateral is set out below: Govt Agency MBS ABS Corporate Equity Other Secured Funding by Asset Class audited % % % % % % % As at 31 December 2011 66 6 9 3 7 7 2 As at 31 December 2010 64 7 9 3 7 7 3 Due to the high quality of collateral provided against secured sources of funds, the liquidity risk associated with these liabilities is signicantly lower than unsecured wholesale funds.
Nonetheless, Barclays manages a range of secured mismatch limits to limit renancing risk under a severe stress scenario and a portion of the Groups liquidity pool is held against stress outows on these positions.
Notes a Excludes balances relating to the Absa Group, which are managed separately due to local currency and funding requirements.
b Predominantly unencumbered available for sale investments, trading portfolio assets, financial assets designated at fair value and loans and advances to banks funded by greater than one year wholesale debt and equity.
146 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Funding risk Liquidity continued a Composition of wholesale funding audited The Group maintains access to a variety of sources of wholesale funds in USD, EUR and GDP, including those available from money markets, repo markets and from term investors, across a variety of distribution channels and geographies.
Barclays are an active participant in money markets, have direct access to US, European and Asian capital markets through our global investment banking operations and long-term investors through our global client base.
As a result, wholesale funding is well diversied by product, maturity, geography and major currency.
Over three Over six Over one Maturity of wholesale funding audited months but months but year but Not more not more not more Sub-total not more than three than six than one less than than three Over three months months year one year years years Total bn bn bn bn bn bn bn As at 31 December 2011 Deposits from Banks 34.1 0.9 0.9 35.9 0.3 1.7 37.9 CDs and CP 35.0 7.5 4.0 46.5 1.9 1.0 49.4 ABCP 8.9 0.2 9.1 9.1 Senior unsecured MTNs Public benchmark 4.7 0.1 2.5 7.3 11.1 14.6 33.0 Senior unsecured MTNs Privately placed 3.1 1.6 3.4 8.1 6.5 11.7 26.3 Senior unsecured structured notes 3.2 2.1 3.9 9.2 12.4 28.0 49.6 Covered bonds ABS 0.3 2.5 0.8 3.6 6.3 14.2 24.1 Subordinated liabilities 0.8 23.0 23.8 b Other 7.7 1.5 1.4 10.6 1.4 12.0 Total 97.0 16.4 16.9 130.3 40.7 94.2 265.2 of which secured 10.9 3.9 2.1 16.9 6.9 14.9 38.7 of which unsecured 86.1 12.5 14.8 113.4 33.8 79.3 226.5 c The maturity of wholesale funding table includes 27bn of term nancing maturing in 2012.
The liquidity risk is carefully managed primarily through the LRA stress tests, against which the liquidity pool is held.
Although not a requirement, as at 31 December 2011, the liquidity pool was equivalent to more than one year of wholesale debt maturities.
Excluding wholesale funding of the liquidity pool, the average maturity of wholesale funding was at least 58 months.
Term nancing audited As outlined above, the Group has 27bn of term debt maturing in 2012 and a further 16bn maturing in 2013.
The Group continues to attract deposits in unsecured money markets and to raise additional secured and unsecured term funding in a variety of markets.
During 2011, the Group issued approximately 30bn of term funding, comprising: 3.8bn equivalent of public benchmark senior unsecured medium term notes: 5.0bn equivalent of privately placed senior unsecured medium term notes: 10.1bn equivalent of senior unsecured structured notes: 10.3bn equivalent of public covered bonds ABS: and 1.0bn equivalent of public subordinated debt.
This term funding raised during 2011 re-nanced all wholesale term debt maturing in 2011, funded strategic balance sheet growth and further strengthened the Groups term liquidity position.
In January 2012 5bn of funding was raised.
Notes a The composition of wholesale funds is reconciled to the balance sheet reported Deposits from Banks excluding cash collateral and settlement balances, Financial liabilities at Fair Value and Debt Securities in Issue split by product and Subordinated Liabilities, in all cases excluding Absa Group balances.
b Primarily comprised of Fair Value Deposits and secured nancing of physical gold.
c Term funding maturities are maturities of senior unsecured MTNs, structured notes, covered bonds ABS and subordinated debt where the original maturity of the instrument was more than 1 year.
In addition, as at 31 December 2011, 1.2bn of these instruments were not term nancing as they had an original maturity of less than 1 year.
com annualreport 147 Currency composition of wholesale debt US$ EUR GBP Other As at 31 December 2011 % % % % Deposits from Banks 36 27 27 10 CDs and CP 59 25 15 1 ABCP 85 8 7 Senior unsecured MTNs 26 40 13 21 Structured Notes 35 21 22 22 Covered bonds ABS 31 29 39 1 Subordinated Debt 16 52 32 Wholesale debt 37 30 22 11 Currency composition of Liquidity Pool 27 42 17 14 To manage cross-currency renancing risk Barclays manages to FX cash-ow limits, which limit risk at specic maturities.
The Groups liquidity pool is also well diversied by major currency and the Group monitors the three LRA stress scenarios for major currencies.
Secured funding against customer loans and advances Barclays issues asset backed securities ABS and covered bonds that are secured primarily over customer loans and advances.
As of 31 December 2011, 10% of customer loans and advances were used to secure external sources of funds.
This was comprised of external issuances of ABS and covered bonds and repo nancing.
The Group currently manages three primary on balance sheet asset backed funding programmes to obtain term nancing.
The UK regulated covered bond and the residential mortgage master trust securitisation programmes both utilise assets originated by the Groups UK residential mortgage business.
The third programme is a credit card master trust securitisation and uses receivables from the Groups UK credit card business.
The programmes utilise true sale mechanics to transfer the title of the mortgage loan assets or, as applicable, current and future credit card receivables from Barclays Bank PLC BBPLC to insolvency remote special purpose vehicles.
All programmes initially transfer the respective assets by way of a beneficial transfer of the assets.
However, should there be a perfection event including, amongst other things, the insolvency of BBPLC or BBPLC not maintaining the appropriate credit rating required by the relevant rating agency, then legal transfer of the assets would occur.
External funding secured against customer loans and advances As at 31 December 2011 bn Externally issued ABS 17,090 Externally issued covered bonds 13,791 Repo nancing 12,563 Total 43,444 Balance sheet loans and advances to customers 431,934 Group loans and advances used to secure external funding 10% As at 31 December 2011, Barclays has an additional 16bn loans and advances within its asset backed funding programmes that can readily be used to raise additional secured funding and available to support future issuance.
Credit ratings In addition to monitoring and managing key metrics related to the financial strength of Barclays, we also subscribe to independent credit rating agency reviews by Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
These ratings assess the credit worthiness of Barclays and are based on reviews of a broad range of business and financial attributes including risk management processes and procedures, capital strength, earnings, funding, liquidity, accounting and governance.
A credit rating downgrade could result in contractual outows to meet collateral requirements on existing contracts.
Outows related to a multiplenotch credit rating downgrade are included in the LRA stress scenarios and a portion of the Liquidity Pool is held against this risk.
Credit ratings downgrades could also result in increased costs or reduced capacity to raise funding.
Credit Ratings Standard & Poors Moodys Fitch Barclays PLC Long Term A Stable A1 A Stable Short Term A-1 P-1 F1 Bank Financial Strength Rating N A N A N A Barclays Bank PLC Long Term A Stable Aa3 A Stable Short Term A-1 P-1 F1 Bank Financial Strength Rating N A C Stable N A 148 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Funding risk Liquidity continued Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities audited Details of contractual maturities for assets and liabilities form an important source of information for the management of liquidity risk.
Such information is used amongst other things as the basis for modelling a behavioural balance sheet, for input into the liquidity framework, as discussed above.
The table below provides detail on the contractual maturity of all financial instruments and other assets and liabilities.
Derivatives other than those designated in a hedging relationship and trading portfolio assets and liabilities are included in the on demand column at their fair value.
Liquidity risk on these items is not managed on the basis of contractual maturity since they are not held for settlement according to such maturity and will frequently be settled before contractual maturity at fair value.
Derivatives designated in a hedging relationship are included according to their contractual maturity.
Financial assets designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have been included in other assets and other liabilities as the Group is not exposed to liquidity risk arising from them: any request for funds from creditors would be met by simultaneously liquidating or transferring the related investment.
com annualreport 149 Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities audited Over three Over six months months Over one Over three Over five but but year years but years but Not more not more not more but not not more not more On than three than six than one more than than five than ten Over ten demand months months year three years years years years Total As at 31 December 2010 m m m m m m m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 96,842 788 97,630 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,168 216 1,384 Trading portfolio assets 168,867 168,867 Financial assets designated at fair value 789 5,678 1,110 2,773 7,411 3,745 2,461 16,089 40,056 Derivative financial instruments 418,587 114 20 96 488 444 396 174 420,319 Loans and advances to banks 5,698 26,462 1,858 946 2,260 5 111 459 37,799 Loans and advances to customers 48,222 60,908 9,553 16,079 53,374 44,324 65,809 129,673 427,942 Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 114 192,423 7,366 5,089 390 124 238 28 205,772 Available for sale financial investments 297 7,589 2,979 5,851 15,053 9,677 12,127 11,537 65,110 Other financial assets 2,040 784 2,824 Total financial assets 740,584 296,218 22,886 30,834 79,760 58,319 81,142 157,960 1,467,703 Other assets 21,942 Total assets 1,489,645 Liabilities Deposits from banks 5,754 65,755 2,161 2,247 739 790 249 280 77,975 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,312 9 1,321 Customer accounts 230,880 77,607 13,959 11,423 5,211 3,539 2,263 906 345,788 Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 907 216,454 4,358 2,755 739 256 59 6 225,534 Trading portfolio liabilities 72,693 72,693 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 1,237 17,866 6,191 6,963 21,453 18,446 13,553 10,073 95,782 Derivative financial instruments 403,163 303 72 101 390 927 286 274 405,516 Debt securities in issue 17 50,735 17,982 33,172 23,130 13,032 12,028 6,527 156,623 Subordinated liabilities 835 218 2,094 475 9,499 15,378 28,499 Other financial liabilities 4,295 990 5,285 Total financial liabilities 715,963 433,859 44,723 56,879 54,746 37,465 37,937 33,444 1,415,016 Other liabilities 12,367 Total liabilities 1,427,383 Cumulative liquidity gap 24,621 113,020 134,857 160,902 135,888 115,034 71,829 52,687 62,262 Expected maturity dates do not differ signicantly from the contract dates, except for: Trading portfolio assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments, which may not be held to maturity as part of the Groups trading strategies.
For these instruments, which are mostly held by Barclays Capital, liquidity and repricing risk is managed through the Daily Value at Risk DVaR methodology: Retail deposits, which are included within customer accounts, are repayable on demand or at short notice on a contractual basis.
In practice, these instruments form a stable base for the Groups operations and liquidity needs because of the broad base of customers both numerically and by depositor type: and Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities, which are managed with the associated liabilities.
150 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Funding risk Liquidity continued Contractual maturity of financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis audited The table below presents the cash ows payable by the Group under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities at the balance sheet date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows of all financial liabilities i. e. nominal values : whereas the Group manages the inherent liquidity risk based on discounted expected cash inows.
The balances in the below table do not agree directly to the balances in the consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates all cash ows, on an undiscounted basis, related to both principal as well as those associated with all future coupon payments.
Derivative financial instruments held for trading and trading portfolio liabilities are included in the on demand column at their fair value.
Financial liabilities designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities under investment contracts have been excluded from this analysis as the Group is not exposed to liquidity risk arising from them.
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities undiscounted audited Over one year but not Within one more than Over five On demand year five years years Total m m m m m As at 31 December 2011 Deposits from banks 7,866 81,308 1,651 409 91,234 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 965 4 969 Customer accounts 213,927 139,617 9,418 5,659 368,621 Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 23 207,000 257 41 207,321 Trading portfolio liabilities 45,887 45,887 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 1,525 28,147 39,459 30,743 99,874 Derivative financial instruments 524,551 828 1,512 2,333 529,224 Debt securities in issue 75 74,953 40,983 21,754 137,765 Subordinated liabilities 1,002 4,456 27,584 33,042 Other financial liabilities 3,629 1,594 5,223 Total financial liabilities 794,819 536,488 99,330 88,523 1,519,160 Off-balance sheet items Loan commitments 223,622 12,071 3,548 1,125 240,366 Other commitments 364 793 198 6 1,361 Total off-balance sheet items 223,986 12,864 3,746 1,131 241,727 Total financial liabilities and off-balance sheet items 1,018,805 549,352 103,076 89,654 1,760,887 At 31 December 2010 Deposits from banks 5,754 70,197 1,636 613 78,200 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,312 9 1,321 Customer accounts 230,880 103,119 9,169 3,446 346,614 Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 907 223,589 1,099 71 225,666 Trading portfolio liabilities 72,693 72,693 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 1,237 32,408 45,573 34,745 113,963 Derivative financial instruments 403,163 509 1,478 1,131 406,281 Debt securities in issue 17 103,437 39,519 26,304 169,277 Subordinated liabilities 1,934 5,645 26,785 34,364 Other financial liabilities 4,295 990 5,285 Total financial liabilities 715,963 539,497 105,109 93,095 1,453,664 Off-balance sheet items Loan commitments 188,958 17,755 5,912 10,416 223,041 Other commitments 227 806 183 1,216 Total off-balance sheet items 189,185 18,561 6,095 10,416 224,257 Total financial liabilities and off-balance sheet items 905,148 558,058 111,204 103,511 1,677,921 The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 151 Risk management Operational risk management All disclosures in this section pages 151 to 153 are unaudited Operational risk Operational risk is dened as the risk of direct or indirect impacts resulting from human factors, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems or external events.
Operational risks are inherent in the Groups business activities and are typical of any large enterprise.
It is not cost effective to attempt to eliminate all operational risks and in any event it would not be possible to do so.
Losses from operational risks of small signicance are expected to occur and are accepted as part of the normal course of business.
Those of material signicance are rare and the Group seeks to reduce the likelihood of these in accordance with its risk appetite.
Organisation and structure Overview The management of operational risk has two key objectives: Operational risk is one of four Principal Risks in the Barclays Principal Risks Framework and comprises a number of specic key risks dened as To minimise the impact of losses suffered in the normal course of follows: business expected losses and to avoid or reduce the likelihood of suffering a large extreme or unexpected loss: and External supplier risk Inadequate selection and ongoing management of external suppliers: To improve the effective management of the Barclays Group and strengthen its brand and external reputation.
Financial reporting risk Reporting mis-statement or omission within external financial or regulatory reporting: Barclays is committed to the management and measurement of Fraud risk Dishonest behaviour with the intent to make a gain or operational risk and was granted a waiver to operate an Advanced cause a loss to others: Measurement Approach AMA for operational risk under Basel 2, which commenced in January 2008.
The majority of the Group calculates Information risk Inadequate protection of Barclays information in regulatory capital using AMA, however, in specic areas we apply the Basic accordance with its value and sensitivity: Indicator Approach.
In certain joint ventures and associates, Barclays may Legal risk Failure to identify and manage legal risks: not be able to apply the AMA.
Product risk Inadequate design, assessment and testing of products Areas where the Group is working towards the rollout of AMA and the services: Basic Indicator Approach is applied are: the Africa RBB businesses, Payment process risk Failure in operation of payments processes: including Barclays Bank Mozambique and National Bank of Commerce Tanzania : Barclays Bank PLC Pakistan: Barclays Investment and Loans People risk insufficient people capabilities and or inappropriate India Limited: the business activities acquired from Lehman Brothers: and behaviours and or unsafe working environments: the portfolios of assets purchased from Woolworths Financial Services in Premises & security risk Unavailability of premises to meet business South Africa, Citi Cards Portugal and Italy, Standard Life Bank, MBNA requirements or inadequate protection of physical assets, employees Corporate Cards, Upromise and Egg Cards.
and customers against criminal, terrorist and adverse political activities: Barclays works to benchmark its internal operational risk practices with Regulatory risk Failure or inability to comply fully with the laws, peer banks and to drive the development of advanced operational risk regulations or codes applicable specically to the financial services techniques across the industry.
industry: Taxation risk Failure to comply with tax laws and practice which could lead to financial penalties, additional tax charges or reputational damage: Technology risk Failure to develop and deploy secure, stable and reliable technology solutions: and Transaction operations risk Failure in the management of critical transaction processes.
These risks can result in financial and or non-financial impacts including legal regulatory breaches or reputational damage.
152 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Operational risk management continued The operational risk framework comprises a number of elements which Operational risk management The Barclays Operational Risk Framework is a key component of GICAF allow Barclays to manage and measure its Operational risk prole and to calculate the amount of operational risk capital that Barclays needs to hold and has been designed to meet a number of external governance requirements including Basel, the Capital Requirements Directive and to absorb potential losses.
The minimum, mandatory requirements for each of these elements are set out in the Group Operational risk policies.
It also supports the Sarbanes-Oxley requirements.
This framework is implemented across the Group: vertically, through the organisational structure with all Business Units required to implement and The Operational Risk framework includes the following elements: operate an operational risk framework that meets, as a minimum, the requirements detailed in these operational risk policies: and horizontally, Risk assessments with the Group Key Risk Owners required to monitor information relevant Barclays identies and assesses all material risks within each business unit to their key risk from each Operational Risk Framework element.
and evaluates the key controls in place to mitigate those risks.
Managers in the business units use self-assessment techniques to identify risks, Barclays operates within a robust system of internal control that evaluate the effectiveness of key controls in place and assess whether the enables business to be transacted and risk taken without exposure to risks are effectively managed within business risk appetite.
The businesses unacceptable potential losses or reputational damage.
To this end, are then able to make decisions on what, if any, action is required to Barclays has implemented the Group Internal Control and Assurance reduce the level of risk to Barclays.
These risk assessments are monitored Framework GICAF which is aligned with the internationally recognised on a regular basis to ensure that each business continually understands Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission the risks it faces.
Risk events The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and the An operational risk event is any circumstance where, through the lack compliance with control requirements rests with the business and or failure of a control, Barclays has actually, or could have, made a loss.
functional units where the risk arises.
Operational risk managers are The denition includes situations in which Barclays could have made a widely distributed throughout the Group and support these areas, loss, but in fact made a gain, as well as incidents resulting in reputational assisting line managers in understanding and managing their risks.
damage or regulatory impact only.
The Operational Risk Director or equivalent for each Business Unit is A standard threshold is used across the Group for reporting risk events responsible for ensuring the implementation of and compliance with and as part of our analysis we seek to identify where improvements are Group Operational Risk policies.
needed to processes or controls, to reduce the recurrence and or magnitude of risk events.
The Group Operational Risk Director is responsible for establishing, owning and maintaining an appropriate Group-wide Operational Risk Barclays also uses a database of external risk events which are publicly Framework and for overseeing the portfolio of operational risk across the available and is a member of the operational risk data eXchange ORX, Group.
a not-for-profit association of international banks formed to share anonymous loss data information.
Barclays uses this external loss The Operational Risk Committee ORC is the senior executive body information to support and inform risk identication, assessment and responsible for the oversight and challenge of operational risk in Barclays.
The Group Operational Risk Executive Committee GOREC assists with this oversight.
GOREC is a sub-committee of the ORC, the output of which Key indicators is presented to the BRC.
Key Indicators KIs are metrics which allow Barclays to monitor its operational risk prole.
KIs include measurable thresholds that reect In addition, Governance and Control Committees G&CCs in each the risk appetite of the business.
KIs are monitored to alert management business monitor control effectiveness.
The Group G&CC receives reports when risk levels exceed acceptable ranges or risk appetite levels and from these committees and considers Group-significant control issues drive timely decision making and actions.
The Group G&CC presents to the Board Audit Committee BAC.
Key risk scenarios By combining data from risk events, risk assessments and key indicators Business units are required to report their operational risks on both a with that from audit findings, expert management judgement and other regular and an event-driven basis.
The reports include a prole of the internal data sources, Barclays is able to generate Key Risk Scenarios material risks to their business objectives and the effectiveness of key KRSs.
These scenarios identify the most significant operational risks controls, control issues of Group-level signicance, operational risk events across the Group.
The KRSs are validated at business unit and Group level and a review of scenarios and capital.
Specic reports are prepared on a to ensure that they appropriately reect the level of operational risk the regular basis for GOREC, ORC, BRC and BAC.
The Internal Audit function provides further independent review and Barclays shares and receives an anonymous sub-set of KRS information challenge of the Groups operational risk management controls, processes with the ORX community in order to compare and contrast scenario and systems and reports to the Board and senior management.
Insurance As part of its risk management approach, the Group also uses insurance to mitigate the impact of some operational risks.
com annualreport 153 Operational risk appetite Operational risk prole A high proportion of Barclays operational risk events have a low associated Barclays approach to determining appetite for operational risk combines both quantitative measures and qualitative judgement, in order to best financial cost and a very small proportion of operational risk events have a material impact.
In 2011, 70.4% of operational losses had a value of reect the nature of non financial risks.
This approach is applied at both an overall operational risk level and for individual key risks.
In contrast, 4.1% of the operational risk events had The monitoring and tracking of operational risk measures is supplemented a value of 1m or greater 2010: 2.5% and accounted for 91.1% of the overall impact 2010: 86.5%.
with qualitative review and discussion at senior management executive committees on the action being taken to improve controls and reduce risk The Group monitors trends in operational risk events by size, business unit to an acceptable level.
and internal risk categories including Key Risk.
For comparative purposes, the analysis below presents Barclays operational risk events by Basel 2 Operational risk appetite is aligned to the Groups Risk Appetite Framework.
In 2011, the highest frequency of events occurred in External Fraud 42.5% and Execution, Delivery and Process Management Reporting 36.9%.
Clients, Products and Business Practices accounted for the The ongoing monitoring and reporting of operational risk is a key highest proportion of losses by value, with 66% 2010: 67.9%.
The component of an effective Operational Risk Framework.
Reports are used continued high impact in this category was driven by the 1bn provision by the Operational Risk function and by business management to for PPI which was announced in May 2011.
The volume of external fraud understand, monitor, manage and control operational risks and losses.
events remained broadly stable in 2011, although there was an increase in value due to a small number of high value fraud events.
Operational risk measurement The Operational Risk capital model uses the outputs of the risk management tools to measure Barclays operational risk exposure.
KRSs are the main input to the model, which also uses the frequency and severity of operational risk losses to provide a distribution of potential losses over a year for Barclays as a whole.
This process takes into account the possibility of correlations i. e. the likelihood of two key risks occurring within the same year.
The model generates a regulatory capital requirement, which is determined to a level of 99.9% confidence.
Once the overall level of regulatory capital for the Group has been established it is allocated, on a risk sensitive basis, to business units.
This provides an incentive for the business to manage its risks within appetite levels.
1: Operational risk events by risk category Fig.
2: Operational risk events by risk category % of total risk events by count % of total risk events by value Business disruption and Business disruption and 3.8 2011 0.5 2011 2.5 2.6 system failures 2010 system failures 2010 Clients, products Clients, products 5.2 66.0 5.3 67.9 and business practices and business practices 4.9 0.3 Damage to physical assets Damage to physical assets 2.3 0.4 Employment practices Employment practices 0.9 0.5 1.0 and workplace safety and workplace safety 0.2 Execution, delivery and Execution, delivery and 36.9 22.4 39.2 21.6 process management process management 42.5 9.9 External fraud External fraud 6.1 42.7 5.8 0.5 Internal fraud Internal fraud 7.0 1.2 154 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Supervision and regulation All disclosures in this section pages 154 to 158 are unaudited The Groups operations, including its overseas ofces, subsidiaries and The Financial Services Act 2010, among other things, requires the FSA to make rules about remuneration and to require regulated rms to have a associates, are subject to a significant body of rules and regulations that are a condition for authorisation to conduct banking and financial services remuneration policy that is consistent with both effective risk management and the standards issued by the Financial Stability Board.
These apply to business operations and affect financial returns and include reserve and reporting requirements and prudential and The FSA is mandated to make rules that require authorised rms or a subset of authorised rms to draw up recovery and resolution plans and conduct of business regulations.
These requirements are set by the relevant central banks and regulatory authorities that supervise the Group to consult with the Treasury and the Bank of England on the adequacy of rms plans.
This Act also allows the FSA to make rules requiring rms in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The requirements reect global standards developed by, among others, the Basel Committee on Banking to operate a collective consumer redress scheme to deal with cases of Supervision and the International Organisation of Securities Commissions.
widespread failure by regulated rms to meet regulatory requirements They also reect requirements derived from EU directives.
that may have created consumer detriment.
In the UK, the Financial Services Authority FSA remains, pending the Banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions in the UK are reorganisation of the UK regulatory regime see below, the independent subject to a single financial services compensation scheme the Financial body responsible for the regulation and supervision of deposit taking, life Services Compensation Scheme FSCS which operates when an insurance, home mortgages, general insurance and investment business.
authorised rm is unable or is likely to be unable to meet claims made Barclays Bank PLC is authorised by the FSA under the Financial Services against it because of its financial circumstances.
Most deposits made and Markets Act 2000 to carry on a range of regulated activities within the with branches of Barclays Bank PLC within the European Economic Area UK and is subject to consolidated supervision by the FSA.
In its role as EEA which are denominated in Sterling or other currencies are covered supervisor, the FSA seeks to maintain the safety and soundness of by the FSCS.
Most claims made in respect of investment business will also financial institutions with the aim of strengthening, but not guaranteeing, be protected claims if the business was carried on from the UK or from the protection of customers and the financial system.
The FSAs continuing a branch of the bank or investment rm in another EEA member state.
supervision of financial institutions is conducted through a variety of The FSCS is funded by levies on authorised UK rms such as Barclays regulatory tools, including the collection of information from statistical and Bank PLC.
In the event that the FSCS raises those funds more frequently prudential returns, reports obtained from skilled persons, visits to rms or signicantly increases the levies to be paid by rms, the associated and regular meetings with management to discuss issues such as costs to the Group may have a material impact on the Groups results.
performance, risk management and strategy.
Further details can be found in Note 28 on page 245.
The starting point for supervision of all financial institutions is a systematic Outside the UK, the Group has operations and main regulators located in analysis of the risk prole of each authorised rm.
The FSA has adopted a continental Europe, in particular France, Germany, Spain, Switzerland, homogeneous risk, processes and resourcing model in its approach to its Portugal and Italy local central banks and other regulatory authorities : supervisory responsibilities known as the ARROW model and the results Asia Pacic various regulatory authorities including the Hong Kong of the risk assessment are used by the FSA to develop a risk mitigation Monetary Authority, the Financial Services Agency of Japan, the Australian programme for a rm.
This is supplemented with a rolling programme of Securities and Investments Commission, the Monetary Authority of continuous intensive and intrusive engagement on prudential and conduct Singapore, the China Banking Regulatory Commission and the Reserve matters with high impact rms, such as Barclays.
The FSA also Bank of India : Africa and the Middle East various regulatory authorities promulgates requirements that banks and other financial institutions are including the South African Reserve Bank and the United States of required to meet on matters such as capital adequacy, limits on large America including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System exposures to individual entities and groups of closely connected entities, FRB, the Ofce of the Comptroller of the Currency OCC, the Securities liquidity and rules of business conduct.
and Exchange Commission SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC.
The Banking Act 2009 the Banking Act provides a regime to allow the FSA, the UK Treasury and the Bank of England to resolve failing banks in Regulation in the UK is considerably shaped and inuenced by EU the UK.
Under the Banking Act, these authorities are given powers, directives and regulations.
These provide the structure of the European including a the power to issue share transfer orders pursuant to which Single Market, an important feature of which is the framework for the all or some of the securities issued by a bank may be transferred to a regulation of authorised rms.
This framework is designed to enable a commercial purchaser or Bank of England entity and b the power to credit institution or investment rm authorised in one EU member state transfer all or some of the property, rights and liabilities of the UK bank to to conduct banking or investment business through the establishment of a purchaser or Bank of England entity.
A share transfer order can extend to branches or by the provision of services on a cross-border basis in other a wide range of securities including shares and bonds issued by a UK bank member states without the need for local authorisation.
Barclays including Barclays Bank PLC or its holding company Barclays PLC and operations in Europe are authorised and regulated by a combination warrants for such shares and bonds.
The Banking Act powers apply of both home the FSA and host regulators.
regardless of any contractual restrictions and compensation may be payable in the context of both share transfer orders and property appropriation.
The Banking Act also gives the Bank of England the power to override, vary or impose contractual obligations between a UK bank or its holding company and its former group undertakings for reasonable consideration, in order to enable any transferee or successor bank of the UK bank to operate effectively.
There is also power for the Treasury to amend the law excluding provisions made by or under the Banking Act for the purpose of enabling it to use the regime powers effectively, potentially with retrospective effect.
In addition, the Banking Act gives the Bank of England statutory responsibility for financial stability in the UK and for the oversight of payment systems.
com annualreport 155 Barclays operations in South Africa, including Absa Group Limited, are Regulatory developments The financial crisis has generated regulatory change that, is having and supervised and regulated by the South African Reserve Bank SARB and the Financial Services Board FSB.
SARB oversees the banking industry will continue to have a substantial impact on all financial institutions, including the Group.
While some of the broad lines of change and some of and follows a risk-based approach to supervision whilst the FSB oversees the non-banking financial services industry and focuses on enhancing the impacts of these changes are becoming clearer, a significant amount remains to be determined.
Regulatory change is being pursued at a consumer protection and regulating market conduct.
number of levels, globally notably through the G20, Financial Stability Board FSB and BCBS, regionally through the European Union and In the United States, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays US banking subsidiaries are subject to a comprehensive regulatory structure nationally, especially in the UK and US.
It is of importance to the Group and to the banking industry generally that the various bodies work involving numerous statutes, rules and regulations, including the International Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, harmoniously and that a globally consistent approach is taken to banking as amended BHC Act, the Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement Act of regulation.
Increased prudential requirements and changes to what is 1991, the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, the USA PATRIOT dened to constitute capital may affect the Groups planned activities and Act of 2001 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer could increase costs and contribute to adverse impacts on the Groups Protection Act of 2010.
Such laws cover the activities of Barclays, including earnings.
Similarly, increased requirements in relation to capital markets its US banking subsidiaries and the Banks US branches, as well as activities and to market conduct requirements may affect the Groups prudential restrictions, such as limits on extensions of credit by the Banks planned activities and could increase costs and thereby contribute to US branches and the US banking subsidiaries to afliates.
The New York adverse impacts on the Groups earnings.
and Florida branches of Barclays Bank PLC are subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation by the FRB and the New York and Global Florida banking supervisors.
Barclays Bank Delaware, a Delaware chartered The programme of reform of the global regulatory framework that was commercial bank, is subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal agreed by G20 Heads of Government in April 2009 has continued to Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC, the Delaware State Bank advance substantially during 2011.
Commissioner and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
Only the deposits of Barclays Bank Delaware are insured by the FDIC.
The FSB has been designated by the G20 as the body responsible for Barclays Wealth Trustees US NA is an uninsured non-depository trust co-ordinating the delivery of the global reform programme.
It has focused company chartered and supervised by the OCC.
particularly on the risks posed by systemically important financial institutions SIFI.
At the Cannes summit in November 2011, G20 Heads Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC are bank holding companies of Government adopted FSB proposals for a programme to reform the registered with the FRB, which exercises umbrella authority over Barclays regulation of globally systematically important financial institutions US operations.
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC have each elected to G-SIFIs.
A key element of this programme is that systemic institutions, be treated as a financial holding company under the BHC Act.
Financial including G-SIFIs should be capable of being resolved without recourse holding companies may engage in a broader range of financial and related to taxpayer support.
Barclays has been designated a G-SIFI by the FSB.
activities than are permitted to registered bank holding companies that do G-SIFIs will be subject to: not maintain financial holding company status, including underwriting A new international standard for national resolution regimes.
Among and dealing in all types of securities.
Financial holding companies such as other things, this seeks to give resolution authorities powers to Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC are required to meet or exceed certain intervene in and resolve a financial institution that is no longer viable, capital ratios and be deemed to be well managed, and Barclays Bank including through the transfers of business and creditor nanced Delaware and Barclays Wealth Trustees US NA are each required to meet recapitalisation bail-in within resolution that allocates losses to certain capital requirements, be deemed to be well managed and must shareholders and unsecured and uninsured creditors in their order have at least a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment of seniority, at a regulator-determined point of non-viability that may Act of 1977 CRA.
Entities ceasing to meet any of these requirements, precede insolvency.
are allotted a period of time in which to restore capital levels or the management or CRA rating.
If the capital level or rating is not restored, Requirements for resolvability assessments and for recovery and the Group may be required by the FRB to cease certain activities in the resolution planning.
Requirements for banks determined to be globally systemically important to have additional loss absorption capacity above that Barclays US securities broker dealer, investment advisory and Investment required by Basel 3 standards see below.
These surcharges have been banking operations are subject to ongoing supervision and regulation by tailored to the impact of the default of the G-SIFI using a methodology the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FINRA, the CFTC developed in 2011 by the BCBS.
The surcharges rise in increments from and other government agencies and self-regulatory organisations SROs 1% to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets with an empty bucket of 3.5% to as part of a comprehensive scheme of regulation of all aspects of the discourage institutions from developing their business in a way that securities and commodities business under the US federal and state heightens their systemic nature.
This additional buffer must be met securities laws.
Similarly, Barclays US commodity futures and optionswith common equity.
related operations are subject to ongoing supervision and regulation by the CTFC, the National Futures Association and other SROs.
More intensive supervision, including through stronger supervisory mandates, resources and powers, and higher supervisory expectations The credit card-related activities of the Group in the US are subject to the for risk management functions, data aggregation capabilities, risk Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 governance and internal controls.
Credit CARD Act which was enacted by Congress in May 2009 to prohibit certain credit card pricing and marketing practices for consumer G-SIFIs will be subject to enhanced supervision and a comprehensive credit card accounts.
Among the numerous provisions, which came into crisis management framework within supervisory colleges.
The concept effect at various times through October 2011, are those that prohibit of bail-in may affect the rights of senior unsecured creditors subject to increasing rates on existing balances and over limit fees in most instances, any bail-in in the event of a resolution of a failing bank.
restrict increasing fees and rates prospectively, restrict what penalty fees can be assessed, regulate how payments are to be allocated to different balances and how the billing process is to work, and revises all communications to cardholders.
156 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Supervision and regulation continued G-SIFIs will need to meet the resolution planning requirements by the end In addition, other amendments are being made to the EU framework of directives, including to the Directive on Deposit Guarantee Schemes.
The additional loss absorbency requirements will initially apply to those banks identied in November 2014 as globally systemically This may affect the amounts to which the Group may be liable to fund the compensation of depositors of failed banks.
The proposal also envisages important.
The loss absorbency requirements will be phased in starting in January 2016 with full implementation by January 2019.
G-SIFIs must also that national schemes should be pre-funded, with a fund to be raised over a number of years.
This would be a significant change for UK banks where meet the higher supervisory expectations for data aggregation capabilities by January 2016. levies are currently raised as needed after failure.
The proposals remain under debate and the financial impact on the Group is not yet clear.
The BCBS issued the final guidelines on Basel 3 capital and liquidity As anticipated, the European Commission has adopted proposals to standards in December 2010.
It has continued to rene elements of this package, notably in relation to counterparty credit risk where revisions amend the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.
This will affect were made in July and November 2011.
The requirements of Basel 3 will many of the investment markets in which the Group operates and the be applicable from 1 January 2013 with a number of transitional provisions instruments in which it trades, and how it transacts with market that run to the end of 2018.
An assessment of the likely impact of the counterparties and other customers.
These proposals are at a very early Basel 3 capital, leverage and liquidity requirements and the Group stage of their consideration by the EU institutions and the overall impact response can be found on pages 23, 137-138 and 143. of them on the Group is not yet clear.
The BCBS also maintains a number of active work streams that will affect Other EU developments of note include consideration of European the Group.
These include a fundamental review of the trading book whose arrangements in respect of crisis management and the resolution of results are expected to be published in 2012.
The BCBS is also understood financial institutions.
The European Commission issued a discussion paper to be examining a regime for large exposures.
These developments may in January 2011 and proposals for legislation which were expected in 2011 further increase the capital required by the Group to transact affected are now expected later in 2012.
These are likely to include provisions on business and or affect the ability of the Group to undertake certain bail-in within resolution and other matters that may have an impact on the transactions.
rights of shareholders and creditors of failing institutions.
The Commission has also announced in November 2011 the creation of an expert group on European Union the structural aspects of the EU banking sector.
The group was due to The EU has amended its regulatory structure as part of its response to the start work in February 2012 and nish during the course of summer.
On 1 January 2011, a number of new bodies came into mandate will be to determine whether, in addition to ongoing regulatory being, including the European Systemic Risk Board to monitor the financial reforms, structural reforms of EU banks would strengthen financial system and advise on macro-prudential actions and the European Banking stability and improve efficiency and consumer protection, and if that Authority charged with the development of a single rulebook for banks in is the case make any relevant proposals as appropriate.
the EU and with enhancing co-operation between national supervisory authorities, especially in the context of the supervision of banks that United Kingdom operate across borders within the EU.
The European Securities Markets The Government is reforming the structure of regulation to replace the Authority has a similar role in relation to the capital markets and to banks FSA and the tripartite system that also involved the Bank of England and and other rms doing investment and capital markets business.
This is intended to promote financial stability and to increase European Banking Authority and the European Securities Markets the intensity of supervisory scrutiny of the financial sector, including the Authority each have the power to mediate between and override national Group.
The Government has tabled a Bill that proposes that a Financial authorities under certain circumstances.
National authorities, however, Policy Committee should be established in the Bank of England with remain responsible for the day-to-day supervision of financial institutions.
responsibility for the monitoring and control of systemic risk, including the deployment of macro-prudential tools of supervision, which, while still Basel 3 will be implemented in the EU by amendment to the Capital to be determined, may include the imposition of additional capital and Requirements Directive CRD.
Formal proposals to amend the CRD were liquidity buffers and interventions in the terms of transactions in particular adopted by the European Commission in July 2011.
These take the form markets.
Responsibility for prudential regulation will pass to a Prudential of a regulation and a directive which are currently going through the EU Regulation Authority to be established as a subsidiary of the Bank of legislative process.
Much of the detailed implementation is expected to be England, while a Financial Conduct Authority FCA, as a successor body done through binding technical standards to be adopted by the European to the FSA, will be responsible for issues of business and market conduct Banking Authority, that are intended to ensure a harmonised application of and market regulation.
The FCA will also be the UK listing authority.
This rules through the EU but which have yet to be developed.
While there may process is not expected to be complete before early 2013.
In anticipation of be some differences of detail between CRD 4 and Basel 3, the current the new regulatory structure, an interim Financial Policy Committee has expectation is that the overall impact will be similar.
been created and the FSA reorganised itself into separate Prudential and Consumer and Markets business units on 4 April 2011.
In April 2012, the two business units will begin to shadow the forthcoming regime and operate as if they were the PRA and FCA to the extent permitted by existing law.
com annualreport 157 The ICB issued its final report in September 2011.
Among other things, requirements, and v concentration and credit exposure limits.
However, as drafted, these would not currently affect the Group.
the recommendations included that: i the UK and EEA retail banking activities of a UK bank or building society should be placed in a legally Although the relevant sections of DFA apply both to domestic US bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of over $50 billion distinct, operationally separate and economically independent entity ring-fencing : and ii the loss-absorbing capacity of ring-fenced banks and non-US banking organisations with US operations that have total consolidated assets of over $50 billion, such as the Group, the FRB has and UK-headquartered global systemically important banks such as Barclays Bank PLC should be increased to levels higher than the Basel 3 deferred proposing rules to cover such non-US organisations.
Instead, the proposed rules would apply only to a subsidiary of a foreign-owned proposals.
The UK Government published its response to the ICB recommendations in December 2011 and indicated that primary and US bank holding company if the subsidiary itself has $50 billion or more secondary legislation relating to the proposed ring-fence will be completed in total consolidated assets.
The Groups only US-domiciled subsidiary by May 2015, with UK banks and building societies expected to be bank holding company, Barclays Delaware Holdings, LLC, has total compliant as soon as practicable thereafter, and the requirements relating assets under this threshold.
Nonetheless, it is possible that the FRB to increased loss-absorbing capacity of ring-fenced banks and UKcould propose additional rules that would apply similar enhanced headquartered global systemically important banks will be applicable from prudential requirements to all non-US banking organisations with US 1 January 2019.
The Government will publish a White Paper in late spring operations that have total consolidated assets of over $50 billion, or to any other non-US banking organisation that the FSOC designates as 2012 with further details on how the recommendations will be implemented.
In this regard, it is potentially relevant that in November 2011 Barclays was listed by the FSB as a global systemically The FSA continues to develop and apply its more intrusive and assertive approach to supervision and its policy of credible deterrence in relation to important bank.
It is not yet clear what regard the FSOC or the other agencies will have to the home country prudential regulators of non-US enforcement that has continued to see significant growth in the size of regulatory fines.
In anticipation of international agreement, the FSA has organisations when considering the imposition of heightened prudential requirements on such organisations pursuant to the DFA.
established and implemented capital and liquidity requirements that are substantially increased from pre-crisis levels, and has, together with the Other enhanced prudential requirements: In addition to the ability of Bank of England, proceeded to establish Recovery and Resolution Planning the FSOC to recommend heightened prudential standards for specic requirements.
In keeping with the requirements of the FSB, the Group is institutions, the DFA, separate and apart from Basel 3, also imposes required to submit a Recovery and Resolution Plan by 30 June 2012.
The higher capital, liquidity and leverage requirements on US banks and Retail Distribution Review and the Mortgage Market Review will affect the bank holding companies generally.
economics of investment advice and home finance provision respectively.
The FSA, following consultation, has also made clear its intention to take a Restrictions on proprietary trading and fund-related activities: The more interventionist approach to the design of financial products and to so-called Volcker Rule, which will, once effective, signicantly restrict the governance processes around product design.
This approach will be the ability of US bank holding companies and their afliates, and the US carried through into the FCA when it is established.
branches of foreign banks, to conduct proprietary trading in securities and derivatives as well as certain activities related to hedge funds and United States private equity funds.
In October 2011, US regulators consulted on rules The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act DFA to implement the Volcker Rule.
The proposed rules are highly complex became law in July 2010.
The full scale of the DFAs impact on the Group and many aspects remain unclear, including the exemption from the remains unclear because the rules required to implement many of the proprietary trading and fund-related activity prohibitions for activities provisions of DFA have not been implemented and, in some areas, have conducted by non-US organisations solely outside the United States.
yet to be proposed by the responsible agencies.
In addition, market The agencies appeared to construe this exemption very narrowly in the practices and structures may change in response to the requirements of proposed rules.
Analysis continues of the proposals, but it is clear that the DFA in ways that are difficult to predict but that could impact Barclays compliance with them would entail significant effort by the Group.
Nonetheless, certain provisions of the DFA are particularly likely Although the Volcker Rule is likely to impose significant additional to have an effect on the Group, including in the following: compliance and operational costs on the Group, the full impact will not be known with certainty until the rules have been nalised.
Whilst the Systemic rsk: The DFA created the Financial Stability Oversight Council Group has identied that its private equity fund, hedge fund and FSOC and empowered it to make recommendations to the FRB to trading operations may be affected by the Volcker Rule, until the final apply heightened supervisory requirements and prudential standards regulations are adopted, the impact on the Groups ability to engage in applicable to systematically important entities and activities and to these activities will be affected continues to remain uncertain.
As such, work with all primary financial regulatory agencies to establish it cannot currently be determined whether the restrictions will have regulations, as necessary, to address financial stability concerns.
a material effect on the Group.
The statutory Volcker Rule provisions In December 2011, the FRB issued proposed rules that bank holding are scheduled to take effect in July 2012, regardless of whether the companies with total consolidated assets of over $50 billion, and other implementing rules have been nalised, and companies will have two financial companies designated by the FSOC as systemically important, years from that time to come into full compliance with them, subject be subject to enhanced prudential standards, including i capital to possible extensions.
requirements and leverage limits, ii mandatory stress testing of capital levels, iii liquidity requirements, iv overall risk management 158 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Supervision and regulation continued Resolution plans: The DFA requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of US$50 billion or more to submit to the FRB and the FDIC, and regularly update, a plan for rapid and orderly resolution to be used if the company experiences material financial distress or failure.
Non-US banking organisations that are treated as bank holding companies under US law, such as Barclays, are required to submit such plans with respect to their US operations if they have more than US$50 billion in US assets.
Barclays US assets exceed US$250 billion, and as a result Barclays is required to submit a resolution plan by 1 July 2012.
Regulation of derivatives markets: Among the changes mandated by the DFA are that many types of derivatives now traded in the over-thecounter markets be traded on an exchange or swap execution facility and centrally cleared through a regulated clearing house.
In addition, many participants in these markets will be required to register with the CFTC as swap dealers or major swap participants and or with the US SEC as securities swap dealers or major securities swap dealers and be subject to CFTC and SEC regulation and oversight.
Barclays Bank PLC and, potentially, one or more of its US subsidiaries may be subjected to these requirements.
Entities required to register will also be subject to business conduct, capital, margin, recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
In addition, the CFTC, pursuant to the DFA, has adopted rules on position limits on derivatives on physical commodities.
It is possible that additional regulation, and the related expenses and requirements, will restrict participation in the derivative markets, thereby increasing the costs of engaging in hedging or other transactions and reducing liquidity and the use of the derivative markets.
Barclays Bank PLC and its subsidiaries and afliates may be exposed to these effects whether or not they are required to register in the capacities described.
The new regulation of the derivative markets could adversely affect the business of Barclays Bank PLC and its afliates in these markets and could make it more difficult and expensive to conduct hedging and trading activities.
The DFA also contains a derivatives push-out requirement that, as early as 2013, could prevent the Group from conducting certain swaps-related activities in the US branches of Barclays Bank PLC.
Risk retention requirements for securitisations: The US federal banking agencies are required by the DFA to develop rules whereby anyone who organises or initiates an asset-backed security transaction must retain a portion generally, at least five percent of any credit risk that the person conveys to a third party.
This may impact the participation by the Groups US operations in such transactions.
Creation of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection CFPB : The CFPB is empowered to regulate the credit card industry, including the terms of credit card agreements with consumers, disclosures, and fees.
Actions by the CFPB in this area are likely to impact the Groups US credit card business.
The CFPB became operational in July 2011, and is soliciting public comment on a model credit card disclosure form and accepting consumer credit card complaints.
More broadly, the CFPB has the authority to examine and take enforcement action against any US bank with over US$10 billion in total assets, such as Barclays Bank Delaware, with respect to its compliance with Federal laws regulating the provision of consumer financial services.
