BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued To date no director of the Company has resigned.
However, directors are able and encouraged to provide statements to the Board of their concerns and ensure that any items of concern are recorded in the Board minutes.
The Board is also scheduled to consider the tenure of directors once any director has been appointed to the Board for a continuous period of nine years, this is currently scheduled to occur in 2015.
Internal Controls and Risk Management Review The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the significant risks faced by the Company.
The Board carries out an annual review of internal controls.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
The Board on a semi-annual basis conducts a full review of the Companys risk management systems including consideration of a risk matrix which covers various areas of risk including corporate strategy, accuracy of published information, compliance with laws and regulations, relationships with service providers and investment and business activities.
The Company is a self-managed investment company with no separate investment manager accordingly no fees are payable to an investment manager.
BlueCrest is the investment manager of AllBlue.
Administration and Secretarial duties for the Company are performed by Anson Fund Managers Limited.
The directors of the Company clearly define the duties and responsibilities of their agents and advisors.
The appointment of agents and advisers is conducted by the Board after consideration of the quality of the parties involved and the Board monitors their ongoing performance and contractual arrangements.
The Board has also specified which matters are reserved for a decision by the Board and which matters may be delegated to its agents and advisers.
