Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 19 Risk management Caledonia has a risk management framework The board has overall responsibility for setting the that provides a structured process for identifying, level of risk that the company is prepared to accept assessing and managing risks associated with the and this is regularly reviewed.
The principal risks companys business objectives and strategy.
and mitigating actions are set out below.
Risk Mitigation Strategic design and implementation of the The board reviews strategy periodically.
companys strategy and investment model.
Management monitors regularly the companys performance against agreed business objectives.
Investment specific investment decisions and Investment proposals are supported by detailed subsequent performance of an investment.
reviews and due diligence reports.
Investments are regularly reviewed by management and, in the case of the larger investments, the board and risk assessments conducted.
Treasury and funding changes in market prices Weekly detailed cash forecasts and regular reviews or rates, counterparty failure and lack of access of liquidity.
The board reviews the treasury policy to liquidity to enable the company to meet its periodically and sets counterparty limits and obligations.
Operational the risk arising from potentially inadequate or failed controls, processes, people and systems, or from external factors.
Operational risk is divided into a number of categories: Legal and regulatory loss arising from failure to The Compliance Committee meets weekly to ensure comply with laws, regulations and industry the companys continued compliance with legal and guidelines.
Process loss resulting from inadequate or failed Investment managers operate within parameters internal processes and systems.
set by the board and the Approvals Committee.
They have individual objectives and their performance is measured against these.
Front and back office duties are carefully segregated.
People loss arising from inappropriate behaviour Policies are in place to ensure the company or health and safety issues.
This includes the failure remunerates staff in line with market practice and to retain and motivate staff and to recruit properly to provide development opportunities and to skilled staff.
encourage staff motivation and retention.
Business continuity loss arising from the A business continuity process and plan is in place, interruption or disruption of critical processes, including provision of an off-site disaster recovery including office exclusion, power failure, lack of facility.
IT services and environmental hazards.
