Close Brothers Group plc 24 Annual Report 2011 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties The group seeks to achieve an appropriate balance between The group considers the maintenance of its reputation taking risk and generating sustainable returns for its paramount and fundamental to its ongoing success.
The assessment of the groups appetite for groups risk appetite and risk management framework are and management of those risks are therefore key designed to protect that reputation.
This is underpinned by a components of the groups strategy and day-to-day commitment to demonstrate a high level of integrity in the activities.
The groups approach to risk management is groups activities and to treat customers and business outlined in detail in the Governance section on pages 35 to 37. counterparties in a fair and open manner.
Employees are Note 34 on pages 102 to 111 provides further information, required to establish, and are measured and rewarded including qualitative and quantitative disclosures on the risks against, individual performance objectives which include arising from the groups use of financial instruments.
Risk Appetite and Reputation The principal risks and uncertainties facing the group at The group operates a conservative business model as 31 July 2011 are listed below together with a description of demonstrated by its continued resilient performance.
The the risk, how it impacts or could impact the groups key attributes of this model, common across the groups businesses and the measures taken to mitigate and manage businesses, are simplicity, prudence, diversification, short tail the particular risk or uncertainty.
The list below should not risks and knowledgeable and experienced employees.
The be regarded as a comprehensive list of the risks and group has a proven record of generating strong profits and uncertainties faced by the group but rather a summary of maintaining a stable balance sheet including during periods of those which the group currently faces and believes have the stress.
This does not, however, diminish the importance potential to have a significant impact on its financial attached and attention given to risk management.
The groups performance and future prospects.
risk appetite continues to have at its core a cautious approach, in particular ensuring that the group is well capitalised, soundly funded and has adequate access to liquidity.
Key risk and uncertainty Group exposure Risk mitigation and management Economic environment Underlying economic conditions The groups businesses typically trade Demand for the groups products and could impact the group in a number in specialist areas where they have services are sensitive to global of different ways.
Specific examples developed significant market knowledge economic conditions particularly of impact on performance include but and expertise.
Across the divisions, the those within the UK.
are not limited to: group aims to be there when it matters Lower demand for the groups and to build long-term relationships with Underlying economic conditions products and services in the its customers adding resilience to trading influence the levels of competition the Banking and Asset Management performance in difficult economic groups businesses face and their divisions: conditions.
Reduced retail and or institutional securities trading activity leading to The groups activities are diversified both lower trading volumes in the across its divisions and within the Securities division: divisions themselves with the result that Failure of a material institution adverse conditions for one area of the where group or client funds are business should not necessarily impact deposited and or invested: the whole group.
High bad debt charges within the Banking division due to customers The Banking business model is based on inability to repay loans and conservative loan to value ratios, relatively reductions in asset values held as short-term loan duration and is predominantly security for those loans: and secured on accessible and identifiable Asset write downs as a result of assets.
The Securities divisions primary lower present values of future cash activity is to be a market-maker in shortflows due to reduced economic dated exchange traded products, thereby activity.
providing liquidity to the markets within conservative trading limits, rather than proprietary trading.
The Asset Management model focuses on managing, protecting and enhancing the wealth of private and corporate clients.
Close Brothers Group plc 25 Annual Report 2011 Key risk and uncertainty Group exposure Risk mitigation and management Credit risk The groups Banking division The groups lending businesses have a The risk of a reduction in earnings advances loans to a range of dual approach to mitigate credit risk: and or value, as a result of the failure corporates, SMEs and individuals.
Robust processes that facilitate the of a counterparty or associated party Failure to recover the amounts lent or assessment of the credit quality and with whom the group has contracted the interest and fees associated with covenant of the underlying borrower: to meet its obligations in a timely those loans could result in a and manner.
Lending on a predominantly secured basis with significant emphasis on the The group places surplus funding quality of the underlying security to with other financial institutions.
At 31 minimise any loss should the customer July 2011 the group placed deposits not be able to repay.
at, and held CDs and FRNs issued by, financial institutions.
The group also enters into derivative contracts in These are supplemented by timely and order to hedge interest rate and rigorous collections and arrears foreign currency exposures with management processes.
Much of the counterparties creating an exposure Banking divisions lending is short term throughout the life of those contracts.
and average loan size is small with the As part of the acquisition of the result that few individual loans have the structured deposit book from Dunbar capacity to materially impact the groups Bank plc, taken on as part of the earnings.
The Banking division has groups strategy of diversifying its enhanced its management of credit by funding sources, the group acquired creating a central team to oversee the equity derivatives with counterparties management of risk at both the transaction that hedge the embedded derivatives and portfolio level.
As such, the group is at risk of financial loss if The Banking division monitors the credit one of its financial counterparties quality of the counterparties with whom defaults or fails.
the group places deposits, enters into derivative contracts or whose debt securities are held, within approved limits.
Interest rate and foreign currency derivatives are solely held to hedge the interest rate and foreign currency exposures.
Similarly, the equity derivatives are only held to hedge the embedded derivatives in the structured deposits.
The Securities division exposure is limited as the businesses trade in the cash markets with regulated counterparties on a delivery versus payment basis such that any credit exposure is limited to price movements in the underlying securities.
Counterparty exposure and settlement failure monitoring controls are in place.
The Asset Management division maintains and monitors an approved list of banks and custodians for client money and assets which it controls.
Close Brothers Group plc 26 Annual Report 2011 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Key risk and uncertainty Group exposure Risk mitigation and management Funding and liquidity risks The group requires access to funding The groups total funding at 31 July 2011 Funding: The risk of loss caused by in order to support its client lending in remained significantly in excess of its the inability to raise funds at an particular within the Banking division customer loans and advances.
The acceptable price or to access but also trading and growth initiatives excess is invested in assets such as markets in a timely manner.
within the Securities and Asset FRNs, short-term CDs and gilts or Management divisions.
placed on deposit at the Bank of Liquidity: The risk that liabilities cannot England.
In addition the group has be met when they fall due or can only The vast majority of the funding diversified sources of funding and is be met at an uneconomic price.
requirements for the group relate to confident that it will be able to access the Banking division.
Following the sufficient funding to support its operations.
credit crisis of 2008, access to credit markets has become more uncertain.
The group manages its liquidity to ensure Inability to source sufficient funding liabilities are met as they fall due.
The could constrain growth and in Banking division has historically extreme circumstances require the maintained longer maturity funding, Banking division to reduce lending aiming to borrow long and lend short.
The group also requires liquidity to ensure that it is able to meet its obligations as they become due in all circumstances.
Regulation, legislation and tax The impact on the groups businesses The group monitors regulatory and legal The group operates in a highly regulated caused by changes in regulation, developments and engages in dialogue environment.
Changes in regulation and legislation or the tax system is with regulatory authorities on a regular legislation or the basis of tax, particularly potentially material.
basis and continues to maintain a in the UK, could materially impact the conservative model with a strong, well groups performance.
Significant changes to the regulatory capitalised and funded balance sheet and legislative environment are currently and believes it is well placed to react to being introduced.
Changes to the types and levels of liquidity banks are required to hold: The group has a central tax function Amendments to the regulatory capital which liaises regularly with the tax regime including changes to the level authorities and has developed a group and type of capital required Basel tax policy to ensure a consistent III : approach is taken to tax issues across Required enhancement to risk the group.
management and governance processes: and Revisions to the Financial Services Authority remuneration code.
Although many of the proposed changes are aimed primarily at larger institutions, the impact on the groups business model and earnings is potentially significant.
Close Brothers Group plc 27 Annual Report 2011 Key risk and uncertainty Group exposure Risk mitigation and management Operational risk In common with any financial services The group has continued to improve its The risk of loss or other material group, operational risk is inherent to operational risk management framework adverse impact resulting from the group.
to ensure that operational risks are inadequate or failed internal assessed, mitigated and reported in a processes, people and systems or The groups success is closely consistent and timely manner across the from external events.
aligned to the abilities and experience group.
The ability of the group to attract and retain key A new central human resources personnel is critical to the groups department leads enhancements to the prospects in the medium and performance management framework long-term.
and reviews the reward and incentive schemes regularly to ensure that the The groups activities are highly reliant group is successful in attracting and on their IT infrastructure in their daily retaining the calibre of employees operations.
Failure to respond to new necessary to meet its objectives.
technology, develop existing systems and ensure a robust infrastructure Each of the businesses continually could have a material effect either invests in its IT platforms to ensure they competitively or operationally on the remain up-to-date and fit for purpose for groups earnings and reputation.
the markets in which they operate.
Additionally, business continuity plans The group is also exposed to process enable the businesses to respond in a and control failures that could give timely manner to a disaster event.
rise to losses, including those from internal or external fraud.
The group undertakes a regular review of its risk and control environment which facilitates an assessment of the ongoing effectiveness of its processes and controls, including those related to fraud prevention.
Strategic risk The group devotes substantial The group monitors key performance The risk of reduction in earnings or management resources to the and risk indicators and has various value from the pursuit of a defective or development and execution of policies and practices to mitigate inappropriate strategy: an inability to strategic plans supported by strategic risk, including subscribing to successfully implement a determined substantial expenditure to generate sound corporate governance practices, strategy: or that changes to the growth in customer business.
If these which require that activities, processes operating environment occur that strategic plans are not delivered as and decisions are based on carefully invalidate strategies.
anticipated, the groups earnings considered principles.
could grow more slowly or decline.
The group regularly reinforces these policies and practices through transparent communication, accurate reporting, continuous group culture and values assessment, regulatory compliance review, and risk management practices.
This is supported by more formal strategy and budgetary reviews.
Close Brothers Group plc 28 Annual Report 2011 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Key risk and uncertainty Group exposure Risk mitigation and management Market risk The groups securities businesses are The securities businesses are marketThe risk that a change in the value of exposed to market movements makers and as a result typically have an underlying market variable, such deriving from trading in equity and lower market risk exposure than as interest or foreign exchange rates, fixed income securities.
will give rise to an adverse movement Position limits are set annually for each in the value of the groups assets.
Interest income is a substantial product, sector and individual stock with proportion of the groups revenues.
real time monitoring and oversight by Movements in interest rates have the senior management.
potential to affect the groups earnings.
The Banking division does not trade in money market instruments although they While the majority of the groups are held for liquidity purposes.
activities are located in the UK and transacted in sterling, the group is The groups policy is to match fixed and subject to foreign exchange exposure.
variable interest rate liabilities and assets The group has currency assets and utilising interest rate swaps where liabilities, principally lending and FRNs necessary.
Interest rate mismatch as well as borrowings and customer policies are established by the Banking deposits, arising from a range of divisions risk and compliance currency services offered by the committees with compliance monitored Banking division.
In addition the group daily.
Returns from the groups capital has a small number of overseas and reserves are necessarily subject to subsidiaries and currency interest rate fluctuations and as a matter denominated investments.
A sensitivity analysis on interest rate exposures is shown on page 109.
The foreign exchange exposures arising from the Banking divisions assets and liabilities are managed by matching assets and liabilities by currency and the limited use of foreign currency swaps.
Exposures are monitored daily against centrally authorised limits.
The group does not take speculative proprietary positions in foreign currency.
The group does not hedge its currency exposure to its overseas subsidiaries and currency investments since it is relatively modest.
A sensitivity analysis on foreign currency exposures is shown on page 110.
