26 Bodycote plc Annual Report 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties Effective management of risks is essential to the delivery ofthe are set by the Chief Executive Officer, supported by the newly Groups objectives.
Under the leadership of the Vice-President appointed Group Head of Safety, Health and Environment and all Risk and Business Processes, the Group iscontinuing to develop facilities are required to operate in accordance with these policies.
The approach taken has been Responsibility for implementation of S&H policies lies with toidentify and evaluate thebusiness critical risks for each divisional management and each division has a professionally sub-division, and to determine measures in place to manage competent S&H manager in place.
All facilities are subject to andmitigate eachrisk.
In 2012 development of the risk safety audits at least once a year, following standard audit management framework will focus on assurance that mitigation programmes, and findings are reported to divisional and activities are effective.
This work will be undertaken by Ernst & corporatemanagement.
Young LLP as part of their new outsourced Internal Audit contract environment for the Group.
Ernst & Young LLP have leading internal audit Bodycote is committed to providing the highest level of protection advisory and risk capability and they will help the Group to the environment.
Environmental policy is set by the Chief developitsassurance framework.
Executive Officer, supported by the newly appointed Group Head of The principal risks described below represent the most significant Safety, Health and Environment.
Historical use of solvents and other areas which the Board believes have a higher probability of hazardous chemicals could have led to ground contamination.
impacting the Groups financial performance and position, Theenvironmental laws of the various jurisdictions impose actual together with the actions initiated to mitigate the consequences.
and potential obligations on Bodycote to remediate contaminated sites, both those currently in use and, in some cases, those which Market and Customer risks have been sold.
Bodycote incurs costs annually in meeting its Markets obligations and maintains a provision of 15.8m to meet these Bodycotes presence in 27 countries and in a wide variety of end liabilities.
If this existing provision is inadequate to meet costs arising markets acts as a natural hedge to balance out localised economic from environmental obligations, then this could impact the Groups volatility.
Nevertheless, the Group is continuously working to results.
Some of the Groups heat treatment plants continue to use improve its responsiveness to changes in demand by keeping the solvents and other hazardous chemicals in small quantities but the cost base flexible without impacting customer service levels.
risk of future contamination is managed by stringent procedures, The Board is mindful of the potential for volatility in demand for the typically under the requirements of the ISO 14001 environmental Group's services while the Eurozone debt problems continue.
Significant efforts have been made to strengthen Bodycotes salescapability which includes maintaining close contact with Operational risks customers to provide management with market intelligence.
Service quality Furthermore the business uses analytical tools to track changes The Bodycote brand is reliant on the repeatable delivery of parts to indemand and detailed plans document the measures to agreed specification to an agreed time.
Deterioration in quality or respondrapidly to a fall in sales.
service levels can have serious long term consequences financially and to Bodycotes reputation.
Work that is released into use which Loss of key customers is not in compliance with specification could arise as a result of The Group benefits from many long-term and partnership system or human failure.
Bodycote has stringent quality systems agreements with key customers.
Damage to, or loss of, any of in place managed by qualified staff.
Where necessary plants have these relationships may be detrimental to Group results, although relevant accreditations, such as ISO 9001, Nadcap and TS 16949. the Board believes this is highly unlikely as Bodycote has excellent All facilities are subject to internal audits, external audits by long-term relationships with its major customers and the Groups accreditors or customer inspections at least once a year.
network of strategically located facilities ensures that it is the supplier of choice to these major manufacturers.
Furthermore regulatory risks there is no significant customer dependency, with the Groups regulatory and legislative compliance topten customers accounting for less than 13% of sales and Bodycote operates in 27 countries which all have unique legislative thebalance made up by many thousands of customers.
and regulatory requirements, including tax regulations.
In some countries regulations can vary from state to state.
Non-compliance Corporate and Community risks could lead to penalties, disruption to business, and diversion of Human resources management time and loss of reputation.
To mitigate this risk Bodycote is reliant on its ability to recruit, develop and retain staff Bodycote engages specialists with expertise in the local legislative to meet future growth plans.
Competition for resources is high and and regulatory landscape to perform compliance activity or to there is a risk that Bodycote may not be able to attract or to retain advise local management.
As the market leader, Bodycote is seen as a source of talent by competitors, while the Group competes with Financial risks employers from a wide range of sectors to attract staff into the The Groups treasury function provides a centralised service to the Group for funding, foreign exchange, interest rate management business.
The Group continued to invest in the implementation of and counterparty risk.
Treasury activities have the objective of its Human Resources Strategy, which covers succession planning, minimising risk and treasury operations are conducted within a staff development, performance management, recruitment and framework of policies and guidelines authorised and reviewed the remuneration strategy.
This was supported by the periodically by the Board.
Further details on the Groups financial recruitmentof a Group Learning & Development Manager and risks and risk management policies are provided in note 20 to the through the roll-out of HR software, such as SuccessFactors, financial statements.
Safety & Health Bodycote is committed to providing the highest level of protection in its work environment and to protecting the safety of its employees.
The Groups work environment presents a number of risks which require management.
Shortcomings in health and D. F. Landless safety arrangements can have a significant effect on individual Finance Director employees, cause disruption to business and lead to financial 23 February 2012 penalties and loss of reputation.
Safety and Health S&H policies Bodycote plc 27 Annual Report 2011 risk Description Impact Mitigation Market and Customer risks Markets A substantial proportion of Bodycotes As a low proportion of the Groups p Engage in continuous dialogue with customers sales are closely linked to the economic costs are variable approx 20%, a fall in and monitor macro-economic forecasts which cycle, 39% of Group sales are in sales will have a significant impact on should alert the Group to likely changes in Eurozone countries.
markets served by the AGI businesses p Maintain flexibility of cost base e. g. by ensuring 67% of the total Group tend to that a proportion of the workforce isemployed develop in line with or ahead of the on temporary contracts.
economic cycle, whereas aerospace p Respond quickly to changes in customer and defence sales 20% tend to track demand on a local or a Group-wide level.
Sales to the energy sectors 13% are closely linked to energy prices, which in turn can be affected by general economic activity.
Short order visibility means that accurately forecasting demand remainsdifficult.
Loss of key Damage to the relationship with key A loss of a key customer will result in a p Continue the emphasis on long-term customers customers that will result in loss of reduction in profit and may affect the agreements.
viability of one or more of the Groups p Maintain excellent relationships with major facilities.
Use key account management to monitor customer satisfaction with Groups service levels.
Corporate and Community risks Human Bodycotes growth plans rely on its A shortage of staff with the appropriate p Continue development of an HR strategy to resources ability to retain, develop and attract skills will impede the Groups ability to address the long-term development and staff.
p Ensure performance management processes are properly implemented and used effectively.
Safety and Shortcomings in safety and health Failure to develop, implement or p Appointed Group Head of Safety, Health and Health framework.
comply with the highest levels of safety Environment.
and health processes can lead to injury, p Comprehensive health and safety policies in financial and reputational loss.
p Maintain Group-wide health and safety policies enforced by divisional health and safety teams.
p Safety compliance audits at least once a year at all plants.
environment Ground and water contamination Financial impact of cleaning up p Appointed Group Head of Safety, Health and through the use of potentially contamination from past and present Environment.
hazardous substances and emissions activities involving hazardous substances.
p Remediation of contaminated sites as required of carbon dioxide.
Reputational impact, particularly for by local legislation.
facilities which operate in urban or p Reduce use of hazardous substances, such as residential areas.
Operational risks Service Work being released for end use that Processed part will not perform as p Maintain industry relevant accreditations.
has not been processed to required, leading to financial cost of quality p Divisional quality teams to maintain quality specification.
remediation, breakdown in customer process at plant level.
relationship, reputational loss, and p Perform quality audits at all plants at least once potential for damages litigation.
regulatory risks regulatory Non-compliance with regulatory or Non-compliance could lead to financial p Engage local specialists to support Bodycote at legislative requirements.
penalties, disruption to business, local, divisional and Group level.
and diversion of management time, legislative p Develop business process to incorporate local personal and corporate liability and loss compliance regulatory requirements.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review
