18 Financial Instruments i Management of Risk As an investment trust, the Groups investment objective is to seek capital growth from a portfolio of securities drawn from markets both within the UK and worldwide.
The holding of these financial instruments to meet this objective results in certain risks.
The Groups financial instruments comprise: 1.
Securities in unquoted and quoted companies, partnership interests and liquidity funds.
A loan facility, issuance of Zero Dividend Preference shares and Convertible Bonds, the purpose of which is to finance tender offers, other share buy-backs and on-market purchases of shares, the financing of new investment and refinancing existing debt.
Interest rate Swap and Cap in order to manage the risk of interest rate fluctuation in interest payable on the new multi-currency loan facility.
The main risks arising from the Groups and Companys financial instruments are fluctuations in market price, interest rate, credit, liquidity, capital and foreign currency exchange rate risk.
The policies for managing each of these risks are summarised below.
These policies have remained constant throughout the year under review and the preceding year.
The financial risks of the Company are aligned to the Groups financial risks.
Market Price Risk Market price risk arises mainly from uncertainty about future prices of financial instruments used in the Groups operations.
It represents the potential loss the Group might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements, mitigated by stock selection.
Electra Partners has responsibility for monitoring the portfolio in accordance with the Groups investment objectives and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
The Group is exposed to the risk of the change in value of its fund investments, listed and unlisted equity and non-equity shares, fixed income securities and floating rate notes.
For funds, listed investments, floating rate notes and liquidity funds the market risk variable is deemed to be the price itself.
For unlisted equity and non-equity shares the market risk is deemed to be the price earnings ratio.
The impact on profit or loss after tax and on shareholders equity, in absolute and percentage terms of those figures, due to movements in these variables, is set out in part ii of this Note.
Credit Risk The Groups exposure to credit risk principally arises from its investment in liquidity funds and its cash deposits.
Only major clearing houses are used when making cash deposits and the level of cash is reviewed on a regular basis.
A well diversified portfolio of liquidity funds is maintained with no more than 10% of gross assets held with any one institution.
The total invested in liquidity funds was 230,136,000 with associated accrued income of 136,000 2010: 174,889,000 with associated accrued income of 89,000.
Cash held on deposit was principally with two UK banks and totalled 39,434,000 2010: 36,947,000.
40 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 18 Financial Instruments continued Interest Rate Risk The Group finances its operations through retained profits including both realised and unrealised capital profits.
In addition, financing is obtained through loan facilities.
During the year, a long-term multi-currency loan facility was in existence.
The loan has a floating rate of interest.
Interest rate swap and cap derivatives were entered into during the year to manage the risk of interest rate fluctuation in interest payable on the Multi-currency facility.
The cash balances held on deposit mitigate in part the interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk profiles for financial assets and liabilities and the impact of the profit or loss after tax and on shareholders equity of a 1.0% increase or decrease in interest rates, in absolute terms and as a percentage of those figures, are shown in part iv of this Note.
These profiles exclude short term receivables and payables.
Liquidity Risk The Groups assets comprise listed and unlisted equity and non-equity shares, fixed income securities and liquidity funds whilst the unlisted equity is intentionally illiquid.
Short-term flexibility is achieved through the revolving loan facility, and liquidity funds which are relatively liquid and cash which is available on demand.
The maturity of the Groups existing borrowings are set out in part v of this Note.
Capital Risk Management The Groups objective in the management of capital risk is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure.
In doing so the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders whilst remaining within the restrictions imposed by its investment trust status, return capital to shareholders, change level of borrowing in the 185,000,000 committed multi-currency revolving credit facility or issue new shares.
During the year the Group paid no dividend 2010: nil.
In order to be able to pay a dividend out of profits available for distribution the Company has to be able to meet one of the two capital restriction tests imposed on investment companies by company law.
The Group manages the levels of cash deposits held whilst maintaining sufficient liquidity for investments.
The Group has an existing authority to implement an on-market share buy-back programme to generate shareholder value.
During the year nil 2010: nil was utilised to repurchase shares for cancellation.
The 185,000,000 committed multi-currency revolving credit facility was drawn down such that a balance of 163,707,000 was outstanding at the year end 2010: 163,945,000.
The loan is repayable on 17 January 2013.
On 5 August 2009 the Group issued 43,000,000 Zero Dividend Preference Shares at 100p each and on 2 December 2009 4,295,000 Zero Dividend Preference Shares were issued at 104p each Note 16.
On 29 December 2010, Electra issued 100 million 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds due on 29 December 2017 Note 17.
The level of outstanding borrowings is reviewed on an ongoing basis taking into account the need to buy back shares, future levels of investment and any foreign currency hedging concerns.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 41 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
