Risk Description Mitigations General Demand for housing is impacted by changes Close monitoring of lead indicators in the housing market.
economic in employment, interest rates and customer Work in progress is matched to sales levels.
A deterioration in the economy Land acquisition is focused in the south of England, where could decrease customer demand for new homes the economy is expected to remain more robust.
and the pricing achievable, with consequential A cautious gearing position with a conservatively structured impacts on revenues, profits and potentially asset balance sheet is retained.
Mortgage The availability of mortgage finance, particularly The Group is working with the industry on the availability deposit requirements for first time buyers, is Government backed mortgage indemnity scheme.
Further The Group continues to innovate to find additional ways restriction on mortgages granted could reduce to assist customers to purchase a home.
demand for homes and therefore revenues and Customers with the greatest difficulty in accessing profits.
mortgages due to deposit requirements are provided with relevant purchase assistance schemes.
The Group is investing in land with more traditional homes, which are less focussed on the first time buyer.
Code for The introduction of higher levels of CSH may increase Close monitoring of changes in code requirements by Sustainable substantially production costs without an offsetting experienced team.
Homes ability to increase sales prices.
Assuming councils The Group has a high proportion of the consented land CSH maintain their social gain packages, land vendors bank which is subject to existing regulation standards.
requirements may see insufficient value in their land, leading to New building techniques and advances continue to be a reduction in land supply, impeding the growth of investigated, which can reduce the carbon usage in sites and therefore volumes.
Regulation The Group is subject to regularly changing rules and A land bank is maintained to mitigate against significant and regulations in relation to planning, legislation and impacts from delayed build activity.
Complying with the obligations Comprehensive processes are operated to ensure can create costs to the Group or may create delays compliance with known regulatory and legal requirements.
Additionally the quantity and Changes in legislation and regulation are carefully range of obligations create risks for the Group in monitored to ensure that changes affecting the business are remaining aware and fully conversant with all of the incorporated within the Groups processes.
Access to land The Group fails to invest effectively in land with Clearly defined strategy and geographical focus on land.
a residential planning consent to maintain and A rigorous formal process for land acquisitions is operated grow its consented land bank, thus either limiting with defined hurdle return rates.
expansion or possibly compromising existing activity.
Management regularly review the pipeline of new land purchases.
Attracting and The loss of key staff or the failure to attract and The Group is taking forward its human resources strategy to retaining staff retain high quality employees may inhibit the Groups improve the development and training of existing employees.
ability to achieve its strategy.
The Group is building upon its successful graduate and apprenticeship schemes.
As the activities of the Group evolve, the nature of the risks on which it is focused evolve.
For instance, as the Group has acquired land successfully, the operational risk shifts to the progression of these sites into the build and sales phase, with the challenges of gaining detailed planning and of operationally gearing up the Group to increase build and sales activity.
However, it is important to recognise that whilst conditions may have improved, profound uncertainties remain with regard to the UK economy which do suggest that appropriate levels of caution should be maintained.
22 | Annual report and accounts | Strategy Risk and uncertainties Strategy The availability of mortgage finance and customer deposit requirements are the key issues currently facing the Group Bovis Homes Group PLC | 23 24 | Annual report and accounts | Strategy Strategy Bovis Homes Group PLC | 25
