16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:11 Page 13 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 13 Managing risk The Directors are committed to a strong control environment throughout the Group.
F&C has a culture that emphasises the importance of rigorous disciplines and procedures to safeguard the interests of our clients and other key stakeholders.
increased its concentration and reliance on third parties through the Investment management execution of a service agreement with State Street Corporation.
Key Risk The success of the Group depends upon the effective management of client portfolios against targets, benchmarks and or Mitigation The selection of a key supplier to the Group was peer groups.
Failure to do so could lead to client outflows and the undertaken following a robust due diligence and selection process.
loss of key mandates, may prevent the Group from winning new As part of the implementation of these outsourcing arrangements business and could potentially expose the Group to greater risk of the Group has established a dedicated team to oversee all aspects mandate or regulatory breach.
The implementation project is being managed by a Steering Group comprised of senior business managers.
Mitigation Fund Managers are responsible for interpreting and effectively managing the risks associated with investment Euro currency ideas strategies.
Independent of Fund Managers, the Group Key Risk In addition to the potential operational implications arising operates an Investment Risk Oversight team with responsibility for from the collapse of the Euro or withdrawal of individual countries, monitoring and challenging risks within client portfolios.
the Group has exposure to a large number of clients whose assets under management have the potential to be impacted.
In Q4 2011 Effective strategy formulation and execution strategic partner assets were withdrawn as a result of the decision Key Risk The success of the Group depends upon the effective by the Portuguese government to nationalise past pension formulation, articulation and execution of its strategy.
During the year obligations of the countrys largest banks.
there were changes in key elements of strategy formulation and execution.
Mitigation The Groups operating platform is positioned to cope with potential changes to Eurozone membership arising from the Mitigation Following the appointment of a new Chairman in Euro crisis and the Group proactively considers a range of potential February 2011 the strategic review of the Groups corporate position scenarios with key service providers.
The Group also provides and its Institutional Business was announced in October 2011, tailored assistance to its clients in considering scenario implications highlighting the objective of achieving competitive scale in areas of for their own planning.
strategic focus through consistent investment in products, channels and human resources.
This will increase institutional focus on the Loss of key employees Groups fixed income offerings.
The strategic review of the Retail Key Risk The success of the Group depends on the support of its and Wholesale Business is expected to be announced in May 2012. employees.
The departure of key employees could lead to client outflows and the loss of key mandates, may prevent the Group from Loss of strategic partners winning new business and could potentially expose the Group to Key Risk The success of the Group depends on the relationships it greater risk of regulatory, financial or operational failure.
The retention of clients and the winning of new mandates may be driven by historical performance and the quality of Mitigation The Group benchmarks total compensation to market client service.
A number of contracts with our key strategic partners data.
All employees receive an annual appraisal which reviews their are approaching expiry of exclusivity.
performance against clearly defined objectives with the aim of encouraging strong performance.
Reliance on key individuals is Mitigation Dedicated relationship management teams ensure mitigated by the Groups team-based approach to investment continued quality of service.
Investment performance is closely management.
Moreover, we seek to reduce our dependence on key monitored by Investment Function management.
Furthermore, the staff through ongoing learning and development initiatives, and the strategic review explicitly addressed uncertainties relating to recruitment of suitably skilled individuals.
Combined with an increasing reliance on outsourced providers, additional cost cutting measures were Regulatory compliance announced that will deliver cost flexibility and ensure that the Group Key Risk Significant changes in regulatory frameworks and the should remain financially viable under a scenario where strategic increased trend in regulatory scrutiny across the financial services partners assets are withdrawn.
industry present both opportunities and challenges for the Group.
Outsourced activities Mitigation The Group Compliance team ensures that key Key Risk In pursuing a strategy with a focus on competitive scale, regulatory changes are identified at the earliest opportunity.
Their the use of outsourced service providers benefits the Group by impact is then assessed to allow practical guidance on the proper providing cost effective access to an industry competitive operating application and interpretation of any changes to be provided to all platform.
In support of this strategic objective, the Group has relevant business areas.
