Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 Back to contents Principal risks and uncertainties Like all businesses, the Group faces a of the year to 30 June 2011.
This was research into the way consumers engage number of potential risks which, if not beneficial as a significant part of Group with this market before deciding on the properly controlled, could hinder the revenue is based on the value of client nature and appropriate timescale for successful implementation of its strategy investments.
Market volatility remains an making any rules.
The FSA has confirmed and have a material impact on the longaccepted risk, although the high that any rule changes will not come into term performance.
The Board believes that percentage of assets in tax wrappers and a force before 31 December 2012.
In a successful risk management framework cash option on our platform does reduce response to this proposal Hargreaves balances risk and reward.
Within the the impact of such market turbulence on Lansdown believes that if such a ban does Group, responsibility for risk management our performance.
come in, and there is no guarantee that it and internal control rests with the Board.
ultimately will, there are a range of The Board and senior management of In terms of regulatory risk, on 1 August recurring revenue models available and Hargreaves Lansdown are proactive in 2011 the FSA issued a policy statement currently used in the business, which identifying, assessing and managing risk.
In this could be extended to mitigate the loss of The Executive management implements paper the FSA stated it would be revenue from product providers.
Such a and maintains the systems of internal desirable, in principle, to ban payments by change to our revenue model can be made controls.
Further details of our systems for product providers to platforms.
Payments whilst remaining highly competitive to internal control and risk management can from product providers represent a existing and potential clients.
With any be found in the Corporate Governance significant revenue stream.
However, the rule changes only commencing from 2013 statement.
FSA has accepted that with such a ban at the earliest, there is time to successfully there could be unintended consequences make a transition to an alternative model.
The low risk profile of the business has not which might arise that are not yet fully changed significantly this year.
One of our understood and hence they have not yet The risk factors mentioned below do not highlighted risks each year is market made rules to introduce it.
The FSA has purport to be exhaustive as there may be volatility and this has certainly been committed to carrying out further work additional risks that the Group has not yet experienced in 2011.
Although the including careful consideration of the identified or has deemed to be immaterial markets remained volatile in 2011, they impact on consumers, business model that could have a material adverse effect did have an upward trend over the course analysis of the platforms market and on the business.
Industry Risks Risk Type Risks Mitigating Factors Controls Fluctuations in the Fluctuations in capital markets may Focus on recurring revenue streams over the more volatile capital markets adversely aect trading activity and or the transaction-based alternative.
value of the Groups assets under High proportion of assets under administration in tax administration or management, from which wrappers so clients less likely to withdraw funds and lose tax we derive revenues.
Cash option enables clients to shelter from market volatility.
Changing markets The Group operates in a highly competitive Strong market position with pricing power.
and increased environment with developing demographic Full control over exible platform.
competition trends and our continued profitability Experienced management team with a strong track record of depends on our ability to respond to these innovation and responsiveness to the market.
Organisational structure and culture promotes responsiveness.
Client focused with a loyal customer base.
Evolving technology The Groups technology needs to remain Track record of successful development.
current if we are to develop and enhance High awareness and sponsorship of the importance of our systems to accommodate changing technology at Board level.
preferences, new products and the Substantial development team in place.
emergence of new industry standards.
Scalability project team in place.
22 Back to contents Industry Risks continued Risk Type Risks Mitigating Factors Controls Regulatory risk The Group may be materially adversely Strong compliance culture.
aected as a result of new or revised Business model and culture geared towards FSA principle of legislation or regulations or by changes in treating clients fairly.
the interpretation or enforcement of Financial strength of the organisation provides comfort existing laws and regulations.
should the capital resource requirement be increased.
The Group will need to replace a significant Alternative recurring revenue models are already successfully revenue stream if the FSA bans payments operated by the Group and these could be used to oset the from product providers to platforms as potential reduction in revenue from product providers.
stated as a desirable intention in its Policy There is no guarantee that such a ban on revenue from Statement PS11 9. product providers will ultimately be implemented as much consultation will first need to take place.
This means there is plenty of time to make representations and carefully review and implement the most appropriate strategic change to our revenue model that works for both our clients and the profitability of the Group.
Competitive prices and service oering will be maintained to ensure business will not be lost to competitors many of whom will in any case be faced with the same rule change should it occur.
Changes in Changes made to tax legislation could The Government has a clear priority to reinvigorate savings taxation law reduce the attractiveness of some of the in order to plan for an ageing population, which is currently Groups investment products such as ISAs under-provided for.
This will create opportunities for SIPP and SIPPs.
Damage to the The risk of reputational damage through Clients educated to improve awareness of potential boiler Groups reputation the actions of unassociated third parties room and other online scams.
such as copycat websites to fraudulently Hargreaves Lansdown security procedures are well target client funds needs to be minimised.
communicated to clients so they are more likely to question anything out of the ordinary.
Ongoing intensive monitoring and response.
Operational Risks Risk Type Risks Mitigating Factors Controls Errors, breakdowns Serious or prolonged breaches, errors or High level of resilience built into daily operations.
or security breaches breakdowns in the Groups software or IT IT performance, scalability and security are deemed top in respect of the systems must be avoided.
priorities by the Board and are included in the IT Strategy.
Groups software or Large, experienced in-house team of IT professionals and information established name suppliers.
technology systems Internal procedures benchmarked against industry best practice.
Business continuity The risk of disruption to the business as a Critical applications and infrastructure mirrored across result of IT or power failure, re, ood, acts primary and secondary sites.
of terrorism, re-location problems and Business Continuity Plan produced in line with best practice similar must be minimised.
Damage to the The risk of reputational damage from High level of internal controls including checks on new sta.
Groups reputation employee misconduct, failure to manage Well trained sta.
inside information or conicts of interest and Strong compliance culture.
fraud or improper practice must be controlled.
Key personnel risk Key personnel must be recruited and Succession planning encouraged throughout the Group via retained to prevent a material adverse management and sta objectives.
eect on the Groups business, results of Success of the Group should attract high calibre candidates.
A continuous programme of SAYE and other share option schemes are in operation to incentivise sta and encourage retention.
23 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 Back to contents Operational Risks continued Risk Type Risks Mitigating Factors Controls Litigation or claims The Group needs to protect against the risk High levels of Professional Indemnity Insurance cover.
made against the of litigation from clients or third parties Comprehensive internal review procedures for marketing Group and actions taken by regulatory agencies.
Reliance on third Outsourced service providers must meet Due diligence forms part of the selection process for key parties appropriate standards to protect the Group suppliers.
from the risk of regulatory sanctions and Ongoing review by our internal audit team of key business reputational damage.
Strategic risk Management must remain focused on Very experienced management team, with a highly successful appropriate strategies and implement the track record to date.
Management have demonstrated an excellent understanding of the market and continue to monitor this eectively through regular dialogue with clients.
Performance of Investment performance of the Hargreaves Only manage Funds of Funds, divested equity management to in-house managed Lansdown multi-manager funds needs to focus on core strength.
funds remain good relative to the market or in Fund analysis focuses on stock selection skills of manager absolute terms, or the Group may be rather than basic performance analysis.
vulnerable to outows in those funds and a Multi-manager funds well diversied at the underlying fund consequential reduction in revenues.
level as well as by number of funds.
Well established and proven investment process overseen by an Internal Investment Committee.
Our Funds of Funds give investors exposure to a broad range of underlying investments.
They are therefore less vulnerable to sector specic poor performance than specialised or focused funds.
Financial Risks Risk Type Risks Mitigating Factors Controls Liquidity risks The Group must remain able to meet Highly cash generative business.
liabilities as they become due and be able Low working capital requirement.
to liquidate assets or obtain adequate Group maintains a substantial surplus above regulatory and funding as necessary.
Treasury management policy provides for the availability of liquid funds at short notice.
Bank default Given the current economic climate and in Only use banks with strong credit rating and financial ratios particular the unprecedented problems where we do not believe the Government would allow them to faced by banks, the Group must protect fail.
against the risk that a bank could fail.
Deposits spread across several banks, with limits placed on each.
Regular review and challenge of treasury policy by management.
Interest rate risks Risk of decline in earnings due to a decline Access to competitive interest rates due to large value of cash in interest rates.
Regular xed high interest cash oers available to clients.
