DIReCtoRs RePoRt continued A historical record of these measures is shown on pages 2, 3 and 21.
In addition to the above, the Board considers peer group comparative performance.
Borrowings A 25 million tranche of the 50 million multi-currency variable rate loan facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc expired on 25 May 2011 and was replaced with a two year 25 million multi-currency variable rate loan facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, expiring 30 May 2013.
Results and Dividend The net asset value NAV of the Company at 31 December 2011 was 563.75p per Ordinary share 2010 593.85p.
This represented a decrease of 5.1% during the year, compared to a decrease in the comparative index of 12.5%.
The discount widened from 18.7% to 19.3%.
The Directors recommend a dividend of 1.00p 2010 Nil per Ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2011.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be payable on 3 May 2012 to holders registered on 10 April 2012.
The ex-dividend date is 4 April 2012. Review of the Year and Future trends A review of the year and the investment outlook is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 11.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and its principal risks are therefore market related and include market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and how they are managed is contained in note 20 to the accounts on pages 47 to 54.
Other risks faced by the Company include the following: Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
Breach of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
The Managers Compliance Officer and Baillie Giffords Heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on their monitoring programmes.
The Manager monitors investment movements and the Secretary monitors the level of forecast income and expenditure to ensure the provisions of Sections 1158 and 1159 are not breached.
Major regulatory change could impose unnecessary compliance burdens on the Company or threaten the viability of the investment company structure.
In such circumstances representation is made to ensure that special circumstances of investment trusts are recognised.
Operational Financial Risk failure of the Secretarys accounting systems or those of other third party service providers could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a misappropriation of assets.
The Secretary has a comprehensive business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of the business in the event of a service disruption or major disruption.
The Audit Committee reviews the Secretarys Report on Internal Controls and the reports by other key third party providers are reviewed by the Secretary on behalf of the Audit Committee.
Discount Volatility the discount at which the Companys shares trade can widen.
The Board monitors the level of discount and the Company has authority to buy back its own shares.
Gearing Risk the Company may borrow money for investment purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities.
employees The Company has no employees.
social and Community Issues As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or community responsibilities.
However, the Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment are set out on page 27.
