Risks and Risk Management The Company has put in place a risk management framework The Investment Adviser and the Operator have established internal covering all aspects of the Companys business.
Due to the nature of controls to manage these risks, and also review and consider the the Company being an Investment Company and the outsourcing Groups key risks on a quarterly basis.
The Board reviews the key risks of key services to the Investment Adviser and other service affecting the Company at each regular board meeting, by reference to providers, reliance is placed on the Groups service providers own a risk analysis matrix prepared by the Investment Adviser.
If a new risk systems and controls.
arises or the likelihood of a risk occurring increases, where appropriate, a mitigation strategy is developed and implemented, The identification, assessment and management of risk are integral together with enhanced monitoring by the Investment Adviser.
elements of the Investment Advisers and the Operators work in both management of the existing portfolio and in seeking new The Boards Management Engagement Committee also reviews the investment opportunities.
performance of the Investment Adviser as well as all key service providers on at least an annual basis and this review includes a The Directors set out the material risks relating to the Groups consideration of the Investment Advisers internal controls and their portfolio and investing in the Company as at November 2010 in the effectiveness.
In addition, the Investment Advisers risk management Companys C Share Prospectus, which is available from the team reviews compliance against the documented procedures and Companys website.
controls on an annual basis, and reports their finding to the Board.
Risk Assessment Risk groups Risk type External Economic factors Legal new laws and legislation Tax and accounting changes in practice and policies Political changes in policy, both in relation to procurement and the management of existing PFI PPP P3 projects Regulatory changes in polices and requirements Strategic Financial objectives impacting on achieving targets Share price discount premium to NAV Management Groups reliance on service providers underperformance, solvency and breach of regulations Investment Bidding overpaying for assets Acquisition due diligence fails to unearth risks which impact performance Equity risks associated with PFI PPP P3 projects Performance under-performance by service providers Concentration over-reliance on a client or service contractor Financial & Treasury Finance and liquidity lack of financial resources Counterparties reliance on financial institutions Currency exchange rate exposure Interest rates both on debt funding and deposit accounts achievable where costs are not indexed, an example being where External risks bank debt interest rate exposure has been swapped into a fixed rate.
The Group currently has a broad exposure to the PFI PPP P3 markets in the UK, the EU currently the Netherlands, and Canada.
The Group Most PFI PPP P3 concessions provide some or total protection, has investments, business activities, registered companies and through their contractual structures, in relation to changes in limited partnerships in the UK, Luxemburg and Guernsey.
These legislation which affect either the project asset or the way the activities and entities can be affected by changes in economic factors, services are provided.
local legislation, taxation and regulatory frameworks.
Changes in tax legislation and accounting practices can affect both The performance of the portfolio of 38 investments as at 31 March the individual investments and can have an impact on the Groups 2011 is affected by a number of economic factors including inflation corporate subsidiaries and corporate structure.
Where possible, this rates, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates.
Most, if not all of will be mitigated, but there will be instances where this may not be the PFI PPP P3 projects mitigate to some extent against changes in possible and in these instances there could be an adverse impact on inflation rates by seeking to match their indexation of contractual the financial performance of the Group.
revenues to their indexation of contractual costs.
This is not always H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 31 Risks and Risk Management continued The UK government is currently reviewing alternative procurement The ability both to deliver growth in distributions to shareholders methods to PFI.
It is not clear exactly what role the private sector will and to maintain and grow its NAV is dependent on a number of play in the future.
However, with other countries developing their own economic factors outside the Companys or the Investment Advisers PFI PPP P3 models and procuring new infrastructure, the number of control.
Whilst reasonable assumptions have been factored into projects globally continues to grow.
The Group is not reliant on any business plans, significant external factors could materially affect particular procurement pipeline for its new investments.
the Company and impede its ability to deliver its financial objectives.
Examples of such events include a prolonged period of deflation, a There is a risk that an existing project might be voluntarily rise in corporation tax rates, and changes in tax legislation affecting terminated.
This risk is not considered to be high due, in part, to the the Group and its investments.
requirement for the public sector client to meet termination costs and compensate fully the project participants for any resultant losses.
The Company publishes a NAV per share twice a year.
The method of valuing the Groups investments is described in detail in the In the UK, the Government is seeking to find savings in public Investment Advisers Report.
To assist in managing the share price procurement and this remit extends to PFI projects already premium or discount to NAV, the Board has the powers to both buy contracted.
In January 2011, HM Treasury issued draft guidance to back shares as well as issue additional shares under the Block the public sector on how to manage PFI contracts to maximise value Listing.
There is no guarantee that these measures will keep the for money.
In February, Romford Hospital, in which we invest, was discount or premium to NAV small.
chosen as a pilot scheme to examine more closely the opportunities for efficiency improvements.
Both the Treasury and The Investment Adviser meets existing and potential new Public Accounts Select Committees are currently reviewing the role shareholders throughout the year to explain the Company, its of PFI in public procurement.
investments, its performance, and the key risks.
The Board believes these on-going meetings and briefings help educate the market and Media attention around PFI has increased and, regrettably, this inform both existing and new potential shareholders.
has led to some negative publicity.
As a Company, we shall always try to correct misrepresentations and inaccuracies but it is not Management Risks always possible to have our views or those of the industry The Group is heavily reliant on the Investment Adviser for the day-toadequately reported.
day management of the Group and to achieve the Groups objectives.
The Investment Adviser is supported by other service providers to Each PFI PPP P3 project is built from a legal contract with a public the Group.
Failure by the Investment Adviser or a service provider sector client.
There is a risk, albeit slight, that a political decision could have a material impact on the Group.
Equally a loss of key could be taken to seek to unilaterally change the terms of a contract.
personnel from a service provider may have an impact on the Although such a development would have wide ranging implications, performance of the Group.
if it were attempted and should succeed, the value of the Groups investment portfolio and its ability to meet target distributions The Management Engagement committee of the Board reviews the would be affected.
performance of each service provider on an annual basis and seeks to ensure that each service provider has adequate systems and Under Guernsey legislation, the Company is an Authorised Closedcontrols in place in relation to the services they provide to the Group.
Ended Investment Scheme and is supervised by the Guernsey Any performance issues are monitored carefully, and if the Board is Financial Services Commission.
The Investment Adviser is authorised not satisfied with the level of service delivery, the Board will seek to and regulated by the Financial Services Authority in the UK, in change service providers.
accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Both the Company and its advisers continually monitor any potential or In relation to the Investment Adviser, the Board takes comfort from actual changes to regulations to ensure both the Group and its the fact that the Investment Adviser has a track record in managing service providers remain compliant.
infrastructure investments and has developed an appropriate and detailed set of policies, procedures, compliance systems, and risk Strategic Risks controls.
The Investment Adviser is subject to routine review and the The Companys strategy is to deliver a progressive distribution Board is satisfied that there is sufficient depth of expertise within the growth with the aim of achieving 7.0p per share by March 2013.
At Investment Advisers infrastructure team that the Group is not reliant the same time, the aim is to maintain or grow the net asset value on any single individual.
Since the current portfolio consists of investments in concessions with finite lives, if no new acquisitions As part of the process leading to the change of ownership of the are made, there will come a point in the Companys evolution when it Investment Adviser to senior management, the Board engaged on a will become necessary to start repaying capital.
This is shown number of occasions in the process to gain satisfaction that this diagrammatically in the chart on page 16. change would not impact on the Investment Advisers ability to provide services to the Group to the standards previously provided.
Whilst the Board and the Investment Adviser believes this change of ownership will not affect the Companys performance, the Board continues to monitor and engage with the Investment Adviser to ensure the new ownership of the Investment Adviser does not impact on the quality and level of services received to date.
The Investment Adviser plays an active role in the Investment Risks management of the Groups investments to ensure any trends in Acquiring a new investment in an infrastructure project via a trade performance are picked up and if necessary, corrected accordingly.
In sale involves a certain level of risk.
These are mitigated where a severe case, the project can terminate a sub-contractor who fails to possible by a structured process of thorough due diligence, the perform and either self-manage the services or tender for a new agreement of suitable protections where possible in the sale and service provider.
The cost of this action would, where possible, be purchase agreements with the vendor, and site visits to view and recovered from the previous supplier.
However due diligence may fail to identify risks and the business plan assumptions in the acquisition A key risk within a PFI project is the various counterparty exposures: model may not subsequently be achieved.
the client, the sub-contractors, and the providers of finance and financial services.
The Group is careful to manage its concentration The Investment Adviser and Operator have internal processes and exposures to any one party carefully.
Whilst the Group is currently controls, developed from its experience of managing funds and predominantly UK PFI PPP investments, the Group has started to investing in infrastructure, to minimise these risks through regular diversify sovereign risk by 2 Canadian investments in the year.
Subpeer group review and internal approval processes.
All investment contractor and financial counter-parties exposures are monitored decisions are made by an Investment Committee which has approved and the Group seeks a balanced portfolio with no over-reliance on a terms of reference to ensure only those staff with appropriate skill single party.
sets have been appointed, any conflicts should they arise are suitably managed, and an appropriate minimum quorum is achieved.
Financial and Treasury Specialist advisers such as lawyers, technical consultants, and tax The Groups investments and the Group itself require debt finance to advisers are retained to carry out specific due diligence on potential achieve its business objectives.
All of the Groups PFI PPP P3 acquisitions to minimise this risk.
investments have long-term funding in place and do not need refinancing to meet their financial plans.
The Group has a 5 year Investments are normally acquired through competition and so it is committed 200m revolving debt facility which expires in December important to analyse the investment and determine the appropriate 2012.
There is a risk that it will not be possible to renew this facility value the Group is prepared to pay.
The risk of over-paying is less on acceptable terms, and if this proves to be the case, the Group will than for infrastructure assets requiring revenue forecasts, since the need to either have raised further equity or will need to dispose of majority of the revenue and cost streams in PFI PPP P3 projects and selected investments to enable it to meet its repayment obligations, similar asset types are contractual and therefore fixed in real terms.
to the extent, if at all, that the facility is drawn.
Whilst most construction and operational risks in a PFI PPP P3 The group and its PFI PPP P3 investments have a number of project are laid off to sub-contractors through a well-established financial counterparties providing a range of facilities including debt contractual framework, there are occasions when costs and or risks funding, hedges, monoline insurance wrapping, bank deposit are retained within the SPV.
These include a number of routine facilities, and insurance.
Failure of a financial party could have a running cost items and are also likely to include: material effect on the Group depending on the nature of the service being provided.
The greatest risk is with the deposit banks where Insurance premiums: If insurance premiums are not subject to the Group and its investments have cash on short and medium term pass down to a service provider, any increases are for the account deposits.
The Investment Adviser monitors this exposure across of the project.
To provide some protection against substantial the portfolio to make sure no over-reliance on any single institution increases the majority of the projects have negotiated premium and that all counterparties have reasonable credit ratings.
risk sharing agreements with the public sector authority where when an agreed cap is met the increased premium is mostly or The Group has limited foreign currency exposure at present, with one wholly taken by the authority.
investment in euros and two in Canadian dollars.
This is likely to continue to change in the future as further non-UK investments are Life cycle also called Asset Renewal or Major Maintenance : acquired.
To date the Group has balance-sheet hedged the value of Lifecycle is the budget to replace parts of the projects assets its overseas investment and will, if deemed appropriate hedge which are outside the routine maintenance contract.
Examples in prospective income on a short-term basis.
a building will include floor finishes e. g. carpets, doors, windows, ceilings and mechanical and electrical equipment.
In The Group is exposed to interest rate fluctuations, both on its some cases this risk and the budget for replacement are passed borrowing and cash deposits.
The PFI PPP P3 projects have hedges down to the maintenance contractor, and in the remaining in place on the majority of their borrowings to minimise interest projects, it sits with the project company.
There is a risk that the volatility.
Similarly the Groups corporate borrowings are partially budget is inadequate or expenditure needs to be carried out hedged.
It is possible to some extent to mitigate rate fluctuations on earlier than forecast.
For the current portfolio, the Group has the cash deposits by selecting the deposit period.
However in the assessed the risk and considers that the lifecycle provisions are current low interest rate economy, the PFI PPP P3 projects are not reasonable and adequate.
earning as much from their cash deposits as they were three years ago.
This has impacted the valuation of the portfolio, since it is an Once acquired, investments need to perform in line with their inherent risk where options to mitigate are limited.
Underperformance can be caused by a number of factors, the most likely of which is the underperformance of a service H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 33
