HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Risk HSBC Values KPIs and are improving the collaboration between our Risk international network of businesses, particularly As a provider of banking and financial services, risk between CMB and GB&M.
is at the core of our day-to-day activities.
If we are successful in executing this strategy, We have identified a comprehensive suite of we will be regarded as The worlds leading risk factors which informs our assessment of our top international bank.
We have defined financial and emerging risks.
This assessment may result in targets to achieve a return on equity of between 12% our risk appetite being revised.
and 15% with a core tier 1 ratio of between 9.5% and 10.5%, and achieve a cost efficiency ratio of Risk factors between 48% and 52%.
We have also defined Key Performance Indicators to monitor the outcomes of Our businesses are exposed to a variety of risk actions across the three areas of capital deployment, factors that could potentially affect our results of cost efficiency and growth.
These are: Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk Current economic and market conditions may adversely affect our results.
We have exposure to the ongoing economic crisis in the eurozone.
We are subject to political and economic risks in the countries in which we operate.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our results.
Macroprudential, regulatory and legal risks to our business model Our businesses are subject to wide-ranging legislation and regulation and to regulatory and governmental oversight.
Unfavourable legislative or regulatory developments, or changes in the policy of regulators or governments, could have a significant adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and prospects.
The Independent Commission on Banking has published its final report on competition and possible structural reforms in the UK banking industry.
The implementation of the recommendations included in the final report could have a material adverse effect on us.
We are subject to a number of legal and regulatory actions and investigations, the outcomes of which are inherently difficult to predict, but unfavourable outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and brand.
We are subject to tax-related risks in the countries in which we operate which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
Risks related to our business operations, governance and internal control systems Our risk management measures may not be successful.
Operational risks are inherent in our business.
Our operations are highly dependent on our information technology systems.
Our operations have inherent reputational risk.
We may suffer losses due to employee misconduct.
We rely on recruiting, retaining and developing appropriate senior management and skilled personnel.
Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if inaccurate, could cause material misstatement of the results and financial position of the Group.
Third parties may use us as a conduit for illegal activities without our knowledge, which could have a material adverse effect on us.
We may not achieve all the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives.
Risks related to our business We have significant exposure to counterparty risk within the financial sector and to other risk concentrations.
Market fluctuations may reduce our income or the value of our portfolios.
Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our businesses.
Any reduction in the credit rating assigned to HSBC Holdings, any subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings or any of their respective debt securities could increase our cost or availability of funding and adversely affect our liquidity position and interest margins.
Risks concerning borrower credit quality are inherent in our businesses.
Our insurance businesses are subject to risks relating to insurance claim rates and changes in insurance customer behaviour.
HSBC Holdings is a holding company and, as a result, is dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations including its obligations with respect to its debt securities, and to provide profits for payment of future dividends to shareholders.
We may be required to make substantial contributions to our pension plans.
