Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Key Group risk factors The following tables provide a brief reviewed regularly by a committee of senior This section identifies description of the key risks to which the managers chaired by the Finance Director the main risk factors Groups operations are exposed and and twice yearly by the Corporate identify, in each case, their potential Committee.
In addition, it is reviewed that may affect the impact on the Group and the principal annually by the Board and twice yearly by British American activities in place to manage the risk.
The Board and each Each risk is considered in the context of such Committee reviews changes in the Tobacco Group.
the Group strategy by identifying the status of identified risks, assessing changes principal strategic element to which it in impact and likelihood, and the Audit relates, although other elements may Committee also spends time focusing on also be relevant.
The Group strategy selected key risks in detail.
is discussed in detail in the preceding Developments in the pages of this business review.
assessment of Group risk It is not the intention to provide an The Boards assessment of the key risks extensive analysis of all risks affecting the and uncertainties facing the Group has Group but rather to identify only those risks remained broadly unchanged over the past and uncertainties which the Directors year, particularly with regard to illicit trade, believe to be the principal ones facing the excise and tax and financial risk.
Not all of the factors listed are as a consequence of the Boards continuing within the control of the Group and other reappraisal of Group risks and the activities factors besides those listed may affect the in place to address them, some risks which performance of its businesses.
Some risks have in previous years been considered as may be unknown at present and other risks, key Group risks are no longer assessed as currently regarded as immaterial, could such in terms of their impact and likelihood turn out to be material in the future.
and so are not addressed in the tables The risk factors listed in this section and below.
They are nevertheless still addressed the specific activities in place to manage as Group risks, remain on the Group them should be considered in the risk register and continue to be reviewed context of the Groups internal control in accordance with the Groups risk framework.
This is addressed in detail management procedures.
This applies, in the section on risk management for example, to the loss of confidential and internal control in the corporate information or malicious manipulation governance statement.
This section of data, which was included in last years should also be read in the context of the table but is no longer included this year.
accompanying cautionary statement Climate change, which has previously regarding forward-looking statements.
been identified as a Group risk, is no longer Risk registers, based on a standardised considered to be a risk factor itself, but methodology, are used at Group, regional, is treated as a potential cause of more area and individual market level to identify, specific risks, such as the inability to obtain assess and monitor the key risks both adequate supplies of leaf.
It therefore Cautionary statement financial and non-financial faced by the continues to be taken into account in the The business review and certain other business at each level.
Information on assessment of Group risk.
Non-compliance sections of this document contain prevailing trends, for example whether with environmental, health and safety forward-looking statements which a risk is considered to be increasing or measures is now assessed as a key Group are subject to risk factors associated decreasing over time, is provided in relation risk, having been identified as a significant with, among other things, the to each risk and all identified risks are compliance issue facing the Group given economic and business assessed at three levels high medium low the complexity and global nature of its circumstances occurring from time to by reference to their impact and likelihood.
operations and in light of a number of time in the countries and markets in Mitigation plans are required to be in place recent incidents involving workplace which the Group operates.
It is to manage the risks identified and the risk accidents.
In addition, increased focus believed that the expectations registers and mitigation plans are reviewed on the regulatory risks facing the Group reflected in these statements are on a regular basis.
At Group level, specific has highlighted key areas of risk, now set reasonable but they may be responsibility for managing each identified out separately below.
This reflects their affected by a wide range of risk is allocated to a member of the importance in the context of the future variables which could cause Management Board.
The Group risk register development of the Groups business actual results to differ materially provides the basis for the assessment of the and the need to ensure that they are from those currently anticipated.
key Group risk factors identified below.
It is each effectively addressed.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 40 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Illicit trade Competition from illicit trade Illicit trade in the form of counterfeit products, smuggled genuine products and locally manufactured products on which applicable taxes are evaded, continues to represent a significant and growing threat to the legitimate tobacco industry.
The majority of such illicit products are sold at the bottom end of the market and in contravention of applicable regulatory requirements.
Increasing excise rates can encourage more consumers to switch to illegal cheaper tobacco products and provide greater rewards for smugglers.
The risk is exacerbated where current economic conditions have resulted in high unemployment and or reduced disposable incomes.
Global volume of illicit trade is currently estimated to be up to 12 per cent of consumption.
In the next 10 years, we believe that the problem is likely to increase, driven by the increased regulatory and compliance burden for legitimate manufacturers and fuelled by further significant excise increases.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Time frame: Long term Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group x Sudden and disproportionate excise increases and x Erosion of brand equity.
widening excise differentials between markets.
x Reduced ability to take price increases.
x Unintended consequences of regulation, e. g. plain x Investment in trade marketing and distribution packaging, display bans and ingredients restrictions.
x Extra compliance costs imposed on legitimate industry x Product is commoditised.
giving competitive advantages to illicit manufacturers.
x Lower volumes and reduced profits.
x Lack of law enforcement and weak border controls.
Principal activities in place to address risk x Dedicated Anti-Illicit Trade AIT teams operating at global, regional, area and key market levels and internal cross-functional coordination.
x Active engagement with key external stakeholders.
x Cross-industry and multi-sector cooperation on a wide range of AIT issues.
x Global AIT strategy development supported by a research programme to further the understanding of the size and scope of the problem.
x AIT Intelligence Unit including a dedicated analytical laboratory cooperates with law enforcement agencies in pursuit of priority targets and capacity building.
x Strong internal business conduct and customer approval policies.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 41 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Key Group risk factors continued Excise and tax Excise shocks from tax rate increases or structure changes Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise and sales taxes in most countries in which the Group operates.
In many of these countries, taxes are generally increasing, but the rate of increase varies between countries and between different types of tobacco products.
A number of significant excise shocks have taken place over the past two years, for example in Romania, Turkey, Malaysia, Mexico and Japan.
To date, the Group has been able to balance these shocks with its geographic spread, and it continues to develop effective measures to address the risk.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Time frame: Long term Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group x Government initiatives to raise revenues.
x Consumers reject the Groups legitimate tax-paid products x Increases advocated within context of national health policies.
for products from illicit sources.
x Insufficient capacity to engage with stakeholders in x Reduced legal industry volumes.
x Reduced sales volume or alteration of sales mix.
Principal activities in place to address risk x Requirement for Group companies to have in place formal pricing and excise strategies including contingency plans.
x Pricing and excise committees at regional, area and individual market levels.
x Engagement with local tax and customs authorities, where appropriate.
x Annual management review of brand portfolio, brand health and equity.
Onerous disputed taxes, interest and penalties The Group may face significant financial penalties, including the payment of interest, if it fails to meet its obligations with regard to the filing of tax returns and the payment of applicable taxes or in the event of an unfavourable ruling by a tax authority in a disputed area.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity capital effectiveness Time frame: Short term Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group x Non-filing or late filing of tax returns or incorrect filings.
x Significant fines and potential legal penalties.
x Non-payment or late payments of taxes.
x Disruption and loss of focus on the business due to diversion x Unfavourable ruling by tax authorities in disputed areas and of management time.
aggressive auditing and or pursuit of tax claims.
x Impact on profit and dividend.
Principal activities in place to address risk x Tax committees.
x Specialist resources available internally to provide advice and guidance and external advice sought where appropriate.
x Engagement with tax authorities at Group, regional and individual market level.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 42 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial The Groups underlying operations give rise to certain financial risks.
The principal risks in this regard, and the controls in place to address them, are identified below and further details on the Groups financial management and treasury operations can be found within the financial review.
Management of cost base The Group continues to implement measures to reduce its overall cost base.
There is a risk that targeted reductions will fail to be achieved and or that productivity programmes do not achieve their objectives.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity cost management Time frame: Short term Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group x Insufficient resources devoted to productivity programmes x Inability to manage cost savings leads to lower profits due to other priorities.
and reduced funds for investment in long-term growth.
x Low prioritisation or resistance to change.
Principal activities in place to address risk x Targeted improvements in operating margin through factory rationalisation, systems standardisation and productivity savings.
x Development of a formal structure to integrate, drive and orchestrate the delivery of productivity programmes by providing visibility and enabling benefits tracking.
x Regular tracking of actual productivity savings and forecast improvements in operating margin and supply chain, overheads and indirect projects.
x Aggregation of planned productivity savings in the annual budget.
Translational foreign exchange rate exposures The Group faces translational foreign exchange FX rate exposures for earnings cash flows from its global business.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity capital effectiveness Time frame: Short term Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group x FX rate exposures arise from exchange rate movements x Fluctuations in translational FX rates of key currencies against against sterling, the Groups reporting currency.
sterling introduce volatility in reported results.
Principal activities in place to address risk x While translational FX exposure is not hedged, its impact is identified in results presentations and financial disclosures: earnings are restated at constant rates for comparability.
x Debt and interest are matched to assets and cash flows to mitigate volatility where possible.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 43 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Key Group risk factors continued Marketplace The Group has substantial operations in around 180 countries.
Its results are influenced by the economic, regulatory and political situations in the countries and regions in which it has operations, as well as by the actions of competitors.
Inability to obtain required price increases To the extent that price increases are required to cover cost rises and deliver profit growth, there is a risk that the Group will be unable to achieve these.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Time frame: Short term Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group x Changes in the global economy reduce consumers x Inability to capture value generated by innovative products.
x Profit growth in the short term falls below shareholders x Competitors seek volume growth by price discounts expectations.
or by not taking full price increases.
x Reduction in funds for investment in long-term growth.
Principal activities in place to address risk x Strong alignment between pricing and brand portfolio.
x Regular regional and management reviews of budgeted pricing scenarios.
x Routine brand price trade-off exercises conducted in key markets.
x Competitor analysis and price war simulations.
Geopolitical tensions Geopolitical tensions, including terrorism, have the potential to disrupt the Groups business operations.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Time frame: Short term Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group x Regional and or global conflicts.
x Potential loss of life, loss of assets and disruption to normal x Terrorism and political violence.
x Increased costs due to more complex supply chain x The implementation of trade sanctions.
arrangements and or the cost of building new facilities x Economic policy changes, including nationalisation or maintaining inefficient facilities.
of assets and withdrawal from international and bilateral x Reduced volumes and impact on profits.
x Reputational impact of inability to protect staff and assets from serious harm.
Principal activities in place to address risk x Globally integrated sourcing strategy and contingency sourcing arrangements.
x Security risk modelling, including external risk assessments and the monitoring of geopolitical and economic policy developments worldwide.
x Insurance cover and business continuity planning, including scenario planning and testing and risk awareness training.
x Security controls for field force, direct store sales, supply chain, with an emphasis on the protection of Group employees.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 44 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Marketplace continued Non-compliance with environmental, operational and health & safety measures The Group is subject to environmental, health & safety EHS laws and regulations across its operations worldwide.
A failure to ensure compliance with such measures could have a significant impact on the Groups business.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Responsibility responsible corporate behaviour Time frame: Short term Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group x Failure to obtain new or renew existing permits and or x Potential civil and or criminal liability for loss of life or injury.
licences required for lawful operations.
x Potential liability for clean-up costs.
x Non-compliance with applicable EHS standards and x Financial impact of damages awards and or fines and requirements.
x Failure to discharge duty of care in operational activities.
x Insufficient qualified expertise to ensure compliance with x Possible impairment of assets and or closure of operations, applicable law and regulations.
resulting in additional costs and potential loss of volume and market share.
Principal activities in place to address risk x Management accountability to ensure appropriate compliance mechanisms are in place, including a registry of applicable licences and permits and the tracking of local legislative requirements and developments.
x EHS governance and committees in place at individual market level, monitored at regional level, to oversee compliance.
x Provision of appropriate EHS training, information and communications at all levels.
x Dedicated global team to provide support in the management of EHS risks.
x Key issues and incidents monitored regionally and reported globally.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 45 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Key Group risk factors continued Regulation The Groups businesses operate under increasingly stringent regulatory regimes around the world.
Further regulation is expected, particularly as a result of the World Health Organisations Framework Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC protocol and, increasingly, active tobacco control activities outside the FCTC.
Regulation inhibits Growth strategy There is a risk that the enactment of regulation that is not evidence based will put the Group at a competitive disadvantage, interfere with its ability to differentiate its products and increase costs and complexity.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Time frame: Long term Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group x Adoption of FCTC guidelines and adoption of more x Contribution to the denormalisation of smoking.
x Erosion of brand value and adverse impact on ability x Adoption of differing regulatory regimes in different to communicate and build brand equity.
countries groups of countries and or lack of consensus x Increased cost of business for legitimate industry, on interpretation application.
lower turnover and reduced profits.
x Exclusion of the industry from participating in engagement x Reduced ability to communicate brand portfolio and with regulators and policy makers.
innovations contributing to an increase in illicit trade.
x Product regulation which increases complexity and cost.
Principal activities in place to address risk x Group companies have regulatory strategies in place in order to identify issues material to their operating environment and develop plans to address them in a manner consistent with local law and Group policy.
x Engagement is sought with scientific and regulatory communities within the context of the FCTC process, and stakeholder engagement takes place at global, regional and individual market levels.
x Establishment of a dedicated Regulatory Futures team to monitor regulatory trends and developments, analyse regulatory proposals to determine impacts, if any, on business and develop initiatives in response.
x Development of dedicated technical and advocacy capabilities, corporate positions and best practice examples, supported by training, for markets to address regulation.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 46 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Regulation continued Reduced ability to meet consumer expectations and increased compliance costs Restrictive regulation, in particular in relation to the content and design of tobacco products, may impair the Groups ability to meet consumer expectations and may also lead to increased operating costs and reduced sales.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Time frame: Long term Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group x Adoption of FCTC guidelines on product design, contents x Reduced consumer acceptability of new product and emissions and testing and measuring.
specifications, leading to loss of volume and contributing x Product regulation aimed at reducing the appeal of to an increase in illicit trade.
cigarettes through severe restrictions on ingredients x Loss of volume due to regulation in individual markets and design.
x Regulation on the content and design of tobacco x Cost complexity of meeting regulations.
products which increases complexity and cost.
x Loss of reputation, penalties and closure of production as a result of non-compliance.
Principal activities in place to address risk x Establishment of Leaf Blending Innovation Centre in Brazil to explore and develop product solutions that are consumer relevant within the developing regulatory context.
x Development of standardised product platforms and a rationalised brand product portfolio to reduce the compliance testing and reporting costs.
x Effective and globally integrated processes for sales and operations planning processes, product specification and new product initiatives.
x Programme of engagement with scientific and regulatory authorities within the context of the FCTC process.
Loss of ability to directly communicate with consumer Strict and restrictive regulation may reduce the Groups ability to communicate with adult smokers and may also impact on its ability to communicate with its corporate stakeholders.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth and Responsibility balanced regulation Time frame: Long term Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group x Adoption of FCTC guidelines on packaging and labelling, x Generic or plain packaging leads to loss of brand equity.
x Lower margins through reduced ability to build brand equity x Adoption of more stringent national regulations, such as and leverage price.
point of sale display bans and plain packaging.
x Reduced ability to compete and make new market entries.
x Reduced volumes and impact on profits.
Principal activities in place to address risk x Development of comprehensive plans to support markets to prepare for the implications of an increasingly strict regulatory environment and to address key regulatory issues.
x Development of innovative solutions to evolve brand portfolio, product and design and product differentiation within the context of regulatory developments and consistent with Group policy and local law.
x Programme of engagement with stakeholders at global, regional and individual market levels to address key regulatory issues, including plain packaging and product display initiatives, and identify potential unintended consequences, such as a contribution to increased illicit trade.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 47
