Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 01-07 33 Business review Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management is the responsibility of the ICG The Credit Funds Investment Committee is chaired Board, which has put in place the following risk by Christophe Evain, CEO and CIO.
TheChairman management structures: selects up to five members among two predefined lists of senior investment professionals including Committees of executives managing directors and senior members of the The Executive Committee comprises the four Credit Funds Management team.
One of these managing directors of ICG, who each have a members will be nominated assponsor member, specific area of responsibility.
The Executive depending on the specificsof the investment Committee has general responsibility for ICGs geography, size, nature of the transaction.
resources, strategy, financial and operational The Committee members are responsible for controland managing the business worldwide.
reviewing and approving all investment proposals presented by credit executives in accordance with The Mezzanine and Minority Equity Investment the Investment Policy.
The Credit Funds Investment Committee is chaired by Christophe Evain, CEO and Committee also reviews and manages potential and Chief Investment Officer CIO.
The Chairman selects actual conflicts of interest, reviews the quarterly up to seven members among two predefined lists of performance reports of our credit funds portfolio senior investment professionals including managing companies, and coordinates management plans directors and senior members of the mezzanine and forindividual assets as necessary.
Oneof these members will be By chairing both Investment Committees, the nominated as a sponsor member, to reflect the CIO ensures the Companys Global Investment specifics of the investment geography, size, nature Strategy is applied consistently across the firm.
The Treasury Committee comprises six members The Committee members are responsible for including the CFO and Financial Controllerand is reviewing and approving all investment proposals responsible for ensuring compliance with the presented by investment executives in accordance Groups Treasury Policy, reporting any breach of with the Investment Policy set by the Board.
policy to the Audit Committee, monitoring external Theapproval of the Board is required for large bank debt and bank covenants, approving and investments.
The Mezzanine and Minority Equity monitoring hedgingtransactions and approving the Investment Committee also reviews and manages Groups listof relationship banks.
potential and actual conflicts of interest, reviews quarterly performance reports of our portfolio The Legal and Compliance department is companies, and coordinates management plans responsible for ensuring that business is conducted forindividual assets as necessary.
in accordance with relevant regulatory and legal frameworks and internal policies of the Group.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 34 Principal risks and uncertainties continued The Remuneration Committee consists of fournon Non executive committees executive directors and the Chairman.
Executive The Audit and Risk Committee comprises fourindependent non executive directors.
directors are not members of the Remuneration TheChairman of the Board as well as the members Committee but are normally invited toattend except of the Executive Committee are invited to attend, when the Committee is discussing their but are not members of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for the Companys auditors are also invited to attend overall remuneration policy for all ICG staff and andhave direct access to the Committee members.
ensures that the remuneration arrangements TheCommittee isresponsible for the selection, promote sound and effective risk management appointment, andreview of the external auditors andare in line with the long term interests of the tothe Board: reviewing accounts: the oversight Group.
The Committee determines the level of ofthe investment portfolio: and monitoring the remuneration of the executive directors and reviews effectiveness of the internal control environment the remuneration of senior management.
andthe risk management systems of the Group.
Our key risks, and the ways in which we mitigate them, are outlined below.
Business risks Business risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting .
Credit risk Potential impact Description of risk Mitigation The amount of assets under management and performance of the The performance of the investment portfolio may also be affected by matters beyond the ICG has a disciplined investment policy and all Groups funds and Groups control, including conditions in the domestic and global investments are selected and regularly monitored financial markets and the wider economy, such as the level and bythe Groups Investment Committees.
ICG limits investment portfolio is volatility of bond prices, interest rates, exchange rates, liquidity in theextent of credit riskby diversifying its portfolio affected by a number of markets, credit spreads, margin requirements, the availability and cost assets by sector, size andgeography.
of credit and the responses of governments and regulators to these The majority of third party funds currently factors.
The Group may economic and market conditions.
Adverse movements in any of managed by theGroup are not marked to market experience poor investment theglobal conditions described above could result in losses on and, therefore, market valuations have limited investments from the Groups own balance sheet in the investment immediate impact on the amount of assets under performance both portfolio and reduced performance fees received on third party funds, management.
inabsolute terms and all of which, individually or taken together, could have a material relative totheperformance adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and or prospects of the Group.
of portfolios managed by competitors and relative to other asset classes due tothe failure of strategies implemented in managing theportfolio assets.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 01-07 35 Business review Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 Liquidity and funding risk Potential impact Description of risk Mitigation The level of repayments on the Groups loan portfolio and Liquidity and funding risk is consequently on the realisation of rolled up interest as well as delays The Group maintains a diversified portfolio of the risk that ICG will be in realising minority interests could have a negative impact on the investments in order to minimise the risk that a Groups investment capacity.
Inaddition, there can beno assurance significant proportion of its assets would face unable to meet its financial that the Group will be able to secure borrowings orother forms of concurrent adverse conditions for repayments obligations asthey fall due liquidity in the longer term on commercially acceptable terms or at and realisations.
In addition the Group maintains a all.
Failureto secure borrowings or other forms of liquidity on prudent funding strategy.
It is our policy to maintain because assets held commercially acceptable terms may adversely affect the Groups diverse sources of medium term finance and to cannot be realised.
The Groups ability to borrow funds or access ensure that we always have sufficient committed but debt capital markets in the longer term isdependent on a number of unutilised debt facilities.
factors including credit market conditions.
Adverse credit market conditions may make it difficult forthe Group to refinance existing credit facilities as and when they mature or to obtain debt financing for new investments.
In addition, the cost and terms of any new or replacement facilities may be less favourable and may include more onerous financial covenants.
Failure to secure borrowings on commercially acceptable terms or a default by the Group under its debt agreements may have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial condition and results.
Fundraising risk Potential impact Description of risk Mitigation This could limit the Groups capacity to grow AUM and could The Group may be unable decrease the Groups income from management advisory and ICG has a long track record in developing credit to raise future investment performance fees and carried interest.
The Groups ability to raise related investment products for institutional investment funds from third parties depends on a number of factors, investors.
The Group has built a dedicated funds from third parties.
including the appetite of investors, the general availability of funds in fundraising team to grow and diversify its the market and competitor fundraising activity.
Certain factors, such institutionalclient base by geography and type.
as the performance of financial markets or the asset allocation rules or regulations to which such third parties are subject, could inhibit or restrict the ability of certain third parties to provide the Group with investment funds to manage or invest in the asset classes in which the Group invests.
In addition, if the Group is unable to increase its assets under management, the level of the Groups return from management, advisory and performance fees and carried interest may be reduced.
Furthermore, loss of investor confidence in the Group or in the alternative investment sector generally, whether because of changes in investor risk appetite, investor liquidity requirements, regulatory and fiscal changes, poor relative or absolute performance of the Groups investment or alternative investment funds generally or for any other reason could lead to anadverse impact on the Groups performance or financial position.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 36 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Market risks Risks relating to the Group and its business General market conditions Potential impact Description of risk Mitigation The Groups strategy and business model are based on ananalysis of and assumptions regarding its operating The Executive Committee regularly reviews the likely environment.
This includes market evaluations and the impact of potential changes in the operating identification and assessment of external and internal risk environment, seeking when appropriate advice from external factors.
Significant unexpected changes or outcomes, experts.
beyond those factored into the Groups strategy and business model may occur which could have an adverse impact on the Groups performance or financial position.
Interest rate risk Potential impact Description of risk Mitigation The Group has a mixture of fixed and floating rate assets, The Group and some of the which are funded with a mixture of equity and borrowings.
The Group seeks to minimise interest rate exposure Groups portfolio companies Afailure to match borrowings by type or maturity or the bymatching the type, maturity and currency of its failure or inappropriate use of derivative financial instruments borrowings to those of a group of assets with a similar are exposed to fluctuations for the purpose of hedging could have an adverse impact anticipated holding period.
The Groups Investment in interest rates which could on the Groups returns and financial condition.
In addition, Committees take into account the ability of each portfolio many of the Groups portfolio companies rely on leverage company to successfully operate under a different interest adversely affect the Groups tofinance their business operations and increase the rate rate environment both before validating the investment returns.
Investments in highly leveraged andduring the life of the investment.
entities are inherently more sensitive to interest rate movements.
Therefore, a significant increase in interest rates could adversely affect the returns and financial condition of the Groups portfolio companies and may even lead to some of the Groups portfolio companies breaching financial or operating covenants in their credit agreements or default on their debt.
Foreign exchange risk Potential impact Description of risk Mitigation The Group reports in sterling and pays dividends from The Group is exposed to sterling profits.
The underlying assets in the Groups The Group seeks to reduce structural currency exposures fluctuations in exchange portfolio are principally denominated in euros, and to a by matching loans and investment assets denominated lesser degree in US dollars and other currencies.
Therefore, in foreign currency with borrowings or synthetic rates which could adversely changes in the rates of exchange of these currencies borrowings in the same currency.
In addition, the Group affect the Groups returns mayhave an adverse effect on the value of the Groups has used and continues to use derivative financial instruments investments and any undrawn amount of the Groups and other instruments on a limited basis, as part of its foreign and financial condition.
Although the Group has in place measures exchange risk management, to hedge a proportion tomitigate the foreign exchange risk on its assets and ofunrealised income recognised on a fair value basis.
liabilities, to the extent that any structural currency TheGroup spreads its derivative contracts across a number exposures are unhedged or unmatched, such exposure of counterparties and regularly evaluates the counterparty could adversely affect the Groups returns and financial risk.
The Group seek to transact only with sound financial condition.
Failure by a counterparty to make payments institutions.
dueunder derivative financial investments may reduce theGroups returns.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 01-07 37 Business review Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 Operational risk Loss of staff Potential impact Description of risk Mitigation The Groups continued success is highly dependent upon If the Group cannot retain the efforts of the Groups investment professionals and The Group attempts to reward its investment and motivate its senior other key employees.
The Groups future success and professionals and other key employees in line with growth depends to a substantial degree on the Groups market practice.
In 2009 the Groups Remuneration investment professionals ability to retain and motivate key employees, the market for Committee commissioned  to and other key employees, whom is very competitive.
The Group may be unable to review the compensation structure of ICG and to advise upon retain such key employees or to continue to motivate them.
appropriate benchmarking against which remuneration could the Groups business could The Groups investment professionals possess substantial be set.
Following this review, new remuneration schemes be adversely affected.
experience and expertise in investing and are responsible were approved by shareholders at last years AGM.
These for locating, executing and monitoring the Groups schemes are aligned with the Groups strategy and in line investments.
The loss of even a small number of the withthe appropriate benchmark and comply with the new Groups investment professionals could jeopardise the UKFinancial Services Authority FSA remuneration code.
Groups ability to source, execute and manage investments as well as affect recoveries on troubled assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
Regulatory risk Potential impact Description of risk Mitigation The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions and its Changes to the regulatory business, particularly the fund management part of the The Group has a governance structure in place frameworks under which the business, is subject to numerous regulatory regimes, supported by a risk framework that allows for the including the United Kingdom, the United States, Hong identification, control, and mitigation of material risks Group operates or a breach Kong, Ireland and Luxembourg.
The FSA is the Groups faced by the Group.
The adequacy of controls in place is of applicable regulations primary regulator.
The FSA and other such regulatory periodically assessed.
This includes a tailored risk-based authorities have broad regulatory powers dealing with all monitoring programme designed to specifically address coulddamage the Groups aspects of financial services, including the authority to grant, regulatory and reputational exposure.
reputation and affect the and in specific circumstances to vary or cancel, permissions and to regulate marketing and sales practices, advertising Groups compliance costs, and the maintenance of adequate financial resources.
If the Group were to breach any such laws or regulations itwould be exposed to the risk of investigations, fines, temporary or permanent prohibition from engaging in certain activities, suspensions of personnel or revocation of their licences and suspension or termination of the regulatory permissions to operate.
Business interruption Potential impact Description of risk Mitigation The Group relies heavily on its financial, accounting and Operational risks may disrupt other data processing systems.
If any of these systems do The Group has in place business processes and the Groups business, not operate properly or are disabled, the Group could suffer procedures covering information security, change financial loss, disruption of business and damage to its management, business continuity and disaster recovery, resultin losses or damage reputation.
aimed at ensuring that its systems can be rebuilt in the the Groups reputation.
event any of its premises suffer a disaster.
In addition, the Group maintains a system of internal controls designed to detect, amongst other things, fraud by the Groups employees, agents and counterparties.
