DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Principal risks and uncertainties This section describes the principal risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition, prospects, liquidity or results of operations.
These should be read in conjunction with our long-term operating targets, which are set out in Financial and operating review Trends and other information.
Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not aware or which we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, liquidity or results of operations.
The Group has a formal risk management policy that is used by the business to identify and record risks.
These are consolidated into a Group risk register which is formally presented to the Audit Committee twice a year.
The Group manages its principal risks and uncertainties as follows: Principal risks and uncertainties further detail is provided below Managing the principal risks and uncertainties The Groups business is heavily regulated and changes in regulations, We manage these risks through active engagement in the regulatory changes in interpretation of existing regulations or failure to obtain processes that affect the Groups business.
We actively seek to identify required regulatory approvals or licences could adversely affect the and meet our regulatory obligations and to respond to emerging Groups ability to operate or compete effectively.
The Group operates in a highly competitive environment that is subject We manage these risks by maintaining the quality of our products, to rapid change and it must continue to invest and adapt to remain investing in new products and developing new processes to meet the competitive.
needs of the business and our customers.
The Groups business is reliant on technology which is subject to the risk We manage our technology risks through the establishment of strong of failure, change and development.
IT policies and operational controls together with appropriate security measures and disaster recovery for our key systems.
The Group is reliant on encryption and other technologies to restrict We manage these risks through a combination of physical and logical unauthorised access to its services.
Additionally we monitor the security of the encryption systems used to protect our services.
Failure of key suppliers could affect the Groups ability to operate its We manage these risks by ensuring we have a strong supplier selection business.
process with appropriate ongoing management and monitoring.
The Group undertakes significant capital expenditure projects, including There is a formal project methodology that we use to manage, monitor technology and property projects.
and control our major capital expenditure projects.
The Group, in common with other service providers relies on intellectual We manage these risks through an ongoing programme to support property and proprietary rights, including in respect of programming appropriate protections of our intellectual property and other rights.
content, which may not be adequately protected under current laws or which may be subject to unauthorised use.
The Group generates wholesale revenue principally from one customer.
Our supply arrangements with vM our principal customer are generally multi-year agreements.
We have a number of other wholesale arrangements in respect of our channels including those to distribute Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 via DTT with BT and Top up Tv.
The Group is subject to a number of medium and long-term obligations.
We manage these risks by tracking and recording our medium and long term obligations.
the Groups business is heavily regulated and changes in regulations, access requirements, programming transmission and spectrum changes in interpretation of existing regulations or failure to obtain specifications, consumer protection, taxation, or other aspects of required regulatory approvals or licences could adversely affect the the Groups business, or that of any of the Groups competitors, Groups ability to operate or compete effectively.
could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business and or the results of its operations.
The Group is subject to regulation primarily under UK and european Union legislation and it is currently and may be in the The Group cannot be certain that it will succeed in obtaining or future subject to proceedings, and or investigation and enquiries retaining all requisite approvals and licences in the future for its from regulatory authorities.
The regimes which affect the Groups operations without the imposition of restrictions which may have business include broadcasting, telecommunications, competition an adverse consequence to the Group, or that compliance issues antitrust, gambling and taxation laws and regulations.
Relevant will not be raised in respect of the Groups operations, including authorities may introduce additional or new regulations applicable those conducted prior to the date of this filing.
The Groups business and business On 31 March 2010, Ofcom published its decision to impose on prospects could be adversely affected by the introduction of Sky WMO Obligations for the channels Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, new laws, policies or regulations or changes in the interpretation Sky Sports 1 HD and Sky Sports 2 HD the Affected Channels.
or application of existing laws, policies and regulations.
Changes This decision brought to an end Ofcoms three year Pay Tv in regulations relating to one or more of licensing requirements, AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 24 Book 1. indb 24 12 10 11 20:46:56 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Investigation.
In June 2010, Sky appealed Ofcoms decision to agreement between Sky and Top Up Tv similarly breached the the CAT.
Sky submitted appeals against these two Ofcom decisions, on 11 October 2010 and 14 February 2011 respectively.
The The WMO Obligations require Sky, amongst other things, to offer, two appeals will be heard together at the CAT in the Autumn of 2011. the Affected Channels on a wholesale basis, to third parties which satisfy various minimum qualifying criteria including financial, In August 2010 Ofcom announced its decision to refer the supply technical and security criteria.
and acquisition of certain Pay-Tv movie rights and the supply and acquisition of Pay-Tv packages including certain movie channels The WMO Obligations specifies maximum prices that Sky may charge to the Competition Commission CC for investigation.
The CCs for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports 2.
Under the WMO Obligations, provisional findings are due to be published in August 2011. the wholesale price is linked to Skys retail price.
On 8 July 2011 Ofcom wrote to the Chairman of the House of The WMO Obligations do not specify a maximum price for Sky Sports Commons Culture, Media and Sport Committee to highlight its duty 1 HD and or Sky Sports 2 HD.
Rather, Sky is required to offer these to be satisfied that any person including controlling directors and channels on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis.
shareholders holding a broadcasting licence is fit and proper to In April 2010, Sky applied to the CAT for a suspension of the hold that licence and to indicate that it would be monitoring the implementation of the WMO Obligations.
On 29 April 2010, Skys phone hacking investigations in relation to News Corporation the application was resolved by way of an agreed Order from the Groups largest shareholder and keeping abreast of the timescales President of the CAT.
The terms of the Order result in the suspension of those investigations and any further information that may assist of certain aspects of Ofcoms decision pending the outcome of Skys it in the discharge of its duties.
In summary, the effect of the Order is as follows: The Group is not yet able to assess whether, or the extent to which, Sky is required to offer the Affected Channels to each of BT, Top these matters will have a material effect on the Group.
Up Tv and vM for distribution via Digital Terrestrial Tv and virgin the Group operates in a highly competitive environment that is Media for distribution via cable.
Other parties may apply to the subject to rapid change and it must continue to invest and adapt CAT to be added to the list of persons to whom Sky is required to remain competitive.
The Group faces competition from a broad range of companies In the event that BT, Top Up Tv or vM enter into a distribution engaged in communications and entertainment services, including agreement for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports 2, the distributor cable operators, DSL providers, service providers making use of new is required to pay Sky the equivalent of the maximum price Sky fibre optic networks fibre, other DTH providers, digital terrestrial may charge for the channel s under the WMO Obligations.
The television providers, telecommunications providers, internet service difference between that price and the rate card price set by Sky providers, content aggregators, home entertainment products will be paid into escrow.
companies, betting and gaming companies, companies developing At the conclusion of Skys appeal, the CAT will determine the new technologies, and other suppliers and retailers of news, distribution of the monies held in escrow.
information, sports and entertainment that deliver service overthe-top, as well as other providers of internet services.
The Groups On 23 November 2010, the CAT made an agreed Order extending competitors increasingly include communication and entertainment the implementation of the WMO Obligations to a company called providers that are offering services beyond those with which ReAL Digital ePG Services Limited, in respect of distribution via DTH they have traditionally been associated, either through engaging satellite.
in new areas or by reason of the convergence of the means of On 1 June 2010, Sky submitted its appeal against Ofcoms decision delivery of communication and entertainment services.
The Groups to impose the WMO Obligations on the following grounds: competitors include organisations which are publicly funded, in Ofcom had no jurisdiction to adopt its decision under its whole or in part, and which fulfil a public service broadcasting sectoral powers: mandate.
A change to such mandate could lead to an increase in the strength of competition from these organisations.
Although the Ofcom erred in finding that Sky acted on an incentive to Group has continued to develop its services through technological withhold supply of the Channels: innovation and by licensing, acquiring and producing a broad range Ofcom erred in its assessment of the impact and proportionality of content, the Group cannot predict with certainty the changes of the WMO Obligations: and that may occur in the future which may affect the competitiveness Ofcom acted unlawfully in imposing the WMO Obligations.
In particular, the means of delivering various of the Groups and or competing services may be subject to rapid The appeal has now been heard at the CAT and judgment is awaited.
The Groups competitors positions may be On 11 August 2010, Ofcom issued a decision that a term included in strengthened by an increase in the capacity of, or developments in, the agreement between Sky and Top Up Tv for the supply of Sky the means of delivery which they use to provide their services or by Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 to Top Up Tv on WMO terms breached the imposition of regulation or by changes in customer preferences the conditions of Skys broadcasting licences that implement the and behaviour.
WMO Obligations the WMO Conditions.
On 14 December 2010, Ofcom issued a decision that a further term included in the same AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 25 Book 1. indb 25 12 10 11 20:46:56 DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Principal risks and uncertainties continued The Groups advertising revenue depends on certain external the Groups business is reliant on technology which is subject to factors which include the overall value of advertising placed with the risk of failure, change and development.
broadcasters by third party advertisers as well as the amount of The Group is dependent upon satellites which are subject to such advertising that is placed with the Group and the channels significant risks that may prevent or impair their commercial on whose behalf the Group sells advertising space.
The Groups operations, including defects, destruction or damage, and advertising revenue is also impacted by the audience viewing incorrect orbital placement.
If the Group, or other broadcasters share of the Sky Channels and the other channels on whose who broadcast channels on the Groups DTH platform, were unable behalf the Group sells advertising and, accordingly, such revenue to obtain sufficient satellite transponder capacity in the future, is affected by the distribution of such channels.
These factors or the Groups contracts with satellite providers were terminated, will not always be favourable to the Group and developments in this would have a material adverse effect on the Groups business those areas may therefore have a negative impact on the Groups and results of operations.
Similarly, loss of the transmissions from advertising revenue.
Advertising revenue may also be dependent satellites that are already operational, or failure of the Groups on the viewing behaviour of the television audience.
The Group transmission systems or uplinking facilities, could have a material cannot be certain that its advertising revenue will not be impacted adverse effect on its business and operations.
negatively by this behaviour or that advertising revenue for Sky The Group is dependent on complex technologies in other parts Channels currently offered on other platforms will not be impacted of its business, including its customer relationship management negatively in the future by the offering of video on demand systems, broadcast and conditional access systems, advertising services by other operators.
On 10 June 2011, Ofcom launched a sales, email platform, supply chain management systems and review of Tv advertising trading in the UK.
The review will establish its telecommunications network infrastructure, including wide whether the way Tv advertising is currently bought and sold area network, LLU, CISCO core IP network, Marconi Alcatel optical prevents, restricts or distorts competition, and whether this has network and complex application servers.
If Ofcom concludes that there are sufficient competition concerns, it will decide whether to exercise In terms of the delivery of the Groups broadcast services, its discretion to refer the sector to the Competition Commission the Group is reliant on a third party telecommunications by the Autumn of 2011 for an in-depth competition investigation.
infrastructure to distribute the content between its head offices at Isleworth and its primary and secondary uplink sites at The Groups ability to compete successfully will depend on its Chilworth and Fair Oak.
ability to continue to acquire, commission and produce programme content that is attractive to its customers.
The programme In addition, the Groups network and other operational systems content and third party programme services the Group has are subject to several risks that are outside the Groups control, licensed from others are subject to fixed term contracts which such as the risk of damage to software and hardware resulting will expire or may terminate early.
The Group cannot be certain from fire, flood, power loss, natural disasters, and general that programme content or third party programme services transmission failures caused by a number of additional factors.
whether on a renewal or otherwise will be available to it at all Any failure of the Groups technologies, network or other or on acceptable financial or other terms including in relation to operational systems or hardware or software that results in technical matters such as encryption, territorial limitation and significant interruptions to the Groups operations could have a copy protection.
Similarly, the Group cannot be certain that such material adverse effect on its business.
programme content or programme services will be attractive to There is a large existing population of digital satellite reception its customers, even if so available.
The future demand and speed equipment used to receive the Groups services, including set-top of take up of the Groups DTH service, and the Groups broadband boxes and ancillary equipment, in which the Group has made a and telephony services will depend upon the Groups ability to significant investment and which is owned by its customers other offer such services to its Tv customers at competitive prices, than the smartcards, the hard disk capacity in excess of personal pressures from competing services which include both paid-for storage capacity and the software in the set-top boxes, to which and free-to-air offerings, and its ability to create demand for its the Group retains title.
Were a significant proportion of this products and to attract and retain customers through a wide equipment to suffer failure, or were the equipment to be rendered range of marketing activities.
The future demand and speed either redundant or obsolete by other technology or other of take up of the Groups services will also depend upon the requirements or by the mandatory imposition of incompatible Groups ability to package its content attractively.
The effect of technology, or should the Group need to or wish to upgrade the slowdown in the rate of economic growth and the decline in significantly the existing population of set-top boxes and or consumer confidence on the Groups ability to continue to attract ancillary equipment with replacement equipment, this could have and retain customers is uncertain.
Therefore, the Group cannot be a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
certain that the current or future marketing and other activities it undertakes will succeed in generating sufficient demand to The deployed set-top boxes contain finite memory resources achieve its operating targets.
that are used by the operating system and other software components such as the conditional access system, ePG, and interactive applications.
The Group estimates that around two million deployed standard definition set-top boxes have AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 26 Book 1. indb 26 12 10 11 20:46:57 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW significant memory constraints and as such it has been necessary requirements for whatever reason may affect the Groups ability to to close the ePG launch queue to standard definition channels deliver its telephony services to Sky Talk customers.
the launch queue reopened for high definition and 3D channels The Group uses a series of products from Openreach a BT group in March 2010.
Previously, the Group has been able to carry out business within its LLU operations.
These are the colocation space software downloads from time to time to reconfigure the memory and associated facilities to house the central office equipment utilisation in standard definition set-top boxes and to accommodate co-mingling, backhaul circuits to connect that equipment to the additional and increasingly complex services.
In the event that the Groups network backhaul extension services and finally individual implementation of such software downloads is no longer a course copper lines that go between the central office equipment and the of action available to the Group, it may be limited in its ability to end users house metallic path facility lines.
The Group purchases upgrade the services available via the standard definition set-top these products from Openreach at regulated prices set, from time boxes currently installed in customers premises.
to time, by Ofcom, and under terms and conditions outlined in legally the Group is reliant on encryption and other technologies to binding undertakings given by BT and accepted by Ofcom in lieu of a restrict unauthorised access to its services.
market investigation reference to the CC following Ofcoms Strategic Review of Telecommunications the BT Undertakings.
These Direct DTH access to the Groups services is restricted through a stipulate that the Group buys these products on a fully equivalent combination of physical and logical access controls, including basis when compared to other operators including other parts of smartcards which the Group provides to its individual DTH BT who supply broadband, telephony and network products and customers.
Unauthorised viewing and use of content may be services.
Outside of the Groups LLU areas the Group uses accomplished by counterfeiting the smartcards or otherwise BT Wholesales IP stream bitstream product to provide overcoming their security features.
A significant increase in the broadband connectivity to end users.
Failure by either Openreach incidence of signal piracy could require the replacement of or BT Wholesale to provide its products to the Group on a fully smartcards sooner than otherwise planned.
Although the Group equivalent basis, or changes to regulated prices, could have a works with its technology suppliers to ensure that its encryption material adverse effect on the Groups business.
and other protection technology is as resilient to piracy as possible, there can be no assurance that it will not be compromised in the Openreach is deploying next generation access networks to some future.
The Group also relies upon the encryption or equivalent UK households based on fibre.
Openreach is required by Ofcom technologies employed by the cable and other platform operators to sell wholesale fibre access services on a fully equivalent basis.
for the protection of access to the services which the Group makes However, the price of these services is not regulated by Ofcom.
available to them as well as the encryption and equivalent Should a significant proportion of customers wish to buy fibre technology which the Group employs in connection with services it based broadband in future, changes in the availability, price or makes available on open platforms e. g. to PCs.
Failure of encryption terms of these wholesale fibre access services could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
and other protection technology could impact the Groups revenue from those operators and from its own customers.
the Group undertakes significant capital expenditure projects, The Groups network and other operational systems rely on the including technology and property projects.
operation and efficiency of its computer systems.
Although the The Group is currently involved in capital expenditure projects Groups systems are protected by firewalls, there is a risk that its including infrastructure projects.
As is common with such projects, business could be disrupted by hackers or viruses gaining access there is a risk that the Groups capital expenditure projects may not to its systems.
Any such disruption, and any resulting liability to be completed as envisaged, either within the proposed timescales the Groups customers, could have a material adverse effect on the or budgets, or that the anticipated business benefits of the projects Groups business.
may not be fully achieved.
Failure of key suppliers could affect the Groups ability to operate the Group, in common with other service providers relies on its business.
intellectual property and proprietary rights, including in respect The Group relies on a consistent and effective supply chain to of programming content, which may not be adequately protected meet its business plan commitments and to continue to maintain under current laws or which may be subject to unauthorised use.
its network and protect its services.
A failure to meet the Groups The Groups services largely comprise content in which it owns, or requirements or delays in the development, manufacture or delivery has licensed, the intellectual property rights, delivered through of products from suppliers, the discontinuance of products or a variety of media, including broadcast programming, interactive services, or a deterioration in support quality, could adversely affect television services and the internet.
The Group relies on trademark, the Groups ability to deliver its products and services.
No assurance copyright and other intellectual property laws to establish and can be given that a broad economic failure or decline in quality of protect its rights over this content.
However, the Group cannot equipment suppliers in the industry in which the Group operates will be certain that its rights will not be challenged, invalidated or not occur.
Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect circumvented or that it will successfully renew its rights.
Third on the Groups business.
parties may be able to copy, infringe or otherwise profit from the Sky Talk relies on telecommunications services from network Groups rights or content which it owns or licenses, without the operator BT and failure on the part of BT to meet the Groups Groups, or the rights holders, authorisation.
These unauthorised AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 27 Book 1. indb 27 12 10 11 20:46:57 DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Principal risks and uncertainties continued activities may be more easily facilitated by the internet and digital technology.
In addition, the lack of clarity relating to the legal framework applicable to the internet creates an additional challenge for the Group in protecting its rights relating to its online business and other digital technology rights.
On 3 February 2011, the Advocate General the AG of the european Court of Justice eCJ gave her opinion to the eCJ in the joined cases Football Association Premier League Ltd and Others v QC Leisure and Others and Karen Murphy v Media Protection Services Ltd, which are references for preliminary rulings from the UKs High Court of Justice.
The cases in the main proceedings stem from the practice of territorially restricting access to encrypted sports broadcasts which are transmitted via satellite to various Member States, and the use of foreign decoder cards in the United Kingdom to access foreign satellite transmissions of live Premier League football matches.
The references for preliminary rulings concern the issue of whether measures to enforce exclusive broadcasting rights are incompatible with Community law.
The AGs opinion does not bind the eCJ, whose final decision is awaited.
the Group generates wholesale revenue principally from one customer.
The Group currently derives its wholesale revenue principally from one wholesale operator, vM.
economic or market factors, regulatory intervention, or a change in strategy relating to the distribution of the Groups channels, may adversely influence the Groups wholesale revenue and other revenue which the Group receives from vM in connection with supply of the Sky Premium and Basic Channels which may negatively affect the Groups business.
the Group is subject to a number of medium and long-term obligations.
The Group is party to a number of medium and long-term agreements and other arrangements including in respect of programming and transmission, for example, its transponder agreements which impose financial and other obligations upon the Group.
If the Group is unable to perform any of its obligations under these agreements and or arrangements, it could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 28 Book 1. indb 28 12 10 11 20:46:57
