Chief Executive Officers review Principal risks Effective risk management is critical to 3.
Reputation and regulation risk our business in order to deliver long-term Strategic risk shareholder value and protect our people, We operate in emerging markets in which the legal and regulatory regimes can be subject to rapid and significant assets and reputation.
This presents a potential risk to the operation of the we face risk and uncertainties in all our business, potentially resulting in reductions in profit, fines or the withdrawal of operating licences.
Specific risks include: business activities.
Our challenge is to changes to the regulation of credit or the sale of credit by identify our principal risks and develop intermediaries or other laws that may impact the operation of the business and or result in higher costs: and strategies and controls to mitigate these controls on the level or structure of charges for interest, risks effectively.
agent service or other services that may impact the operation of the business or its level of profit.
In addition, our reputation may be adversely affected by ill-informed 1.
Growth comment or malpractice which in turn may damage our brand and reduce customer demand.
Strategic risk Our aim is to deliver value to shareholders through long-term, Risk appetite statement sustainable growth.
There is a risk that we fail to deliver We will always aim to comply with all relevant regulations but targeted levels of growth or that we grow too rapidly, creating accept that the regulatory environment within which we operate unacceptably high levels of credit, operating or funding risk.
is beyond our direct control and that changes in regulation may have a material impact on the business and its profitability.
Risk appetite statement It is possible that regulation of consumer lending could lead We will optimise sustainable growth in shareholder value to the removal of a licence to trade in one or more markets.
without breaching our stated levels of credit, operating and funding risks.
Mitigation We actively operate Treating Customers Fairly principles in Mitigation all markets to protect our brand and reputation.
We comply with policies and controls in the following areas to ensure this risk is kept within appetite: We operate a legal and regulatory governance regime which credit risk: monitors compliance with all relevant regulations and escalates to the Board, for action, any areas of concern.
operating risk: funding risk: and We foster open relationships with regulatory bodies and monitor credit exceptions.
closely developments in all our markets, and in respect of the EU as a whole.
We have well established and experienced corporate affairs teams in all our markets.
We work proactively with opinion formers to ensure the business 2.
Concentration risk is well understood.
This is facilitated by membership of the Strategic risk British Chamber of Commerce and or relevant local trade We have a competitive advantage in the provision of home bodies, and Eurofinas in Brussels.
credit and, accordingly, our strategy is to concentrate on expansion through this single product.
This concentration We have an international legal committee to oversee legal risks increases exposure to adverse regulatory or competitive threats.
Risk appetite statement We have an effective corporate responsibility programme in place.
We accept the heightened risk of a single product strategy We have clear operating guidelines and policies to ensure because of the superior returns this affords.
consistency and compliance with our values.
Mitigation We pursue an active communications programme that aims We periodically review options to enhance the customer offering to foster a good understanding of the Company.
through the provision of other products and services which may appeal to our customers and are complementary to our home credit offer.
22 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Business Review 4.
Economic risk 6. Credit risk Strategic risk Strategic risk The condition of the economies in which we operate and the Credit risk is intrinsic in consumer lending and represents implications of this for our customers will have an impact on the risk that customers fail to repay part or all of a loan as our business performance.
repayments fall due, leading to levels of impairment that are too high in relation to the charges made.
Customers ability to repay loans will be affected by events, such as unemployment or under-employment which impact There is always a trade-off between sales growth and household incomes.
Reduced demand, reduced revenue and credit risk and there is a business risk that credit controls increased impairment may result.
are inappropriately positioned leading to a sub-optimal level of profitability.
In setting credit controls and establishing this Risk appetite statement trade-off, we believe that an impairment level of over 30% We accept the risk that economic conditions in the markets destroys customer lifetime value as a result of higher customer in which we operate may change and this will impact our turnover and, in turn, leads to high staff and agent turnover as performance.
a result of the level of arrears work required.
Conversely, we Mitigation believe that an impairment level below 25% indicates that we We have a resilient business model because our loan book are rejecting profitable lending opportunities that would increase is short term: on average just five months repayments are lifetime value.
outstanding, which means we can quickly change the risk-return Risk appetite statement profile of our lending.
In addition, our credit management and We will target annual Group impairment as a percentage impairment systems, together with close customer relationships of revenue of between 25% and 30%.
allow us to detect and respond rapidly to changes in customer circumstances and payment performance.
Mitigation We have effective credit management systems and rules in place for evaluating and controlling the risk from lending to new and existing customers which are managed at branch level.
This is supplemented by the weekly contact between our agents and customers allowing a regular assessment of credit risk.
Competition risk Performance is monitored against benchmarks set for each product term and loan sequence.
Strategic risk Increased competition may reduce our market share, leading Our agents are incentivised primarily to collect rather than to increased costs of customer acquisition and retention and lend, thereby ensuring they focus on responsible lending.
reduced credit issued, lower revenue and lower profitability.
We have credit exception reporting in place to report and Risk appetite statement follow up on all loans issued outside the criteria defined We accept the risk that increased competition may reduce our within our application and behavioural scoring systems.
Group and country level credit committees review credit In new markets we conduct detailed research to identify those controls at country and branch level each month allowing segments in a particular market we would look to serve, the rapid response to the changing market conditions.
current level of competition and the extent of our potential competitive advantage.
Mitigation Our distinctive operating model and high levels of personal service engender high levels of customer satisfaction and retention.
Market research is regularly undertaken to monitor satisfaction levels, identify usage of other financial products and monitor competitor activity.
We look to continuously improve the service we offer to customers.
co. uk annualreport Directors Report: Business Review 23 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Chief Executive Officers review Principal risks continued 7.
Operating risk general Strategic risk Strategic risk We fund our activities and growth through a combination Our ambition is to achieve long-term growth and to expand our of equity capital, retained earnings and bank and bond debt business into new markets.
There is a risk that our business funding.
There is a risk that sufficient funding may not be model would not be scalable if we failed to apply it consistently or available to support our business plan, and that there may if there was a systematic breakdown of the operating procedures, be insufficient funding in the currencies in which we lend or processes, systems or controls that underpin the model.
that it is not available at an economic price.
Risk appetite statement We accept that expanding our business creates additional risk This is particularly relevant following the significant reduction in the general availability of bank and capital markets funding.
A specific risk is that a breach of banking covenant may trigger We will not accept any persistent or significant variations to our standard operating model for factors other than local a withdrawal of part or all of our debt facilities and, at extremes, this may lead to the going concern status of the business being legal requirements.
Mitigation Risk appetite statement We only implement significant business change initiatives following a proven and approved champion challenger We will aim to maintain a capital structure equity and debt that provides, under a stressed scenario, sufficient committed business case and pilot.
funding facilities to cover forecast borrowings plus operational We ensure that new branch openings are made using staff with headroom for the next 18 months on a rolling basis, and ensures a minimum of six months relevant experience.
there is no reasonable likelihood of a covenant breach or rating downgrade.
We operate a risk-based internal audit programme.
Mitigation We operate a Risk Management Framework to ensure key risks The business is well capitalised with equity to receivables are identified, measured, monitored and mitigated.
At 31 December 2011 there was headroom of 171.4 million on 447.9 million of bonds, and syndicated and bilateral banking facilities.
Operating risk accuracy and appropriate reporting Our main banking facilities are committed until November 2013 and bond funding matures largely in 2015.
Strategic risk The integrity of our control and information systems requires We have committed funding sufficient for our business plan that the financial position of the business is known accurately until November 2013. and in a timely fashion.
There is a risk that we do not have systems, controls and processes which ensure this can A Group Treasury Governance Structure is in place to ensure that adherence to Group policies is measured, monitored and be delivered.
Risk appetite statement We aim to design and operate performance reporting and financial control systems where there is no material risk from failures of internal systems and controls.
Mitigation We will only implement significant changes to controls or processes following a proven and approved business case and pilot.
We have an internal control framework and associated assurance mechanisms to ensure the ongoing systems, controls and processes are operating as required.
All changes to products, pricing and the accounting polices for receivables are matters reserved to the Board.
24 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Business Review 10.
Operating risk service disruption i Safety Strategic risk Strategic risk We operate a business which is highly dependent upon its IT We operate a model which involves a high degree of customer systems and business processes in the delivery of an excellent contact at the homes of our customers.
In common with other service.
There is a risk that the failure of these systems and groups of lone workers there are risks of personal accident processes may impact the overall customer experience or assault associated with such home contact.
resulting in lost business opportunities, specifically: day-to-day operations disrupted in the event of damage to, Risk appetite statement or interruption or failure of, information, credit appraisal We will take all reasonably practicable steps to mitigate risks and communication systems: to all employees and agents in the operation of their duties.
We will not tolerate any material breaches of relevant Health failure to provide quality service to customers and loss of and Safety legislation.
data: and disruption of activities increasing costs or reducing potential Mitigation net revenues.
We seek to continually improve our processes to ensure high standards of safety.
Our Health and Safety Governance Risk appetite statement Structure ensures that policies and procedures are in place to We will not accept any material risk of the permanent foster compliance with all relevant legislation and ensure that destruction or loss of the books and records including all reasonably practicable steps are taken to mitigate risks customer data of the business.
to all employees and agents in the operation of their duties.
We will aim to manage the losses arising from the risk of ii Availability disruption to business activities to be no more than 10% Strategic risk of the expected pre-tax profit for any year.
We operate within a sector of the market in which there are Mitigation few other players of a significant size, limiting the size of the Robust business continuity processes, procedures and a recruitment market for key staff.
In addition, we are seeking reporting framework are in place in all markets to enable high levels of growth in existing and new markets.
These us to continue trading and to recover full functionality as factors combine to present the risk of a shortage of personnel soon as practicable in the event of such an occurrence.
of appropriate skills and knowledge to implement the Group These are regularly tested and reviewed.
Risk appetite statement We perform a Business Impact Assessment every two We will aim to have sufficient depth of personnel able to years in each of our markets.
implement the strategy of the Group but will only grow the business at a rate consistent with the skills availability and There is continuous investment in the development of experience of personnel.
Mitigation We have a formal talent development programme aimed at delivering sufficient high-quality managers to meet future plans.
A learning and development framework has also been implemented.
We aim to have approved succession plans for all senior management positions.
We aim to have a minimum of two named Country Managers and Operations Directors in waiting.
co. uk annualreport Directors Report: Business Review 25 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Chief Executive Officers review Principal risks continued 12. Business development risk 14.
Currency and matching risk change management i Currency risk Strategic risk Strategic risk We operate in markets which use different currencies from We aim to continuously improve our business performance.
that in which we report our results, presenting a foreign This involves change to systems, processes, reward systems exchange risk.
Through implementing change there is a risk that planned benefits are not realised or there are unintended Risk appetite statement consequences.
All our earnings are denominated in foreign currency.
We fully accept the risk that over the long term the translated value Risk appetite statement of these earnings may rise or fall and so change the reported We accept that continuous change and improvement carries value of the future prospects of the business and its market risk and accept this risk but only to the extent that changes are capitalisation.
tested and evaluated on a pilot basis before deployment.
The majority of net assets underpinning the nominal value Mitigation of our equity are denominated in foreign currency.
We fully We have a test and learn approach and all significant change is accept the risk that the translated value of these may rise subject to user acceptance testing and pilot evaluation before or fall leading to changes in the nominal value of our equity.
We have a clear strategy for the development of revisions to IT systems and operating processes.
We will not accept any material portion of our receivables book to be debt funded in any currency other than the local currency Standard project management methodology is applied across without full hedging in place.
We will not enter into any speculative derivative contracts.
Mitigation In the short term, we manage the risk that changes in exchange rates could have a material impact on market expectations by hedging at least two-thirds of forecast profits within each current financial year.
New markets risk We have a Group Treasury Governance Structure in place Strategic risk to ensure that adherence to Group policies is measured, Our strategy includes entry into new markets that offer good, monitored and managed on a monthly basis.
There is a risk that we choose the wrong market or enter it at the wrong time.
No loans are issued in a currency other than the functional currency of the relevant market.
Risk appetite statement We accept that new market entry carries the risk of failure that Funds are borrowed in, or swapped into, the same local cannot be fully mitigated by research and careful preparation.
currencies as net customer receivables so far as possible.
We will limit the impact of failure on the income statement such ii Interest rate risk that the annual operating costs of new market pilots, together Strategic risk with the estimated cost of the closure and write-down of all new Typically, the service charge on our lending is fixed at the time market pilots, will be no more than 20% of annual pre-tax profit.
a loan is granted and there is a risk that during the life of a loan Mitigation the costs of providing and managing it increase and, therefore, A report is made for Board approval in respect of all potential impact profit margins.
new countries based on our new market entry criteria.
Risk appetite statement We assess the potential to enter a new country in accordance We fix interest costs so that the cost is matched with with our seven entry tests.
the revenue generated on the related receivables book.
Progression from a pilot to a roll-out phase will only be Mitigation authorised by the Board following a period of a successful We will hedge at least 75% of known interest costs on borrowings pilot and formal review.
in each currency to be incurred in the next 12 months.
26 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Business Review 15.
Counterparty failure banks Strategic risk Strategic risk We operate in emerging markets in which the taxation regimes We have cash balances in the accounts of banks in all of our can be subject to significant and rapid change.
This presents the countries of operation, to ensure sufficient cash availability to risk that the taxation charge in the Financial Statements does fund the short-term operation of the business.
This presents not reflect the ultimate tax cost incurred by the Group.
a counterparty risk in terms of the institutions used.
Risk appetite statement Risk appetite statement We aim to comply with all relevant tax regulations.
Nonetheless, We have policies aimed at avoiding exposure to any counterparty we accept the risk that the position taken by the Group in relation where the failure of that counterparty would impact pre-tax to the taxation treatment of certain transactions may be profit by 10% or more.
subject to a challenge and that a decision against the Group Mitigation may materially impact the taxation charge in the Financial We have a Group Treasury Governance Structure in place Statements in any one year.
However, we will aim to carry to ensure that adherence to Group policies is measured, sufficient provisions to reflect the reasonable probability of monitored and managed on a monthly basis.
any adverse outcomes and, additionally, to provide comfort that such adverse outcomes would not trigger a breach of Cash is held generally with single A or higher rated financial bank covenants.
Institutions with lower credit ratings can only be used with full Board approval.
Mitigation A Tax Committee is in place to monitor tax risks across the Group.
External professional advice for all material transactions is taken and supported by strong internal tax experts both in-country and in the UK.
Where possible, tax treatments are agreed in advance with relevant authorities.
We maintain a tax provision reflecting the expected risk-weighted 17.
Counterparty failure other impact of significant open or disputed tax items.
Tax risks are Strategic risk reviewed every six months by the Audit and Risk Committee.
We enter into arrangements with organisations over a We do not recognise a deferred tax asset for start-up losses medium term to provide services for certain core elements on a pilot operation unless and until the pilot moves to the of the business, presenting a counterparty risk in terms of roll-out phase.
the failure of the organisation used.
A stress test analysis is performed to ensure that any potential There is the risk that business failure of a counterparty, such tax risks, for which there is no provision, will not result in a as an IT services provider, could cause significant disruption covenant breach.
or impact on our ability to operate.
Risk appetite statement We have procedures aimed at preventing us from entering into any long-term or material contract where the failure of the counterparty would impact pre-tax profit by 10% or more, unless there is no reasonable alternative.
Mitigation We ensure there is Board approval of material medium-term contracts.
