International Public Partnerships Limited Risks and Risk Management The Board considers the process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Company and Group on an on-going basis.
It seeks to ensure that effective controls are in place to mitigate these risks and that a satisfactory compliance regime exists to ensure all local and international laws and regulations are upheld.
In light of continued market volatility and economic turmoil, particular attention has been given to the effectiveness of controls to monitor liquidity risk, asset values, counterparty exposure and credit availability.
The Directors set out the material risks relating to the Groups portfolio and investing in the Company as at December 2009 in the Companys Placing, Open Offer and Offer for Subscription, available from the Companys website.
This document should be reviewed by shareholders but broad areas of risk include but may not be limited to : Risk category Risk factors External General economic impacts, interest rate movements, foreign exchange movements, inflation: Political and regulation changes in government policy, law and regulation Tax and accounting changes in practice and policies Changes to the competitive environment Strategic and Management Share price may be at either a discount premium to NAV Companys reliance on service providers underperformance, solvency and breach of regulations Operational and Investment Acquisition overpaying for assets, not assessing risks correctly Performance under-performance of assets and or service providers Concentration over-reliance on a client or service contractor Illiquidity of assets: NAV may not be matched in market Default or poor performance in provision of operational services Government action to terminate contracts Counterparties may seek to exploit complex documentation Conflicts of interest Financial Liquidity lack of financial resources: access to debt and equity markets Counterparties reliance on financial institutions: counterparty default Currency exchange rate exposure Financing and interest rates Ability to raise equity capital from the market and inability to refinance debt when it becomes due External Risks Broad external factors, including the economic conditions in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, have the capacity to impact the portfolio of assets this includes interest rates, foreign exchange and inflation.
In particular the revenues and expenditure of project entities with respect to infrastructure assets are generally partly or wholly subject to indexation.
An assumption is made that inflation will increase at a longterm rate which may vary depending on country and from time to time.
The effect on investment returns if inflation is above or below the original projections for this long term rate will impact on the cash that the Group actually generates from its investments.
The Groups ability to meet targets and its objective may be adversely or positively affected by inflation and or deflation.
The impact of interest rates and foreign exchange is discussed in Financial risks further below.
29 International Public Partnerships Limited Risks and Risk Management continued Each of the portfolios assets has an underlying legal contract with a public sector client.
There is a risk that political decisions could be taken to seek to vary the terms of, or terminate, a contract.
In some cases governments have rights of voluntary termination and any compensation payable on termination may well be less than the Groups valuation for the asset terminated.
In such cases the value of the Groups investment portfolio and its ability to meet target distributions would be affected.
There is also a risk that a government or public commissioning body may decide to vary the means by which it delivers future projects i. e. not through PFI PPP initiatives.
Should this be the case the Groups ability to source assets in the future could be limited with the reduction in supply.
Financing structures through which the Company invests into projects are based on assumptions regarding prevailing taxation law and practice and accounting standards.
Any change in that investments tax status or in tax legislation or practice including in relation to taxation rates or in accounting standards could adversely affect the projects investment return and, in turn, have an adverse impact on the financial performance of the Group.
The Company operates in a competitive environment both in sourcing capital and by way of competition from other investors who bid against the Company to acquire new assets.
The Company believes it has a differentiated strategy from its competitors on both counts.
Firstly, it believes that its well diversified portfolio of assets, both from a geographic and sector perspective, position it well in the eyes of investors.
It also provides the potential for further capital growth through its construction assets which investors also view favourably.
However these strategies may not be successful.
The Companys Investment Advisor is a leading originator, asset management and fund manager in the infrastructure sector.
The Company relies on the expertise of its Advisor and believes its long-term track record positions it well to acquire new assets for the fund vis-a vis-other competitors in the market.
Strategic and Management Risks The Company seeks to provide its shareholders with both a long-term government-backed yield and capital growth through investment across both construction and operational phases of infrastructure projects.
The Company aims to provide a medium term return to investors of 8-9% on the initial public offer issue price of 100 pence per share.
The Company aims also to provide a robust and attractive growing yield to investors.
However there is a risk that the Company may fail to reach this objective.
The Companys NAV is assessed in good faith by the Company half yearly with the assistance of the Investment Adviser.
NAV is derived from projections of future cashflows to the Company and discounted at a rate to arrive at a present value of those future cashflows.
Such cashflows may in practice be higher or lower than projected and or may arise at different times.
As with any valuation the assessment of NAV depends on judgments which may in hindsight be wrong or unjustified.
The discount rate utilised will change from time to time influenced by market and portfolio specific factors.
The ability both to deliver returns and to pay distributions is dependent on a number of economic factors outside the Companys or the Investment Advisers control.
Whilst assumptions that are believed to be reasonable have been factored into business plans, external factors could materially affect the Company and impede its ability to deliver its financial objectives.
The Company is dependent on the Investment Adviser for advice relating to the day-today management of the Groups assets.
The Investment Adviser is supported by other service providers to the Group.
Failure by the Investment Adviser or a service provider could have a material impact on the Group.
Equally a loss of key personnel from a service provider may have an impact on the performance of the Group.
The Management Engagement Committee of the Board reviews the performance of each service provider on an annual basis and seeks to ensure that each service provider has adequate systems and controls in place in relation to the services they provide to the Group.
30 International Public Partnerships Limited Risks and Risk Management continued Operational and Investment Risks There is no guarantee that suitable additional investments will be available in which the Company can invest or that any investment will be successful.
Competition for investment opportunities may result in increased purchase prices.
Whether an investment is acquired by means via the Investment Advisors pipeline or through an on-market competition it is important that the investment is analysed thoroughly in order to determine the appropriate value the Company is prepared to pay.
The Company is exposed to the risk that such work is not carried out properly or that mistakes are made in such work that lead to the Company over-paying for assets.
Whilst most construction and operational risks in projects in which the Company invests are passed down to sub-contractors through a well-established contractual framework, there are occasions when costs and or risks are retained within the project vehicle.
These include a number of routine running cost items and are also likely to include insurance and life cycle costs.
Any cost implication, not otherwise passed down to subcontractors, will generally be borne by the affected project.
For the current portfolio, the Company has assessed the risk and considers that the lifecycle and insurance provisions are reasonable and adequate.
Subcontractors may become insolvent or otherwise fail to perform their obligations even where risks are passed down to them.
Generally the groups assets benefit from loans and are subject to security in favour of third party lenders.
While such loans are generally long term, in certain circumstances such as default, lenders will be entitled to demand early repayment and enforce that security, however there would be no recourse to the Group beyond the maximum of the amount invested Once acquired, investments need to perform in line with their business plans.
Underperformance can be caused by a number of factors, one of which is the underperformance of a service delivery partner.
The Investment Advisor has tight controls and asset management processes in place to ensure that projects are meeting their intended performance targets.
It regularly reports the progress of projects, on a case-bycase basis to the Board where any issues and mitigation is discussed so that any resulting financial impact can be minimised.
The Company is also conscious of concentration issues associated with having reliance on any one service provider.
It also actively ensures that exposures to specific contractors are minimised by reviewing these providers at the time of acquisition and, from a portfolio perspective, on an ongoing basis.
The Group intends to hold assets long term and does not have an active strategy to sell assets although this will be considered where desirable.
The Companys assets may be illiquid and difficult to sell quickly or at all.
They may not be saleable at NAV.
Currently the Company believes that there is an active market for the purchase and sale of assets similar to those of the Company however this could change.
The Company depends on contractual arrangements in all aspects of its business.
Such contracts may be open to dispute or reinterpretation and may be affected by controls over their operation which are vested in third parties eg banks which may be operated in unpredictable ways.
Any such actions may affect the Group in a number of ways including its projected receipt of cash.
In practice such matters cannot be ruled out as possibilities although such contracts will generally have receive extensive legal review before being entered into.
The Group is exposed to the risk of possible conflicts of interest.
These may arise in but not limited to circumstances where the Group acquires investments from entities associated with its Investment Advisor and or circumstances where entities associated with its Investment Advisor receive fees before, at or after acquisition from entities acquired by the Group.
The Group has established conflict management procedures to mitigate this risk as set out in the Investment Policy section above.
Financial Risks The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
Also the underlying project entities in which the Group is invested have usually either entered a fixed rate loan agreement or variable interest rate loan agreement.
In the latter an interest rate swap agreement will usually be entered into at the commencement of the loan.
Hedging activities are 31 International Public Partnerships Limited Risks and Risk Management continued designed to be aligned with the period of the loan, which also mirrors the concession period and are generally highly effective.
However the risk that swap counterparties may fail and or there may be other reasons why such arrangements may become ineffective cannot be ruled out.
The Group has exposures to foreign currency exchange rate movement, as a result of its investments in assets which are in currencies other than Sterling.
Foreign exchange movements may have a future effect on both the Companys cashflow and valuation.
The Company may from time to time borrow money on a revolving and or short term basis to assist it with working capital and and or to acquire new investments.
Such borrowing will generally be on a floating rate basis and limited in time.
While the Company fully expects to manage its treasury position effectively the Company is exposed to the risks consequential on this including an inability to repay loans when they fall due.
There can be no certainty that loans taken out by the Company or the Group or any underlying entity can be renewed on the same terms or at all.
Nor can there be certainty that additional equity capital can be raised from shareholders.
The Group aims not to be exposed to significant credit risk but this cannot be fully avoided and different assets of the Group have different underlying credit risks.
This applies also to the other contractual counterparties of the Group and its underlying entities.
While the Company and the Group are exposed to the risks and other risks set out above, the policy of the Board and the Investment Adviser is to take an active approach to risk management.
This includes the review at least quarterly of the chief risks that are from time to time believed to affect the Company and the adoption of such mitigation strategies as may be reasonable in response.
