business review risks and uncertainties Risk management process A Risks relating to the group Mitigation Britvic reduces this risk in two ways.
Firstly, the majority of its Britvics risk management process has 1.
An over-reliance on any specific been adapted to support its growth revenues are generated by its whollycustomer or brand.
Its brand marketing focus strategy, focusing on growing the business through both acquisition and organic growth and innovation pipeline are balanced Risk A major retailer, in the take-home between its wholly-owned brands and opportunities.
Risk is an inherent part of or pubs and clubs channel, may decide to doing business.
The intention of the risk the PepsiCo franchised brands.
Secondly, remove our products from its range and Britvic places significant emphasis on management process is not to avoid all stock alternative products instead.
risk, as success comes from managing developing its relationship with PepsiCo Mitigation Britvic sells its products through both extending bottling agreements risk through the assessment of the balance through a wide-range of channels and of risk versus reward set against Britvics and maintaining an appropriate level of retailers.
This broad mix of customers communication between the two risk appetite.
The system of internal reduces our dependency on any one of controls and risk management used to businesses to deal with on-going these relationships.
Likewise our portfolio operational issues.
identify and manage the principal risks the and innovation launches further diversify group faces is described in the Corporate our range thereby reducing the dependency 3.
In assessing risk both on any one brand.
the financial and reputational impact are Risk Prices for commodities used in the considered, as Britvic is a brand-led production of our products may fluctuate 2.
A termination or variation of the business.
The principal risks and widely and have increased significantly bottling and distribution arrangements corresponding mitigation set out here over the last year mainly due to poor with PepsiCo or an adverse development represent the principal uncertainties that crops and scarcity.
Therefore the risk is in the PepsiCo relationship.
may impact on our ability to effectively two-fold, one of not being able to source deliver our strategy in the future.
Risk At the end of the bottling enough, and one of having to pay more agreements or earlier in specific than expected.
circumstances PepsiCo may terminate our right to sell their brands.
Failure to deliver the proposed Mitigation Britvic sources much of its 3.
Potential impact of taxation changes planned requirements through forward synergies in France.
Risk Potential legislation to introduce contracts and hedging arrangements and Risk Failure to deliver the cost and a tax on manufacturers of soft drinks.
is developing new sources of supply.
revenue synergies from the acquisition Through this process it aims to minimise Mitigation Britvic will look to remain of Britvic France.
the impact of price fluctuations.
commercially competitive whilst offsetting Mitigation An integration plan has as much of the cost as possible through 4.
Inability to protect the intellectual been adopted with dedicated resources increasing prices to customers.
to oversee the integration, reporting property rights associated with its current and future brands.
C Risks relating to the ordinary shares Risk Failure to maintain these rights 8.
Restrictions on business as a result could result in the value of our brands There are risks arising out of an investment of the increased Olympic legislation being eroded by copycat products.
in ordinary shares because of: for the London 2012 games.
Mitigation Through our legal team we 1.
Actions by the groups competitors.
Risk Restricted ability to advertise Britvic proactively look to protect these rights by products in designated Olympic zones.
Risk Competitors outperform Britvic in registering the relevant trademarks and the market and so grow their business at enforcing these in court when a resolution Mitigation The group has undertaken the expense of Britvic.
a comprehensive exercise to fully cannot be reached with other parties.
understand the restrictions in place and Mitigation Britvic benchmarks its has developed plans to maximise the 5.
Increase in the groups funding operations and processes against needs or obligations in respect of opportunities available, whilst complying recognised best practice and invests with the legislative restrictions in place.
in its people resources, processes and assets to maximise performance.
Risk The required revaluations of the B Risks relating to the market pension schemes may highlight a 2.
US holders potentially not being worsening deficit position that requires 1.
A change in consumer preferences able to exercise pre-emptive rights.
the company to provide additional cash and spending on soft drinks.
contributions to meet future needs.
Risk Under certain circumstances US Risk Consumers may decide to switch shareholders may not be able to take part Mitigation The group pensions function or spend less on soft drinks.
works closely with the pension Trustees Mitigation By offering a range of to ensure an appropriate portfolio is in Mitigation Britvic Investor Relations everyday value to premium products place to fund pension requirements and actively markets the Britvic investment across a range of sub-categories, Britvic spread risk as well as possible.
New case across both European and North is not dependant on any single brand.
employees of the company are enrolled American markets in order to promote The range has been developed to offer into a defined contribution scheme that diversification of where shares are held, consumers choice in terms of flavour, limits future liabilities.
The GB defined thereby reducing the concentration in cost and formulation.
benefit scheme for existing members any one country.
was closed to future accrual in April 2011.
Potential impact of regulatory developments.
Inadequate IT disaster recovery plans.
Risk Legislation may impact our ability Risk As Britvic has grown, both through to market or sell certain products or engage acquisition and organically, so has its with specific consumers.
reliance on IT systems to function, a failure of which could halt production or Mitigation Britvic proactively engages the ability to deliver goods.
with the relevant authorities through a number of organisations such as the Mitigation Britvic has out-sourced the British Soft Drinks Association BSDA management of its data centre to and the Food and Drink Federation FDF a professional provider with both robust in the UK, to ensure it can fully participate disaster recovery and business continuity in the future development of legislation.
plans capable of meeting both its current and future needs.
