Southern Africa Credit risk Credit quality on gross core loans and advances deteriorated in the first three quarters, with a slowdown in the fourth quarter of the financial year in review.
Core loans and advances increased by 2.2% to R120.8 billion.
Default loans net of impairments as a percentage of core loans and advances increased from 3.32% to 3.97%.
The credit loss ratio has remained at 0.71%.
The majority of defaults were recorded in the Private Bank division.
These defaults largely comprise a relatively small number of clients where finance was provided at reasonably conservative loan to values but with no obvious serviceability except realisation of collateral.
Defaults have occurred when clients have been unable to realise sales to service and repay.
The Capital Markets division reported no material defaults for the current financial year and bene ted from a recovery on a provision raised in prior years.
Traded market risk Trading conditions in South Africa remained dif cult, as client ow failed to pick up much over the year.
Risk assumed in the trading businesses continues to be low and has in some cases been even lower than last year.
Investec remains committed to trading on client ow as opposed to proprietary trading.
Despite the dif cult trading conditions all trading desks recorded a pro t. Balance sheet risk The bank continued to bene t from a growing retail franchise with total customer deposits increasing by 8.0% from 1 April 2010 to R154.5 billion at 31 March 2011 Private Bank deposits amount to R56.1 billion and other retail deposits amount to R98.4 billion.
Cash and near cash balances increased by 9.6% from 1 April 2010 to R52.6 billion at 31 March 2011, with excess reserves placed in highly liquid treasury bills and government bonds.
Our liquidity was further boosted by several successful medium-term senior and subordinated notes issues totaling R6 billion.
Australia Credit risk During the year core loans and advances to customers increased by 6.3% to A$3.2 billion predominantly through selective growth within the professional finance business unit: which provides finance to targeted members of the medical and accounting professions.
This has resulted in a continued shift in portfolio mix away from lending secured by property towards other asset classes.
There has been limited change in credit quality throughout the year under review.
Defaults net of impairments have fallen to 9.54% of core loans and advances and the credit loss ratio has decreased from 1.67% to 1.53%.
A continued focus on asset quality remains fundamental to our approach to the credit environment, which is likely to remain challenging for some time.
Traded market risk Australian trading activity remains modest, but has begun to increase.
The historical focus on commodity hedging has been expanded to include foreign exchange and interest rate activity.
Balance sheet risk Investec Australia maintained a strong liquidity position well in excess of regulatory and internal policy requirements throughout the year, with average cash and near cash balances amounting to A$1.7 billion.
113 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Salient features A summary of key risk indicators is provided in the table below.
Total assets excluding assurance assets to total equity.
Ratios are re ected at an Investec plc level including Australia.
Certain information is denoted as n a as these statistics are not applicable at a consolidated group level and are best re ected per banking entity or jurisdiction in line with regulatory and other requirements.
114 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance An overview of key risks In our ordinary course of business we face a number of risks that could affect our business operations.
These risks have been highlighted on page 38.
The sections that follow provide information on a number of these risk areas.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may in the future also impair our business operations.
Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risk factors.
Risk management framework, committees and forums A number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at both a business unit level in various locations and at a group level, as described more fully below.
These committees and forums operate together with group Risk Management and are mandated by the board.
A diagram of our governance and risk framework is provided on page 217.
Committee Function Audit committees See pages 226 and 227 Members: Non-executive directors The Internal Audit, Compliance and Operational Risk Chairman: Sam Abrahams non-executive director departments report to the audit committees.
Frequency: DLC audit committee 4 times a year Investec Limited and Investec plc audit committee 4 times each per year Board risk and capital committee BRCC See pages 229 and 230.
Members: Executive and non-executive directors senior management by invitation Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: Six times a year DLC capital committee See page 231.
Members: Executive and non-executive directors and senior management Chairman: Stephen Kosef f CEO Frequency: At least quarterly Executive risk review forum ERRF See pages 230 and 231.
Members: Executive directors and senior management Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: Every Friday except on BRCC dates Global credit committee Considers and approves the granting of credit to counterparties Members: Executive and senior management.
Non-executive in excess of the current mandates to centralised and directors have a level of oversight which is exercised decentralised credit committees within the applicable committee Considers the level of acceptable counterparty and Chairman: Glynn Burger group risk and finance director geographical exposures within the board approved risk Frequency: Twice a week appetite framework Reviews and approves changes to credit policies and methodologies.
Group investment committee Is responsible for reviewing and approving: Members: Executive dir ectors and senior management Acquisitions or disposals of strategic investments in which Chairman: Stephen Kosef f CEO we act as principal and retain an equity interest above Frequency: Weekly predetermined thresholds Capital expenditure or disposals above predetermined thresholds.
Group deal forum Considers, approves and mitigates the risks inherent in any Members: Executive and senior management.
Non-executive acquisition, disposal, new product or other non-standard directors have a level of oversight which is exercised transactions that we are considering.
within the applicable committee Chairman: Glynn Burger gr oup risk and finance director Frequency: Weekly 115 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Committee Function Group market risk forum Reviews and recommends limit adjustments in all existing Members: Global heads of Risk, Market Risk and the trading products and markets across all desks in the group desks: senior management: members of the Market Recommends limits for new products and new markets Risk teams and other members of group Risk Recommends methodology as to how risks are to be Management measured.
Chairman: Mark T rollip global head of Market Risk Frequency: Weekly Asset and liability committee Recommend and monitors our funding and liquidity policy and Members: Executive, senior management, economist, tr easurer, non-trading interest rate risk policy, which translates into a suite business heads and head of Asset and Liability of limits that fide ne our risk appetite Management Directs the implementation of the methodology, techniques, Chairman: Managing dir ector, chief financial of cer and head models and risk measures of Risk Reviews the structure of our balance sheet and business Frequency: Monthly or ad hoc if required strategies, taking into account market conditions, including stress tests Maintains liquidity contingency plans.
Operational risk committee UK Promotes sound operational risk management practices Members: Head of Operational Risk and embedded risk Considers and recommends the enhancement of operational managers risk management practices and techniques Chairman: Bharat Thakker Considers key operational risk reports.
Frequency: Quarterly Operational risk working group UK Reviews and facilitates the implementation of decisions made Members: Embedded risk managers or their alter nates, group by the operational risk committee.
Operational Risk team members, key enterprise risk assessor ERA users, chairperson of the operational risk committee Frequency: Monthly Operational risk working group South Africa Promotes sound operational risk management practices Members: Head of Operational Risk, gr oup Operational Risk Considers and recommends the enhancement of operational team members and embedded risk managers or their risk management practices and techniques alternates Reviews and facilitates the implementation of operational risk Frequency: Monthly management practices Considers key operational risk reports Escalates issues to BRCC.
Group legal risk forum Considers and manages legal risks throughout the group.
Members: Executive dir ectors, senior management and divisional legal managers Chairman: David Nur ek global head of legal risk Frequency: Half-yearly or ad hoc if required In the sections that follow the following abbreviations are used on numerous occasions: BRCC Board risk and capital committee ERRF Executive risk review forum FSA Financial Services Authority SARB South African Reserve Bank APRA Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority 116 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Integrated global risk management structure Group risk and finance director Glynn Burger Global head of Risk Ciaran Whelan Divisional and geographic roles Global UK and Europe South Africa Australia Credit Risk Ciaran Whelan Ian Wohlman Justin Cowley Peter Binetter Market Risk Mark Trollip Jeremy Arnold Adrienne Betts Adam Rapeport Balance Sheet Risk Management Cyril Daleski Wendy Robinson Cyril Daleski Peter Binetter Operational Risk Colin Fiddes Bharat Thakker Colin Fiddes Shirley Snoyman Legal Risk David Nurek Richard Brearley David Nurek Stephen Chipkin Internal Audit Bradley Tapnack Noel Sumner Marle van der Walt Aik Leow Compliance Bradley Tapnack Richard Brearley Geoff Cook Belinda Dorfan Credit and counterparty risk management Audited Credit and counterparty risk description Credit and counterparty risk is fide ned as the current and prospective risk to earnings or capital arising from an obligors typically a clients or counterpartys failure to meet the terms of any obligation to us or otherwise to perform as agreed.
Credit and counterparty risk arises when funds are extended, committed, invested, or otherwise exposed through actual or implied contractual agreements, whether re ected on or off-balance sheet.
Credit and counterparty risk arises primarily from three types of transactions: Lending transactions, giving rise to a direct exposure.
The risk is created that an obligor will be unable or unwilling to repay capital and or interest on advances and loans granted to it.
This category includes bank placements, where we have placed funds with other financial institutions Issuer risk on financial instruments where payments due from the issuer of a financial instrument will not be received Trading transactions, giving rise to settlement and replacement risk collectively counterparty risk Settlement risk is the risk that the settlement of a transaction does not take place as expected, with one party effecting required settlements as they fall due but not receiving settlements to which they are entitled Replacement risk is the risk following default by the original counterparty resulting in the contract holder having to enter into a replacement contract with a second counterparty in order to nalise the transaction.
Credit and counterparty risk can manifest as country risk as a result of the geopolitical and transfer risk associated with exposures arising from transactions with borrowers who are resident in a particular foreign country, or dependent on that countrys economy.
Credit and counterparty risk may also arise in other ways and it is the role of the various independent credit committees, assisted by Credit Risk Management, to identify situations falling outside these fide nitions where credit risk may also be present.
Credit and counterparty risk governance structure Audited To manage, measure and mitigate credit and counterparty risk, independent credit committees exist in each geography where we assume credit risk.
These committees operate under board approved delegated limits, policies and procedures.
There is a high level of executive involvement and non-executive review and oversight in the credit decision making forums.
It is our policy that all centralised credit committees have a majority of voting members who are independent of the originating business unit.
All decisions to enter into a transaction are based on unanimous consent.
In addition to the group credit committee, the following processes assist in managing, measuring and monitoring credit and counterparty risk: Day-to-day arrears management and regular arrears reporting ensures that individual positions and any potential trends are dealt with in a timely manner 117 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Watchlist committee, which reviews the management of distressed loans, potential problem loans and exposures in arrears that require additional attention and supervision Corporate watch forum, which reviews and manages exposures that may potentially become distressed as a result of changes in the economic environment or adverse share price movements, or that are vulnerable to volatile exchange rate or interest rate movements Arrears, default and recoveries forum which speci cally reviews and manages distressed loans and potentially distressed loans within the Private Bank division.
Whilst we do not have a separate country risk committee, the local and global credit committees will consider, analyse, and assess the appropriate limits to be recorded when required, to extend the loans to foreign jurisdictions.
The local group credit committee has the authority to approve country limits within mandate.
The global credit committee is responsible for approving country limits not within the mandate of local group credit committees.
Credit and counterparty risk appetite We have a preference for exposure to EU countries, other G10 countries, Australasia, South Africa and speci c countries where we have subsidiaries or branches.
Credit and counterparty risk is always assessed with reference to the aggregate exposure to a single counterparty or group of related parties to manage concentration risk.
Our assessment of our clients includes consideration of their character and integrity, core competencies, track record and financial strength.
A strong emphasis is placed on income and cash ow streams generated by the clients, third party income or cash ow streams derived from lease or rental agreements in support of property related transactions.
In this manner, we seek comfort in mitigating our risk by thoroughly assessing the ability of our borrowers to meet their payment obligations.
Furthermore we have very little appetite for unsecured debt and ensure that good quality collateral is provided in support of obligations refer to pages 150 to 154 for further information.
Target clients include high net worth individuals, certain professionally quali ed individuals, high income earning individuals, corporates, parastatals, government institutions and banks.
Corporates must have scale, relevance, experienced management, able board members and strong earnings cash ow.
Interbank lending is reserved for those banks and institutions in the groups core geographies of activity, which are systemic and highly rated.
Direct exposures to cyclical industries and start-up ventures tend to be avoided.
We typically originate loans with the intent of holding these assets to maturity, and thereby developing a hands on and longstanding relationship with our clients.
In certain instances we have elected to sell certain assets down and or securitised them refer to pages 158 to 160 for further information.
Sustainability considerations Credit risk committees engage in quantitative and qualitative risk assessments as part of the responsible lending approach to doing business.
Sustainability aspects form the cornerstone of the evaluation conducted by the credit committees.
In addition to the traditional financial review, evaluations encompass a review of a clients business model, governance, environmental practices and the social impact of the business.
Pricing is motivated by the relevant business unit on a transaction by transaction basis, with consideration given to the manner of origination of the asset and the forward strategy for the asset, capital usage and liquidity.
Pricing recommendations are discussed and agreed at the appropriate credit committee to ensure that reward is appropriate to the risk and that pricing is not compromised in the pursuit of volume or relationship.
As a consequence of market behaviour, pricing for similar risk may differ from time to time.
Group Risk Management strives to maintain independence and objectivity in risk assessment and to give proactive input to lending transactions on a sustainable basis.
For example, with respect to mining transactions, group Risk Management not only routinely requires environmental impact assessments or rehabilitation plans, but also relies on support from leading specialist mining consultants to ensure the highest level of international compliance.
We focus on ensuring ongoing compliance with standards as they evolve.
We acknowledge that waste management and recycling transactions i. e. green investment is increasing and requires a specialised understanding of the risk factors, both due to their technical nature and the lack of a single, recognised standard.
This does present a new challenge to group Risk Management, as a sophisticated understanding of the more complex technical aspects of environmental compliance is necessary.
We do support key provisions of the Equator principles but we are not a signatory.
Further information is provided on page 105.
Audited Management and measurement of credit and counterparty risk Fundamental principles employed in the management of credit and counterparty risk are: A clear fide nition of our target market A quantitative and qualitative assessment of the creditworthiness of our counterparties 118 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Analysis of all related risks, including concentration risk concentration risk considerations include asset class, industry, counterparty, and geographical concentration Prudential limits Corporates Regular monitoring and review of existing and potential exposures once facilities have been must have approved scale, relevance, A high level of executive involvement in decision-making with non-executive review and oversight.
experienced management, able Regular reporting of credit and counterparty risk exposures within our operating units is made to management, the executives and the board at the BRCC.
The board regularly reviews and approves board members the appetite for credit and counterparty risk, which is documented in risk appetite statements and and strong policy documents and implemented by our group credit division.
Despite strict adherence to the above principles increased default risk may arise from unforeseen circumstances particularly in times of extreme market volatility and weak economic conditions.
Investec completes scenario tests on its loan portfolio with regards to the capital held.
These tests stress the existing portfolio to allow the bank to identify underlying risks and manage them accordingly.
These stresses include but are not limited to residential and commercial property prices, foreign exchange rates, default rates, impairments and capital usage.
The credit risk stress tests also play an integral part in the banks capital planning process.
A large proportion of the portfolio is not rated by external rating agencies.
As a result we mainly place reliance upon internal considerations of counterparties and borrowers, and use ratings prepared externally where available as support.
Within the credit approval process all available internal and external ratings are included in the assessment of the client quality.
The internal rating models used are speci c to each portfolio.
The internal ratings are used as an input into the credit decision and as a means of assessing the risk of rated portfolios.
Ongoing development of internal rating models has yielded good results in project finance, private bank property related transactions, corporate, bank and financial institutions areas of operation.
We remain focused on developing our models in the light of our idiosyncratic risk pro le and against extreme downturn events.
Fitch, Standard and Poors, Moodys and DBRS have been approved as eligible external credit assessment institutions ECAIs for the purposes of determining external credit ratings with the following elections: In relation to sovereigns and securitisations, Fitch, Moodys, Standard & Poors and DBRS have been selected by Investec as eligible ECAIs In relation to banks, corporates and debt securities, Fitch, Moodys and Standard & Poors are recognised as eligible ECAIs If two assessments are available, the more conservative will apply Where there are three or more credit ratings with different risk weightings, the credit ratings corresponding to the two lowest ratings should be referred to and the higher of those two ratings should be applied.
Credit and counterparty risk in the UK and Europe The UK and European group comprises businesses in the UK, including a branch in Ireland and banking businesses in the Channel Islands and Switzerland.
Credit risk arises mainly through our Private Banking and Capital Markets activities, although some credit and counterparty risk does arise in other businesses.
Private Banking The Private Bank has businesses in the UK London and Manchester, including branches in Ireland, the Channel Islands and Switzerland.
Credit risk arises from the following activities which we undertake in the division: structured property finance, private client lending, specialised lending, and corporate lending through specialists teams in growth and acquisition finance, and asset based lending.
119 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued The Structured Property Finance area provides senior debt and secondary funding for property transactions covering the residential and commercial markets.
Client quality and expertise are at the core of our credit philosophy.
Our exposure to the property market is well diversi ed with strong The Specialised bias towards prime locations for residential exposure and tenant quality for commercial assets.
Debt service cover ratios are a key consideration in the lending process supported by reasonable loan to Finance, Project security values.
Most assets are located in the UK, however our exposure to Irish domiciled assets has Finance and been under intensive management during the past two years.
Irish property exposure is appropriately Resource Finance impaired and signi cant additional speci c impairments were taken during the financial year following concerns with respect to the weakening of economic conditions in Ireland.
Where we have had businesses lend exposures to properties linked to asset performance we have experienced extremely illiquid market money on a conditions and have had to employ appropriate strategies to exit distressed positions.
All facilities structured basis are reviewed at least annually and property values are monitored by reference to reports from our appointed panel valuation rms.
to corporates, Growth and Acquisition Finance provides debt funding to proven management teams, running UK government and based mid-market companies.
Transaction sizes typically range between 5 million and 15 million.
institutions, with full Credit risk is assessed against debt service coverage from the robustness of the cash generation for recourse to either the business both historically and against forecasts.
a suitable asset Asset Based Lending provides working capital and business loans secured on collateral or assets or to the balance used in the conduct of the business, for example, account receivables, inventory, plant and machinery, and property.
We also provide advances against cash ow or other assets such as committed income sheet of the entity or rights.
to which the funds Specialised Lending provides structured credit facilities to high net worth individuals in the fund are advanced.
management, media music, sports, and professional services sector.
Risk is mitigated through sector expertise, client quality and certainty of serviceability.
Specialised Banking provides bespoke secured lending to high net worth and high income individuals.
Credit risk is assessed against prudent debt servicing cover ratios.
Lending is underpinned by good quality assets, including residential and commercial property, bank guarantees, discretionary investment portfolios and cash deposits.
In determining serviceability, we also consider the liquidity of the client, including cash reserves and liquid asset holdings.
Funding is characterised by long-term annuity income and a historically low probability of default.
The total bespoke mortgage portfolio at 31 March 2011 was 191 million.
The high sustainable income streams and liquid asset holdings exhibited by our private clients is re ected in the quality of this portfolio which has continued to show little stress during the financial year in review.
An analysis of the Private Banking loan portfolio and asset quality information is provided on pages 148 and 149.
Capital Markets The bulk of Capital Markets activities are conducted from London and Ireland.
As part of the daily management of liquidity, the treasury function places funds with central banks the Bank of England and the European Central Bank and other commercial banks and financial institutions.
These market counterparties are highly rated, investment grade entities with credit risk of a systemic nature in the UK, Europe and US.
A rigorous internal assessment process, supported by rating agency information, is undertaken to analyse each counterparty to which we may be potentially exposed to ascertain their credit worthiness.
Our trading portfolio consists of positions in interest rates, foreign exchange, equities, with some precious and non-precious metal positions.
Credit risk arises from normal trading risks.
We maintain a thorough risk process that reviews and monitors all potential credit risks inherent in customer trading facilities.
These positions are marked to market daily with margin calls where necessary to mitigate credit exposure in the event of counterparty default.
Within the banking business, credit risk can arise from structured finance, project and resource nancing, asset finance, principal finance and corporate lending activities.
There are approved limits specifying the maximum exposure to each individual counterparty, to minimise concentration risk.
Facilities are secured on the assets of the underlying corporate.
The credit appetite for each 120 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance counterparty is based on the financial strength of the principal borrower, underlying cash ow and security.
While most of the activities of our Capital Markets division are concentrated in Europe, any exposure to counterparties outside this jurisdiction is mitigated through a stringent country risk approval and monitoring process, and covered by political risk insurance where deemed appropriate.
A summary of the nature of the lending and or credit risk assumed within some of the key areas within the banking business is provided below: Structured and Asset Finance: loans leases against xed assets linked to the success of the business they are employed in.
These transactions amortise from anticipated cash ows Project Finance: provides advisory, debt and equity arranging services to renewable energy projects and public private projects, e. g. roads, hospitals, prisons.
Loans are secured on the project themselves with a high degree of due diligence around both the delivery risks and the cash ow to repay any facilities Commodities and Resource Finance: provides project finance and working capital lending and hedging to existing, producing, base and precious metal entities.
Provable reserves and strong cash ow are paramount considerations in the credit decision process Principal Finance: origination of assets for securitisation including the Kensington platform, broking and trading, investing as principal, and management of CLOs.
Included within Principal Finance is the specialist corporate capital team, which originates and participates in senior debt facilities in the leveraged buy-out market relating to medium to large corporates.
Specialist corporate capitals average counterparty exposure is approximately 9 million per entity, giving portfolio diversity.
An analysis of the Capital Markets loan portfolio and asset quality information is provided on pages 148 and 149.
Investment Banking Counterparty risk in this area is modest.
All share underwriting is fully sub-underwritten with well known market counterparties.
The business also trades approved shares on an approved basis and makes markets in shares where we are appointed corporate broker under pre-agreed market risk limits.
Settlement trades are all on a delivery versus payment basis, through major stock exchanges.
Credit risk only occurs in the event of counterparty failure and would be linked to any mark to market losses on the underlying security.
Asset Management Investec Asset Management Limited regularly transacts with well known rated market counterparties.
These are all on an exchange traded delivery versus payment basis and exposure is to a move in the underlying security in the unlikely event a counterparty fails.
Direct cash placements follow our policy, as outlined above, of only being exposed to systemic banks of investment grade quality in the UK, Europe and US.
Credit and counterparty risk in South Africa Credit and counterparty risk is assumed mainly through the Private Bank, Capital Markets, and Asset Finance ReichmansCapital divisions.
Private Banking Lending products are primarily offered through our structured property finance, private client lending, specialised lending and growth and acquisition finance activities, and are targeted to meet the requirements of our clients.
Central to our credit philosophy is the concept of sustainability of income through the cycle.
As such, the client base has been fide ned to include high net worth clients who through diversi cation of income streams will reduce income volatility and individuals with a profession which has historically supported a high and sustainable income stream irrespective of stage in the economic cycle.
A large portion of the lending portfolio is supported by residential and commercial property collateral.
Exposure to commercial and retail properties was originally approved at conservative loan to value ratios.
Income producing assets are generally substantially let with good quality anchor tenants.
Collateral exposure to the South African property market is regionally diversi ed primarily Pretoria, Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban and Port Elizabeth.
Serviceability of a loan advanced against property and not only asset value and quality of the client are primary considerations in the credit assessment process.
An analysis of the Private Banking loan portfolio and asset quality information is provided on page 148 and 149.
Capital Markets Investec Corporate Treasury provides money market, interest rate and foreign exchange products to corporates and institutions.
We are an active market maker in the spot and forward US Dollar Rand interbank markets.
Trading transactions giving rise to issuer, settlement and replacement risk were among the primary areas of potential credit and counterparty risk in the year under review.
Simulation based methodologies have been implemented for the majority of the Corporate Treasury product offering, the bene t of which is the identi cation of increases in exposures as a result of changes in volatility and prices and the identi cation of roll-off risk.
121 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued As part of the daily management of liquidity, the treasury function places funds with the central bank the SARB and other commercial banks and financial institutions.
These market counterparties are highly rated, investment grade entities with credit risk of a systemic nature.
The Specialised Finance, Project Finance and Resource Finance businesses lend money on a structured basis to corporates, government and institutions, with full recourse to either a suitable asset or to the balance sheet of the entity to which the funds are advanced.
Typical assets that are funded include property, plant and equipment, infrastructure and movable assets.
Credit limits are set for each counterparty and monitored to ensure risk is mitigated.
The credit appetite for each counterparty is based on the financial strength of the principal borrower, underlying security, cash ow and, in the case of trading products, the nature of the underlying security traded.
The Resource Finance business may be exposed to countries presenting complex legal and political risks.
Political risk insurance is taken to ensure political risks are well managed.
There is also strong adherence to prudent country risk limits to manage concentration risk on an ongoing basis.
Most of the Resource Finance business activities form part of the corporate asset class as fide ned by Basel ll, since recourse in the event of default will be to the total assets of the corporate and not merely the resource project being nanced.
Due to the relative illiquidity of the credit derivative market in South Africa, counterparty exposures and mitigation bene ts obtained as a result of credit derivative transactions are negligible.
An analysis of the Capital Markets loan portfolio and asset quality information is provided on page 148 and 149.
ReichmansCapital ReichmansCapital is an asset finance business which operates on a premium margin business model for small and medium sized corporates.
The business is a relatively small portion of the overall group credit exposure.
Credit and counterparty risk in Mauritius Investec Bank Mauritius Limited offers various banking services and its primary business activities are corporate lending, property finance resource finance and structured finance.
Target market includes both corporate and private clients.
Prudential limits have been set and are monitored daily.
Investec Bank Mauritius Limited is a subsidiary of Investec Bank Limited.
It has a decentralised credit approval and management process in compliance with our group credit philosophy, policy and procedures.
Credit and counterparty risk in Australia Investec Bank Australia Limited operates within a clearly fide ned framework for managing credit risk.
The policies and procedures for credit risk management are consistent with those of the group and comply with the prudential standards issued by the APRA.
Credit and counterparty risk is assumed through transacting with target private and corporate clients, certain professionally quali ed individuals and high income individuals, project and resource finance, and the placement of surplus liquidity with highly rated domestic banks and financial institutions.
Details with respect to the nature of the credit and counterparty risk assumed is similar to that of the activity conducted within our UK operations.
An analysis of the Private Banking and Capital Markets loan portfolios and asset quality information is provided on page 148 and 149.
Audited Asset quality analysis credit risk classifi cation and provisioning policy It is a policy requirement overseen by Central Credit Management that each operating division makes provision for speci c impairments and calculates the appropriate level of portfolio impairments.
This is in accordance with established group guidelines and in conjunction with the watchlist committee policy and process.
In the financial statements, credit losses and impairments are reported in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The information provided below re ects the guidelines and fide nitions that have been applied in assessing the asset quality of credit exposures see page 135.
The impairment fide nitions and guidelines are consistent with IFRS.
IFRS differs from the requirements laid out in the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards of the Basel II framework which has been adopted by the banking regulators in all of the locales in which we have operations.
IFRS focuses on the concept of incurred loss, whereas Basel ll centres on the concept of expected loss.
The reconciling differences are primarily due to the fact that IFRS impairments only re ect a decrease in the value of assets with credit risk where a loss trigger event has occurred, and only that portion of the expected loss which has actually been incurred at the reporting date.
A loss trigger event is an event which exhibits a high correlation to the crystallisation of loss.
122 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Regulatory and Arrears, default and economic capital recoveries classifi cation classifi cation IFRS impairment treatment category Description Performing assets For assets which form part of a Past due An account is considered to be past homogenous portfolio, a portfolio due when it is greater than zero and impairment is required which less than or equal to 60 days past due recognises asset impairments that the contractual credit agreed payment have not been individually identi ed.
Management however is not concerned and there is con dence in The portfolio impairment takes into the counterpartys ability to repay the account past events and does not past due obligations.
cover impairments to exposures Special mention The counterparty is placed in special arising out of uncertain future events.
mention when that counterparty By fide nition, this impairment is only is considered to be experiencing calculated for credit exposures which dif culties that may threaten the are managed on a portfolio basis and counterpartys ability to ful ll their only for assets where a loss trigger credit obligation to the group i. e. event has occurred.
watchlist committee is concerned for the following reasons: Covenant breaches: There is a slowdown in the counterpartys business activity: An adverse trend in operations that signals a potential weakness in the financial strength of the counterparty: or Any restructured credit exposures until appropriate watchlist committee decides otherwise.
Ultimate loss is not expected, but may occur if adverse conditions persist.
Supplementary reporting categories: Credit exposures overdue 1 60 days Credit exposures overdue 61 90 days.
123 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Regulatory and Arrears, default and economic capital recoveries classifi cation classifi cation IFRS impairment treatment category Description Assets in default Speci c impairments are evaluated on Sub-standard The counterparty is placed in a case-by-case basis where objective substandard when the credit exposure evidence of impairment has arisen.
In re ects an underlying, well fide ned determining speci c impairments, the weakness that may lead to probable following factors are considered: loss if not corrected.
Capability of the client to generate The risk that such credit exposure suf cient cash ow to service may become an impaired asset is debt obligations and the ongoing probable: viability of the clients business The bank is relying, to a large Likely dividend or amount extent, on available collateral: or recoverable on liquidation or The primary sources of repayment bankruptcy are insuf cient to service the Nature and extent of claims by remaining contractual principal other creditors and interest amounts, and the Amount and timing of expected bank has to rely on secondary cash ows sources for repayment.
These Realisable value of security held secondary sources may include or other credit mitigants collateral, the sale of a xed asset, Ability of the client to make re nancing and further capital.
payments in the foreign currency, Credit exposures overdue for more for foreign currency denominated than 90 days will at a minimum be accounts.
included in sub-standard or a lower quality category.
Doubtful The counterparty is placed in doubtful when the credit exposure is considered to be impaired but not yet considered a final loss due to some pending factors such as a merger, new nancing or capital injection which may strengthen the quality of the relevant exposure.
Loss A counterparty is placed in the loss category when the credit exposure is considered to be uncollectible once all efforts, such as realisation of collateral and institution of legal proceedings, have been exhausted: or Assets in this category are expected to be written off in the short-term since the likelihood of future economic bene ts resulting from such assets is remote.
124 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Audited Credit risk mitigation Collateral is assessed with reference to the sustainability of value and the likelihood of realisation.
Acceptable collateral generally exhibits characteristics that allow for it to be easily identi ed and appropriately valued.
The bulk of collateral taken by the Private Bank, is commercial and residential real estate.
Commercial real estate generally takes the form of good quality property often underpinned by strong third party leases.
Residential property is also generally of a high quality and based in desirable locations.
In the year under review the value of residential and commercial real estate remained under pressure with low static growth in all our key operating jurisdictions UK, South Africa and Australia.
In particular certain property assets remained under considerable pressure.
Planning and development transactions in the Irish market were signi cantly impaired as a result of ongoing economic dif culties in that country.
Signi cant impairments were recorded against these assets.
Residential and commercial property valuations will continue to form part of our increased focus on collateral assessment.
It is our policy to obtain a formal valuation, performed by an approved valuer of every commercial property offered as collateral for a lending facility before advancing funds and to revalue all commercial properties held as collateral on a regular basis.
Residential properties are valued by a combination of computer aided valuation CAV and approved valuers, if applicable.
Other common forms of collateral in the retail asset class are motor vehicles, cash and share portfolios.
The majority of credit mitigation techniques linked to trading activity is in the form of netting primarily International Swap Dealers Association, Global Master Securities Lending Agreement and International Securities Master Agreement and margining agreements primarily through Credit Support Agreements.
Where netting agreements have been signed and the enforceability is supported by external legal opinion within the legal jurisdiction of the agreement, the exposures for all product categories covered by such agreements should be stated net of any liabilities owing by Investec to the agreement counterparty for those product categories.
Set-off has been applied between assets subject to credit risk and related liabilities in the financial statements where: A legally enforceable right to set-off exists: and There is an intention to settle the asset and liability on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
In addition to the above accounting set-off criteria, banking regulators impose the following additional criteria: Debit and credit balances relate to the same obligor counterparty: Debit and credit balances are denominated in the same currency and have identical maturities: Exposures subject to set-off are risk managed on a net basis: and Market practice considerations.
For this reason there will be instances where credit and counterparty exposures are displayed on a net basis in these financial statements but reported on a gross basis to regulators.
An analysis of collateral is provided on pages 150 to 154. Credit and counterparty risk year in review UK and Europe The year in review remained challenging as the severe deterioration in economic conditions globally continued to impact on clients activities and underlying asset values.
Impairments and defaults have as a result continued to increase.
The Irish market was particularly affected by economic dif culties and the local banking crisis.
Given that market conditions have affected property market asset values we have curtailed our appetite for lending secured by property assets and have taken the opportunity to rebalance our portfolios with other asset classes.
Where we are presented with the opportunity to consider new transactions secured by property we will continue to assess the merits of the transaction and balance the risk against the reward of assuming additional exposure in this regard.
Lending supported by proven cash ow rather than asset value propositions continues to be favoured.
Core loans and advances increased marginally by 2.6% to 5.6 billion, primarily as a result of a cautious approach in accepting new loan exposures and a conscious effort to rebalance our existing portfolio mix.
125 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Default loans net of impairments have increased from 3.16% to 4.23% of core loans and advances and the credit loss ratio has increased from 1.72% to 2.22%, largely as a result of an increase in impairments in our Private Banking division, notably against our Irish loan portfolio.
Gross default loans before collateral and impairments in the Private Bank have risen from 5.63% at 31 March 2010 to 9.41% at 31 March 2011.
The UK and Channel Islands businesses have shown marginal deterioration in gross default loans from 3.2% to 3.9% for the year.
However, our Irish branch gross defaults have deteriorated from 19.5% of the gross Irish loan portfolio to 40.8% as at 31 March 2011.
These loan defaults are predominantly related to planning and development transactions in Ireland.
Within our Capital Markets division there was a marked reduction in defaults in the Specialist Corporate Capital division compared to previous financial years.
Trading in the underlying leverage loan corporates has generally improved and secondary market prices have rallied.
The first quarter of 2011 appeared to re ect an improving economic environment as total arrears, defaults and impairment gures tapered off.
We believe that the impairment cycle has reached its peak and the group expects a gradual improvement in defaults and impairments during the course of the new financial year.
Whilst impairments and defaults have risen in the Irish portfolio due to economic dif culties during the financial year under review, all other portfolios across the business units have proven to be resilient.
We continue to work with customers who have experienced financial dif culty to arrive at an optimal solution for the client and the bank, which for example has included applying for change of use for certain property related transactions and extensions of time for properties that have continued to service their debt obligations.
Where private clients have supported a transaction by way of personal guarantees, and the original exit was through the sale of assets and such sale would severely diminish the pro tability of a project, in the ordinary course of business we have considered extensions to the term of the original transaction to assess market conditions and achieve an orderly exit.
The charge to the income statement with respect to the Kensington mortgage portfolio declined from 81.2 million to 69.9 million during the year.
Whilst we have seen an improvement in arrears in our UK portfolio, impairments against our Irish portfolio increased.
The overall amount in arrears has remained stable, and the legacy book continues to decrease in size.
During the year under review, Kensington resumed new business origination, focusing on the prime mortgage market.
The origination continues to gain traction, and arrears in the new business have been negligible.
The group Risk division has continued to work closely with the business units to manage the increased market risks and resultant pressure on our lending portfolios.
The key focus of the group Risk division has been on proactive book management together with the business units, repositioning some of our portfolios asset mixes as well as taking advantage of opportunities that have arisen as a result of dislocated markets.
Southern Africa The financial year in review has seen a combination of trends and factors impacting on the credit quality and assessment of credit and counterparty risk: The slow to moderate recovery of the domestic economy from the global financial crisis as a result of: Increased discretionary spending, although marginal in a low interest rate environment, accompanied by the existing debt burden on consumers: In ationary pressures as a result of oil and utility price increases: Limited investment by corporates due to economic uncertainty throughout the 2010 calendar year with increased lending to the corporate sector in the first quarter of 2011: Infrastructure spending by government a key driver of local economic growth in the financial year in review: The European sovereign debt crisis and contagion fears: Secondary economic effects as a result of the con ict in the North African, Middle East and Arabian regions and the natural disaster in Japan: and Continuation of the appreciation in the value of the Rand against the US dollar, Pound and Euro.
Market volatility continued in the first two quarters of the financial year under review, with strong growth in the third and fourth quarters with the JSE re ecting overall growth of 12% year on year improving to levels last seen before the start of the 2008 crisis The property market remains under pressure with low or static growth across the residential and commercial property markets.
We are conscious of the effect of the low or static growth in the property market both global and local and the impact on our portfolio secured by property.
The high net worth and or stable income streams of our target market clients provides a level of protection from decreases in property values.
Before the start of the global financial crisis, as property values increased, many clients built an effective equity buffer, resulting in lower average loan to value ratios which have reduced potential losses on depreciation of values.
126 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Lower levels of volatility relative to the 2010 financial year have resulted in lower pro tability levels and exposure for the majority of our trading divisions with the exception of the Interest Rate Trading division which bene ted from the multiple rate cuts during the financial year in review.
For both interest rate and foreign exchange rate products simulation methodologies are employed which enable us to identify more accurately the level of potential exposures to counterparties for these trading activities.
The methodologies recognise volume of trading, volatility of products traded, deal tenor and credit mitigants in deriving granular counterparty exposure pro les and, in so doing, allow for roll-off risk assessments.
Loans and advances secured by share portfolios including BEE transactions are monitored frequently.
Most of these counterparties remain within credit approved loan to value or cover ratios and are performing on current debt obligations.
For assets written during the current year there has been adherence to lower loan to value lending and a continuation of downward pricing pressures.
Credit quality on gross core loans and advances deteriorated in the first three quarters, with a slowdown in the fourth quarter of the financial year in review.
The majority of defaults were recorded in the Private Bank and largely comprise a relatively small number of clients where finance was provided at reasonably conservative loan to values but with no obvious serviceability except realisation of collateral.
A lot of emphasis has been placed on the strengthening of recoveries and administrative areas and increased involvement from executive and senior management to deal with potential problematic loans and working on the best outcome solution for our clients and ourselves.
However, managing certain of the larger defaulted property developments in order to maximise recoveries may take longer than originally anticipated.
Australia During the year core loans and advances to customers increased by 6.3% to A$3.2 billion predominantly through selective growth within the Professional Finance business unit: which provides finance to targeted members of the medical and accounting professions.
Defaults net of impairments have fallen from 10.26% to 9.54% of core loans and advances and the credit loss ratio has decreased from 1.67% to 1.53%.
Credit risk-regulatory considerations In January 2011, Investec implemented the enhancements in respect of credit risk in the Basel II framework as recommended by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS and as stipulated by the SARB.
These amendments relate speci cally to the amount of credit risk capital required when providing liquidity facilities to securitisation vehicles, as well as when holding re-securitisation exposures.
Since these activities constitute less than 1% of total gross credit exposure, the impact on required capital for the group is immaterial.
In addition, in enhancing risk coverage, the Basel committee expects banks to hold capital for the deterioration in credit quality of its counterparties in its over the counter OTC trading portfolios.
This is more commonly referred to as credit valuation adjustments CVA.
The market is still awaiting further clarity on the exact form of the CVA change.
In many cases, the amendments will follow a phased approach with implementation beginning 2013.
Investec will continue to engage with the regulator and seek to adopt market best practice in accordance with these regulatory amendments.
127 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Credit and counterparty risk information Pages 117 to 127 describe where and how credit risk is assumed in our operations.
The tables that follow provide an analysis of our credit and counterparty exposures.
An analysis of gross credit and counterparty exposures Credit and counterparty exposures increased by 10.3% to 40.1 billion largely as a result of an increase in xed income investments and core loans and advances.
Cash and near cash balances increased by 2.2% to 9.3 billion and are largely re ected in the following line items in the table below: debt instruments: bank placements and sovereign, government placements.
Audited 31 March 31 March 000 2011 2010 % change Average On-balance sheet exposures 36479737 33424983 9.1% 34952362 Securitisation exposures arising from securitisation principal 2071151 1753645 18.1% 1912 398 finance activities Rated instruments 712 783 546469 30.4% 629 626 Unrated instruments 224264 203032 10.5% 213648 Other 1134104 1004144 12.9% 1069124 Debt instruments non sovereign NCDs, bonds held, debentures 3174 000 2209936 43.6% 2691 968 Bank placements 3173678 3293211 3.6 % 3233445 Sovereign, government placements 5127371 4867650 5.3% 4997511 Call facilities non-bank entities 535983 502036 6.8% 519010 Trading exposures positive fair value excluding potential future exposures 3120144 2597731 20.1% 2858938 Other credit exposures 207802 103636 100% 155719 Gross core loans and advances to customers 19069608 18097138 5.4% 18583373 Off-balance sheet exposures 3 651 759 2948037 23.9% 3299 898 Guarantees 553 231 345363 60.2% 449 297 Contingent liabilities, committed facilities, other 3 098 528 2602674 19.1% 2850 601 Total gross credit and counterparty exposures pre collateral or other credit enhancements 40131 496 36373020 10.3% 38252 260 Where the average is based on a straight line average.
Excludes guarantees provided to clients which are backed secured by cash on deposit with the bank.
Not all assets included in the balance sheet bear credit and counterparty risk.
Debt instruments non Securitisation exposures arising from sovereign securitisation principal fi finance activities NCDs, Audited Rated Unrated bonds held, 000 Total instruments instruments Other debentures As at 31 March 2011 Cash and balances at central banks Loans and advances to banks Cash equivalent advances to customers Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 105642 Trading securities 47373 26441 20932 924756 Derivative financial instruments 7521 7521 Investment securities 78553 55934 22619 2063778 Loans and advances to customers 1207 475 604 161 99525 503789 79 824 Loans and advances to customers Kensington warehouse assets 619246 619246 Securitised assets 107435 26247 81188 Deferred taxation assets Other assets 3548 3548 Interests in associated undertakings Property and equipment Investment property Goodwill Intangible assets Insurance assets Total 2071 151 712 783 224264 1134104 3174 000 As at 31 March 2010 Cash and balances at central banks Loans and advances to banks Cash equivalent advances to customers Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on 119403 securities borrowed Trading securities 49812 23305 26507 1122547 Derivative financial instruments 22769 22769 Investment securities 69133 62390 6743 918989 Loans and advances to customers 800389 375027 10085 415277 Loans and advances to customers Kensington warehouse assets 555307 555307 Securitised assets 248710 85747 159697 3266 Deferred taxation assets Other assets 7525 7525 48997 Interests in associated undertakings Property and equipment Investment property Goodwill Intangible assets Insurance assets Total 1753645 546469 203032 1004144 2209936 1.
Largely relates to exposures that are classi ed as equity risk in the banking book.
Further information is provided on pages 155 to 157.
Largely relates to impairments and the impact of hedge accounting.
Whilst the group manages all risks including credit risk from a day-to-day operational perspective, these assets are within special purpose vehicles that ring fence the assets to speci c credit providers and limits security to the assets in the vehicle.
Largely relates to net investments in Kensington securitised vehicles to which Investec has no direct exposure as discussed on pages 161 and 164.
Also includes liquidity facilities provided to third party corporate securitisation vehicles in South Africa.
These facilities have 131 remained undrawn and are re ected as a contingent liability, i. e. off-balance sheet exposure of the bank.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Detailed analysis of gross credit and counterparty exposures by industry Electricity, Public and HNW and gas and nonprofessional water utility business 000 individuals Agriculture services services As at 31 March 2011 On-balance sheet exposures 13602632 72302 370907 5717112 Securitisation exposures arising from securitisation principal finance activities Rated instruments Unrated instruments Other Debt instruments non sovereign NCDs, bonds held, debentures Bank placements Sovereign, government placements 5127371 Call facilities non-bank entities 9250 Trading exposures positive fair value excluding potential future exposures 8340 78 18449 367422 Other credit exposures 13535 Gross core loans and advances to customers 13594292 62974 352458 208784 Off-balance sheet exposures 2652 764 17843 181618 16009 Guarantees 396 454 3 047 Contingent liabilities, committed facilities, other 2256 310 17843 178571 16009 Total gross credit and counterparty exposures pre collateral or other credit enhancements 16255 396 90145 552525 5733121 As at 31 March 2010 On-balance sheet exposures 13087885 57698 290454 5097621 Securitisation exposures arising from securitisation principal finance activities Rated instruments Unrated instruments Other Debt instruments non sovereign NCDs, bonds held, debentures 20663 Bank placements Sovereign, government placements 4867650 Call facilities non-bank entities 4535 Trading exposures positive fair value excluding potential future exposures 21972 926 20298 Other credit exposures 3129 107 Gross core loans and advances to customers 13062784 52237 249493 229864 Off-balance sheet exposures 2329509 8977 9754 4984 Guarantees 275279 3886 23 Contingent liabilities, committed facilities, other 2054230 8977 5868 4961 Total gross credit and counterparty exposures pre collateral or other credit enhancements 15417394 66675 300208 5102605 A further analysis of our Private Banking loan book is provided on pages 148 and 149.
A description of the type of lending we undertake within the Private Bank is provided on pages 119, 120 and 121, and a more detailed analysis of the Private Banking loan portfolio is provided on pages 148 to 149.
The remainder of core loans and advances largely reside within our Capital Markets division and are evenly spread across industry sectors.
A description of the type of lending we undertake within the Capital Markets division is provided on pages 120 and 121, and a more detailed analysis of the Capital Markets loan portfolio is provided on pages 148 to 149.
Other credit and counterparty exposures are largely re ective of cash and near cash balances held with institutions and central banks, thus the large balance re ected in the public and non-business services and finance and insurance sectors.
These exposures also include offbalance sheet items such as guarantees, committed facilities and contingent liabilities, largely to our HNW and professional individual Private Banking clients.
We believe that these adjustments are necessary in order to derive a number that re ects actual core lending activities.
The following methodology has been applied: Warehouse facilities and structured credit investments arising out of our securitisation and principal finance activities have been deducted Loans and advances which have been originated by the group and securitised primarily to provide an alternative source of funding are added to loans and advances.
Calculation of core loans and advances to customers Audited 31 March 31 March 000 2011 2010 Loans pre-impairments and intercompany loans as per balance sheet 19343475 17724810 Less: warehouse facilities and structured credit investments arising out of our securitisation and principal finance activities and other credit exposures pre-impairments 1341276 800389 Add: own-originated securitised assets 1067409 1172717 Gross core loans and advances to customers pre-impairments 19069608 18097138 The tables that follow provide information with respect to the asset quality of our core loans and advances to customers.
An overview of developments during the financial year is provided on page 125 to 127.
Audited 31 March 31 March 000 2011 2010 Gross core loans and advances to customers 19069608 18097138 Total impairments 311470 206341 Portfolio impairments 30844 48942 Speci c impairments 280626 157399 Net core loans and advances to customers 18758138 17890797 Average gross core loans and advances to customers 18583373 17245171 Current loans and advances to customers 17438856 16643441 Past due and default core loans and advances to customers 1630752 1453697 Past due loans and advances to customers 1 60 days 356756 381539 Special mention loans and advances to customers 87541 154589 Default loans and advances to customers 1186455 917569 Gross core loans and advances to customers 19069608 18097138 Past due and default core loans and advances to customers 1630752 1453697 Default loans that are current and not impaired 6746 39605 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired 803813 952813 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired 820193 461279 Total income statement charge for core loans and advances 248343 205201 Gross default loans and advances to customers 1186455 917569 Speci c impairments 280626 157399 Portfolio impairments 30844 48942 Defaults net of impairments 874985 711228 Collateral and other credit enhancements 1 210 061 947192 Net default loans and advances to customers limited to zero Ratios: Total impairments as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 1.63% 1.14% Total impairments as a % of gross default loans 26.25% 22.49% Gross defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 6.22% 5.07% Defaults net of impairments as a % of net core loans and advances to customers 4.66% 3.98% 135 Net defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers Credit loss ratio i. e income statement impairment charge as a % of average gross loans and advances 1.27% 1.16% 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued An analysis of core loans and advances to customers and asset quality by geography UK and Europe Southern Africa Australia Total Audited 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 000 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Gross core loans and advances to customers 5731767 5536755 11234172 10707928 2103669 1852455 19069608 18097138 Total impairments 155515 99974 127727 70452 28228 35915 311470 206341 Portfolio impairments 18672 29326 29033 1518 1237 30844 48942 Speci c impairments 155515 81302 98401 41419 26710 34678 280626 157399 Net core loans and advances to customers 5576252 5436781 11106445 10637476 2075441 1816540 18758138 17890797 % of total 29.7% 30.4% 59.2% 59.4% 11.1% 10.2% 100.0% 100.0% % change since 31 March 2010 3.5% 4.9% 13.6% 5.4% Average gross core loans and advances to customers 5634261 5787671 10971050 9819370 1978062 1638130 18583373 17245171 Current loans and advances to customers 5094608 5002250 10504773 10053663 1839475 1587528 17438856 16643441 Past due and default core loans and advances to customers 637159 534505 729399 654265 264194 264927 1630752 1453697 Past due loans and advances to customers 1 60 days 232866 165540 99738 181499 24152 34500 356756 381539 Special mention loans and advances to customers 13161 97344 60489 49193 13891 8052 87541 154589 Default loans and advances to customers 391132 271621 569172 423573 226151 222375 1186455 917569 Gross core loans and advances to customers 5731767 5536755 11234172 10707928 2103669 1852455 19069608 18097138 Past due and default core loans and advances to customers 637159 534505 729399 654265 264194 264927 1630752 1453697 Default loans that are current and not impaired 4985 6746 34620 6746 39605 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired 300874 327925 362600 467360 140339 157528 803813 952813 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired 336285 201595 360053 152285 123855 107399 820193 461279 Total income statement charge for core loans and advances 140598 106950 77538 70841 30207 27410 248343 205201 Gross default loans and advances to customers 391132 271621 569172 423573 226151 222375 1186455 917569 Speci c impairments 155515 81302 98401 41419 26710 34678 280626 157399 Portfolio impairments 18672 29326 29033 1518 1237 30844 48942 Defaults net of impairments 235617 171647 441445 353121 197923 186460 874985 711228 Collateral and other credit enhancements 336 740 192490 658781 541548 214540 213154 1210 061 947192 Net default loans and advances to customers limited to zero 136 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance UK and Europe Southern Africa Australia Total 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Audited 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Total impairments as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 2.71% 1.81% 1.14% 0.66% 1.34% 1.94% 1.63% 1.14% Total impairments as a % of gross default loans 39.76% 36.81% 22.44% 16.63% 12.48% 16.15% 26.25% 22.49% Gross defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 6.82% 4.91% 5.07% 3.96% 10.75% 12.00% 6.22% 5.07% Defaults net of impairments as a % of net core loans and advances to customers 4.23% 3.16% 3.97% 3.32% 9.54% 10.26% 4.66% 3.98% Net defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers Credit loss ratio i. e income statement impairment charge as a % of average gross loans and advances 2.22% 1.72% 0.71% 0.71% 1.53% 1.67% 1.27% 1.16% 137 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued An analysis of core loans and advances to customers and asset quality by geography and division as at 31 March 2011 Private Bank Audited UK and Southern '000 Europe Africa Australia Total Gross core loans and advances to customers 3519886 8225970 1848436 13594292 Total impairments 141673 99822 27986 269481 Portfolio impairments 14476 1518 15994 Speci c impairments 141673 85346 26468 253487 Net core loans and advances to customers 3378213 8126148 1820450 13324811 Average gross core loans and advances 3583746 7980565 1764225 13328536 Current loans and advances to customers 2971055 7537610 1589647 12098312 Past due and default core loans and advances to customers 548831 688360 258789 1495980 Past due loans and advances to customers 1 60 days 204866 86358 24152 315376 Special mention loans and advances to customers 12674 52108 12628 77410 Default loans and advances to customers 331291 549894 222009 1103194 Gross core loans and advances to customers 3519886 8225970 1848436 13594292 Past due and default core loans and advances to customers 548831 688360 258789 1495980 Default loans that are current and not impaired 6746 6746 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired 272151 340839 135205 748195 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired 276680 340775 123584 741039 Total income statement charge for impairments on loans and advances 123891 94223 26862 244976 Gross default loans and advances to customers 331291 549894 222009 1103194 Speci c impairments 141673 85346 26468 253487 Portfolio impairments 14476 1518 15994 Defaults net of impairments 189618 450072 194023 833713 Collateral and other credit enhancements 290 759 651391 210637 1152 787 Net default loans and advances to customers limited to zero Total impairments as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 4.02% 1.21% 1.51% 1.98% Total impairments as a % of gross default loans 42.76% 18.15% 12.61% 24.43% Gross defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 9.41% 6.68% 12.01% 8.12% Defaults net of impairments as a % of net core loans and advances to customers 5.61% 5.54% 10.66% 6.26% Net defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers Credit loss ratio i. e income statement impairment charge as a % of average gross loans and advances 3.46% 1.18% 1.52% 1.84% Largely includes lending activities within our Central Funding and International Trade Finance businesses.
A further analysis of our Private Bank and Capital Markets loan portfolios, broken down by type of loan, is provided on pages 148 and 149.
Due to the lengthy external process with respect to these exposures, which is out of the control of Investec, these exposures have been classi ed as special mention and will remain there until settled or their credit quality deteriorates.
144 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance An analysis of core loans and advances to customers Gross core Gross core Total gross Total net loans and loans and core loans core loans advances advances Gross core and and that are that are loans and advances advances neither past past due advances actual actual Actual Audited due nor but not that are capital Specifi c Portfolio capital amount in 000 impaired impaired impaired exposure impairments impairments exposure arrears As at 31 March 2011 Current core loans and advances 17438856 17438856 29430 17409426 Past due 1 60 days 356756 356756 826 355930 28280 Special mention 87541 87541 588 86953 22416 Special mention 1 90 days 54278 54278 295 53983 15564 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 33263 33263 293 32970 6852 Default 6746 359516 820193 1186455 280626 905829 608435 Sub-standard 4863 304471 134077 443411 37755 405656 180119 Doubtful 1883 55045 507801 564729 134085 430644 423725 Loss 178315 178315 108786 69529 4591 Total 17445602 803813 820193 19069608 280626 30844 18758138 659131 As at 31 March 2010 Current core loans and advances 16643441 16643441 44513 16598928 Past due 1 60 days 381539 381539 592 380947 37283 Special mention 154589 154589 597 153992 16804 Special mention 1 90 days 30044 30044 584 29460 9274 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 124545 124545 13 124532 7530 Default 39605 416685 461279 917569 157399 3240 756930 515594 Sub-standard 36185 353307 87104 476596 23546 2003 451047 254005 Doubtful 3420 61296 318004 382720 108100 1237 273383 261545 Loss 2082 56171 58253 25753 32500 44 Total 16683046 952813 461279 18097138 157399 48942 17890797 569681 145 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued An analysis of core loans and advances to customers and impairments by counterparty type Special Current core Past due mention Audited loans and 1 60 1 90 000 advances days days As at 31 March 2011 Private Banking professional and HNW individuals 12092906 315376 47492 Corporate sector 3681121 28964 6786 Banking, insurance, financial services excluding sovereign 1255864 352 Public and government sector including central banks 208146 Trade finance and other 200819 12064 Total gross core loans and advances to customers 17438856 356756 54278 As at 31 March 2010 Private Banking professional and HNW individuals 11759592 341123 30044 Corporate sector 3416036 32799 Banking, insurance, financial services excluding sovereign 1053765 Public and government sector including central banks 229071 Trade finance and other 184977 7617 Total gross core loans and advances to customers 16643441 381539 30044 Summary analysis of gross core loans and advances to customers by counterparty type Audited 31 March 31 March 000 2011 2010 Private Banking professional and HNW individuals 13594292 13062784 Corporate sector 3787358 3546252 Banking, insurance, financial services excluding sovereign 1256545 1054385 Public and government sector including central banks 208784 229864 Trade finance and other 222629 203853 Total gross core loans and advances to customers 19069608 18097138 146 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Special mention Total gross 61 90 core loans days and and advances Portfolio Specifi c Total well secured Sub-standard Doubtful Loss to customers impairments impairments impairments 31181 404034 529520 173783 13594292 16008 253729 269737 487 39288 26180 4532 3787358 14278 21430 35708 329 1256545 558 198 756 638 208784 379 379 1595 89 8062 222629 4890 4890 33263 443411 564729 178315 19069608 30844 280626 311470 117096 433110 323566 58253 13062784 15888 115368 131256 7050 43139 47228 3546252 20025 34264 54289 620 1054385 13029 507 13536 793 229864 553 553 399 347 10513 203853 6707 6707 124545 476596 382720 58253 18097138 48942 157399 206341 Additional information An analysis of core loans and advances to customers by country of exposures 0.2% 0.1% 56.6% 56.7% 1.7% 1.8% 2.6% 2.1% 18.4% 18.1% 19 070 mn 18 097 mn South Africa Africa excluding RSA 6.9% 8.6% Asia Australia Europe excluding UK 11.5% 10.2% United Kingdom 1.1% 1.0% 1.0% 1.4% Europe non EU North America 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Other 147 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued An analysis of default core loans and advances as at 31 March 2011 UK and Europe Southern Africa Gross core Gross Gross core Gross million loans defaults Collateral Impairments loans defaults Collateral Impairments Private Bank Residential property 1447 194 171 73 3346 309 369 39 Residential property investment 547 10 16 325 58 71 3 Residential mortgages owner occupied and second homes 191 2548 63 88 7 Residential property development 537 86 66 32 134 31 38 2 Residential estates land 172 98 89 41 339 157 172 27 Commercial property 1538 103 87 52 3475 125 160 23 Commercial property investment 986 29 46 12 3061 95 121 18 Commercial property land 281 63 37 33 288 29 38 5 Commercial property development 271 11 4 7 126 1 1 Other 535 34 33 17 1405 116 122 37 Asset backed lending 252 204 30 46 11 Unlisted securities and general corporate lending 82 12 12 580 48 44 14 Unsecured lending 57 16 11 5 134 8 6 4 Other 144 6 22 486 30 26 8 Total Private Bank 3520 331 291 142 8225 550 651 99 Capital Markets Preference shares 665 Acquisition finance 732 282 Asset finance 341 16 7 9 250 Principal finance 265 Project finance 284 33 31 2 184 Structured finance 363 11 8 3 1072 4 3 3 Resource finance and commodities 52 106 Total Capital Markets 2037 60 46 14 2559 4 3 3 Other 175 450 15 5 26 Total group 5732 391 337 156 11234 569 659 128 Largely includes lending activities within our Central Funding and International Trade Finance business.
Collateral by line of business Private Bank Collateral held against Other Core loans credit and and counterparty '000 advances exposures Total As at 31 March 2011 Eligible fi financial collateral 1799126 372820 2171946 Listed shares 1543312 1543312 Cash 255814 372820 628634 Debt securities issued by sovereigns Mortgage bonds 18620946 1398 18622344 Residential mortgages 7293887 7293887 Residential development 1283378 1283378 Commercial property developments 814607 1398 816005 Commercial property investments 9229074 9229074 Other collateral 3447731 380 3448111 Unlisted shares 1344565 1344565 Bonds other than mortgage bonds 38651 38651 Asset backed lending 602067 602067 Guarantees 519382 380 519762 Credit derivatives Other 943066 943066 Total collateral 23867803 374598 24242401 As at 31 March 2010 Eligible fi financial collateral 1531351 268663 1800014 Listed shares 1344950 1344950 Cash 186401 268663 455064 Debt securities issued by sovereigns Mortgage bonds 17738238 24273 17762511 Residential mortgages 5422904 789 5423693 Residential development 1602255 15580 1617835 Commercial property developments 907964 7839 915803 Commercial property investments 9805115 65 9805180 Other collateral 3386063 54772 3440835 Unlisted shares 420812 4111 424923 Bonds other than mortgage bonds 74944 74944 Asset backed lending 1985524 5773 1991297 Guarantees 389604 389604 Credit derivatives Other 515179 44888 560067 Total collateral 22655652 347708 23003360 A large percentage of these exposures for example bank placements are to highly rated financial institutions where limited collateral would be required due to the nature of the exposure.
Largely includes lending activities within our Central Funding and International Trade Finance businesses.
154 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Equity and investment risk in the banking book Equity and investment risk description Equity and investment risk in the banking book arises primarily from the following activities conducted within the group: Investment Banking Principal Investments Private Equity and Direct Investments : Investments are selected based on the track record of management, the attractiveness of the industry and the ability to build value for the existing business by implementing an agreed strategy.
In addition, as a result of our local market knowledge and investment banking expertise, we are well positioned to take direct positions in listed shares where we believe that the market is mispricing the value of the underlying portfolio of assets.
These investment positions are carefully researched with the intent to stimulate corporate activity.
In South Africa, we also continue to pursue opportunities to help create and grow black owned and controlled companies Lending transactions within the Private Banking and Capital Markets divisions : The manner in which we structure certain transactions results in equity, warrant and pro t shares being held, predominantly within unlisted companies Property Activities: We source development, investment and trading opportunities to create value and trade for pro t within agreed risk parameters Central Funding: In South Africa the Central Funding division is the custodian of certain equity and property investments, which have largely arisen from corporate acquisitions made, notably in the early 2000s.
Management of equity and investment risk As equity and investment risk arise from a variety of activities conducted by us, the monitoring and measurement thereof varies across transactions and or type of activity.
Nature of equity and investment risk Management of risk Listed equities Investment committee, market risk management and ERRF Investment Banking Principal Finance investments Investment committee, the Investec Bank Limited Direct Investments division investment committee and ERRF Embedded derivatives, pro t shares and investments arising from Credit risk management committees and ERRF lending transactions Investment and trading properties Investment committee, Investec Property Group Investment committee in South Africa and ERRF Central Funding investments Investment committee and ERRF Stress testing scenario analyses are performed regularly and reported to ERRF, BRCC and the board.
As a matter of course, concentration risk is avoided and investments are well spread across geographies and industries.
155 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Valuation and accounting methodologies For a description of our valuation principles and methodologies refer to page 312 and pages 346 to 349 for factors taken into consideration in determining fair value.
We have a low level of assets exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair value accounting with level 3 assets amounting to 0.8% of total assets refer to page 346 for further information.
The table below provides an analysis of income and revaluations recorded with respect to these investments.
Revaluations that are posted directly to equity are excluded from capital within Investec Limited and included in Tier 2 capital within Investec plc.
156 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Summary of investments held and stress testing analyses The balance sheet value of investments is indicated in the table below.
On-balance On-balance sheet Valuation sheet Valuation value of change value of change Audited investments stress test investments stress test 000 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Country category 2011 2011 2010 2010 Unlisted investments 681 730 102 260 677742 101661 UK and Europe 116 994 17 549 135356 20303 South Africa 558 184 83 728 530129 79519 Australia 6552 983 12257 1839 Listed equities 187 402 46 850 97912 24478 UK and Europe 61337 15334 16472 4118 South Africa 117 124 29 281 73356 18339 Australia 8941 2235 8084 2021 Investment and trading properties 589 244 81 693 437167 50228 UK and Europe 30 554 6 111 10810 2162 South Africa 530 810 70 006 426357 48066 Australia 27 880 5 576 Warrants, profi t shares and other embedded derivatives 85432 29902 91559 32045 UK and Europe 32387 11336 34150 11952 South Africa 53045 18566 57409 20093 Australia Total 1 543 808 260 705 1304380 208412 In order to assess our earnings sensitivity to a movement in the valuation of these investments the following stress testing parameters are applied: Stress test values applied Unlisted investments 15% Listed equities 25% Trading properties 20% Investment properties 10% Warrants, pro t shares and other embedded derivatives 35% Stress testing summary Based on the information as at 31 March 2011, as re ected above we could have a 260.7 million reversal in revenue which assumes a year in which there is a severe stress scenario.
This would not cause the group to report a loss but could have a signi cantly negative impact on earnings for that period.
The probability of all these asset classes in all geographies in which we operate being negatively impacted at the same time is very low, although the probability of listed equities being negatively impacted at the same time is very high.
Capital requirements In terms of Basel II capital requirements, unlisted and listed equities within the banking book are represented under the category of equity risk and investment properties, pro t shares and embedded derivatives are considered in the calculation of capital required for credit risk.
Refer to page 205 for further detail.
157 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Securitisation principal fi finance activities and exposures The information below sets out the initiatives we have focused on over the past few years, albeit that some of these business lines have been curtailed given the current economic climate.
UK and Europe The Principal Finance business focuses on securitisation of our assets, predominantly residential and commercial mortgages.
We also undertake trading and investment in structured credit investments where we have invested in rated and unrated debt instruments largely within the UK and Europe and to a lesser extent in the US.
We retain residual net exposures amounting to 600 million to the assets originated, warehoused and securitised by Kensington.
Further information is provided on pages 161 and 164.
South Africa In South Africa, our securitisation business, which forms part of our Structured Finance unit, was established approximately ten years ago when the debt capital markets commenced development.
Over this time, we have arranged a number of corporate bond and commercial paper programmes and third party securitisations.
We have also assisted in the development of select securitisation platforms with external third party originating intermediaries.
At present we have provided limited warehouse funding lines to these intermediaries.
Furthermore, we provide standby liquidity facilities to two conduits, namely the Grayston Conduit 1 Pty Ltd Series 1 and Series 2, and to the securitisation structure of the Growthpoint Note Issuer Company Series 1 Tranche 1: Series 1 Tranche 2: Series 2: and Series 3.
These facilities, which totalled R2.0 billion as at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010: R2.4 billion, have not been drawn on and are thus re ected as off-balance sheet contingent exposures in terms of our credit analysis refer to pages 159 and 160.
The liquidity risk associated with these facilities is included in the stress testing for the group and is managed in accordance with our overall liquidity position.
We have also sought out select opportunities in the credit debt markets and traded and invested in structured credit investments.
These have largely been investments in rated instruments within the UK and Europe.
In addition, we have own originated, securitised assets in our Private Banking business in South Africa.
The primary motivations for the securitisation of assets within our Private Banking division are to: Provide an alternative source of funding Provide a source of revenue Act as a mechanism to transfer risk Leverage returns through the retention of equity tranches in low default rate portfolios.
Total assets that have been originated and securitised by the Private Bank amount to R6.3 billion March 2010: R7.2 billion and include auto loans R0.9 billion, residential mortgages R4.4 billion and commercial mortgages R1.0 billion.
These securitisation structures have all been rated by Moodys.
Australia Investec Bank Australia Limited acquired Experien in October 2007.
As is the case in the South African Private Banking division assets originated by the business have been securitised.
These amount to A$751 million 31 March 2010: A$860 million.
Audited Accounting policies Refer to pages 355 to 356. Credit analysis In terms of our analysis of our credit and counterparty risk, exposures arising from securitisation principal finance activities re ect only those exposures to which we consider ourselves to be at risk notwithstanding accounting conventions.
In addition, assets that have been securitised by our Private Banking division are re ected as part of our core lending exposures and not our securitisation principal finance exposures as we believe this re ects the true nature and intent of these exposures and activities.
158 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Exposure Exposure as at as at 31 March 31 March Nature of exposure 2011 2010 Credit analysis internal risk Asset quality activity 'mn 'mn classifi cation relevant comments Capital treatment Structured credit On-balance sheet Risk-weighted investments 900 629 securitisation principal finance or supervisory exposure.
deductions against Rated 713 546 primary and Unrated 176 50 secondary capital.
Other 11 33 Kensington 65 104 On-balance sheet Refer to pages 161 Risk-weighted mortgage assets: securitisation principal finance to 164 or supervisory Net exposures after exposure.
Classi ed as deductions against impairments to the unrated.
We are required primary and securitised book i. e. to fully consolidate assets secondary capital.
those assets have acquired from Kensington.
been securitised However, only those assets to which we are at risk are re ected in this analysis with the balance re ected under no credit exposures.
Kensington 535 486 On-balance sheet Refer to pages 161 Risk-weighted mortgage assets: securitisation principal to 164 Net exposures after finance exposure.
Classi ed impairments to the as other.
We are required warehouse book to fully consolidate assets i. e. those assets that acquired from Kensington.
have been originated However, only those assets to and placed in special which we are legally at risk are purpose vehicles re ected in this analysis with awaiting securitisation the balance re ected under no credit exposures.
Warehouse lines 497 413 On-balance sheet Risk-weighted provided to, and securitisation principal finance depending on rating investment in third exposure.
of counterparty party intermediary originating platforms mortgage and auto loans Private Banking 1 067 1 172 On-balance sheet exposure Analysed as part of We apply division assets which reclassi ed from accounting the groups overall securitisation rules: have been securitised securitised assets to core asset quality on core either risk-weighted loans and advances for credit loans and advances or supervisory analysis purposes.
as re ected on deductions against page 135 primary and secondary capital.
South Africa liquidity 188 219 Off-balance sheet credit Unutilised facility that facilities provided to exposure as these facilities is risk-weighted.
third party corporate have remained undrawn and securitisation vehicles re ect a contingent liability of the bank.
159 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Analysis of structured rated and unrated credit investments 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million Rated Unrated Other Total Rated Unrated Other Total US sub-prime 1 1 US corporate loans 20 20 40 6 46 US ABS 3 3 European ABS 3 7 10 5 8 13 European RMBS 514 147 661 385 36 421 European CMBS 75 5 80 62 62 European credit cards 5 5 5 5 European corporate loans 17 17 South African RMBS 25 25 12 12 South African CMBS 2 2 Australian RMBS 66 66 36 36 Other credit default swaps 11 11 33 33 Total 713 176 11 900 546 50 33 629 Further analysis of rated structured credit investments as at 31 March 2011 C and million AAA AA A BBB BB B below Total US corporate loans 10 5 5 20 US ABS 3 3 European ABS 3 3 European RMBS 222 91 59 48 52 20 22 514 European CMBS 20 7 29 7 9 3 75 European credit cards 5 5 South African RMBS 22 3 25 South African CMBS 2 2 Australian RMBS 16 23 13 14 66 Total 263 143 106 72 71 28 30 713 160 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Kensington group plc salient features Warehouse Securitised % As at 31 March 2011 book portfolio Total of total Assets and business activity statistics Mortgage assets under management 'million 1613 2605 4218 IFRS adjustments million 34 63 29 Mortgage assets under management 'million 1647 2542 4189 First charge % of total mortgage assets under management 93.8% 94.6% 94.3% Second charge % of total mortgage assets under management 6.2% 5.4% 5.7% Fixed rate loans % of total mortgage assets under management 0.7% 0.3% Number of accounts 14753 28073 42826 Average loan balance first charge 143689 109232 120542 Largest loan balance 1106793 1211581 1211581 Weighted average loan mature margin 4.1% 4.6% 4.4% Product mix pre-IFRS adjustments 'million 1647 2542 4189 100.0% Prime 5 5 0.1% Near prime 553 418 971 23.2% Prime buy to let 1 1 Adverse 396 1682 2078 49.7% Adverse buy to let and right to buy 66 124 190 4.5% Start Irish operations 626 318 944 22.5% Geographic distribution 'million 1647 2542 4189 100.0% UK North 315 711 1026 24.5% UK South West 79 156 235 5.6% UK South East 228 462 690 16.5% Outer London 155 280 435 10.4% Inner London 73 162 235 5.6% Midlands 171 453 624 14.9% Start Irish operations 626 318 944 22.5% Spread of value of properties 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 500 000 3.5% 1.4% 2.2% 250 000 500 000 23.8% 12.5% 16.4% 200 000 250 000 16.0% 12.1% 13.4% 150 000 200 000 20.5% 19.8% 20.0% 100 000 150 000 23.2% 28.4% 26.6% 70 000 100 000 11.4% 19.3% 16.6% 50 000 70 000 1.5% 5.2% 3.9% 50 000 0.1% 1.3% 0.9% Asset quality statistics Weighted average current LTV of active portfolio adjusted for house price fide ation 93.7% 80.5% 85.8% Bad debt provision is based on house price index assumptions of: UK: calendar year 2011: house price decline assumption of circa -12.5% for 2011 and at thereafter, and an additional 10% haircut to the price to re ect forced sale discount.
Ireland: calendar year 2011: house price decline assumption of -4.9%, and house price growth assumption of 1% for 2012 to 2015.
Ireland: calendar year 2010: 9.4% and an extra 13% dropping to 10% for sales from September 2010 onwards forced sale discount.
163 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Warehouse Securitised % As at 31 March 2010 book portfolio Total of total LTV spread % of book 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 65% 16.9% 24.9% 21.8% 65% 70% 4.0% 6.2% 5.4% 70% 75% 5.1% 7.8% 6.8% 75% 80% 5.1% 10.3% 8.3% 80% 85% 6.5% 11.5% 9.6% 85% 90% 7.7% 12.4% 10.6% 90% 95% 10.5% 10.1% 10.2% 95% 100% 12.0% 6.9% 8.9% 100% 32.2% 9.9% 18.4% % of accounts 90 days in arrears 27.0% 29.1% 28.4% Number of accounts 90 in arrears 4 368 8 946 13 314 Total capital lent in arrears million 709 1 244 1 953 100.0% Arrears 0 60 days 94 191 285 14.6% Arrears 61 90 days 74 129 203 10.4% Arrears 90 days 517 880 1 397 71.5% Possession 2444683.5% Debt to income ratio of clients 20.4% 19.1% 19.6% Investec investment exposure to assets re ected above million 555 147 702 On balance sheet provision million 69 43 112 Investec net investment exposure to assets refl ected above million 486 104 590 164 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Traded market risk management Traded market risk description Audited Traded market risk is a measure of potential change in the value of a portfolio of instruments as a result of changes in the financial environment resulting in changes in underlying market risk factors such as interest rates, equity markets, bond markets, commodity markets, exchange rates and volatilities between now and a future point in time.
The Market Risk Management team identi es, quanti es and manages the effects of these potential changes in accordance with Basel ll and policies determined by the board.
Within our trading activities, we act as principal with clients or the market.
Market risk, therefore, exists where we have taken on principal positions, resulting from proprietary trading, market making, arbitrage, underwriting and investments in the commodity, foreign exchange, equity, capital and money markets.
The focus of these businesses is primarily on supporting client activity.
Our strategic intent is that proprietary trading should be limited and that trading should be conducted largely to facilitate clients in deal execution.
Audited Traded market risk governance structure To manage, measure and mitigate market risk, we have independent market risk management teams in each geography where we assume market risk.
Local limits have been set to keep potential losses within acceptable risk tolerance levels.
A global market risk forum mandated by the various boards of directors manages the market risks in accordance with pre-approved principles and policies.
Risk limits are reviewed and set at the global market risk forum and rati ed at the ERRF in accordance with the risk appetite fide ned by the board.
Limits are reviewed either annually or in the event of a signi cant market event e. g. 11 September 2001 or at the discretion of senior management.
Management and measurement of traded market risk Market Risk Management teams review the market risks on our books.
Detailed risk reports are produced daily for each trading desk.
These reports are distributed to management and the traders on the desk.
Any unauthorised excesses are recorded and require a satisfactory explanation from the desk for the excess.
The production of risk reports allows for the monitoring of every instrument traded against prescribed limits.
New instruments or products are independently validated before trading can commence.
Each traded instrument undergoes various stresses to assess potential losses.
Each trading desk is monitored on an overall basis as an additional control.
Trading limits are generally tiered with the most liquid and least risky instruments being assigned the largest limits.
The market risk teams perform a pro t attribution, where our daily traded income is attributed to the various underlying risk factors on a dayto-day basis.
An understanding of the sources of pro t and loss is essential to understanding the risks of the business.
Measurement techniques used to quantify market risk arising from our trading activities include sensitivity analysis, value at risk VaR, stressed VaR, expected tail loss ETL and extreme value theory EVT.
Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to simulate extreme conditions to supplement these core measures.
VaR numbers are monitored daily at the 95%, 99% and 100% maximum loss con dence intervals, with limits set at the 95% con dence interval.
ETLs are also monitored daily at the 95% and 99% levels.
Scenario analysis considers the impact of a signi cant market event on our current trading portfolios.
We consider the impact for the 10 days after the event, not merely the instantaneous shock to the markets.
Included in our scenario analysis are for example the following: October 1987 Black Monday, 11 September 2001 and the December Rand crisis in 2001.
We also consider the impact of extreme yet plausible future economic events on the trading portfolio as well as possible worst case not necessarily plausible scenarios.
Scenario analysis is done once a week and is included in the data presented to ERRF.
All VaR models, while forward-looking, are based on past events and depend on the quality of available market data.
The accuracy of the VaR model as a predictor of potential loss is continuously monitored through back testing.
This involves comparing the hypothetical clean trading revenues arising from the previous days closing positions with the one-day VaR calculated for the previous day on these same positions.
If the revenue is negative and exceeds the one-day VaR, a back testing breach is considered to have occurred.
In South Africa, we have internal model approval and so trading capital is calculated as a function of the 99% 10-day VaR.
Backtesting results and a detailed stress testing pack are submitted to the regulator on a monthly basis.
In the UK, all desks are currently on capital adequacy CAD 1 level for regulatory capital.
165 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued VaR UK and Europe 95% one-day Year end Average High Low Audited 000 000 000 000 31 March 2011 Commodities 49 19 49 11 Equity derivatives 900 1 391 2 196 780 Foreign exchange 9 28 85 3 Interest rates 239 391 519 208 Consolidated 1 129 1 592 2 260 997 31 March 2010 Commodities 27 28 91 19 Equity derivatives 1 798 1 450 2 333 683 Foreign exchange 16 29 162 4 Interest rates 501 593 1 474 101 Consolidated 1 791 1 607 2 598 995 The consolidated VaR for each desk and each entity at year end is lower than the sum of the individual VaRs.
This arises from the consolidation offset between various asset classes diversi cation.
The graphs below show total daily VaR and pro t and loss gures for our trading activities over the reporting period.
The values shown are for the 99% one-day VaR, i. e. 99% of the time, the total trading activities will not lose more than the values depicted below.
Based on these graphs, we can gauge the accuracy of the VaR gures.
UK and Europe There have been no exceptions i. e. where the loss is greater than the VaR.
This is less than the expected two to three exceptions per year at the 99% level.
The reason for this is that the data set that was used for most of the year included the Lehmans crisis and hence contained some exceptionally large moves.
As a result, the calculated VaR was conservative for the majority of the year.
The average VaR utilisation was similar to that of 2010, although by year end, the VaR had reduced to 1.1 million, mainly as a result of a reduction in risk on the Structured Equity Derivatives desk.
Using hypothetical clean pro t and loss data for backtesting resulted in two exceptions, which is less than the two to three exceptions that a 99% VaR implies.
Last year we displayed the backtesting with the actual pro t and loss data, using this data there would have been no exceptions over the year.
The exceptions were due to normal trading losses.
Average VaR utilisation for 2011 remained at the moderate levels experienced in 2010.
There have been no exceptions i. e. where the loss is greater than the VaR.
This is less than the expected number of exceptions at the 99% level as a result of the conservative data set used to generate the VaR.
99% 1-day VaR backtesting A$ 300 000 200 000 100 000 0 -100 000 -200 000 -300 000 -400 000 -500 000 P L 99% 1-day VaR -600 000 ETL UK and South Europe Australia Africa 95% 95% 95% one-day one-day one-day Audited 000 A$000 Rmn 31 March 2011 Commodities 71 10 0.1 Equity derivatives 1 339 3.3 Foreign exchange 13 8 1.3 Interest rates 409 30 2.4 Consolidated 1 636 40 5.8 31 March 2010 Commodities 43 n a 0.1 Equity derivatives 2 648 n a 1.8 Foreign exchange 24 n a 4.0 Interest rates 783 n a 2.4 Consolidated 2 663 n a 5.0 The consolidated ETL for each desk and each entity is lower than the sum of the individual ETLs.
This arises from the correlation offset between various asset classes.
The March 2010 methodology is not comparable to that used for March 2011.
The March 2010 numbers assume a normal distribution of pro ts and losses and looked at the 15 standard deviation number.
The March 2011 number does not assume normality but rather relies on tting a distribution to the tails of the distribution.
This method is known as extreme value theory EVT, the reported stress scenario below calculates the 99% EVT which is a 1-in-8 year possible loss event.
UK and Europe Australia South Africa using using using 99% EVT 99% EVT 99% EVT Audited 000 A$000 Rmn 31 March 2011 Commodities 266 0.3 Equity derivatives 3 782 24.3 Foreign exchange 33 15 5.6 Interest rates 2 087 121 10.0 Consolidated 3 915 273 13.6 UK and Europe Australia South Africa using using using VaR VaR VaR Audited 000 A$000 Rmn 31 March 2010 Commodities 207 0.6 Equity derivatives 13 760 8.6 Foreign exchange 122 50 18.4 Interest rates 3 834 846 10.3 Consolidated 17 923 896 37.9 Profi t and loss histograms UK and Europe The histogram below illustrates the distribution of daily revenue during the financial year for our trading businesses.
The distribution is skewed to the pro t side and the graph shows that positive trading revenue was realised on 147 days out of a total of 253 days in the trading business.
The average daily trading revenue generated for the year ended 31 March 2011 was 144 616 2010: 60 261. profit and loss mn 50 41 40 37 35 30 25 23 19 20 19 18 16 15 14 11 10 8 7 7 7 6 4 3 1 0 169 -1.8 -1.8 -1.6 -1.4 -1.2 -1.0 -0.8 -0.6 -0.4 -0.2 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.0 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Frequency: Days in a year Risk management continued South Africa The histogram below illustrates the distribution of daily revenue during the financial year for our trading businesses.
The distribution is skewed to the pro t side and the graph shows that positive trading revenue was realised on 199 days out of a total of 258 days in the trading business.
The average daily trading revenue generated for the year ended 31 March 2011 was R1.2 million 2010: R0.6 million.
The graph shows that negative trading revenue was realised on 123 days out of a total of 252 days in the trading business.
The average daily trading loss generated for the year ended 31 March 2011 was A$1 393 2010: revenue of A$4 000. profit and loss A$mn 50 51 40 44 35 30 28 20 15 15 12 10 8 7 55 5 4 4 4 3 3 2 11 0 -100 -90 -80 -70 -60 -50 -40 -30 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 100 Traded market risk mitigation The Market Risk Management team has a reporting line that is separate from the trading function, thereby ensuring independence.
The risk management software runs independently from source trading systems and values all trades separately.
The values from the two systems are compared daily.
The values from the risk system are also used for pro t attribution, another risk management tool.
Risk limits are set according to guidelines set out in our risk appetite policy and are calculated on a statistical and non-statistical basis.
Statistical limits include VaR and ETL analyses at various con dence intervals.
Historical VaR is used over 500 days of unweighted data, where every risk factor is exposed to daily moves over the past two years.
With the equity markets for example, every share and index is considered 170 independently as opposed to techniques where proxies are used.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Frequency: Days in a year Frequency: Days in a year Non-statistical limits include product limits, tenor, notional, liquidity, buckets and option sensitivities greeks.
When setting and reviewing these limits, current market conditions are taken into account.
Bucket limits are set on time buckets, generally at three month intervals out to two years and then, on a less granular basis, out to 30 years.
Traded market risk year in review Trading conditions in South Africa remained dif cult, as client ow failed to pick up much over the year.
Despite the dif cult trading conditions all trading desks recorded a pro t. In the UK the Structured Equity desk has continued to experience growth in their retail product sales and they continue to expand their product range.
The Interest Rate and Forex desks have also performed well in a challenging environment, whilst the Equity Trading business had a strong year.
The remaining UK commodities book was sold during the course of the year.
Australian trading activity remains modest, but has begun to increase.
As mentioned above the majority of revenue earned from our trading activities within the Capital Markets division is related to client ow activity.
Revenue from trading activities within our Capital Markets division mn 116 120 105 91 90 85 75 58 60 45 30 27 27 15 6 March 2011 4 0 March 2010 UK and Europe Southern Africa Australia Total Audited Market risk derivatives We enter into various derivatives contracts, both as principal for trading purposes and as customer for hedging foreign exchange, commodity, equity and interest rate exposures.
These include financial futures, options, swaps and forward rate agreements.
The risks associated with derivative instruments are monitored in the same manner as for the underlying instruments.
Risks are also measured across the product range to take into account possible correlations.
Information showing our derivative trading portfolio over the reporting period on the basis of the notional principal and the fair value of all derivatives can be found on pages 352 and 353.
The notional principal indicates our activity in the derivatives market and represents the aggregate size of total outstanding contracts at year end.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument represents the present value of the positive or negative cash ows which would have occurred had we closed out the rights and obligations arising from that instrument in an orderly market transaction at year end.
Both these amounts re ect only derivatives exposure and exclude the value of the physical financial instruments used to hedge these positions.
171 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Balance sheet risk management The group has committed itself to implementation of the BCBS guidelines for liquidity risk The group measurement standards and monitoring and the enhanced regulatory framework to be established, as published in December 2009 and updated in December 2010.
Investec complies with the has been proactively reporting on these ratios internally according to the emerging Basel Basel Committee fide nitions since February 2010.
In some jurisdictions Investec already exceeds minimum on Banking requirements of these standards, whilst in other geographies we have commenced with strategies to shape our liquidity and funding pro le where necessary, as we move towards Supervisions the compliance timeline.
Principles for Sound Liquidity Balance sheet risk description Risk Management Balance sheet risk management encompasses the independent monitoring and prudential and Supervision management of the financial risks relating to our asset and liability portfolios, comprising market liquidity, funding, concentration and non-trading interest rate risks on balance sheet.
Balance sheet risk governance structure and risk mitigation Under delegated authority of the board, the group has established asset and liability management committees ALCOs within each core geography in which it operates, using regional expertise and local market access as appropriate.
The ALCOs are mandated to ensure independent supervision of liquidity risk and non-trading interest rate risk.
The size, materiality, complexity, maturity and depth of the market as well as access to stable funds are all inputs considered when establishing the liquidity and non-trading interest rate risk appetite for each geographic region.
Speci c statutory requirements may further dictate special policies to be adopted in a region.
Detailed policies cover both domestic and foreign currency funds and set out sources and amounts of funds necessary to ensure the continuation of our operations without undue interruption.
We aim to match-fund in currencies, other than the domestic currency, where it is practical and ef cient to do so and hedge any residual currency exchange risk arising from deposit and loan banking activities.
The groups liquidity policy requires each geography to be self-funding so that there is no reliance on inter-group lines either from or to other group entities.
Branches and subsidiaries have no responsibility for contributing to group liquidity.
The ALCOs typically comprise the managing director, the head of risk, the head of the Funding desk, economists, divisional heads, the Balance Sheet Risk Management team, the treasurer, Private Bank representatives and any appropriate co-opted personnel.
The ALCOs meet on a monthly basis to discuss and decide on strategies to mitigate any undesirable liquidity and interest rate risk.
The groups central treasury function is mandated to actively manage the liquidity mismatch and non-trading interest rate risk arising from our asset and liability portfolios.
The treasurer is required to exercise tight control of funding, liquidity, concentration and non-trading interest rate risk within parameters fide ned by the board approved risk appetite policy.
Most nontrading interest rate risk and asset funding requirements are transferred from the originating business to the treasury function.
The groups central treasury function directs pricing for all deposit products including deposit products offered to the private clients, establishes and maintains access to stable wholesale funds with the appropriate tenor and pricing characteristics, internally administers funds transfer pricing which ensures that the costs and risks of liquidity are clearly and transparently attributed to business lines and are understood by business line management, and manages liquid securities and collateral, thus providing for a controlled and exible response to volatile market conditions.
The central treasury function is the sole interface to the wholesale market for both cash and derivative transactions.
172 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance The Balance Sheet Risk Management team, based within group Risk Management, independently identi es, quanti es and monitors risks, providing daily independent governance and oversight of the central treasury activities and the execution of the banks policy, continuously assessing the risks whilst Non-trading taking changes in market conditions into account.
In carrying out its duties the balance sheet risk management team monitors historical liquidity trends, tracks prospective onand off-balance sheet interest rate risk liquidity obligations, identi es and measures internal and external liquidity warning signals which permit otherwise known early detection of liquidity issues through daily liquidity reporting and scenario analysis which quantify as interest rate our positions, thus providing a comprehensive and consistent governance framework.
risk in the banking The balance sheet risk function further performs scenario modelling and daily liquidity stress tests designed to measure and manage the liquidity position such that payment obligations can be met book, is the under a wide range of normal, company-speci c and market-driven stress scenarios, in which the impact on net rate and timing of deposit withdrawals and draw-downs on lending facilities are varied, and the ability interest earnings to access funding and to generate funds from asset portfolios is restricted.
The parameters used in the scenarios are regularly reviewed, taking into account changes in the business environments and and sensitivity input from business units.
The objective is to have suf cient liquidity, in an acute stress, to continue to to economic operate for a minimum period as detailed in the board approved risk appetite.
value, as a result There is a regular internal audit of the balance sheet risk management function, the frequency of which of unexpected, is determined by the independent audit committee.
adverse The group operates an industry recognised third party system to identify, measure, manage and movements in monitor liquidity risk on both a current and forward-looking basis.
The system is reconciled to the banks general ledger and audited by Internal Audit thereby ensuring integrity of the process.
interest rates arising from the Daily, weekly and monthly reports are independently produced showing bank activity, exposures and key measures against thresholds and limits and are distributed to management, ALCO, the central execution of our treasury function, ERRF, BRCC and the board.
core business Statutory reports are submitted to the relevant regulators in each jurisdiction within which we operate.
strategies and the delivery of Audited Non-trading interest rate risk description products and Non-trading interest rate risk otherwise known as interest rate risk in the banking book, is the impact on services to our net interest earnings and sensitivity to economic value, as a result of unexpected, adverse movements customers.
in interest rates arising from the execution of our core business strategies and the delivery of products and services to our customers.
Sources of banking-related risk exposures include potential adverse effect of volatility and changes in interest rate levels, the shape of the yield curves, basis risk spreads, and optionality inherent in certain products.
These affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs, when applied to our rate sensitive asset and liability portfolios, which has a direct effect on future net interest income and the economic value of equity.
The mix of interest rate repricing characteristics is in uenced by the underlying financial needs of customers.
Management and measurement of non-trading interest rate risk Non-trading interest rate risk in the banking book is a normal part of banking and arises from the provision of retail and wholesale non-trading banking products and services.
We are exposed to repricing risk due to timing differences in the xed rate maturity and oating rate repricing of bank assets, liabilities and derivative positions.
Additionally, we are exposed to yield curve and basis risk, due to the difference in repricing characteristics of two oating-rate indices.
We are not materially exposed to optionality risk, as contract breakage penalties on xed-rate advances speci cally cover this risk.
The group considers the management of banking margin of vital importance, and our core non-trading interest rate risk philosophy is re ected in day-to-day practices which encompass the following: The group complies with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervisions BCBS framework for assessing banking book non-trading interest rate risk 173 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued The management of interest rate risk in the banking book is centralised within Central Treasury and Central Treasury is mandated by the board to actively manage the liquidity mismatch and non-trading interest rate risk arising from our asset and liability portfolios The treasurer is required to exercise tight control of funding, liquidity, concentration and non-trading interest rate risk within parameters fide ned by the risk appetite policy Most non-trading interest rate risk and asset funding requirements are transferred from the originating business to Central Treasury The policy dictates that long term non-trading interest rate risk is materially eliminated Central Treasury directs pricing for all deposit products including deposit products offered to the private clients Central Treasury maintains an internal funds transfer pricing system based on prevailing market rates which charges out the price of long and short-term funding to consumers of liquidity and provide long-term stable funding for our asset creation activity Central Treasury is the sole interface to the wholesale market for both cash and derivative transactions Daily management of interest rate risk by Central Treasury, subject to independent ALCO review Technical interest rate analysis and economic review of fundamental developments by geography and global trends Independent measurement and analysis of both traditional interest rate repricing mismatch and NPV sensitivity to changes in interest rate risk factors, detailing the sources of interest rate exposure.
Non-trading interest rate risk is measured and managed both from a net interest margin perspective over a speci ed time horizon, and the sensitivity of economic value of equity to hypothetical changes to market factors on the current values of financial assets and liabilities.
Economic value measures have the advantage that all future cash ows are considered and therefore can highlight risk beyond the earnings horizon.
The aim is to protect and enhance net interest income and economic value in accordance with the board approved risk appetite.
The standard tools that are used to measure the sensitivity of earnings to changes in interest rates are the repricing gap which provides a basic representation of the balance sheet structure, this allows for the detection of interest rate risk by concentration of repricing, net interest income sensitivity which measures the change in accruals expected over the speci ed horizon in response to a shift in the yield curve, and economic value sensitivity and stress testing to macroeconomic movement or changes which measures the interest risk implicit change in net worth as a result of a change in interest rates on the current values of financial assets and liabilities.
Technical interest rate analysis and economic review of fundamental developments are used to estimate a set of forward-looking interest rate scenarios incorporating movements in the yield curve level and shape by geography taking global trends into account.
This combination of measures provides senior management and the ALCOs with an assessment of the financial impact of identi ed rate changes on potential future net interest income and sensitivity to changes in economic value.
This is consistent with the standardised interest rate measurement recommended by the Basel II framework for assessing banking book non-trading interest rate risk.
Operationally, non-trading interest rate risk is transferred within pre-fide ned guidelines from the originating business to the central treasury function and aggregated or netted.
The Central Treasury then implements appropriate balance sheet strategies to achieve a cost-effective source of funding and mitigates any residual undesirable risk where possible, by changing the composition of the banking groups discretionary liquid asset portfolio or through derivative transactions which transfer the risk into the trading books within the Capital Markets division to be traded with the external market.
Any resultant interest rate position is managed under the market risk limits.
The Central Treasury mandate allows for tactically responding to market opportunities which may arise during changing interest rate cycles.
Our risk appetite policy requires that interest rate risk arising from xed interest loans risk is transferred from the originating business to the central treasury function by match-funding.
In turn, Central Treasury hedges all xed rate assets with a term of more than one year on a dealby-deal basis to within three-months repricing with the use of variable vs. xed interest rate swaps.
The market for these vanilla swaps is deep, with the result that such hedging is ef cient.
Likewise, the central treasury function hedges all xed rate deposits with a term of more than one year to within three-months repricing.
Limits exist to ensure there is no undesired risk retained within any business or product area.
174 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Interest rate sensitivity gap The tables below show our non-trading interest rate mismatch.
These exposures affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs assuming no management intervention.
The tables below re ect our economic value sensitivity to a 2% parallel shift in interest rates assuming no management intervention.
The numbers represent the change to mainly net interest income should such a hypothetical scenario arise.
This sensitivity effect does not have a signi cant direct impact to equity.
UK and Europe Sensitivity to the following interest rates expressed in original currencies million GBP USD EUR AUD ZAR Other GBP All GBP 200bp down 10.0 0.1 1.3 0.1 11.0 200bp up 10.0 0.1 1.3 0.1 11.0 South Africa Sensitivity to the following interest rates expressed in original currencies million ZAR GBP USD EUR AUD Other ZAR All ZAR 200bp down 184.6 0.1 1.5 0.9 166.8 200bp up 174.8 0.2 2.1 0.1 0.7 152.4 Australia million AUD 200bp down 1.75 200bp up 1.75 Liquidity risk Audited Liquidity risk description Liquidity risk is the risk that we have insuf cient capacity to fund increases in assets, or are unable to meet our payment obligations as they fall due, without incurring unacceptable losses.
This includes repaying depositors or maturing wholesale debt.
This risk is inherent in all banking operations and can be impacted by a range of institution-speci c and marketwide events.
Liquidity risk is further broken down into: Funding liquidity: which relates to the risk that the bank will be unable to meet current and or future cash ow or collateral requirements without adversely affecting the normal course of business, its financial position or its reputation Market liquidity: which relates to the risk that the bank may be unable to trade in speci c markets or that it may only be able to do so with dif culty due to market disruptions or a lack of market liquidity.
Sources of liquidity risk include unforeseen withdrawals of deposits, restricted access to new funding with appropriate maturity and interest rate characteristics, inability to liquidate a marketable asset in a timely manner with minimal risk of capital loss, unpredicted customer nonpayment of loan obligations and a sudden increased demand for loans in the absence of corresponding funding in ows of appropriate maturity.
177 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Management and measurement of liquidity risk Cohesive liquidity management is vital for protecting our depositors, preserving market con dence, safeguarding our reputation and ensuring sustainable growth with established funding sources.
Through active liquidity management, we seek to preserve stable, reliable and cost effective sources of funding.
Inadequate liquidity can bring about the untimely demise of any financial institution.
As such, the group considers ongoing access to appropriate liquidity for all its operations to be of paramount importance, and our core liquidity philosophy is re ected in day-to-day practices which encompass the following: Our liquidity management processes encompass principles set out by the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction, namely the FSA, SARB, the Bank of Mauritius and APRA The group complies with the BCBS Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision The group has committed itself to implementation of the BCBS guidelines for liquidity risk measurement standards and monitoring and the enhanced regulatory framework to be established, as published in December 2009 and updated in December 2010 The risk appetite is clearly fide ned Each geographic entity must have its own board approved policies with respect to liquidity risk management Each geographic entity must be self suf cient from a funding and liquidity stand point so that there is no reliance on intergroup lines either from or to other group entities Branches and subsidiaries have no responsibility for contributing to group liquidity We maintain a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered, cash, government, or rated securities typically eligible for repurchase with the central bank, and near cash well in excess of the statutory requirements as protection against unexpected disruptions in cash ows Funding is diversi ed with respect to currency, term, product, client type and counterparty to ensure a satisfactory overall funding mix We monitor and evaluate each banking entitys maturity ladder and funding gap cash ow maturity mismatch on a liquidation, going concern and stress basis Daily liquidity stress tests are carried out to measure and manage the liquidity position such that payment obligations can be met under a wide range of normal and unlikely but plausible stressed scenarios, in which the rate and timing of deposit withdrawals and drawdowns on lending facilities are varied, and the ability to access funding and to generate funds from asset portfolios is restricted.
The objective is to have suf cient liquidity, in an acute stress, to continue to operate for a minimum period as detailed in the board approved risk appetite Our liquidity risk parameters re ect a range of liquidity stress assumptions which are reviewed regularly and updated as needed.
These stress factors go well beyond our experience during the height of the recent financial crisis The Balance Sheet Risk Management team independently monitors key daily funding metrics and liquidity ratios to assess potential risks to the liquidity position, which further act as early warning indicators The group centrally manages access to funds in the market through the Central Treasury divisions Maintenance of sustainable, prudent liquidity resources takes precedence over pro tability Each major banking entity maintains an internal funds transfer pricing system based on prevailing market rates.
The central treasury function charges out the price of long and short-term funding to internal consumers of liquidity, which ensures that the costs, bene ts, and risks of liquidity are clearly and transparently attributed to business lines and are understood by business line management.
The funds transfer pricing methodology is designed to signal the right incentive to our lending business The group maintains adequate contingency funding plans.
Management uses assumptions-based planning and scenario modelling that considers market conditions, prevailing interest rates, and projected balance sheet growth, to estimate future funding and liquidity needs, whilst taking the desired nature and pro le of liabilities into account.
These metrics are used to develop our funding strategy and measure and manage the execution thereof.
The funding plan details the proportion of our external assets which are funded by customer liabilities, unsecured wholesale debt, equity and loan capital thus maintaining an appropriate mix of term funding and strong balance sheet liquidity ratios within approved risk limits.
This ensures the smooth management of the day-to-day liquidity position within conservative parameters and further validates that, in the event of either a rm-speci c or general market event, we are able to generate suf cient liquidity to withstand short-term liquidity stress or market disruptions.
178 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance We target a diversi ed funding base, avoiding undue concentrations by investor type, maturity, market Group cash and near cash source, instrument and currency.
This demonstrates our ability to generate funding from a broad range of sources in a variety of geographic locations, which enhances financial exibility and limits up 2.2% to dependence on any one source so as to ensure a satisfactory overall funding mix.
9 319 million We acknowledge the importance of our private client base as the principal source of stable and well diversi ed funding for our Private Bank risk assets.
We continue to develop products to attract and service the investment needs of our Private Bank client base.
Although the contractual repayments of many Private Bank customer accounts are on demand or at short notice, in practice such accounts Investec plc remain a stable source of funds.
Our Private Bank continued to successfully raise private client deposits cash and near cash despite competitive pressures with total deposits increasing by 5.9% from 1 April 2010 to 12.5 billion down 5.3% to at 31 March 2011.
We have also introduced a number of innovative retail deposit initiatives within our Capital Markets division and these continued to experience strong in ows during the financial 4 502 million year.
Our total retail customer deposit base increased by 11.4% from 1 April 2010 to 24.4 billion at 31 March 2011.
On average our xed and notice customer deposits have amounted to approximately 71% and 85% of total deposits since April 2006 for Investec Limited and Investec plc respectively, thereby displaying a strong stickiness and willingness to reinvest by our retail customers.
Investec Limited cash and near cash Entities within the group actively participate in global financial markets and our relationship is continuously enhanced through regular investor presentations internationally.
We have instituted up 9.6% to various offshore syndicated loan programmes to broaden and diversify term-funding in supplementary R52 591 million markets and currencies, enhancing the proven capacity to borrow in the money markets.
Decisions on the timing and tenor of accessing these markets are based on relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity pro le.
We engage in transactions that involve the use of both special purpose entities and asset securitisation Average cash and near cash structures.
Securitisation represents a relatively modest proportion of our current funding pro le, but for the group provides additional exibility and source of liquidity.
These entities form part of the consolidated group up to balance sheet as reported.
Our funding and liquidity capacity is not reliant on these entities to any material extent and we do not rely on these vehicles for funding in the normal course of business.
9 723 million As mentioned above, we hold a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered readily available, high quality liquid assets, typically in the form of government or rated securities eligible for repurchase with the central bank, and near cash well in excess of the statutory requirements as protection against unexpected disruptions in cash ows.
Investec remains a net liquidity provider to the interbank market, placing signi cantly more funds with other banks than our shortterm interbank borrowings.
These portfolios are managed within limits and, apart from acting as a buffer under going concern conditions, also form an integral part of the broader liquidity generation strategy in the unlikely event of a liquidity crunch.
We do not rely on interbank deposits to fund term lending.
From 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011 average cash and near cash balances over the period amounted to 9.7 billion 3.6 billion in UK and Europe: R56.0 billion in South Africa and A$1.7 billion in Australia.
The group does not rely on committed funding lines for protection against unforeseen interruptions to cash ow.
We are currently unaware of any circumstances that could signi cantly detract from our ability to raise funding appropriate to our needs.
Each banking entity within the group maintains a contingency funding plan to, as far as possible, protect stakeholder interests and maintain market con dence in order to ensure a positive outcome in the event of a liquidity crisis.
The liquidity contingency plans outline extensive early warning indicators and clear and decisive crisis response strategies.
Early warning indicators span bank speci c and systemic crises.
Crisis response strategies address roles and responsibilities, composition of decision making bodies involved in liquidity crisis management, internal and external communications including public relations, sources of liquidity, avenues available to access additional liquidity, as well as supplementary information requirements.
This plan helps to ensure that cash ow estimates and commitments can be met in the event of general market disruption or adverse bank speci c events, while minimising detrimental long-term implications for the business.
179 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Total Investec group cash and near cash trend mn 11 000 Average 10 000 9 000 8 000 7 000 6 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 0 Sept 10 Apr 10 May 10 Jun 10 Jul 10 Aug 10 Oct 10 Nov 10 Dec 10 Jan 11 Feb 11 Mar 11 Investec plc UK, Europe and Australia cash and near cash trend mn 6 000 5 000 Average 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 0 Apr 10 May 10 Jun 10 Jul 10 Aug 10 Sept 10 Oct 10 Nov 10 Dec 10 Jan 11 Feb 11 Mar 11 Investec Limited Southern Africa cash and near cash trend Rmn 60 000 Average 50 000 40 000 30 000 20 000 10 000 0 Apr 10 May 10 Jun 10 Jul 10 Aug 10 Sept 10 Oct 10 Nov 10 Dec 10 Jan 11 Feb 11 Mar 11 180 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance An analysis of cash and near cash 18.3% 25.6% 11.2% 58.0% 55.1% 22.2% 52.2% 26.6% 9 319 mn 4 502 mn R52 591 mn 30.8% Total group Investec plc Investec Limited Cash Near cash central bank guaranteed liquidity Near cash other monetisable assets Bank and non-bank depositor concentration by type 30.6% 15.9% 0.9% 5.4% 7.9% 3.3% 3.7% 84.8% 1.9% 8.5% 33.9% 10 636 mn R165 460 mn A$2 212 mn 12.1% 33.8% 57.3% UK and Europe South Africa Australia Financial institutions banks Corporate Private Banking clients Fund managers Public sector Other 181 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Liquidity mismatch The tables that follow show our liquidity mismatch across our core geographies.
We maintained The tables will not agree directly to the balances disclosed in the respective balance sheets since the tables incorporates cash ows on a contractual, undiscounted basis based on the earliest date on a strong liquidity which the group can be required to pay.
pro le throughout We maintained a strong liquidity pro le throughout the year.
Despite competitive pressures we were the year.
able to increase deposits taken from the retail market and raise additional liquidity.
The tables re ect that loans and advances to customers are largely nanced by stable funding sources.
With respect to the contractual liquidity mismatch: No assumptions are made except as mentioned below, and we record all asset and liabilities with the underlying contractual maturity as determined by the cash ow pro le for each deal As an integral part of the broader liquidity generation strategy, we maintain a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered cash, government, or bank paper typically eligible for repurchase with the central bank, and near cash as a buffer against both expected and unexpected cash ows The actual contractual pro le of this asset class is of little consequence, as practically Investec would meet any unexpected net cash out ows by selling these securities, we have: Set the time horizon to one month to monetise our cash and near cash portfolio of availablefor-sale discretionary treasury assets, where there are deep secondary markets for this elective asset class Set the time horizon to on demand to monetise our statutory liquid assets for which liquidity is guaranteed by the central bank Reported the contractual pro le by way of a note to the tables.
With respect to the behavioural liquidity mismatch: The new funding we would require under normal business circumstances is shown in the behavioural mismatch.
To this end, behavioural pro ling is applied to liabilities with an indeterminable maturity, as the contractual repayments of many customer accounts are on demand or at short notice but expected cash ows vary signi cantly from contractual maturity.
An internal analysis model is used, based on statistical research of the historical series of products, which models the point of probable maturity.
In addition, re-investment behaviour, with pro le and attrition based on history, is applied to term deposits in the normal course of business.
184 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Australia Contractual liquidity as at 31 March 2011 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 6 6 months 1 to 5 5 A$'million Demand month months months to 1 year years years Total Cash and short-term funds banks 391 391 Investment trading assets 1 099 13 19 7 19 211 78 1 446 Securitised assets 1 25 65 87 142 419 10 749 Advances 54 123 230 330 630 1 116 69 2 553 Other assets 210 210 External assets 1 545 161 314 424 791 1 746 368 5 349 Deposits banks 6 6 Deposits non-banks 572 202 753 420 150 97 12 2 206 Negotiable paper 2 88 68 37 244 1 106 1 545 Securitised liabilities 1 22 50 242 416 731 Invest trading liabilities 1 10 5 8 46 6 76 Subordinated liabilities 72 72 Other liabilities 29 29 Liabilities 575 319 881 704 818 1 321 47 4 665 Intercompany loans 15 4 20 2 1 Shareholders funds 685 685 Contractual liquidity gap 985 154 567 280 27 405 362 Cumulative liquidity gap 985 831 264 16 43 362 Note: contractual liquidity adjustments as discussed on page 182 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 6 6 months 1 to 5 5 A$'million Demand month months months to 1 year years years Total Investment trading assets 110 276 7 48 910 95 1 446 Advances 512 100 184 208 385 1 093 70 2 552 Behavioural liquidity as discussed on page 182 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 6 6 months 1 to 5 5 A$'million Demand month months months to 1 year years years Total Behavioural liquidity gap 1 475 234 784 383 116 405 363 Cumulative 1 475 1 241 457 74 42 363 Includes call deposits of A$545 million and the balance re ects term deposits which have nally reached are reaching contractual maturity.
185 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Balance sheet risk year in review UK and Europe Two speed Europe shows the peripheral countries continuing to struggle.
Portugal joined Ireland and Greece in taking a bailout from its fellow Europeans.
Yields on 10 year Portuguese bonds started the year at 4.20% and, despite the bailout, are trading at all time highs of 9.82%.
Greece also trades at all-time highs of 16.50% with the threat of a second round of bailout nancing being required.
Default by Greece in some forms remains a very real threat.
The Euro has remained surprisingly robust in the face of these debt concerns, especially as the European banking system remains highly exposed to holdings of peripheral sovereign paper.
Despite global turmoil on many fronts, credit spreads continue to contract, with the XOVER Index 40 most liquid sub-investment grade credits falling from its annual peak of 628 in June 2010.
On the interest rate front, European markets are beginning to price in the start of rate rises, with EUR rates being particularly affected by comments from Trichet in early March.
EUR rates are 90 basis points higher at the 2 year point of the curve, versus the beginning of April.
GBP rates are 25 points higher and the UK has maintained its of cial base rate at 50 basis points, which re ects no change since March 2009.
The exception amongst major economies is the USA, where USD rates are 25 to 90 points lower across the curve since April last year and the curve remains very at in the front end, re ecting market views that rates wont be going up anytime soon.
The bank maintained high cash and near cash balances throughout the year but did curtail its in ow of deposits given that it had signi cant surplus liquidity.
Total customer deposits increased by 9.8% from 1 April 2010 to 8.8 billion at 31 March 2011 comprising Private Bank deposits of 6.1 billion, structured equity deposits of 1.4 billion and corporate deposits of 1.3 billion.
Good growth was experienced in the banks corporate and structured equity deposit book, whilst the Private Bank slowed its intake of deposits.
Average cash and near cash balances amounted to 3.6 billion during the year.
South Africa The financial year was characterised by 100bp of rate cuts and 150bp if the rate cut at the end of March 2010 is included.
The Rand was exceptionally strong and this pushed in ation lower and facilitated the drop in interest rates to generational lows.
The cost of term deposits plummeted precipitously and this allowed for a restoration of margins in the latter half of the year.
Trading pro ts on the surplus liquid asset books and liquid asset books boosted income.
Liquidity conditions improved dramatically over the year.
The wholesale deposit base grew moderately relative to real asset growth which resulted in a buildup of cash reserves which were placed in highly liquid treasury bills and government bonds.
The bank continued to bene t from a growing retail franchise with total customer deposits increasing by 8.0% from 1 April 2010 to R154.5 billion at 31 March 2011 Private Bank deposits amount to R56.1 billion and other retail deposits amount to R98.4 billion.
Cash and near cash balances increased by 9.6% from 1 April 2010 to R52.6 billion at 31 March 2011.
The prospect of regulatory change will continue to force us along with other South African banks to lengthen our deposit books, review asset pricing and asset growth.
Conditions remain favourable for further regular forays into the Rand bond and Euro bond markets during the course of 2011 12.
Australia In Australia the economy has continued to see resilience, with near full employment, moderate in ation, and robust economic growth lead by Australias commodities and resources sector and their linkage into the strong regional growth from Asia.
Notwithstanding this, we have seen muted domestic credit growth particularly in the SME business and personal credit segments, and the prices and tradability of commercial property remains under some pressure.
Added to this environment, environment shocks internationally and in some areas domestically, including natural disasters, sovereign risk concern, political upheaval, has resulted in a highly variable landscape for business and consumer con dence.
In response to the evolving environment the Reserve Bank of Australia raised interest rates largely in the first half of the year with three increases of 0.25% to take the cash rate from 4.00% to 4.75%.
Investec Australia maintained a strong liquidity position well in excess of regulatory and internal policy requirements throughout the year, with average cash and near cash balances amounting to A$1.7 billion.
Total customer deposits increased by 28.5% from 1 April 2010 to A$2.2 billion at 31 March 2011 Private Bank deposits amount to A$1.9 billion and other retail deposits amount to A$0.3 billion.
Investec group We successfully embarked on several term debt funding initiatives, taking advantage of pockets of well-priced liquidity.
This allowed us to maintain liquidity above internal and external liquidity targets.
Decisions concerning timing of issuance and the tenor of liabilities are based upon relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of organic balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity pro le.
186 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Investec plc: A replacement Schuldschein loan was raised on 7 March 2011 of 133 million with an 18 month tenure.
Investec Bank plc IBP : IBP did not have any wholesale term funding initiatives for this year due to the continued success within the retail funding and strong levels of liquidity IBP offered investors in its 200 million lower tier II and the 350 million perpetual note the option to roll into a new 500 million, 11 year tier II capital issuance and at the same time raised 136 million of new capital.
Investec Bank Australia Limited IBAL : Undertook an inaugural term securitisation of $240 million Professional Finance assets from the Impala securitisation vehicle IBAL bought-back $195 million of previously issued government guaranteed term debt.
Investec Bank Limited IBL : We issued medium-term 3.5 and seven year notes totaling R6.0 billion over the course of the year We raised EUR 220 million and USD 310 million for 18 months to boost our foreign currency cash reserves.
Regulatory considerations balance sheet risk The financial crisis has kindled increased global regulation and supervision with regulators proposing to both strengthen and harmonise global liquidity standards.
More stringent and potentially costly prerequisites in the areas of capital and liquidity management, could imply signi cant shifts evolving into the new regulatory generation.
Substantial progress has been made to date to reform the global regulatory framework initiated by the G20 in April 2009.
In December 2010, BCBS updated its guidelines for liquidity risk measurement standards and monitoring, which supplemented the 2008 Principles of Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision.
Two key measures were fide ned: Liquidity coverage ratio LCR This ratio is designed to promote short-term resilience of 1 month liquidity pro le, by ensuring that banks have suf cient high quality liquid assets to meet potential out ows in a stressed environment.
Net stable funding ratio NSFR This ratio is designed to capture structural issues over a longer time horizon by requiring banks to have a sustainable maturity structure of assets and liabilities.
The BCBS guidelines were followed by a quantitative impact study QIS in an attempt to assess the impact of the new proposals on banks and the broader economy.
Investec participated in the QIS study and believes it will be adequately capitalised to meet the new requirements.
The guidelines have yet to be implemented by law, therefore remain subject to re nements and change.
In addition Basel has catered for areas of national discretion to be set by the local supervisors, that take into account structural issues that may exist in a financial system of a country.
The impact of any unintended consequences of the new standards for funding liquidity, both on a global and national level, should become apparent during the planned observation period.
Banks are expected to commence reporting on the ratios in 2012 and full implementation and compliance of the LCR and NSFR in 2015 and 2018 respectively.
Investec group has been proactively reporting on these ratios internally according to the emerging Basel fide nitions since February 2010.
In some jurisdictions Investec already exceeds these standards, whilst in other geographies we have commenced with strategies to shape our liquidity and funding pro le where necessary, as we move towards the compliance timeline.
UK In the area of liquidity, the UK regulator, the FSA, has continued its tradition of being one of the first major regulators to introduce tighter requirements.
This culminated in the release of its policy statement Strengthening liquidity standards in October 2009.
The intention of the policy was to be consistent with the principles of the BCBSs Principles for Sound Liquidity Management and Supervision, published in September 2008.
Under the new regime, one of the key requirements is that banks operating in the UK stress their balance sheets under at least three scenarios: a market-wide stress, a rm-speci c, and a combination of the two and then determine the corresponding survival horizon for each.
187 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued The survival horizon is fide ned as the number of days before a banks cash position turns negative and subsequently it can no longer meet its financial obligations.
Each rm is then required to set its risk appetite in terms of the number of days it wishes to survive.
In October 2010, the quantitative requirements of the new rules switched-on whereby Investec Bank plc has been required to submit a number of data items to the FSA with varying frequencies including amongst others a report highlighting daily ows FSA047 and an enhanced mismatch report FSA048.
Another key component of the new regime is an individual liquidity adequacy assessment ILAA per the FSA, a key function of the ILAA is to inform a rms board of the ongoing assessment and quanti cation of the rms liquidity risks, how the rm intends to mitigate those risks, and how much current and future liquidity is required.
The resulting document is also the mechanism for demonstrating and explaining to the FSA a rms internal liquidity adequacy assessment process.
With respect to the BCBS guidelines highlighted above which when nalised will be implemented through EU law, the FSA has stated it will consider how best to calibrate the UK regime once they are nalised.
Having said this, the liquidity metric monitor, a tool designed by the FSA to demonstrate some of the metrics they monitor, contains the BCBS ratios and some UK rms are already publicly releasing their results.
South Africa It is expected that South Africa, as a member of the G20, will adopt the BCBS guidelines for liquidity risk measurement standards and monitoring.
The liquidity proposals in their original form have, however, highlighted the shortcomings in the collective financial markets in South Africa, brought about by structural impediments that can only be addressed in a collaborative environment.
The banks alone are powerless to change the landscape of the South African financial markets and the industry faces many challenges in complying with these standards.
In recognition thereof the South African minister of finance recommended the institution of a structural funding and liquidity risk management task team, chaired by South Africa National Treasury, to investigate the structural funding pro le which is conducive to continued resilience of the South African financial sector.
The task team will aim to provide recommendations to improve the structural funding pro le of South Africa in a way that leads to balanced economic growth, the long-term sustainability of the South African financial system and social well being of the country.
The BCBS has endowed regulatory prudence to the discretion of the national regulator, SARB, who will have to lead South African banks into the new generation of regulatory supervision.
The Banking Association South Africa formed an industry task group whose mandate is to develop a series of position papers that will contextualise the challenges that need to be considered, in order to facilitate dialogue with National Treasury and the SARB on matters relating to the proposed LCR and NSFR.
Investec is a participant in the structural funding and liquidity risk management task team as well as the Banking Association South Africa task group.
Although implementation time lines seem far into the future, compliance to 100% of the two ratios remain a target in the South African banking industry.
Australia The federal government, re ecting Australias membership of the G20 nations, has committed itself to implementation of the BCBS requirements, through the enhancement to the established regulatory framework which is under the control of APRA.
APRA has stated its intention to adopt the BCBS standard as a minimum, and may apply metrics at a higher level.
APRA has also indicated that it will progressively formulate revised local regulatory standards over 2011 and 2012 utilising its normal industry consultation approach.
With respect to the capital requirements, APRA has indicated it may implement its new standard with a shorter or no transition period, given the assessed strength of Australian banks capital positions relative to the expected new BCBS minimum requirements.
With respect to the liquidity requirements, in accordance with the BCBS provisions and re ecting the lack of qualifying the liquid assets in Australia, APRA and the RBA have jointly announced there will be available a mechanism for ADIs to gain contractually committed liquidity facilities with the RBA, subject to a fee charge.
The local banking industry has been actively consulting with APRA on an informal basis, through bilateral discussions and industry working groups, which Investec Australia participates in, including the Australian Bankers Association and the Australian Financial Markets Association.
188 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Operational risk management Operational risk description Operational risk is fide ned as the risk of loss or earnings volatility arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
We recognise operational risk as a signi cant risk category, and strive to manage this within acceptable levels through the promotion of appropriate and relevant sound operational risk management practices.
We have adopted the standardised approach to calculate the regulatory operational risk capital requirement.
Operational risk management framework The operational risk management framework adopted by the group sets out a structured and consistent approach for implementing a systematic process to identify and mitigate operational risk across the group.
A group-wide operational risk management system is used to record and evidence the operational risk management process.
This system allows for the recording and linking of risk assessments, risk events and risk indicators where appropriate, enabling a comprehensive view, analysis and reporting of the groups operational risk pro le.
Governance Risk assessment Framework and policies Indicators Reporting Scenarios Internal risk events Monitoring Assurance External risk events Operational risk universe People Process Systems External events Operational risk management system 189 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Practices Risk management continued Governance The governance structure adopted by the operational risk management function operates in terms of a levels of defence model and provides combined assurance as described below: Level Function Activity 1 Business unit management Identify and mitigate operational risk Own the operational risks arising in their business area Establish and maintain an appropriate operational risk and control environment Maintain an embedded operational risk management capability Implement and execute sound operational risk management practices.
2 Group Operational Risk Management Independent of operations Maintain the group operational risk management framework and policy Develop and promote sound operational risk management practices Challenge and review business unit operational risk practices and data Report on operational risk exposures, events, and emerging issues to board and board committees, and relevant business unit forums Ensure supervisory requirements are achieved.
3 Internal audit and Independent review of the operational risk framework, and the specialist assurance effectiveness of its implementation Audit findings integrated into the operational risk management process Specialist validation of key practices.
4 External audit and supervisors External assessment of the operational risk management environment Regulatory onsite reviews by the SARB, the FSA and APRA.
5 Board and board committees Monitor and review the operational risk exposures and metrics Approve the operational risk management framework and key operational risk management policies.
Framework and policies Policies and practices have been established by group Operational Risk Management to ensure that operational risk is managed in an appropriate and consistent manner across the group.
These are regularly reviewed through the operational risk governance structure as well as the BRCC.
190 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Practices Operational risk identifi cation and assessments The risk assessment process is central to the operational risk management process.
A qualitative risk assessment is conducted using an identi ed universe of operational risks contained in the risk assessment framework RAF.
The RAF is organised into risk areas and relevant associated detailed risks.
A controlled operational risk exposure is determined based on an assessment of the consequence, likelihood of occurrence and the effectiveness of the relevant controls.
Surveys and publications from reliable sources are monitored and compared to the RAF to con rm relevance and completeness, and to identify emerging issues.
Group Operational Risk Management interacts regularly with Internal Audit and group Compliance to discuss matters of common concern relating to the risk and control environment.
The assessment of risks and controls is conducted at business unit level and is subject to action and escalation in terms of the operational risk appetite policy, which sets out the operational risk exposure that the group is willing to accept or retain.
Risk assessments are reviewed regularly based on the internal and external events and changes in the business environment.
Risks are assessed and considered before implementation of new products in line with the relevant policies and procedures applicable to the respective operating jurisdictions.
Key operational risks The following operational risks have been identi ed, through a combination of a top down and bottom up process, as key operational risks for the group: Key operational risks Key considerations Business continuity Availability of systems and processes Ability to continue operations.
Financial crime Theft or misappropriation of client or company assets from internal or external sources.
Legal Appropriate advice, documentation and implementation.
Process failure Execution, delivery and process failure due to errors or omissions.
Regulatory compliance Adherence to laws, regulations and industry codes Pace of new regulatory requirements and developments.
Operational risk indicators Business units track and report appropriate risk indicators in order to monitor and control their operational risk exposures.
These are reviewed regularly to ensure that they are relevant.
Internal operational risk events Internal operational risk events are recorded in the group-wide operational risk management system.
Causal analyses are performed and actions are identi ed to mitigate and minimise losses and improve controls.
Processes are in place for the monitoring and escalation of recorded events.
191 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued The gures below represent the distribution of the value and number of risk events across the risk event types.
Operational risk events by risk category % of total value of risk events 2010 % of total value Business Damage Execution, Employment External Internal Clients, of risk events disruption products and to physical delivery and practices and fraud fraud and system business assets process workplace 2011 % of total value failures practices management safety of risk events Operational risk events by risk category % of total number of risk events 2010 % of total number Business Clients, Damage Execution, Employment External Internal of risk events disruption products and to physical delivery and practices and fraud fraud and system business assets process workplace 2011 % of total number failures practices management safety of risk events The controls in place to mitigate risks that are highlighted by execution, delivery and process management events are considered and improved continually.
External fraud includes credit card fraud.
Initiatives to improve, detect, prevent and mitigate credit card fraud is ongoing.
External operational risk events External operational risk events from selected public sources are recorded in a central database and monitored and analysed in the same manner as internal operational risk events.
This allows for enhancement or improvements to the risk and control environment through the lessons learnt from these events.
Scenarios Key operational risks and other material operational risks are subjected to a scenario analysis process.
Various plausible, extreme, scenarios are developed and documented for each material operational risk.
Scenario information is sourced from an evaluation of the external business 192 environment, internal business considerations, internal and external event data, and controlled operational risk exposures.
This provides a measure of the exposure arising from the key risks and is used to determine internal operational risk capital requirements.
This is reviewed by the DLC capital committee.
Reporting Group Operational Risk Management reports to the board, BRCC and audit committee on a regular basis.
These reports are based on monitoring performed by group Operational Risk Management, input received from the business units and data recorded in the operational risk management system.
Improving the relevance and reliability of reporting continues to be an area of focus.
Monitoring The individual components of the operational risk management framework are monitored on an ongoing basis by group Operational Risk Management and the embedded risk managers ERMs.
These components are integrated to inform each other, enabling more ef cient monitoring of operational risk data integrity, compliance with the policies and practices, and the operational risk pro le across the group.
Group-wide operational risk focus areas Business continuity management The group manages a global business continuity management capability which focuses on building an appropriate level of resilience into the banks operations to mitigate the risk of severe operational disruptions occurring.
The group conducts regular exercises to ensure that its recovery capability remains appropriate.
Information technology risk The group continues to ensure that information technology risk is appropriately mitigated within a rapidly changing technology and threat landscape.
ERMs focus on ensuring the con dentiality, integrity and availability of information.
Information security remains a key area of focus.
Financial crime In ensuring that financial crime risk is appropriately managed the group pursues a policy of mitigating this risk as follows: Ensuring that appropriate action is taken in respect of fraudulent activities Identifying criminal acts against the group, investigating and recovering losses Engaging with external specialists and industry forums.
Developments Areas of focus during the year included: Ongoing development and enhancement of the operational risk management framework having consideration for advanced operational risk management practices Regular engagement with industry groups and fora enables the group to be informed of developments Enhancing the risk and control environment remains an area of focus, particularly in areas where trends are identi ed Using outputs from operational risk processes more effectively in proactively managing operational risk Continue to monitor regulatory developments and actively engage with regulators.
Insurance The group maintains adequate insurance to cover key insurable risks.
The insurance process and requirements are managed by the group insurance risk manager.
Regular interaction between group Operational Risk Management and group Insurance Risk Management ensures that there is an exchange of information in order to enhance the mitigation of operational risks.
193 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Reputational risk Reputational risk is damage to our reputation, name or brand.
Reputational risk arises as a result of other risks manifesting and not being mitigated.
We have various policies and practices to mitigate reputational risk, including strong values that are regularly and proactively reinforced.
We also subscribe to sound corporate governance practices, which require that activities, processes and decisions are based on carefully considered principles.
We are aware of the impact of practices that may result in a breakdown of trust and con dence in the organisation.
The groups policies and practices are regularly reinforced through transparent communication, accurate reporting, continuous group culture and values assessment, internal audit and regulatory compliance review, and risk management practices.
Pension risk Pension risk arises from obligations arising from fide ned bene t pension schemes, where Investec plc is required to fund any fide cit in the schemes.
There are two fide ned bene t schemes within Investec plc and both are closed to new business.
Pension risk arises if the net present value of future cash out ows is greater than the current value of the asset pool set aside to cover those payments.
Primary sources at risk include: A mismatch in the duration of the assets relative to the liabilities Market driven asset price volatility Increased life expectancy of individuals leading to increased liabilities.
Investec plc monitors the position of the funds closely and regularly assesses potential adverse movements in the schemes in close conjunction with external, independent advisors.
Further information is provided on pages 367 to 369.
Legal risk management Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from any of our rights not being fully enforceable or from our obligations not being properly performed.
This includes our rights and obligations under contracts entered into with counterparties.
Such risk is especially applicable where the counterparty defaults and the relevant documentation may not give rise to the rights and remedies anticipated when the transaction was entered.
Our objective is to identify, manage, monitor and mitigate legal risks throughout the group.
We seek to actively mitigate these risks by identifying them, setting minimum standards for their management and allocating clear responsibility for such management to legal risk managers, as well as ensuring compliance through proactive monitoring.
The scope of our activities is continuously reviewed and includes the following areas: Relationship contracts Legislation governance Litigation Corporate events Incident or crisis management Ongoing quality control.
The legal risk policy is implemented through: Identi cation and ongoing review of areas where legal risk is found to be present Allocation of responsibility for the development of procedures for management and mitigation of these risks Installation of appropriate segregation of duties, so that legal documentation is reviewed and executed with the appropriate level of independence from the persons involved in proposing or promoting the transaction 194 Ongoing examination of the inter-relationship between legal risk and other areas of risk management, so as to ensure that there are no gaps in the risk management process 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Establishing minimum standards for mitigating and controlling each risk, including the nature and extent of work to be undertaken by our internal and external legal resources Establishing procedures to monitor compliance, taking into account the required minimum standards Establishing legal risk forums, bringing together the various legal risk managers, to ensure we keep abreast of developments and changes in the nature and extent of our activities, and to benchmark our processes against best practice.
Overall responsibility for this policy rests with the board.
The board delegates responsibility for implementation of the policy to the global head of Legal Risk.
The global head assigns responsibility for controlling these risks to the managers of appropriate departments and focused units throughout the group.
A legal risk forum is constituted in each signi cant legal entity within the group.
Each forum meets at least half-yearly and more frequently where business needs dictate, and is chaired by the global head of Legal Risk or an appointed deputy.
Minutes of the meetings are circulated to the chief executive of cer of each legal entity.
Capital management and allocation Although Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries are managed independently, the governance of capital management is consistent across the two groups.
The DLC structure requires the two groups to independently manage each groups balance sheet and hence capital is managed on this basis.
This approach is overseen by the BRCC via the Investec DLC capital committee which is a board sub-committee with ultimate responsibility for the capital suf ciency of both Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The legal and regulatory treatment of capital is independent of existing shareholder arrangements that are in place to ensure that shareholders have common economic and voting interests as if Investec plc and Investec Limited were a single uni ed enterprise.
Investec plc is regulated by the FSA in the UK and Investec Limited is regulated by the SARB.
In addition, a number of subsidiaries are subject to local regulatory oversight of capital suf ciency by the regulators for the jurisdictions in which they operate.
Philosophy and approach Over recent years, capital adequacy standards for banks have been raised as part of attempts to increase the stability and resilience of the global banking sector.
Investec has always held capital in excess of regulatory requirements and the group intends to ensure that it continues to remain well capitalised.
Accordingly, the group maintains capital adequacy targets of a minimum tier one capital ratio of 11% and a total capital adequacy ratio range of 14% to 17%, on a consolidated basis, for Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The determination of target capital is driven by our risk pro le, strategy and risk appetite, taking into account regulatory and market factors applicable to the group.
At the most fundamental level, we seek to balance our capital consumption between prudent capitalisation in the context of the groups risk pro le and optimisation of shareholder returns.
Our internal economic capital framework is designed to manage and achieve this balance.
The internal capital framework is based on the groups risk identi cation, review and assessment processes and is used to provide a risk-based approach to capital allocation, performance and structuring of our balance sheet.
The objectives of the internal capital framework are to quantify the minimum capital required to: Maintain suf cient capital to satisfy the boards risk appetite across all risks faced by the group Support a target level of financial strength aligned with a long-term external rating of at least A Provide protection to depositors against losses arising from risks inherent in the business Provide suf cient capital surplus to ensure that the group is able to retain its going concern basis under relatively severe operating conditions Informal discussions with the groups regulators to assist in setting minimum regulatory capital.
The DLC capital committee seeks to optimise the balance sheet such that capital held is in excess of internal capital.
Internal capital performs a critical role in: Investment decision making and pricing that is commensurate with the risk being taken Allocating capital according to the greatest expected marginal risk-based return, and track performance on this basis Determining transactional risk-based returns on capital Rewarding performance taking into account the relative levels of risk adopted by forming a basis for the determination of economic value 195 added at a transactional level, and hence the basis for discretionary variable remuneration Comparing risk-based performance across business areas.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued The framework has been approved by the board and is managed by the DLC capital committee, which is responsible for oversight of the management of capital on a regulatory and an internal basis.
In order to achieve these objectives, the internal capital framework describes the following approach to the integration of risk and capital management.
The simpli ed integration of risk and capital management Risk modelling Pricing and Risk Risk Internal and performance identi cation assessment capital quanti cation measurement Managed by each Managed by Risk reporting business unit.
group Capital Capital and business as and group Risk Management Group management usual risk departments with oversight by strategy and planning management with oversight by DLC capital ERRF BRCC committee BRCC Scenario testing Risk assessment and identifi cation We review the business annually to map our universe of key risks, which are ultimately reviewed and agreed by the BRCC following an extensive process of engagement with senior management.
This is a bottom up process initially performed by each business unit across the group.
Key risks are then debated and agreed at senior management level and ultimately by BRCC.
Assessment of the materiality of risks is directly linked to the boards stated risk appetite and approved risk management policies covering all key risks.
Risk reporting As part of standard business practice, key identi ed risks are monitored by group Risk Management and by Internal Audit to ensure that risks are managed to an acceptable level of risk.
Detailed performance and control metrics of these risks are reported to each ERRF and BRCC meeting, including, where appropriate, the results of scenario testing.
Key risk types that are considered fall within the following: Credit and counterparty risk Traded market risk Equity risk in the banking book Balance sheet liquidity and non-trading interest rate risk Legal risk Operational risk.
Each of these risk categories may consist of a number of speci c risks, each of which are analysed in detail and managed through ERRF and BRCC.
196 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Ongoing risk management Role of regulatory capital in capital management On 1 January 2008, we began operating under the Basel II regulatory regime across all regulated entities.
We have adopted the standardised approach under pillar 1 to determine our regulatory minimum capital requirements.
Since the introduction of Basel II, a number of signi cant amendments have either been introduced or are expected to be introduced over the coming financial year and beyond.
Such changes re ect regulatory objectives around financial stability and affect many areas of our approach to ensuring prudential ongoing management of our risks.
With respect to capital suf ciency, rules will tend to require banks generally to hold greater amounts of higher quality capital which will have impacts on a range of processes within all banks.
We have historically managed our capital to a very high standard and as such we are well placed to meet any new requirements.
Because of this, even after allowing for regulatory changes, the risk appetite of the board and senior management remains unchanged.
Local management within each geography are responsible for compliance with the entitys minimum regulatory requirements, although the allocation of capital supply is controlled by the DLC capital committee.
While consideration of regulatory capital is an important component of our management of capital suf ciency, we do not use regulatory capital as the exclusive driver of capital allocation.
Therefore, while regulatory capital requirements under pillar 1 form the minimum capital for Investec plc, Investec Limited and their various regulated subsidiaries, our capital management framework places emphasis on the internal assessment of capital requirements and is based on a conservative assessment of the underlying risk of the portfolio.
This requirement has been adopted within our approach to pillar 2, of which the internal capital framework constitutes a central role.
Risk modelling and quantifi cation internal capital Internal capital requirements are quanti ed by analysis of the potential impact of key risks to a degree consistent with our risk appetite.
Internal capital requirements are supported by the board approved risk assessment process described above.
Quanti cation of all risks are based on analysis of internal data, management expertise and judgement and external benchmarking.
The following risks are included within the internal capital framework and quanti ed for capital allocation purposes: Credit and counterparty risk, including: Underlying counterparty risk Concentration risk Securitisation risk Traded market risk Equity and property risk held in the banking book Balance sheet risk, including: Liquidity Non-trading interest rate risk Strategic and reputational risks Business risk Operational risk Pension risk UK only Operational risk is considered as an umbrella term and covers a range of independent risks including, but not limited to fraud, litigation, business continuity, outsourcing and out of policy trading.
The speci c risks covered are assessed dynamically through constant assessment of the underlying business environment.
Capital management, planning and scenario testing A group capital plan is prepared and maintained to facilitate discussion of the impact of business strategy and market conditions on our capital suf ciency.
This plan is designed to assess capital suf ciency under a range of economic and internal conditions over the medium term three years, with the impact on earnings, asset growth and liquidity considered.
The plan provides the board via the BRCC with an input into strategy and the setting of risk appetite by considering business risks and potential vulnerabilities, capital usage and funding requirements given constraints where these exist.
197 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Stressing the business plans through the capital planning process is an important tool by which the board can gain insight to potential sources of vulnerability of the capital suf ciency of the group by way of market, economic or internal events.
As such, we stress the capital plans based on conditions most likely to place us under duress.
The conditions themselves are agreed by the DLC capital committee after consultation with relevant internal and external experts and research.
Such plans are used by management to formulate balance sheet strategy and agree management actions, trigger points and in uence determination of our risk appetite.
In particular, our capital plans are designed to allow senior management and the board to review: Changes to capital demand caused by implementation of agreed strategic objectives, including the creation or acquisition of new businesses, or as a result of the manifestation of one or more of the risks to which we are potentially susceptible The impact on pro tability of current and future strategies Required changes to the capital structure The impact of implementing a proposed dividend strategy The impact of alternate market or operating conditions on any of the above.
At a minimum level, each capital plan assesses the impact on our capital adequacy over expected case, upturn and downturn scenarios.
On the basis of the results of this analysis the DLC capital committee, and the BRCC, are presented with the potential variability in capital adequacy and are responsible, in consultation with the board, for consideration of the appropriate response.
Pricing and performance measurement The use of internal capital means that all transactions are considered in the context of the impact on the allocation of our capital resources, and hence on the basis of their contribution to return on risk adjusted internal capital.
This is to ensure that expected returns are suf cient after taking recognition of the inherent risk generated for a given transaction.
This approach allows us to embed risk and capital discipline at the level of deal initiation.
Using expectations of risk-based returns as the basis for pricing and deal acceptance ensures that risk management retains a key role in ensuring that the portfolio is appropriately managed for that risk.
In addition to pricing, returns on internal capital are monitored and relative performance is assessed on this basis.
Assessment of performance in this way is a fundamental consideration used in setting strategy and risk appetite as well as rewarding performance.
These processes have been embedded across the business with the process designed to ensure that risk and capital management form the basis for key decisions at both a group and a transactional level.
Responsibility for oversight for each of these processes ultimately falls to the BRCC.
For an assessment of return on equity and our return on internal capital utilised refer to pages 47 and 48.
Responsibility for the risk and capital management process The Investec plc and Investec Limited boards of directors are ultimately responsible for the respective silos capital management.
The groups senior management take active roles in allocating capital at a transactional level.
At the highest level, the boards have delegated direct responsibility for capital management to the BRCC, and in turn to the DLC capital committee.
These forums have been in place for several years and their roles and responsibilities are discussed on pages 229 and 230.
In order to manage local capital considerations, Investec plc convenes a separate capital committee on a weekly basis to monitor the capital positions of its various subsidiaries, in particular the businesses in the UK and Australia.
A formally constituted capital management committee also exists in Australia.
Capital adequacy within the Southern African operations is discussed monthly through the regulatory forum, which includes Investec Bank Limited and Investec Bank Mauritius Limited.
The use of these committees ensures that capital is actively managed from the lowest and most detailed reporting level and cascades up to the ultimate responsible body the BRCC.
The following areas within the group have speci c operational capital management responsibilities: Business units, in particular those who conduct their business out of a regulated entity and use large amounts of capital Private Bank and Capital Markets : The transactional consultants within the business units consider the capital requirements and the projected return on this capital as part of the deal approval process.
Pricing explicitly takes into account capital usage Management are responsible for translating their detailed individual strategies into a bottom-up capital usage projection for incorporation into the group capital plan.
These plans assist senior management with prioritising the use of our available capital 198 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Group Finance: Regulatory reporting is the responsibility of a dedicated team within group Finance, who are responsible for ensuring regulatory capital requirements are continuously met The use of internal Financial control, through the capital management function, is responsible for the development capital means that and implementation of the internal capital framework and to manage and report on regulatory capital requirements.
The development of the internal capital framework includes the result of all transactions analysis performed by Risk Management are considered The capital management function also co-ordinates, with assistance from business units, the in the context of development of the groups capital plan the impact on the As part of the responsibility for the internal capital framework, the allocation of capital is managed centrally by group Finance allocation of our As with Risk Management, the group Finance IT division plays a critical role in ensuring the capital resources, integrity of the ledger and all supporting applications which contribute to the regulatory and and hence on business intelligence reporting processes.
the basis of their Risk management: contribution to The credit approval process for each relevant transaction is approved only after review and return on risk approval by our central credit risk management team.
Capital usage forms an explicit part of the approval process adjusted internal For exposures which generate market risk, the market risk management team quantify and capital.
monitor market risk generated by trading activities.
Traded market risk is closely monitored by our various risk management fora As part of Operational Risk Management, a process managed by centralised operational risk management and embedded risk managers within each business unit identify, assess and quantify key operational risks arising from Investecs operations.
Quanti cation is then used as the basis for the operational risk capital used held via the internal capital framework Underpinning all risk management functions is their IT support division, which ensures that all applications used to calculate and report risk are functioning properly and reconcile to underlying source systems.
Board and group executive: The board has ultimate responsibility for the oversight of day-to-day risk management, capital management and ensuring that both risk and capital are managed commensurate with our strategy and risk appetite.
This responsibility is mandated to BRCC The BRCC has delegated management of capital to the DLC capital committee and risk management to ERRF.
Regulatory considerations capital management The regulation and supervision of financial institutions continues to undergo signi cant change in response to the global financial crisis.
Changes to rules fide ning eligibility of qualifying capital and the risk weighting of asset classes proposed under the so-called Basel III and capital requirement directive amendments pose the largest potential changes to the groups balance sheet management priorities.
These guidelines have yet to be implemented into law within the groups operating jurisdictions, and therefore remain subject to re nement and change.
In addition to Basel III there are a number of sources of potential regulatory change that may affect our capital suf ciency and balance sheet management functions, each of which are closely monitored.
The DLC capital committee is responsible for ensuring that the impact of any regulatory change is analysed, understood and prepared for.
To allow the committee to carry out this function, the groups regulatory and capital management teams closely monitor regulatory developments and regularly present to committee on latest developments.
As part of any assessment the committee is provided with analysis showing the groups capital suf ciency taking into account the most up to date interpretation of those changes.
In addition, regular sessions with the board are held to ensure that members are kept up to date with the most salient changes and their impact on the group and its subsidiaries.
199 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Capital disclosures in terms of Basel II The tables that follow provide information as required in terms of Basel II.
Accounting and regulatory treatment of group subsidiaries Investec plc and Investec Limited are the two listed holding companies in terms of the DLC structure.
Investec Bank plc IBP and Investec Bank Limited IBL are the main banking subsidiaries of Investec plc and Investec Limited, respectively.
Investec Bank Australia Limited IBAL is a subsidiary of IBP.
The regulatory treatment of the groups principal subsidiaries and associates is set out below: Investec plc Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major Entities that impediments on the % are given a transfer of funds and Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of regulatory capital within interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation the Investec plc group Bank controlling company Subject to Yes UK None Investec plc consolidated supervision Investec 1 Limited Subject to 100% Yes UK None consolidated supervision Regulated subsidiaries Banking and securities trading Investec Capital Asia Limited Hong Kong 100% Yes Hong Kong Subject to regulatory rules Securities and Futures Commission Hero Nominees Limited Guernsey 100% Yes Guernsey Subject to regulatory rules Financial Services Commission Investec Bank Australia Australian 100% Yes Australia Subject to regulatory rules Limited Prudential Regulation Authority ASIC AUSTRAC Investec Bank plc FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Investec Bank Channel Guernsey Financial 100% Yes Guernsey and Subject to regulatory rules Islands Limited Services Jersey Commission Jersey Financial Services Commission Investec Bank Switzerland Swiss Financial 100% Yes Switzerland Subject to regulatory rules AG Market Supervisory Authority Investec Ireland Limited The Central Bank 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules of Ireland Investec Trust Guernsey Guernsey Financial 100% Yes Guernsey Subject to regulatory rules Limited Services Commission Investec Trust Jersey Jersey Financial 100% Yes Jersey Subject to regulatory rules Limited Services Commission Investec Trust Switzerland Association Roman 100% Yes Switzerland Subject to regulatory rules S. A. des Intermediaries 200 Financiers 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major Entities that impediments on the % are given a transfer of funds and Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of regulatory capital within interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation the Investec plc group Regulated subsidiaries continued Investec Securities US LLC Securities and 100% Yes USA Subject to regulatory rules Exchange Commission and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Kensington Mortgage FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Company Limited Kensington Personal Loans FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Limited NUA Homeloans Limited The Central Bank 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules of Ireland NUA Mortgages Limited The Central Bank 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules of Ireland Start Mortgages Limited The Central Bank 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules of Ireland Investec Wealth & Investment FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Limited formerly Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited Investec Wealth & Investment FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Trustees Limited formerly Rensburg Sheppards Trustees Limited Hargreave Hale Limited FSA 33.18% ProporUK Subject to regulatory rules tionately Consolidated Asset Management Investec Asset Management FSA, Australian 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Limited Securities Investment Commission Investec Asset Management FSA, Securities 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules US Limited and Exchange Commission Investec Fund Managers FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Limited Investec Asset Management Hong Kong 100% Yes Hong Kong Subject to regulatory rules Asia Ltd Securities and Futures Commission Investec Asset Management Guernsey 100% Yes Guernsey Subject to regulatory rules Guernsey Limited Financial Services Commission Investec Asset Management The Central Bank 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules Ireland Limited of Ireland Investec Asset Management Taiwan Financial 100% Yes Taiwan Subject to regulatory rules Taiwan Limited Supervisory Commission 201 Investec Asset Management Australian Securities 100% Yes Australia Subject to regulatory rules Australia Pty Ltd and Investment Commission 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Investec plc continued Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major Entities that impediments on the % are given a transfer of funds and Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of regulatory capital within interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation the Investec plc group Asset Management continued Not regulated subject to consolidated Unregulated subsidiaries supervision Investec Holding Company 100% Yes UK None Limited Investec Group UK plc 100% Yes UK None Investec Asset Finance plc 100% Yes UK None Leasedirect Finance Limited 75% Yes UK None Investec Finance plc 100% Yes UK None Investec Group Investments 100% Yes UK None UK Limited Investec Trust Holdings AG 100% Yes Switzerland None Investec Trust Switzerland 100% Yes Switzerland None S. A. Kensington Group plc 100% Yes UK None Kensington Mortgages 100% Yes UK None Limited Newbury Park Mortgage 100% Yes UK None Funding Limited Rensburg Sheppards plc 100% Yes UK None St Jamess Park Mortgage 100% Yes UK None Funding Limited Investec Experien Pty Limited 100% Yes Australia None Guinness Mahon & Co 100% Yes UK None Limited Investec Limited Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major impediments on the Entities that transfer of funds and % are given a regulatory capital within Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of the Investec Limited interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation group Bank controlling company Investec Limited SARB 100% Yes SA None Regulated subsidiaries banking and securities trading Investec Bank Limited SARB 100% Yes SA None Investec Bank Mauritius Bank of Mauritius 100% Yes Mauritius None Limited Investec Securities Limited JSE, FSB, BESA, 100% Yes SA None SAFEX Asset Management Investec Asset Management 100% Yes SA None Holdings Pty Ltd 202 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Investec Limited continued Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major impediments on the Entities that transfer of funds and % are given a regulatory capital within Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of the Investec Limited interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation group Asset Management continued Investec Asset Management FSB SAFEX 100% Yes SA None Pty Ltd Investec Fund Managers FSB SAFEX 100% Yes SA None SA Ltd Insurance Investec Employee Bene ts FSB 100% Deconsolidated SA None Holdings Pty Ltd Investec Employee Bene ts FSB 100% Deconsolidated SA None Ltd Investec Assurance Limited FSB and Long-Term 100% Deconsolidated SA None Insurance Act Not regulated subject to consolidated Unregulated subsidiaries supervision Reichmans Holdings Limited 100% Yes SA None AEL Investment Holdings 100% Yes SA None Pty Ltd Investpref Ltd 100% Yes SA None KWJ Investments Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Securities Equities Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Sechold Finance Services 100% Yes SA None Pty Ltd Investec Personal Financial 100% Yes SA None Services Pty Ltd Fedsure International Ltd 100% Yes SA None Investec Share Plan Services 100% Yes SA None Pty Limited Investec International 100% Yes SA None Holdings Gibraltar Ltd World Axis Management Pty 100% Yes SA None Limited Investec Group Data Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Fuzztique Pty Limited 100% Yes SA None Investec Property Group 100% Yes SA None Holdings Ltd There are no current or foreseen material practical or legal impediments to the prompt transfer of capital resources or repayment of liabilities among the parent undertaking and its subsidiary undertakings, other than indicated on the table above.
203 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Capital structure Summary information on the terms and conditions of the main features of all capital instruments is provided on pages 374 to 376.
The information for Investec plc includes the information for IBP and IBAL.
The information for Investec Limited includes the information for IBL.
The information for IBP includes the information for IBAL.
204 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Capital requirements Investec Investec plc IBP IBAL Limited IBL mn mn A$mn Rmn Rmn As at 31 March 2011 Capital requirements 983 872 442 16 377 15 537 Credit risk prescribed standardised exposure classes 769 707 385 11 869 11 662 Corporates 225 219 295 7 541 7 369 Secured on real estate property 268 259 6 1 166 1 166 Counterparty risk on trading positions 18 17 9 395 364 Short term claims on institutions and corporates 20 19 3 1 553 1 553 Retail 53 53 11 291 291 Institutions 20 20 12 845 841 Other exposure classes 165 120 49 78 78 Securitisation exposures 23 23 450 450 Equity risk standardised approach 21 21 8 2 160 2 109 Listed equities 2 2 3 346 295 Unlisted equities 19 19 5 1 814 1 814 Market risk portfolios subject to internal models approach 52 50 2 129 90 Interest rate 14 14 1 40 40 Foreign exchange 20 20 21 21 Commodities 1 1 1 Equities 18 16 67 28 Operational risk standardised approach 118 71 47 1 769 1 226 As at 31 March 2010 Capital requirements 901 720 376 14 465 13 272 Credit risk prescribed standardised exposure classes 724 591 323 11 516 10 965 Corporates 234 230 232 7 481 6 991 Secured on real estate property 237 190 5 1 000 1 000 Counterparty risk on trading positions 20 20 5 321 321 Short term claims on institutions and corporates 33 28 4 1 282 1 221 Retail 44 44 16 698 698 Institutions 10 10 9 661 661 Other exposure classes 146 69 52 73 73 Securitisation exposures 20 19 356 356 Equity risk standardised approach 16 16 8 717 697 Listed equities 2 2 2 55 35 Unlisted equities 14 14 6 662 662 Market risk portfolios subject to internal models approach 23 23 2 154 91 Interest rate 12 12 2 31 31 Foreign exchange 1 1 31 31 Commodities 1 1 Equities 10 10 91 28 Operational risk standardised approach 118 71 43 1 722 1 163 Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc: IBAL is Investec Bank Australia Limited and IBL is Investec Bank Limited.
207 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Risk management continued Analysis of rated counterparties in each standardised credit exposure class Investec plc The table below shows the exposure amounts associated with the credit quality steps and relevant risk weightings.
As a result, the rating agencies have assigned ratings to the signi cant banking entities within the group, namely Investec Bank plc, Investec Bank Limited and Investec Bank Australia Limited.
Certain rating agencies have assigned ratings to the holding companies, namely, Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Our ratings as at 31 March 2011 are as follows: Investec Bank Investec Australia Investec Bank plc Limited Bank Limited a subsidiary a subsidiary a subsidiary of of Investec Investec of Investec Rating agency Investec plc Investec plc Bank plc Limited Limited Fitch Individual rating C C C C Support rating 5 2 5 2 Foreign currency Short-term F3 F2 F3 F3 Long-term BBB BBB BBB BBB National Short-term F1 zaf Long-term A zaf Moody's Bank financial strength rating D CCForeign currency Short-term deposit rating Non prime Prime-3 Prime-2 Prime-2 Long-term deposit rating Ba1 Baa3 Baa2 A3 National Short-term P1 za Long-term Aa2 za Global Local currency Credit Short-term rating A2 A1 za Ratings Long-term rating BBB AAza 210 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Internal audit Internal audit activity is governed by an internal audit charter, approved by the group audit committees and reviewed annually.
The charter fide fines the purpose, authority and responsibilities of the function.
As a result of the regulatory responsibilities arising from the DLC structure, there are two group internal Internal Audit audit departments located in London and Johannesburg, responsible for Investec plc and Investec provides objective Limited respectively.
Investec Bank Australia Limited has its own internal audit function reporting into Investec plc Internal Audit.
In combination, the functions cover all the geographies in which and independent Investec operates.
These functions use a global risk-based methodology and cooperate technically assurance, via and operationally.
the group audit The heads of Internal Audit report at each audit committee meeting and have a direct reporting line to committees, to the chairman of the audit committee.
They operate independently of executive management but have the management access to their local chief executive of cer.
The head of Investec plc Internal Audit is responsible for coordinating internal audit efforts to ensure coverage is global and departmental skills are leveraged and board of in order to maximise ef ciency.
For administrative purposes the heads of Internal Audit also report to Investec about the global head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
The adopted functions comply with the risk management, international standards for the professional practice of internal auditing.
control and Annually, Internal Audit conducts a formal risk assessment of the entire business from which a governance comprehensive risk-based audit plan is derived.
The assessment and programme are validated by executive management and approved by the responsible audit committee.
High risk businesses and processes processes are audited annually, with other areas covered at regular intervals based on their risk pro le.
There is an ongoing focus on identifying fraud risk as well as auditing technology risks given Investecs dependence on IT systems.
Internal Audit also liaises with the external auditors and other assurance providers to enhance ef ciencies in terms of combined assurance.
The annual plan is reviewed regularly to ensure it remains relevant and responsive, given changes in the operating environment.
The audit committee approves any changes to the plan.
Signi cant control weaknesses are reported, in terms of an escalation protocol, to the audit and compliance implementation forums, where remediation procedures and progress are considered and monitored in detail by management.
The audit committee receives a report on signi cant issues and actions taken by management to enhance related controls.
Internal Audit proactively reviews its practices and resources for adequacy and appropriateness, to meet our increasingly demanding corporate governance and regulatory environment including the requirements of King III in South Africa.
The audit teams comprise well-quali ed, experienced staff to ensure that the function has the competence to match Investecs diverse requirements.
Where speci c specialist skills or additional resources are required, these are obtained from third parties.
Internal audit resources are subject to review by the respective audit committees.
211 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance
