Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:16 Page 28 Business Review Risk Management Report Responsibility and accountability for risk management is shared Corporate governance and oversight across all Group companies, with ultimate responsibility resting with Our risk governance framework acknowledges that responsibility for the Board.
Each operating company maintains controls and the management of risk resides with the operational management of procedures appropriate to its own business and regulatory our businesses, and allocates responsibility for the oversight of risk environment while conforming to Group standards and guidelines.
management to the local Boards and Audit & Risk Committees.
The identification and mitigation of major business risks is the This structure operates across our international operations with responsibility of operational management and the Board.
ultimate responsibility and oversight resting with the Group Board and the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
As a global company JLT faces a range of risks, each of which has the potential to impact on financial performance or the achievement of strategic business objectives.
JLT's Group-wide risk management Principal risks activities are supported and co-ordinated through a centralised The principal risks faced by the Group are summarised in the table Group risk management team.
Assurance is gained through opposite.
financial, operational, compliance and quality based auditing.
Significant failures are reported to the executive directors to ensure Financial risks that remedial action is taken.
The principal financial risks are also discussed in more detail in the The responsibility for internal controls within associated undertakings Finance Directors Review on pages 23 to 27. rests essentially with the senior management of those operations, the role of the Group being to monitor its investments and to exert influence, normally through Board representation.
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Groups risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board has undertaken a review and is satisfied that appropriate processes and procedures are in place within the Group's businesses.
In view of the continued expansion of the Group these need to be continually monitored to ensure that they keep pace with the requirements of the business.
Further review and development of the Group's risk management and control framework will be undertaken in 2012.
28 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011
