Risks and Risk Management Risk is the potential for events and consequences to occur that can create either threats to success or opportunities for benefit.
JLIF has a Comprehensive Threats to the success of the business could include impairment to the Risk Management Framework Groups business model, reputation or financial condition.
Alternatively, to identify risks in advance under a well-formed risk management framework, potential risks can be identified in advance and converted into opportunities.
to create opportunities or The Prospectus details all the potential risks that could occur in a PPP prepare for mitigation.
In the normal course of business, each asset will have a rigorous risk management framework with a comprehensive risk register that is reviewed and updated regularly and approved by its Board.
The purpose of JLIFs risk management policies and procedures is not to completely eliminate risk, as this is not possible: rather it is to ensure that JLIF is adequately prepared to deal with risks should they crystallise and reduce the likelihood of them occurring.
Risk identification and monitoring JLIF has a comprehensive risk management framework and Risk Register that assesses a the probability of each identified risk being realised: and b the impact it may have on JLIF.
This is captured in a rating system assigning a 1, 2 or 3 to the probability and to the magnitude of the impact 1 being the least probable, smallest impact and 3 being most probable, maximum impact.
These values are then multiplied together and the risk register is calibrated to determine the severity of the risk.
The following redamber-green system below is used: Red score 6 very likely to occur or has occurred in the recent past: significant potential impact on the firms stakeholders, reputation and or profits if risk occurred.
Amber score 3-5 likely to occur, with a medium reputational and or impact on profits if the risk did occur.
Green score 1-2 very unlikely to occur, minor impact if risk did crystallise.
Against each risk is identified any mitigating control or managing factors which can be applied to reduce the likelihood and or severity of that risk.
The risks are then each re-evaluated against that mitigation to review their severity and actions are put into place to enact the actions identified.
The Risk Register is a live document which is updated frequently as new risks emerge and existing risks either increase or decrease in potential probability and impact.
The Risk Register is presented to the JLIF Board at each Board meeting for consideration and approval.
John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited 28.
The SPVs have very experienced general managers who report to their By proportionately exposing income to inflation to match the underlying individual Boards.
The general managers are based on site and cost base, this occurs naturally.
maintain relationships between the SPV, clients, sub-contractors and In some cases, the public sector client wishes the whole UP to be other partners.
This ensures effective management of potential risks, indexed.
In these cases the project company typically uses an index such that the SPVs can reasonably foresee risks and implement a swap to fix the fixed costs and leaves a proportion of the income free of mitigation strategy, which maintain a robust investment.
the swap so that it moves with inflation to match the service cost JLIFs Risk Register covers four main areas of risk: inflation liabilities.
Strategic, Economic and External The outturn position of fixed versus inflation-hedged costs is not 2.
Operational, Business, Processes and Resourcing usually perfectly correlated and a small amount of flexibility is allowed 3.
Financial within the projects to ensure robustness.
Compliance Law approximate correlation to inflation is 0.5: therefore, for every percentage point increase in inflation above the assumed level, returns Each aspect of the Risk Register is explained in detail below.
The effect is broadly symmetrical and so a fall in inflation would produce a similar but opposite effect.
Strategic, Economic and External For the UK projects which are linked to RPI or RPIX, the assumed level Currency Risk of inflation is 2.75%.
This affords the Company relative protection to The Portfolio currently contains three assets that are exposed to foreign inflation, because current inflation is running at a higher rate than exchange movements: Abbotsford Hospital and Vancouver Hospital in assumed in the underlying assets.
Canada and the E18 road in Finland.
As at 31 December 2011 these assets represented 24.7% of the Portfolio Value and individually: Acquisitions and Pipeline 15.9% Abbotsford Hospital JLIF has the objective to grow by acquisition of further assets from John Laing and from third parties.
There is the risk that these 4.6% Vancouver Hospital acquisitions may not materialise.
However, JLIF is protected by the 4.2% E18 first offer agreement which it has with John Laing which gives it access to a significant pipeline of infrastructure projects, valued at around This mix of currencies provides the Group with an element of 355 million for the next three years.
These are assets that have diversification across countries and currencies.
However, the net asset already reached financial close and are either in their construction value of these three projects will vary in Sterling terms due to currency period currently or are already in their operational period.
Over the longer term, this exposure is not intended to be hedged.
Over the shorter term, cash distributions arising from these JLIF has invested 110 million in new assets during 2011.
These assets projects will be monitored and hedged if appropriate.
Furthermore, compliment the Companys Investment Policy.
For details of how these should the Group enter into borrowings: these may be in foreign funds have been invested and continue to diversify the Portfolio please currency as a partial hedge.
refer to the Investor Adviser Report and the Portfolio Value Breakdown contained within this Annual report.
Inflation Risk JLIF is actively defining its acquisition strategy and is keen to engage The underlying assets in the Portfolio have some exposure to inflation.
in acquisitions of third party assets, as opposed to solely John Laing Each asset receives a Unitary Payment UP from a public sector assets.
Third party acquisitions allow JLIF the opportunity to expand its client.
This UP is paid every year from the end of construction until the diversification to co-shareholders, contractors, clients, sectors and contract expires, which is typically around 25 years.
countries and add shareholder value through opportunistic acquisitions that will enhance the Portfolio.
It is JLIFs experience that the secondary The UP is calculated to cover the costs of financing the project loans market for PPP assets is currently quite active.
are borrowed to finance construction and are then repaid over the contract period and the operational costs of maintaining the asset.
Funding of Acquisitions and Future Equity Raising Operational costs include soft services, for example, cleaning and catering: and hard services, replacing roofs, lifts, glazing etc.
The UP To achieve JLIFs stated ambition to acquire assets there is the risk that flows in a waterfall through the project to pay for operational costs first, these cannot be funded.
In March 2011, JLIF procured a 25 million then senior debt and finally equity.
multi currency acquisition facility to enable it to make acquisitions in between equity raisings.
This facility, increased to 60 million in Debt costs in the underlying assets are fixed through the use of September 2011, affords JLIF the flexibility to capitalise on opportunities interest rate swaps or fixed rate loans when the contract is signed: as and when they arise outside of capital raising periods.
therefore, interest rates do not affect the loan exposure on the project.
In each project company, the forthcoming principle repayments and The success of JLIF through the IPO to the date of writing leads us to interest costs on the loan are, therefore, fixed and visible from the believe that its strategy of raising equity capital to match an acquisition beginning of the contract.
Therefore, it is normal to fix, that is, not programme is attractive to investors.
Market intelligence researched by apply inflation to the portion of the UP related to these fixed costs.
the Company supports the appeal of infrastructure funds, particularly those that are fully seeded, and, as such, anticipate a successful capital The operational costs are affected by inflation and this needs to be raise and or tap issue during 2012 to match suitable acquisitions.
reflected in the revenue from the client.
A proportionate amount of the UP corresponding to those costs that are affected by inflation is, therefore, indexed and this rises or falls with inflation.
This creates a natural hedge, meaning a derivative does not need to be entered into in order to mitigate the effect of inflation.
Competitors Financial JLIF differentiates itself from its peer group through many factors, The financial position of JLIF is robust and the Company remains including its competitive costs of operation, diversification of assets optimistic for the year ahead and is keen to participate in acquisitions across sectors and countries, its access to the pipeline from John Laing from both John Laing and third party vendors.
The bank facility affords and the experience in managing and operating PPP assets.
As at JLIF further flexibility to grow the Portfolio as and when opportunities December 2011 JLIF does not hold any assets under construction.
JLIF believes there are sufficient investor preference, market depth The yield being delivered by the underlying projects is in line with and liquidity for all funds to operate successfully.
expectation and the Companys intention with regard to dividend payments remains the same as in the Prospectus.
UK Future of Capital Spending The risk of future UK spending in infrastructure is a risk to JLIF in the Compliance and Legal event that it is stopped or the procurement model offers such a risk JLIF is required to comply with certain London Stock Exchange and allocation that it would not be possible for JLIF to invest under its Guernsey regulatory requirements.
John Laing Capital Management current investment policy.
JLCM, as Investment Adviser to JLIF, is regulated by the FSA and The immediate direct impact for the secondary PPP market is minimal.
it is necessary to ensure that both JLIF and JLCM comply with the There is sufficient deal flow in the market to sustain the infrastructure necessary regulations.
fund sector in the short term, although there could be an influx of JLIF is well informed as to relevant legislation and guidance that has assets being disposed of in the market as primary participants look to the potential to impact the Company directly or the underlying assets.
recycle their existing equity stakes to create opportunity for bids in the Changes in law that affect funds will generally be foreseeable and new pipeline of infrastructure projects.
JLIF will have the opportunity to reflect this in its business plan and The medium to long term impact on the secondary market is difficult accommodate any negative changes as well as designing potential to determine.
There are a growing number of assets overseas which upside from any advantageous movements in law.
are procured in a similar way to those in the UK, thereby lending The most recent developments in the regulatory environment are the themselves to natural diversification by UK dominated infrastructure Bribery Act, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Directive funds.
On the other hand, the NIP is likely to outline projects that AIFMD and the Solvency II directive.
The Companys Investment require participation from the private sector, which would not be Adviser, JLCM has gained the most current training available to dissimilar to the principles of project finance that the market is very ensure compliance with the Bribery Act.
AIFMD is also on the horizon comfortable with.
In this scenario, the pipeline for the secondary and JLIF has representation in the current discussions.
Solvency II is market would continue to be buoyant.
not deemed to affect JLIF at this time as the directive is aimed at the insurance industry.
JLIF seeks regular advice on potential new Operational, Business, Processing and Resourcing legislation and guidance to be best prepared.
JLIF invests in low-risk operational projects: however, there are still JLIF supports regulation in the financial services industry and takes some operational risks.
These risks are identified in the Propectus.
It is a member of the Association of The majority of underlying assets are managed by John Laing under Investment Companies AIC and the Company Investment Adviser Services Agreements.
This provides JLIF with a management team JLCM is regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
of experienced professionals who, in most cases, have worked on the project for many years and in others for periods prior to achievement of financial close.
Such professionals have excellent relationships with client and co-shareholders: and a detailed understanding of the project, particularly as project managers are often based on site.
This day-today project involvement provides a foresight rarely afforded by remote management.
Potential issues can be mitigated such that the projects are minimally affected, if at all.
In the event that a project should sustain a material issue that affects its cash flows, the diversity of the JLIF Portfolio would enable it to absorb such a downside without materially impacting the overall Portfolio.
As stated in the Prospectus, JLIF will focus on projects that have completed construction and are in operation, providing yield.
Acquiring assets that are still in their construction period would be likely to deliver no yield until the project enters its operational period.
This is because the senior lenders to the projects to finance the construction of the asset do not allow distributions to be made to shareholders until the asset has been completed and the debt has begun to be repaid, although there are some exceptions.
JLIF analyses each potential acquisition on a long-term, holistic basis to ensure it fits with the existing Portfolio and the growth that JLIF would like to achieve.
John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited
