REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW OUR RISKS Our approach to managing risk BT has in place group-wide risk management processes for the Our approach to managing risk identication, evaluation, treatment and subsequent monitoring of risks which may signicantly threaten the accomplishment of our Principal risks and uncertainties objectives and long-term strategic aims.
Our risk management Our risks processes are operated within BT lines of business LoB, internal Security and resilience service units, group functions, contracts, projects and programmes and are aggregated at group level.
The approach is dened in our Major contracts group-wide risk management policies.
Pensions Management is responsible for identifying, evaluating, mitigating Growth in a competitive market and monitoring risks.
Those risks which are significant to the group Communications industry regulation are reported and monitored through the Group Risk Register GRR which is formally updated quarterly.
The GRR includes those risks Compliance in a global environment identied from across the group, which are significant as assessed Supply chain on a quantitative and qualitative basis.
Each risk, including those in the GRR, is assigned a management owner who is responsible for the ongoing monitoring of the risk including changes to the risk Risk management is integral to our business and prole and progress of the mitigations.
is central to the successful delivery of our The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that our risks are objectives.
Our risk management approach managed appropriately and, either directly or through its subsupports the creation and maintenance of committees, the Operating Committee and the Audit & Risk shareholder value whilst promoting the interests Committee, undertakes regular reviews of the management of the of our many stakeholders through the risks at group-wide, LoB, internal service units and group function safeguarding of our assets people, property levels.
and resources and of our reputation.
The Board and the Operating Committee are supported in their oversight of risk management by the Group Risk Panel who review BOARD REVIEW AND OVERSIGHT the GRR quarterly, consider new or emerging risks, make recommendations on the strength of mitigations and monitor the work of the Group Risk Management function.
Our reporting is OPERATING COMMITTEE BOARD AUDIT & structured so that emerging key issues are escalated through RISK COMMITTEE management to the Board as appropriate.
GROUP RISK PANEL LOB AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEES Principal risks and uncertainties In common with all businesses, BT is affected by a number of risks EXECUTIVE RISK REPORTING and uncertainties, some of which are not within our control.
Many of our risks are similar to those of comparable companies in terms of scale and operation.
Economic uncertainty remains a major Linked to strategy Gross, net & challenge to businesses globally and we remain conscious of those and objectives target risk risks in all our business undertakings.
Compliance in a global environment and supply chain are now recognised as principal risks Identi cation Evaluation along with those risks reported on last year which were: security and resilience: major contracts: pensions: growth in a competitive Risk registers Accept market and communications industry regulation.
Monitoring Mitigation KPIs KRIs Avoid This section highlights some of those particular risks and Early warning Transfer uncertainties affecting our business but it is not intended to be an signals Treat extensive analysis of all risk and uncertainty affecting our business.
These risks have the potential to impact our business, revenues, profits, assets, liquidity and capital resources adversely.
Our BUSINESS ACTIVITIES processes are designed to give reasonable, but cannot give absolute, assurance that the risks significant to the group are identied and addressed.
There may be risks which are unknown or which are presently judged not to be significant but later prove to be significant.
We have included comment on mitigations that we apply to help us manage the risks: however it is possible that not all of these mitigations will be successful.
The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in conjunction with the risk management process, the forward-looking statements for this document and the Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on page 162.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 39 ASSURANCE BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW OUR RISKS Our risks Major contracts We have a number of complex and high value contracts with Security and resilience certain customers.
The profitability of, and revenue arising from, BT is dependent on the secure operation and resilience of its these contracts is subject to a number of factors including: information systems, networks and data.
The scale of our variation in cost and achievement of cost reductions anticipated business and global nature of our operations means we are in the contract pricing, both in terms of scale and time: delays in required to manage significant volumes of personal and delivery or achieving agreed milestones owing to factors either commercially sensitive information.
within or outside of our control: changes in customers requirements, budgets, strategies or businesses: the BT stores and transmits data for its own purposes and on behalf performance of our suppliers: and other factors.
Any of these of customers, all of which needs to be safeguarded from factors could make a contract less profitable or even loss potential exposure, loss or corruption, and therefore receives a making.
high level of management attention and security measures.
The degree of risk varies generally in proportion to the scope Certain of our customers require specic, highly sophisticated and life of the contract and is typically higher in the early security provisioning which we are contractually obliged to meet transitional and transformational stages of the contract.
Some and through our continuing success in meeting those customer contracts require significant investment in the early requirements we are able to differentiate our offerings from stages, which is expected to be recovered over the life of the those of our competitors.
Major contracts often involve the implementation of new systems and communications networks, transformation of Impact legacy networks and the development of new technologies.
The Failure or interruption of data transfer could have a significant recoverability of these upfront costs may be adversely impacted adverse effect on the business.
A breach of our security and or by delays or failure to meet milestones.
Substantial performance resilience affecting BTs own operations or those of our risk exists in these contracts, and some or all elements of customers could lead to an extended interruption to network performance depend upon successful completion of the services and even national infrastructure.
Such failure may lead transition, development, transformation and deployment to a loss of customer confidence, termination of contracts, loss phases.
of revenue and reduced cash resources.
Additional reputational damage and financial loss may arise from a breach involving a Impact legal failing such as breaching data protection requirements.
Failure to manage and meet our commitments under these contracts, as well as changes in customers requirements, Risk mitigation budgets, strategies or businesses may lead to a reduction in our We operate well established policies addressing the security and expected future revenue, profitability and cash generation.
We resilience requirements of our operations, our systems and may lose significant revenues due to the merger or acquisition of systems operated by us for our customers.
We have a corporate customers, changes to customer strategy, business failure or resilience strategy and business continuity plans in place contract termination.
Failure to replace the revenue and designed to deal with catastrophic events including, for earnings thereby lost from such customers will lead to reduction example, major terrorist action, industrial action, cyber-attacks in revenue, profitability and cash ow.
Our mitigations for this diverse risk are continuously reviewed Risk mitigation and updated which, in 2011, led to more stringent application We have developed business processes in support of each stage of data encryption and segregation measures, the deployment of the major contract life cycle: bid, in life, renewal and of increasingly sophisticated anomaly and intrusion detection termination.
Our programme of in-life reviews has been systems, and migration to distributed and virtual data centre enhanced over the past two years and is designed to validate designs that provide much greater inherent resilience.
financial and non-financial controls over delivery of the contracts and incorporates tiered levels of dened review according to the scale and complexity of the contract.
All our contracts are subject to regular management review and many are subject to independent review both internal and external as part of that governance.
Independent review helps us identify lessons learned and to promulgate best practice through the business.
40 BUSINESS REVIEW OUR RISKS Pensions Growth in a competitive market We have a significant funding obligation to a dened benefit We operate in markets which are characterised by high levels of pension scheme.
Declining investment returns, longer life competition including: regulatory intervention on promoting expectancy and regulatory changes may result in the cost of competition: declining prices: technology substitution: market funding BTs main dened benefit pension scheme BTPS and service convergence: customer churn: declining rates of becoming a significant burden on our financial resources.
The market growth: and emerging competitors with non replicable triennial funding valuation of the BTPS at 31 December 2008 sources of competitive advantage.
and associated recovery plan was agreed with the Trustee in A significant proportion of our revenue and profit are generated February 2010.
Under this prudent funding valuation basis the in the UK telecommunications markets which are experiencing deficit was 9bn and a 17-year recovery plan was agreed.
limited growth in revenue terms and in many cases are highly Details of the valuation assumptions and recovery plan are set competitive.
Revenue from our xed line calls and lines services out in note 23 to the financial statements.
to consumers and businesses have historically been in decline.
The valuation and the recovery plan are under review by the Our ability to deliver profitable revenue growth depends on Pensions Regulator whose initial view was that they had delivering on our strategic priorities see page 11. substantial concerns with certain features of the agreement.
Their review is now on hold and is not expected to recommence Impact until the outcome of the final Court decision, including any Failure to achieve profitable revenue growth through our potential appeals, is known on the Crown Guarantee.
strategic priorities see Our business and strategy on pages 10 Accordingly, as matters stand, it is uncertain as to when they will to 13 for further details may lead to a continued decline in conclude their review.
This uncertainty is outside of our control.
revenue, erosion of our competitive position and might also lead However, we do not expect this to be before the completion of to a reduction in future profitability, cash ow and to a the next triennial funding valuation as at 31 December 2011.
As diminution in shareholder value.
is usual, BT and the Trustee will engage with the Pensions Regulator regarding the 2011 valuation.
Risk mitigation We have a clearly dened strategy aimed at delivering growth, Impact as set out on pages 10 to 13, the successful delivery of which An increase in the pension deficit and associated funding will address the need for growth in revenue.
requirements would have a direct adverse impact on the future Our strategic priorities are underpinned by our view of the cash resources of the group.
Indirectly it may also have an markets in which we operate.
Performance against our business adverse impact on the groups share price and credit rating.
A plans is closely monitored by management allowing deterioration in the credit rating would increase the groups cost interventions where appropriate.
of borrowing and may limit the availability or exibility of future funding thereby affecting the ability of the business to invest, The group has a well developed cost transformation programme pay dividends or repay debt as it matures.
in place which has achieved significant savings and which has from a profitability perspective mitigated the revenue declines Risk mitigation and helped ensure a competitive cost base.
Since the funding valuation at 31 December 2008 there have been a number of significant developments.
With effect from 1 April 2009 a number of benefit changes were implemented which reduce the cost of future benefit accruals and the associated risks.
During 2011 the UK Government decision to change the indexation of pension benets from the Retail Prices Index to the Consumer Prices Index has affected some sections of the BTPS and resulted in a significant reduction in the liabilities and associated risks.
The returns generated on the assets since 31 December 2008 have also been signicantly greater than assumed in the funding valuation.
As a result the Trustees initial estimate is that the funding valuation had reduced to 3.2bn at 31 December 2010 after the deficit payment of 0.5bn in March 2011.
We took the opportunity to accelerate the deficit payment due in December 2011 to March 2011 as it was economically advantageous to do so.
The investment performance and liability experience as well as the associated risk exposures are regularly reviewed and monitored by both the company and the Trustee of the scheme.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 41 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW OUR RISKS Communications industry regulation Compliance in a global environment Some of our activities continue to be subjected to significant Some of the countries where we operate have increased their price and other regulatory controls which may affect our market enforcement of local laws and therefore the potential impact of share, competitive position, future profitability and cash failing to comply with local and international legislative resources.
Many of our wholesale xed network activities in the requirements has increased signicantly.
Legislation is UK are subject to significant regulatory controls.
The controls increasingly multi jurisdictional and the potential penalties, regulate, among other things, the prices we can charge for many including fines, that have been levied against a number of of our services and the extent to which we have to provide organisations, have grown in frequency and value.
In recent years the effect of these controls Legal compliance obligations include antitrust and antihas required us to reduce our prices, although in some recent corruption legislation, competition law, data privacy, trade cases, prices have been allowed to increase in real terms.
sanctions, import and export controls, taxation and Regulatory authorities may increase the severity of the price telecommunications regulatory requirements.
The UK Bribery controls, extend the services to which controls apply or extend Act which comes into effect in July 2011 with increased the services which we provide to other CPs.
These controls may penalties for non-compliant businesses introduces the offence adversely affect our market share, our ability to compete and of failing to prevent bribery.
With the breadth of BTs operations our future profitability and cash resources.
Wholesale customers and complex commercial relationships we must ensure that we may also raise disputes with Ofcom, seeking lower prices on and our business partners are compliant as a continuing priority.
wholesale services which are not subject to direct price control.
Impact Impact Failure to comply with legal requirements can have a significant In recent years, changes in price controls have required us to impact and lead to a loss of reputation and damage to our brand reduce our prices and in some instances to make payments in with investors, regulators and customers.
Non-compliance with respect of retrospective price adjustments.
Additional or more legislation, including requirements to maintain adequate substantial regulatory price reductions could constrain our systems and controls, may also lead to prosecution, penalties revenue growth.
Regulatory actions may also indirectly affect and in some cases could lead to litigation and loss of revenues us.
For example, Ofcom has reduced the mobile termination and loss of profits.
rates that mobile network operators can charge to terminate Failure by our employees, suppliers or agents to comply with calls on their network.
There will be a stepped reduction in anti-bribery and corruption legislation including the US Foreign prices over four years starting from April 2011.
This regulatory Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act, or any failure in action will have a significant impact on future transit revenues in our policies and procedures to monitor and prevent nonthe UK and Europe.
compliance, anywhere in the world, could result in substantial We may be required to provide new services to wholesale penalties, criminal prosecution and significant damage to our customers on a non-discriminatory basis, increasing our costs reputation.
Disputes may result either in reduced revenue or increased costs going forward.
We may also Risk mitigation be required to make retrospective payments to CPs if it is ruled We have in place a number of established controls to address that past charging mechanisms we have applied have this risk including: a clear and comprehensive code of conduct, overcharged CPs.
Appeals may change Ofcoms decisions, which The Way We Work, which is part of the mandatory training of had originally been concluded in our favour.
all employees: compliance policies: global training programmes promoting adherence to applicable laws: a BT Ethics programme Risk mitigation introduced to increase the due diligence of our suppliers, We continuously monitor and review potential regulatory contractors, agents and business consultants: and a programme changes and disputes, and maintain a strategic dialogue with of assurance within the business.
On a regular basis, we also regulators and other key inuencers on critical issues.
review our anti-corruption and bribery measures and are implementing additional procedures.
42 BUSINESS REVIEW OUR RISKS Supply chain We are dependent upon our supply chain for the delivery of goods and services on time, to cost and specication.
A number of factors, including the continuing economic uncertainty have contributed to a heightening of the risk of this reliance.
Failure of any of our critical suppliers to meet agreed deliverables could adversely impact our customer service, product launch, business critical systems updates, revenues or cost efficiency.
BT is committed to ensuring that all dealings with suppliers, from selection and consultation, to contracting and payment are conducted in accordance with our trading and ethical policies.
Our supply chain is truly global and we aim to harness the capability, diversity and innovation of our supply market to add value to our business and customers.
Many suppliers are being impacted by the economic downturn and the challenges of globalisation.
This is introducing further risk in our supply chain which includes, but is not limited to: increase in supplier insolvency: lack of supplier resilience following a disaster: corporate social responsibility risks in our extended supply chain: and security risks relating to data protection.
Impact Our suppliers could be adversely affected by economic conditions which in turn could impact their ability to meet their obligations to us or, in the extreme, cause them to fail.
If we are unable to contract with an alternative supplier our customer commitments could also be compromised leading to contractual breach, loss of revenue, penalties or increased costs.
A failure in our supply chain to meet legal obligations or ethical expectations could adversely impact our reputation or possibly lead to censure, legal action and financial loss.
Risk mitigation We continue to mitigate this risk through a number of measures including: globally coordinated vendor management programmes: rigorous bid controls: supplier risk assessments including focus on our most critical suppliers: our Procurement Academy Programme, an internal training initiative: anticorruption and bribery awareness training: and CR and Compliance Health Checks.
We work with our suppliers to ensure that the goods and services that we buy are made, delivered and disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible manner.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 43 BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW 45 INTRODUCTION FROM THE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR 54 FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESOURCES 54 Summarised balance sheet 46 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 56 Acquisitions and disposals 46 Summarised income statement 56 Legal proceedings 46 Group results 56 Principal accounting policies, critical accounting estimates 46 Outlook and key judgements 46 Revenue 47 Other operating income 56 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES 47 Transforming our cost base 56 Introduction 48 Adjusted EBITDA 56 Specic items 49 Operating profit 57 EBITDA 49 Net finance expense 57 Adjusted earnings per share 49 Associates and joint ventures 58 Free cash ow 49 profit before taxation 58 Net debt 49 Taxation 49 Adjusted earnings per share 50 Dividends 50 LIQUIDITY 50 Free cash ow 50 Summarised cash ow statement 51 Taxation 52 FUNDING AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 52 Capital management and funding policy 54 Contractual obligations and commitments 54 Off-balance sheet arrangements 54 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about interest, foreign exchange, credit and liquidity risks 54 Going concern 44
