Business review Principal risks and uncertainties BTGs performance and prospects may be The most significant risks identified in an affected by risks and uncertainties relating to annual update of the Groups risk register its business and to the environment in which that could materially affect the Groups it operates.
ability to achieve its financial and operating objectives are summarised in this section.
The Groups internal controls include a risk Other risks are unknown or deemed management process to identify key risks immaterial.
and, where possible, manage the risks through its systems and processes and by implementing specific mitigation strategies.
The Groups risk management processes are described further in the corporate governance report on pages 44 to 51.
Risks and mitigating actions for 2010 11 Risk Controls and mitigating actions Interruption of product supply Rigorous monitoring of suppliers: dual sourcing implemented BTG relies on third-party contractors for the supply of key wherever possible: inventories monitored through sales and materials and services, such as filling and freeze-drying of operational planning process and production changes end products.
These processes carry risks of failure and implemented where needed to ensure continued product loss of product.
Problems at contractors facilities may lead supply: regular checks made on sheep flock health: disaster to delays and disruptions in supplies.
Some materials and recovery plans in place.
services may be available from one source only and regulatory requirements make substitution costly and time-consuming.
BTGs polyclonal antibody products rely on serum produced from our sheep flocks in Australia, which could be subject to disease outbreaks.
BTG relies on its single site in Wales for supply of manufactured product, with the consequent possibilities for disruption to supplies.
Patent validity, patent infringement litigation and Dedicated internal resource supplemented by external changes in patent laws expertise monitors patent portfolio and third-party patent In common with all patents, BTGs patents can be subject applications: processes in place to automate patent to challenge at any time.
Challenges can relate to the validity renewals: internal controls established to avoid disclosure of patents or to alleged infringement of others intellectual of patentable material prior to filing patent applications.
property, which might result in litigation costs and or loss of earnings.
BTG might be obliged to sue third-parties for their infringement of its patents.
Failure by BTG to maintain or renew key patents might lead to losses of earnings and liability to suit from both the licensee and licensor.
BTG may not be able to secure the necessary intellectual property rights in relation to products in development, limiting the potential to generate value from these products.
Changes in patent laws and regulations in territories where BTG conducts its business that make it more difficult or time-consuming to prosecute patents, or which reduce the exclusivity period for granted patents, could adversely impact the Groups financial performance.
BTGs patent portfolio is currently subject to several challenges.
25 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks and mitigating actions for 2010 11 Risk Controls and mitigating actions Patent expiry, product supply, safety or compliance issues, New royalty streams may emerge from our licensing or competition may reduce current revenues activities.
For example, ZYTIGA abiraterone acetate BTGs key current royalty-generating products are expected was approved as a treatment for men with advanced to continue to provide royalty revenues until their patents prostate cancer in April 2011 and BTG will earn a royalty or licence agreements expire.
Any unforeseen patent loss, on all sales: additional future royalty streams would result supply, safety or compliance issues with these products if alemtuzumab is approved to treat multiple sclerosis could result in premature cessation of the revenues.
and AZD9773 CytoFab if approved to treat severe sepsis.
BTG acquired Biocompatibles International plc in January BTG also earns revenues from sales of its acute care 2011 and acquired a portfolio of marketed products, products CroFab and DigiFab.
CroFab is patent protected providing another revenue stream and reducing the reliance but DigiFab has no patent protection: both products are on revenues from the acute care products.
Mitigations with protected by significant know-how and complex manufacturing respect to the Bead products include product development, processes, and BTG expects revenues to continue regardless geographic expansion and the conduct of clinical studies of patent protection.
However, future competition cannot be to expand Bead product sales.
ruled out and competing products could materially adversely impact BTGs financial results.
BTGs Bead products are subject to competition.
Product liability and other risks may not be capable of being BTG maintains product liability insurance and operates adequately insured quality systems relating to the manufacture of its products The manufacturing, testing, marketing and sale of BTGs and a pharmacovigilance system to monitor safety events products involve significant product liability and business arising with respect to products sold.
As the developer, manufacturer and seller of certain products, BTG may be held liable for death or personal injury to persons receiving the products during the development phase or after the product is approved.
26 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Risk Controls and mitigating actions Failure to comply with regulations may result in prosecutions A Code of Conduct has been provided to all employees The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and the supported by an ongoing training programme: compliance Group must comply with a broad range of regulations relating systems are in place to ensure sales and marketing to the development, approval, manufacturing and marketing activities comply with regulations in the US and other of its products.
This is particularly true in the US, from which territories: standard operating procedures in place to the Group derives most of its revenues and where the Group ensure compliance with good clinical and manufacturing is establishing its own sales and marketing operations.
practice, monitored through quality control systems.
Regulatory regimes are complex and dynamic, and alterations to the regulations may result in delays in product development or in the products becoming non-approvable.
Ensuring compliance with such regulations necessitates allocation of significant financial and operating resources.
Failure to comply with relevant rules, laws and regulations may result in criminal and civil proceedings against the Group.
Significant breaches could result in large financial penalties, which could materially adversely impact the Groups financial performance and prospects.
Moreover, failure by BTG or a BTG partner company to comply with regulations may result in a product being withdrawn from market with a subsequent loss of revenues.
Inability to access new products and programmes may limit Dedicated product acquisition team in place: strategy is future growth to focus on niche opportunities that leverage BTGs US Other than through the CellMed subsidiary acquired with commercial operations and may be a better fit with BTG Biocompatibles, BTG does not conduct fundamental research than with other organisations.
to generate its own development programmes but instead seeks to acquire new products and late-stage development programmes from other organisations.
There is significant competition from other companies who may have greater financial resources and sales and marketing reach than BTG.
BTG may not be able to acquire suitable products and programmes, which will materially adversely impact the Groups financial future performance and growth prospects.
27 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks and mitigating actions for 2010 11 Risk Controls and mitigating actions The success of development activities is uncertain Experienced development team in place: focus is on BTG may not be able to access the later-stage development acquiring later-stage programmes that have already opportunities it seeks.
The development of medical products demonstrated proof of concept and potentially have is inherently uncertain and the timelines and costs to lower-risk development pathways: development programmes approval may vary significantly from budget or expectation.
monitored to identify risks and challenges and recommend The product may not demonstrate the expected efficacy or mitigating and corrective actions.
Certain products are safety benefits and may not be approved by the regulatory licensed to larger companies who may have greater bodies, such as the US Food and Drug Administration.
resources to support product development.
Manufacturing difficulties or patent litigation may cause programmes to be delayed or halted.
Failure of a late-stage programme such as Varisolve PEM would materially adversely impact the Groups financial prospects.
Competition may erode revenues BTG focuses on niche opportunities addressing specialist The Group operates in competitive markets.
The products markets where there is limited competition and high on which BTG currently earns revenues, or from which it barriers to entry: CroFab has no current competitor and anticipates earning revenues once on the market, face BTG estimates DigiFab has about 80% market share: competition from other products that are already approved both products are complex to manufacture.
We differentiate or in development.
Competing products may have superior the embolisation and drug-eluting bead products from efficacy and side-effect profiles, cost less to produce or be competitors by supporting clinical studies to generate offered at a lower price than BTGs products: such competition safety and efficacy data.
could materially adversely impact Group revenues.
28 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Risk Controls and mitigating actions Pricing and reimbursement pressures are increasing BTG focuses on niche products that address serious There is increasing pressure on healthcare budgets causing unmet needs: early on in a products development the payers to demand increasing treatment and economic Group conducts pricing and reimbursement studies: the benefits before agreeing to reimburse product suppliers at assessments of potential new products will include an all or at appropriate prices.
In March 2010, healthcare reform assessment of healthcare reforms on pricing and legislation was adopted in the US, requiring manufacturers reimbursement.
to increase the rebates or discounts they give on products reimbursed or paid for by public payers including Medicaid and Medicare.
The purpose of the reform is to increase healthcare coverage in the US population and to manage treatment of chronic conditions efficiently and cost effectively.
Management of acute conditions is generally not affected.
BTGs acute care and implantable oncology products treat serious medical conditions and the impact of healthcare reform on current Group revenues is not expected to be material to the Groups financial position.
If BTG acquires products in future that are more impacted by healthcare reforms, revenue expectations could be lower.
Failure of a product to qualify for government or health insurance reimbursement or the failure to achieve an appropriate sales price could adversely impact the Groups financial performance.
Currency and treasury effects can adversely impact results BTG actively manages its exchange risks where feasible, Many of BTGs revenues and receipts are denominated in using short-term hedging transactions guided by market US dollars and movements in foreign exchange rates could expectations and economic forecasts to seek to match adversely impact results.
actual receipts and payments over a rolling 12-month period to those forecast.
This policy can result in both exchange gains and losses, but provides a level of certainty over cash receipts.
29 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review
