Bumi plc | Business Review 28 Annual Report 2011 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Understanding and managing the principal risks and uncertainties that arise from pursuing the Groups objectives is important to achieving Bumi plcs success.
Bumi plcs risk management processes, summarised in the Audit Committee Report, are forward looking to make the Company more resilient and prepared for the challenges and opportunities which lie ahead.
Risk Context Impact Mitigation Coal price Coal prices could The demand and price for coal Coal price volatility can result in The Group life of mine planning uctuate unfavourably.
will be largely determined by material and adverse movement in processes consider coal price global supply and demand the Groups operating results, asset forecasts, operating costs, market and the strength of the global values, revenues and cash ows.
It demand and production capacity economic environment.
may also compromise the ability and adjust plans and activities as of the Group to adjust the timing far as possible to maintain margins.
of capital expenditure and deliver growth in future years as expansion projects may not be viable at lower prices.
Project delivery Failure to meet project The Group has high production Failure to meet project delivery Group management have a track delivery objectives, expansion targets which depend and growth timetables may affect record of delivering capital projects timetables and budgets.
on execution of significant capital operational performance, delay and has recently enhanced its team projects, in particular regarding cash inows, increase capital costs by hiring additional experienced mine infrastructure.
and reduce profitability as well project managers.
as having a negative impact on the Groups reputation.
Contractor reliance and performance Failure to effectively The Group relies on contractors Failure to manage contractors Group management have a track manage contractors for all mining operations.
effectively may affect operational record of managing contractors resulting in cost performance, delay cash inows, and works closely with them on a inefficiencies and increase capital costs and reduce day to day basis so that performance Group standards profitability as well as having issues can be addressed as soon not being met.
a negative impact on the as they arise.
At the operational level a newly formed contractor management team will, in 2012, conduct a review with a view to enhancing its procedures for managing contractors.
Country risk The Groups businesses The Group has no control over Potential impacts include The Group maintains a dialogue may be affected by political and legal changes.
It expropriation of assets, further with central and local government political and legal recognises that its licence to imposition of royalties or taxation and regulators, and responds to developments in Indonesia, operate through mining rights targeted at mining companies, developments through annual mine including changes to scal is dependent on a number of licences to operate not being planning activities.
This dialogue is and regulatory regimes.
factors, including compliance renewed and requirements for coordinated by the local external with regulations.
Political changes can also result in civil unrest and the nullification of mining permits and leases.
Associates Failure to achieve Group management is establishing Financial loss and reputational Group management seeks to align expected standards operational and governance damage may arise due to different the standards of operational and of operational performance standards for the standards of governance and governance performance of PT Bumi and governance Group.
with those of Bumi plc through performance controlled assets, including communication of requirements in associates.
associates may not adopt or and Bumi plc representation on comply with Group standards.
Business Review 29 Risk Context Impact Mitigation Health, Safety, Environment and Communities Failure to meet The transition to a UK plc Reputational damage, financial HSEC governance has been expectations and introduces new standards and impacts and operational established and continues to standards of a UK plc expectations across different disruption may arise if standards be put into place.
A risk based across HSEC areas.
HSEC areas which go beyond are not achieved.
work programme is underway the legal obligations and supported by independent advisors.
Safety Failure to maintain Achievement of a safe operating A greater number of incidents A review of existing safety practices high levels of safety environment is a legal requirement affecting the safety of employees at mine operations commenced in management can result and responsibility.
Within and contractors may lead to lost 2011 leading to the development of in harm to the Groups contracted operations this production time, compensation an improvement programme targeted employees and contractors.
depends to a large extent on the claims and enforcement of legal initially at significant risk areas.
The competency of, and controls responsibilities against those response programme will involve over, contractors.
establishing a new working model with contractors.
Environment Mining permits can be Environmental protection is an Delays to operations and production There is a dedicated environment delayed or withdrawn increasing area of focus under targets through mining permits team that monitors compliance with due to the failure to Indonesian legislation and is being deferred or withdrawn local legislation and regulations.
achieve necessary subject to global scrutiny.
and reputational and financial environmental standards, consequences from perceived or The Group plans to develop an particularly in relation actual environmental damage.
approach to enhance environmental to the conservation of management in late 2012. biodiversity, ambient noise levels and maintenance of pre-existing air and water quality.
Communities Disruption to operations Mining companies have to Failure to maintain supportive The Groups operations have a history as a result of community demonstrate long term social relationships with local communities of strong community relations, disputes.
responsibility to communities and government may adversely working collaboratively with impacted by operations.
affect the Groups reputation as well communities and local government.
as its ability to maintain operations and bring projects into production.
Enhanced working practices, aligned to international standards, are being developed during 2012.
Employees Inability to recruit, develop Local operations are subject to Possible increased costs, Local human resources teams have or retain appropriate skills competition for skilled labour.
interruptions to existing operations arrangements in place to manage for the Group.
Recruitment and retention can and delay in new projects arising recruitment and retention which will be challenging given the location from a shortage of employees, continue to receive attention in 2012 of the Groups operations.
the Groups employees having in light of the expansion targets.
inadequate skills or due to industrial disputes.
Local operations maintain an active relationship with local labour unions.
Business integrity Failure to comply with the In addition to operating in Reputational, legal and financial The development and implementation Groups Code of Conduct a country where the risk of consequences due to non-compliance of UK governance standards has including failure to prevent corruption is high as indicated by with Group policies and requirements, been a priority of the Board.
Policy acts of fraud, bribery, indices prepared by independent including anti-bribery and corruption development in key areas such as corruption or antiNGOs, the UK legal requirements legislation.
anti-bribery and corruption has competitive behaviour.
and expected practices go been progressed in conjunction beyond those commonly with operational management adopted in Indonesia.
with an implementation programme agreed for 2012.
Shareholders The actions of its Bumi plc has three significant The Groups operations and The structure of the Board, with major shareholders.
shareholders with substantial reputation could be affected a full complement of active INEDs, other business interests.
Such by the actions of its major together with a Conicts Committee shareholders or parties related to shareholders and the effects to monitor all contracts with related them may enter into contractual of related party contracts.
relationships with the Group or its associate.
Financial risk Failure to manage financial The Group carries significant Inability to execute strategy The Group has significant cash arrangements and debt and requires cash ows from not meeting short term reserves to meet short and medium operating cash ows.
term liquidity requirements and completed a $500m bond issue in March 2012.
Bumi plc | Business Review 30 Annual Report 2011 Health, Safety, Environment and Communities Overview Our HSEC programme commenced in April 2011.
A high standard of health, safety, environment and Consistent with our overall Group philosophy, our community HSEC performance is a critical goal approach is to work at a local level, building on what for the Group.
Our strategy for growth depends is already in place in the operating companies to upon operating with the support and collaboration achieve standards commensurate with those expected of governments, business partners, communities by commonly accepted international practices.
The Companys overall governance are therefore working in close collaboration with practices relating to HSEC are supported by the PTBerau to enable Group goals to be implemented values set out in the Bumiplc Code of Conduct in a practical manner.
which was adopted by the Boards of Bumiplc and PTBerau in 2011.
The transition from a national The HSEC governance model centres on the operating company environment to an international Company providing the overarching framework plc creates new obligations and expectations with of policy and guidance with local implementation regard to HSEC governance and performance.
of procedures and decisions being the responsibility We recognise that it is the duty of the Group to work of the operating companies.
Through structured towards achieving these standards and expectations.
internal reporting Bumiplc will exercise oversight This work also gives us the opportunity to contribute with appropriate Group interventions, for example to raising HSEC standards in emerging economies, in respect of capital projects and major third party which represent an increasing share of the worlds contracts.
The Group framework will be subject to mineral wealth.
Our ambition and approach is continual improvement and will form the basis for expressed through our Group Statement ofIntent.
the standard in the event of further acquisitions.
The framework will be shared with all associate and joint venture companies, including the Companys associate, PTBumi, demonstrating our intention to seek to use our inuence to raise standards inHSEC.
Group Statement of Intent Independent consultants have been retained by the Bumiplc HSEC Committee to support the Access to mineral resources is fundamental to global Committee and the Group through ongoing economic growth and their exploitation in increasingly independent review, challenge and guidance.
We believe it It is intended that the Group will build internal is the duty of international mining companies to take capacity in terms of resources and systems to enable responsibility for, and to support local managements self-sufficiency in Group HSECmanagement.
Bumi plc wants to innovate and succeed in developing We understand that the achievement of sustainable sustainable mining practices that unlock social and development requires consideration of issues wider economic capacity but at the same time conserve and than HSEC, including socio-economic development, protect social and natural heritage.
This will be challenging contractor management, human resource management and will take time.
It will require us in Bumi plc to develop a and conduct and ethics.
All of these areas will receive broader view of performance, achieve inclusive governance attention on the basis of a risk based approach to and put greater focus on long term goals achieved through prioritisation andresponse.
short to medium term milestones.
HSEC governance structure To enable us to achieve this, it is our intention to operate under the following principles: HSEC forms an integral part of our corporate governance structure.
The HSEC Committee Enable our operating companies to build the capacity see page49 was established by the Board in 2011 and understanding that is necessary for local decisions and is directly involved in overseeing the Groups and practices to deliver international standards on a approach to HSEC and ensuring that the primary consistent basis components of an HSEC governance and management Work in collaboration and partnership with government, framework are in place to demonstrate appropriate contractors and communities to achieve a shared Bumiplc oversight.
Tony Redman, an experienced governance framework that reects the interaction mining professional is the technical advisor HSEC of responsibilities and dependencies Advisor on the HSEC Committee his biography Exercise a stewardship based decision model is on page 49.
Executive responsibility is held through recognising that our activity at any asset is temporary the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, and that the social and natural environments have with the CEO having ultimate responsibility for to be sustained after mining has stopped HSECperformance.
Apply global governance that has, at its centre, adoption of local solutions that understand local One of the HSEC Committees primary considerations needs and priorities has been the introduction of a governance structure to provide guidance and oversight over HSEC operations Business Review 31 Bumi plc is committed to contributing to local and regional development to benefit the communities affected by coal operations.
In 2011, as part of the Groups community programme, PT Berau engaged with 26 villages.
across the Group and ensure clear internal reporting At PTBerau an executive HSEC Committee and accountability.
Having explored different comprising the President Director of PTBerau, structures, the structure adopted by the HSEC and members of his executive team is responsible Committee is set out below.
for overseeing and approving, amongst other matters, HSEC risks and mitigation plans, key The key parts of this structure include: operating procedures, including in relation to contractor management, integration of HSEC The Bumiplc Board level HSEC Committee into operating decisions, including capital comprising independent Non-Executive expenditure, and overall performance against Directors and also the HSEC Advisor provides plan in PTBerau strategic direction and challenge to the Board and management.
The Committee members An operational management structure in have particular understanding of the operating PTBerau which includes executive led teams environment inIndonesia for HSE and, separately, Community.
Both report directly to the President Director.
This A Bumiplc HSEC team comprising the Group structure has been revised during 2011 on the General Counsel and Company Secretary and basis of the Group recommendations.
During the HSEC Advisor has been established to provide 2012 the Group will consider how these teams, guidance and oversight over Group operations.
in particular the HSE team, achieve appropriate The Group General Counsel and Company governance and control over the contractor Secretary reports to the CEO and, with the companies responsible for mining operations HSEC Advisor, to the HSEC Committee undertaken by PTBerau HSEC governance structure PLC Committee PLC Committee PLC HSEC team HSEC team Entities PT Berau HSEC Committee Associates and joint ventures Within entities HSE Community Bumi plc | Business Review 32 Annual Report 2011 Health, Safety, Environment and Communities continued Group Model for HSEC development It also highlighted the need to further consider Through the work completed in 2011, the Group the operating model between management put in place a structured programme to establish andcontractors.
key fundamentals of HSEC governance.
It is planned that this approach will become the standard model Based on the gap analysis findings, it was determined for integration of new assets as well as the continued that strengthening of the governance framework collaboration with existing assets.
It is designed for HSEC was an essential first step.
With respect toachieve: to performance the Group determined that safety management and community development were the Collaborative working across the Group priority issues to address through the development Effective alignment of local and Group of Group standards.
This prioritisation reects needs andpriorities the operating phase of the existing mines and the Balanced decision making based on key risks demands that will be placed on management in Internal and external transparency connection with the expansion of operations.
The key steps of the model developed and applied Environmental compliance is already a priority and in 2011 to PTBerau are shown below: will be maintained, however the Group determined a stewardship based approach to environmental Gap analysis and risk based priority setting protection should start to be developed in late 2012. using international standards, including the ICMM Health management provisions and procedures and IFC frameworks as well as internationally will also be considered further in 2012. recognised internal control and reporting frameworks the Internal Controls framework: Safety COSO and Global ReportingInitiative Good safety management is recognised to be critical to the continuation and efficiency of operations.
The Design of governance framework and supporting Group has prioritised safety, along with communities, tools, including determination of operating to receive detailed attention with the intention to company HSEC structures, the relationship raise standards to an international level.
PTBerau between local and Group standards, internal is certied to OSHAS 18001 with a set of operating reporting templates, risk assessment and procedures in place which are overseen through  the HSE function.
Integration support providing guidance and Despite the focus on safety, 2011 has been a disappointing practical help to assist the operating companies year.
Four separate events in PTBerau, resulting to implement enhanced and or new procedures in four fatalities, are unacceptable to us.
There were no and review decisions and programmes fatal events in the preceding three years.
These events, and the resulting management actions agreed with Collaborative oversight involving, in addition the regulatory authorities in Indonesia, were reported to general communication, oversight by the to the Board in December 2011.
Progress will continue Bumiplc HSEC team, including attendance to be overseen by the Bumiplc HSEC Committee and where appropriate at HSEC Committee meetings Board.
The scope and quality of the lost time injury in local operations to ensure decision making frequency LTIF data is an area of focus for 2012 respects local as well as Group needs and to help with a view to achieving more complete reporting, escalation of relevant matters to the Board, and including contractors and shipping operations.
Formal reporting creating the basis for A more detailed review of safety practices in executive and Board review of progress key areas is now underway in PTBerau, which and performance against risks commenced in 2012 as part of the response to the fatal events.
This review, which is being completed Priorities for 2011 and 2012 by independent consultants, will form the basis for The HSEC gap analysis was performed in Julyan ongoing programme of work which will consider: September 2011.
It involved visits and interviews with the operating company management at the head office Model for managing contractors in Kalimantan and at two of PTBeraus operating Minimum skill requirements and training mines.
The gap analysis showed that local operations for contractors and staff were operating above the typical standard for mining B ehaviour change companies in Indonesia.
It also showed that there was Critical Standard Operating Procedures a shortfall against international expectations with a Safety performance reporting primary focus on compliance rather than risk and the implementation and enforcement of many of Progress against the work programme will be the writtenprocedures.
overseen by the HSEC Committee throughout2012.
Business Review 33 CASE STUDY COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT IN KALIMANTAN The focus for community projects and of the Dayak Punan natives.
PT Berau programmes is agreed with the local also sponsored initiatives to promote the community groups on the basis of an traditional arts of Dayak Punan natives.
Key focus areas were: Infrastructure and economic development In the agricultural sector, the priority for Education and knowledge 2011 was to work with small scale enterprises PT Berau established six dormitories for to improve productivity of 168 ha of cocoa school children from remote areas with a plantation owned by 163 local farmers as capacity for more than 400 students, and well as to assist local development of rubber almost 300 scholarships for higher education and orange plantations.
By the end of 2011, were provided.
In addition PT Berau has PT Berau had provided houses in eight villages provided more than 180 teacher scholarships with electricity, and there are plans to extend as part of a four year programme started this to more villages in 2012 as well as to begin in 2009.
In mid 2011, PT Berau began to provide wastewater treatment facilities construction of a 500 person per year training to further villages over a four year period.
centre with a focus on developing skilled mechanics and heavy equipment operators.
Health and nutrition In 2011, PT Berau provided free basic medical check ups, immunisations and food supplements to more than 5,500 local children below the age of five.
PT Berau in conjunction with the University of Indonesia and the local government launched a nutrition and health programme to promote awareness around maintaining general health within local communities.
Cultural environment To support the preservation of local culture and heritage, PT Berau sponsored cultural events of the two former sultanates of Gunung Tabur and Sambaliung.
In 2011, PT Berau, in cooperation with National Geographic Indonesia, launched a project to document the local ethnic and culture Bumi plc | Business Review 34 Annual Report 2011 Health, Safety, Environment and Communities continued Community In 2011, PTBerau spent $5.5m on these community The Group is committed to contributing to local initiatives.
PTBeraus community work is funded and regional development to benefit the communities through its normal business planning and budgeting affected by its operations.
This is achieved through processes with implementation performed by employment, provision of infrastructure and assets management working in conjunction with the for public use, as well as voluntary and statutory Dharma Bhakti Berau Coal Foundation.
Our operations have a history of strong current five year agreement 2012 to 2016 PTBerau community relations, working collaboratively with is required to invest at least $30m into community communities and local government, and the gap projects andprogrammes.
analysis work completed in 2011 showed that community programmes are well established in In addition to the community projects, PTBerau has PTBerau.
Community development programmes dened procedures for land acquisition.
Acquisition are approved in consultation with local government agreements are determined directly with the land and communities and are implemented through a owner with pricing thresholds based on past sales network of community representatives against annual transaction in the market, reecting the class of land plans.
Mine closure plans were submitted in 2011 and the type of land title held.
With the plans for mine in line with new legislative requirements and have expansion, this is a key area of focus.
As at the end been approved for all the operating mines.
These of 2011, the majority of the acquisition agreements closure plans include provision and plans for long term were in place for the areas impacted by the 2012 2013 social development.
No major events of community expansion plans.
As part of the expansion preparation, outrage or disruption have occurred in2011.
PTBerau plans to undertake its first community resettlement late in 2012.
This will involve moving However, we recognise that the relationship between 110households into threenewly built villages.
mining companies, communities and government with The planning is well progressed with all parties in respect to socio-economic contribution is under intense agreement.
This programme will be subject to review scrutiny.
We also recognise that community action through the Group monitoring processes and by against mining companies has a rising prole within externalparties.
It is therefore an area which the Group has prioritised for attention.
Environment Environmental stewardship is an important objective The Group approach is to provide and enforce for the Group recognising the sensitivity of the natural a policy and framework that enables and ensures environments in which the Group is operating.
The Group is Consistent with Indonesian regulations, environmental developing central guidance in the form of a Group planning for the mining operations commence at the Practice Guide containing the Group aims, principles mine development phase and are refreshed throughout and a framework for the planning, delivery and the operational phase in order that environmental monitoring of all community interaction.
It is based impacts of operations are mitigated and long term on commonly accepted best practice, including environmental impact ismanaged.
the World Bank and IFC standards as well as the methodologies set out by ICMM.
Responsibility for In 2011, the introduction of the mine closure plan implementation, including decisions on local priorities requirement introduced a new longer term perspective.
and methods of response, remain the responsibility These closure plans have been submitted and approved, of the operating companies.
By putting this model and reect the environmental reclamation programmes in place, the Group is confident it can achieve and already committed to by PTBerau.
Meanwhile, demonstrate a consistent and appropriate strategy shipping activities are required to comply with and approach while maintaining necessary local environmental regulations for maritime activities.
autonomy to respond in a manner suitable to localcircumstances.
Based on the gap analysis exercise, current mining operations achieved compliance in the majority of The Group Practice Guide builds on the procedures areas which are subject to environmental permit already in place and covers: conditions in 2011, including wastewater discharge, environmental impact on communities and land Community projects and programmes reclamation.
Land reclamation programmes have referred locally as CSR progressed in line with agreed 2011 plans.
PTBerau L and acquisition works with a number of universities to review the R esettlement environmental condition of reclaimed areas and D onations monitors biodiversity on an annual basis.
All of PTBeraus operations have successfully maintained It is in the process of being adopted and such adoption ISO14001 certication since 2008. will be reviewed in mid 2012. Business Review 35 The Group plans to focus on developing an as well as catering and wider service support.
environmental stewardship approach starting The contractor headcount has grown by more in late 2012.
Key areas of focus for the mining than 10%in the year.
Through 2011, PTBerau operations will be energy efficiency, carbon maintained its established employment policies impact and biodiversity management.
There recognising local legal requirements.
will be a programme to review the environmental procedures and standards in the shippingoperations.
The general approach observed in PTBerau towards human resources aligns to the principles Health that the Group is seeking to adopt, in particular: The Group recognises the increasing importance of managing health issues within the workforce.
In the Open recruitment processes that also draw case of PTBerau, all mining operations are performed on local communities where possible and as by contractors which represent the area presenting the required by law highest risks to health.
During 2012, the Group will Performance review and feedback processes work to determine how to progress an increased level that support skill development and progression of occupational health awareness and management Consideration to employee health, safety in itsoperations.
andwellbeing Pay and remuneration in line with industry Employees standard levels in country The development and well-being of our people is Clear contracting and grievance procedures important to ensure we develop the capacity we andmechanisms need to meet our business goals and play a key role in the local communities where we have operations.
Skill shortages and loss of staff to competitors in the mining industry is a key issue for all mining In 2011, the Bumiplc Board and the Board of companies in Indonesia.
To help ensure access to PTBerau approved the Bumiplc Code of Conduct skills and resources, PTBerau runs an internship which is designed to align our people around a programme for graduates in mine engineering, common purpose and set of values.
The different geology, civil engineering, forestry, environmental, cultures in which we operate create different inherent economics, and sociology.
The internship consists expectations and behaviours, and our success depends of a one year programme where successful on always operating in a manner that is consistent candidates are offered a permanentposition.
A whistleblowing helpline is also being established which is available 24 hours The Group recognises the right of its employees to a day, sevendays a week to all employees as well as freely associate and join labour unions and maintains third parties affected by our operations.
This will active relationships with those unions.
In PTBerau be communicated and adopted in 2012. almost 50% of employees are members of a labour union.
There have been no cases of strikes or As at the end of 2011, the Group had more than employee disruption occurring in 2011 in the Group.
Contractor personnel work across coal hauling and processing, maintenance, shipping and logistics Environmental stewardship is an important objective for the Group, recognising the sensitivity of the natural environment in which we operate.
Governance Governance 38 Board of Directors 40 Executive management 37 41 Governance Report 45 Board Committees 45 Audit Committee 48 Nomination Committee 48 Remuneration Committee 48 Conicts Committee 49 Health, Safety, Environment and Communities Committee 50 Remuneration Report 62 Other Statutory Information 69 Statement of Directors Responsibilities
