30 Risk management and internal controls report The Board is accountable for risk and is responsible for oversight of the risk management process.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Board Executive Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Balance Sheet Product Operations Risk Committee Management Development TCF Committee Committee Committee Committee Board Committees composed of non-executive Directors of Jupiter Fund Management plc.
The Executive Committee has operational responsibilities for Risk management and internal developing the business in accordance with the strategy and controls report objectives set by the Board.
In late 2010, it formed an executive Risk Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, to oversee the risk Risk management framework and control framework within the Group and the independent The Board has ultimate responsibility for the risk strategy of the monitoring and reporting of risk and controls.
Group and for determining an appropriate risk appetite as well as the tolerance levels within which the Group must operate.
By defining The Risk Committee is attended by all members of the Executive these, the Board demonstrates that it is aware of and, where Committee, together with the Heads of Compliance, Operational appropriate, has taken steps to mitigate the impact of risks that may Risk and Investment Risk and is responsible for the oversight of have a material impact on the Group.
strategic, operational and investment and counterparty risks within a coherent and manageable structure.
During 2011, it established The Board has established a committee structure to assist in the a separate Counterparty Review Group to assist with monitoring discharge of its responsibilities, namely the Audit, Remuneration and counterparty exposures and setting limits, at both a corporate and Nomination Committees.
Details of each of these Board Committees fund level.
and the members, roles and activities thereof are detailed in separate reports.
Each Committee reports to, and has terms of reference approved by the Board.
The minutes of the Committee meetings, where appropriate, are circulated to, and reviewed by, the Board.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Governance 31 Balance Sheet Management Committee Executive committee structure The Balance Sheet Management Committee provides support to the Executive Committee on the establishment, implementation and A description of each of the individual executive committees involved in the oversight of risk is set out below.
maintenance of adequate balance sheet management policies and procedures.
It advises the Executive Committee, on both a current Executive Committee and forecast basis, on the areas under its remit, as well as reviewing The purpose of the Committee is to provide an efficient forum for the risk and control issues facing the Group in those areas.
discussion and decision making regarding the development of the business in accordance with the strategy and objectives set by the Product Development Committee Board.
The minutes from this meeting are made available to the The purpose of the Committee is to ensure that the proposals Chairman of the Board.
The Committee meets weekly with one submitted for approval have been adequately considered to enable a meeting every fortnight having a formal agenda and minutes.
The decision in principle to proceed or not proceed, as the case may be.
following committees report to the Executive Committee.
TCF is an integral part of the Committees deliberations in respect of Risk Committee sign off, implementation and post launch analysis.
This applies to all of Jupiters product range, including UK unit trusts, SICAVs, hedge Balance Sheet Management Committee Product Development Committee funds and investment companies.
Operations Committee TCF Committee Operations Committee The purpose of the Committee is to provide a forum through which Risk Committee senior operational management from across the business can The Committee provides support to the Executive Committee on the discuss operational issues and changes to the business.
The establishment, implementation and maintenance of adequate risk Committee considers any significant errors occurring during the year management policies and procedures.
In particular, it advises the and any pertinent risk assessment findings from the Operational Executive Committee on: Risk function.
The Committee reviews Health & Safety risks and practices and any incidents that have occurred.
the appropriate level of risk to be tolerated by the Group risk appetite tolerance : TCF Committee the management of risks within the determined risk tolerances: and Through its sub-committees, the Committee seeks to ensure that funds managed by the Group and services provided to private clients the effectiveness of risk management processes across the business, including compliance with such policies and any are operated and undertaken in a manner consistent with TCF remedial action, where required.
The TCF Funds sub-committee considers the extent to which product launches and enhancements have met the Groups The Committee reviews the Groups primary risk exposures with TCF obligations.
It meets quarterly and considers available consideration of impact and probability assessments in the context management information including performance, target audience, of the Boards tolerance thresholds and ensures that the governance distribution approach, market share analysis, subscription and arrangements within the Group are effective in the mitigation of risk.
redemption patterns, administrative statistics and complaint data to consider whether the products continue to meet the general needs of The scope of the Committees remit encompasses risk control issues the target audience they were designed for and whether the facing the Group in relation to operational risk, investment risk performance is in line with what we expected and communicated to including counterparty and new product risks competency and distributors at the time of sale.
The TCF Clients sub-committee capacity aspects.
considers the private client reporting arrangements to ensure that services being provided to private clients are consistent with TCF The Risk Committee is supported by the Operational Risk objectives and that poor customer outcomes are being avoided.
It department, which provides assurance to internal and external meets quarterly and receives a pre-determined suite of reports and stakeholders on the Groups risk management activities.
It is an management information.
independent function that supports and challenges the business on their assessment of risks and controls.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 32 32 Approach to risk The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks The Board determines the appropriate tolerance approach to its risks that: within which the Group must operate.
Risk tolerances are the was in place for the year ended 31 December 2011 and up to the Groups actual boundaries and limits through which the business date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: monitors and, if appropriate, escalates concerns to the Board.
Risks is regularly reviewed by the Board and complies with the Financial and our attitude to them are considered and monitored in six Reporting Councils revised guidance for Directors on internal categories: control.
Strategic risk: the risk that the Group is unable to meet its strategic The Board is also of the view that: objectives due to matters inherent in the nature of our business or necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy any the markets in which we operate: significant failings identified as part of the ongoing risk 2.
Operational risk: the risk of loss caused by weaknesses or failures management process.
in the Groups systems and controls, related to people, systems no significant weaknesses were identified during the year.
These include risks arising from failing properly to manage key outsourced relationships: Key contracts 3.
Liquidity risk: the risk that the Group may be unable to meet its financial obligations: Jupiter has three material outsourced relationships with third-party 4.
Capital risk: the risk that the Group may lack sufficient capital to be organisations: The Northern Trust Company Northern Trust, able to continue to operate as a going concern: International Financial Data Services IFDS and HSBC Security 5.
Counterparty credit risk: the risk of loss caused by the corporate Services HSBC.
failure of one of the trade, prime brokerage or treasury counterparties to which the Group may be exposed, or by a HSBC provides services relating to trading, reconciliation, reporting custodial institution with which the Group has a relationship: and and record keeping, foreign exchange, corporate action and income 6.
Regulatory reputational risk: the risk of censure due to the Groups entitlement activities.
failure to meet its regulatory obligations, which may lead to reputational damage, a monetary fine or, ultimately, the withdrawal IFDS provides a number of services, including dealing and of its licence to carry on business.
registration processing, box management, agent and distributor services, enquiries handling, client accounting and reconciliations, Depending on the risk category, the monitoring of these internally will distribution processing and tax and regulatory reporting.
be owned by the Risk Committee or the Balance Sheet Management Committee.
If the latter has any concerns, these will then be Northern Trust provides custody and transfer agency services.
considered by the Risk Committee as well.
The activities of these third parties are defined in service level Internal control agreements and the organisations are closely monitored to ensure that service delivery standards are met.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide only Additionally, the Group entered into a facilities agreement with The reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial Royal Bank of Scotland plc on 17 March 2007.
Further details of this mis-statement or loss and is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
agreement can be found in the loans and borrowings note in the financial statements.
The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, carried out its annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls during Assurance process 2011 using the following to support its conclusion: reports from the Compliance Director on the control environment The control environment in place across the Group is reviewed within the Group, highlighting any major instances of nonduring the course of a year by one or more of the three assurance compliance and the actions being taken to remedy such nonfunctions Compliance, Operational Risk and Internal Audit and compliance: assurance reports provided to senior management, the Board and reports provided by the Compliance Director setting out the key Audit Committee as appropriate.
risks faced by the Group and, where appropriate, quantifying these exposures and the corresponding control mitigation in place within On an annual basis, Jupiter commissions the external audit firm to the Group: perform testing of integrity of aspects of the Group-wide control an annual report from the Compliance Director on the environment.
Jupiter has adopted the International Standard on effectiveness of the risk assurance arrangements in place within Assurance Engagements ISAE 3402 together with AAF 01 06 as the Group: recommended by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England reports from the Group General Counsel outlining the Groups and Wales in the November 2010 technical release of AAF 01 06. legal and litigation risks: The results of this testing, including any exceptions identified, are reports from the Internal Audit function on key control and made available to our institutional and investment trust clients.
governance issues arising from their review programme: an annual report from the MLRO on the anti-money laundering and fraud prevention financial crime measures in place within the Group: a report from an external audit firm on the internal control framework in place within the Group AAF01 06.
