22 Principal risks and mitigations The robust management of risk is fundamental to Jupiters culture.
We recognise that risk is inherent in the Groups business and in the categorised and managed according to the strategic objective which markets in which we operate, and the robust management of risk is they have the potential to affect, and are considered by Jupiters fundamental to the Groups culture.
A fuller description of the risk management and internal control framework is set out in the In this section, we have set out those risks with the greatest potential Governance section.
This outlines the various responsibilities within for preventing us achieving our strategic objectives.
Risks are the Company for risk and the internal processes followed.
Strategic Objective Risk Mitigations Investment performance Sustained underperformance There is a risk that our clients investment portfolios will not meet their investment objectives due to underperformance.
We adhere to a clearly defined investment process which seeks to meet investment targets within stated risk parameters.
We use tools and governance principles within our investment risk framework and we review performance that lies outside expectations.
Fund performance is monitored as part of the investment performance risk management process and is formally overseen by a portfolio review committee which meets quarterly.
Retention of key staff We are a human capital business and our staff are a significant component of successfully executing our strategy.
We believe that high levels of employee engagement and equity ownership drive business outperformance and we strive to ensure we have an attractive working environment and a competitive remuneration structure.
We also develop, monitor and maintain succession planning for all key roles throughout the organisation.
Significant mandate breach Our funds are managed in accordance with investment mandates and restrictions agreed with our clients.
If investments are made or managed in breach of an investment mandate, we may be required to unwind the relevant transactions and could be liable for any losses suffered by an affected party in doing so.
Compliance functionality is coded onto the order management system to allow the pre and post trade monitoring of investment activity.
Regulatory non-compliance We conduct all of our business activities according to the standards defined in the regulatory environment within which the Group operates.
Our Compliance department conducts a robust programme of internal monitoring to ensure that internal regulatory controls are adhered to.
Our risk governance structure and whistleblowing policy are designed to ensure that any regulatory issues can be escalated to senior management in an open and timely way, ensuring the maximum appropriate amount of regulatory protection for clients.
Jupiter Fund Management plc B usiness review 23 Strategic Objective Risk Mitigations Effective distribution Changes in distribution Distribution risks arise from relationship management across different and product trends distribution channels and products.
The risks reflect potential future changes in our fee structures, or in the appetite of our clients to invest in our products.
The broad range of distribution channels and a diversified client base mitigates against a key dependency on any particular channel or client.
Efficient operations Operational error or fraud We rely on efficient and well-controlled processes.
The potential impact and likelihood of processes failing and operational risks materialising is assessed by each operational area on a regular basis.
Where these likelihoods are felt to be outside our appetite for risk, management actions and or control improvements are identified in order to bring each potential risk back to within acceptable levels.
Failure of third party supplier All third parties to whom we outsource material aspects of our business are subject to ongoing oversight, ensuring that we can maintain assurance that they are of the required standard.
Business continuity incident Continuity and business resumption planning is in place across the business.
Alternative premises, equipped with all key portfolio management and support systems, are accessible by the firm within four hours of our normal business premises becoming unavailable.
Counterparty failure We face credit risk as a result of counterparty exposure in the management of the Groups liquid assets.
In order to manage this risk we actively monitor counterparty creditworthiness and operate within limits expressed in terms of value and term to maturity.
We seek to diversify our exposure across different counterparties.
All counterparties are reviewed on a regular basis and limits are amended following any relevant changes to their financial performance.
We actively monitor market data and rating agency outputs in assessing counterparties.
