RISK PRINCIPAL RISKS Effective management of risks is essential to the delivery of the Groups objectives, the achievement of sustainable shareholder value, the protection of its reputation and meeting corporate governance requirements.
The risks set out below represent the principal risks The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that and uncertainties which may adversely impact the risks are effectively managed by the Group.
The Board management of the Group and the execution of its growth has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility strategies.
The steps the Group takes to address these for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system risks, where they are matters within its control, are also of internal control and risk management methodology.
Such steps will mitigate but not eliminate risks.
Risks are formally reviewed by the Group Risk Committee Some of the risks relate to external factors which are which meets at least three times a year.
Key business beyond the Groups control.
The order of the risks is in no risks are also considered as part of the Groups strategy way an indication of their relative importance, and each of development and ongoing business review processes.
the risks should be considered independently.
If more than The risk assessment process has been enhanced during one of the events contemplated by the risks set out below the financial year incorporating best practice identified occur, it is possible that the combined overall effect of during a benchmarking review.
Please refer to the such events may be compounded.
Corporate Governance section for further details of the Groups risk management processes and internal controls.
Risk Impact Mitigation Loss of key management or the The loss of key individuals or the inability Competitive incentive arrangements inability to attract and retain to recruit and retain individuals with the exist, with specific initiatives in place key employees.
relevant talent and experience would designed to retain key individuals.
adversely impact the Groups ability to Recruitment is ongoing and talent deliver its strategies.
review and succession planning programmes are in place.
The Groups operations depend A failure in these systems or a denial A number of controls to maintain the on IT systems and operational of service could have a significant integrity and efficiency of the Groups IT systems are in place, including recovery infrastructure in order to trade impact on the Groups operations and efficiently.
Increasingly technology reputation, and potentially result in the plans which would be implemented in the event of a major failure.
IT security is is also being used to stream major loss of sensitive information.
Negative events and to communicate through social media campaigns could impact continually reviewed and updated.
Business continuity plans are in place Major incidents such as natural A major incident at a key location would catastrophes, global pandemics significantly impact business operations, to mitigate operational risks, but cannot ensure the uninterrupted operation or terrorist attacks affecting one the impact clearly varying depending on or more of the Groups key locations the location and its nature.
The impact of the business, particularly in the short term.
The regional spread of the could significantly impact of the loss of a distribution hub would its operations.
clearly differ from a global pandemic, Groups three key distribution hubs also but both would impact revenue helps to mitigate risk.
There is a Group and profits.
incident management framework in place that addresses the reporting and management of major incidents.
54 Risk Impact Mitigation The Group operates in a number Seizure of assets or staff.
Related party The Group uses the services of of emerging markets which business practice that is inconsistent professional consultants to advise are typically more volatile than with the Groups ethical standards on legal and regulatory issues when developed markets, and are subject and the UK regulatory environment.
entering new markets, to undertake to changing economic, regulatory, Increased operational costs due to due diligence and to monitor ongoing social and political developments country specific processes driven by developments.
The Group has that are beyond the Groups control.
strengthened the teams responsible for Infrastructure and services also tend its emerging markets operations and to be less developed.
works with franchisees or joint operation partners who compensate for its relative lack of experience in a number of these markets.
Failure by the Group or associated A failure to act appropriately could result A number of initiatives are in place, third parties to act in accordance in penalties, adverse press coverage led by the Corporate Responsibility with ethical standards.
and reputational damage with a Committee which reports in to the resulting drop in sales and profit.
These include undertaking ethical visits and joining the Ethical Trading Initiative, further details of which are set out in the Corporate Responsibility report.
The Groups operations are subject Failure to comply could leave the The Group continually monitors and to a broad spectrum of regulatory Group open to civil and or criminal legal improves processes to gain assurance environments with which it needs challenge, significant penalties and that its licensees, suppliers, franchisees, to comply.
The pace of change reputational damage.
distributors and agents comply with its and the consistency of application terms and conditions and relevant local of legislation vary significantly legislation and good practice.
in the countries in which the Specialist teams at Group and regional Group operates, particularly in an level, supported by third-party specialists environment where public sector where required are responsible for ensuring debt is often high and tax revenues employees are aware of regulations are falling.
A number of assurance processes are in place to monitor compliance.
Over-reliance on key supply The Group relies on a small number The Group continues to strengthen chain vendors.
of vendors in key product categories, its supply chain management team and for specialist digital and IT services.
to enable it to evolve and develop its Failure of one of these businesses to manufacturing base to reduce the deliver products or services would have a dependency on key vendors.
The significant impact on business operations.
Group has strengthened its internal digital and IT teams during the year and continues to facilitate knowledge transfer to internal resources.
Annual financial checks are carried out on all key vendors.
The significant growth within the Failure to effectively manage the pace Governance processes are in place business puts pressure on resources of change will inevitably adversely for each major strategic initiative and and the supply chain.
impact the Groups operations and these are supplemented by monthly return on investment.
meetings with senior management to review operational performance.
Management and operational structures are continually reviewed to ensure that these support the Groups growth.
The Group closely manages key supplier relationships, which includes the monitoring of financial and non-financial performance.
55 RISK CONTINUED Risk Impact Mitigation A substantial proportion of Group The Group expects licensees to To minimise risks in Japan the Group profits is reliant upon its licensed maintain operational and financial has established its own operations business in Japan and other key control over their businesses.
Should in Tokyo, and there are minimum licensed product categories.
licensees fail to manage their operations royalty payments specified in its effectively or be affected by a major licence agreements, including the incident, the royalty income may apparel licence with Sanyo Shokai and decline directly impacting the profits Mitsui & Company.
Under its licence of the Group.
agreements, the Group can control product development, marketing and distribution.
Regular licensee royalty reviews take place to monitor compliance with licence terms, which can manage but not eliminate non-compliance.
The Groups performance remains The global reach of Burberry helps strong: however, reduced consumer mitigate local economic risks.
wealth driven by adverse economic In addition, the Groups financial conditions could lead to a reduction in reporting and review processes would demand, disrupt its supply chain or lead highlight any ongoing drop in demand.
to an increase in bad debts, all of which Counterparty credit checks are in place would impact sales and profitability.
for all key customers and suppliers, and flexible payment terms are used to assist suppliers as required.
Unauthorised use of the Trademarks and other intellectual The Groups global IP team has been Groups trademarks and other property IP rights are fundamentally expanded during the year to increase proprietary rights.
important to the Groups reputation, cover in emerging markets.
Where success and competitive position.
infringements are identified often in Unauthorised use of these, as well as partnerships with other luxury brands the distribution of counterfeit products, and retailers these are addressed damages the Burberry brand image through a mixture of criminal and civil and profits.
legal action and negotiated settlement.
IP rights are largely driven by national law and the Group cannot necessarily be as effective in all jurisdictions in addressing IP issues.
Inability to absorb commodity The Groups ability to produce The Groups agreements with suppliers price increases.
products and deliver them on time are negotiated by its global sourcing depends on the availability and price of teams in advance.
commodities, which fluctuate according to global economic conditions, weather patterns, civil unrest and natural disasters.
Failure to obtain adequate supplies, or supplies at the right time, will impact gross margin and profit.
Anticipated benefits of acquisitions The Groups acquisitions, strategic In addition to rigorous due diligence and joint operations may not alliances and joint operations may not processes for acquisitions, using both be realised.
yield the financial outcomes expected, in-house experts and professional and can therefore impact sales, advisers, post acquisition reviews are profitability and the return on investment.
also undertaken to ensure the business is performing in line with acquisition business plans.
