178 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 48 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL Risk management approach A significant part of the Groups business involves the acceptance and management of risk.
The Groups risk appetite framework and the methods used to assess and monitor risk exposures can be found in pages 40 to 43.
The Group is exposed to insurance, market, credit, liquidity and operational risks and operates a formal risk management framework to ensure that all significant risks are identied and managed.
The risk factors mentioned below should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
Insurance risk: exposure to loss arising from claims experience being different to that anticipated.
Market risk: exposure to loss as a direct or indirect result of uctuations in the value of, or income from, specic assets.
Credit risk: exposure to loss if another party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Group.
Liquidity risk: the risk that the Group, though solvent, either does not have sufficient financial resources available to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
Operational risk: exposure to loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or from external events.
The Group seeks to manage its exposures to risk through control techniques which ensure that the residual risk exposures are within acceptable tolerances agreed by the Board.
A description of the key products offered by the Groups segments and the associated risks and control techniques is detailed below.
Risk Principal Products The Groups Risk business comprises annuities, individual and group protection, and general insurance products.
The majority ofRiskproducts are non-participating contracts and as such profits on this business accrue solely to shareholders.
Annuities Annuity products provide guaranteed income for a specified time, usually the life of the policyholder, in exchange for a lump sum capital payment.
No surrender value is available under any of these products.
Immediate and deferred are annuity contacts are offered.
Immediate annuities provide a regular income stream to the policyholder, purchased with a lump sum investment, where the income stream starts immediately after the purchase.
The income stream from a deferred annuity is delayed until a specified future date.
Bulk annuities are also offered, where the Group accepts the assets and liabilities of a company pension scheme or a life fund.
A small portfolio of immediate annuities has been written as participating business.
Some non-participating deferred annuities sold by the Group contain guaranteed cash options, predominantly minimum factors for commuting part of the annuity income into cash at the date of vesting.
The value of such guaranteed options are currently immaterial.
There is a block of immediate and deferred annuities within the UK non profit business with benets linked to changes in the RPI or for a minority the CPI, but with contractual maximum or minimum increases.
In particular, most of these annuities have a provision that the annuity will not reduce if RPI, or for a minority CPI, becomes negative.
The total of such annuities in payment at 31 December 2011 was 271m 2010: 247m.
Thus, 1% negative ination, which was reversed in the following year, would result in a guarantee cost of approximately 3m 2010: 2m.
Negative ination sustained over a longer period would give rise to signicantly greater guarantee costs.
Some of these guarantee costs have been partially matched through the purchase of negative ination hedges and limited price indexation swaps.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 179 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Deferred annuity contracts The Group has written some deferred annuity contracts with guaranteed minimum pensions.
These options expose the Group to interest rate and longevity risk as the cost would be expected to increase with decreasing interest rates and improved longevity.
The market consistent value of these guarantees carried in the balance sheet is 185m 2010: 125m.
Protection business individual and group The Group offers protection products which provide mortality or morbidity benets.
They may include health, disability, critical illness and accident benets: these additional benets are commonly provided as supplements to main life policies but can also be sold separately.
The benefit amounts would usually be specified in the policy terms.
Some sickness benets cover the policyholders mortgage repayments and are linked to the prevailing mortgage interest rates.
In addition to these benets, some contracts may guarantee premium rates, provide guaranteed insurability benets and offer policyholders conversion options.
General insurance The Group offers Household and Accident, Sickness and Unemployment ASU products: Household.
These contracts provide cover in respect of policyholders homes, investment properties, contents, personal belongings and incidental liabilities which they may incur as a property owner, occupier and individual.
Exposure is normally limited to the rebuilding cost of the home, the replacement cost of belongings and a policy limit in respect of liability claims.
Accident, Sickness and Unemployment ASU.
These contracts provide cover in respect of continuing payment liabilities incurred by customers when they are unable to work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment.
They protect predominantly mortgage payments.
Exposure is limited to the monthly payment level selected by the customer sufficient to cover the payment and associated costs, up to the duration limit specified in the policy, usually 12 months.
In addition, there are portfolios of Motor Insurance and Domestic Mortgage Indemnity Insurance DMI in run off.
Since 1993, the DMI contract has included a maximum period of cover of ten years, and a cap on the maximum claim.
For business accepted prior to 1993, cover is unlimited and lasts until the insured property is remortgaged or redeemed.
