186 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 48 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL CONTINUED International Principal Products The principal products written by our International division are annuities deferred and immediate, individual and group protection, universal life insurance, non-participating savings business and open ended investment vehicles.
Annuities Immediate annuities have similar characteristics as products sold by the Risk division.
Deferred annuity contracts written by LGA contain a provision that, at maturity, a policyholder may move the account value into an immediate annuity, at rates which are either those currently in effect, or rates guaranteed in the contract.
Protection business individual and group Individual protection consists of individual term assurance, which provide death benets over the medium to long term.
The contracts have level premiums for an initial period with premiums set annually thereafter.
During the initial period, there is generally an option to convert the contract to a universal life contract.
After the initial period, the premium rates are not guaranteed, but cannot exceed the age related guaranteed premium.
Group protection business consists of group term assurance, renewable on an annual basis, sickness and disability, and medical expenses assurance.
The group sickness and disability and medical expenses policies integrate with social security benets providing a level of top-up to those benets.
Reinsurance is used within the protection businesses to manage exposure to large individual and group claims.
Within LGA, reinsurance and securitisation is also used to provide regulatory solvency relief including relief from regulation Triple X.
These practices lead to the establishment of reinsurance assets on the Groups balance sheet.
Universal life Universal life contracts written by LGA provide savings and death benets over the medium to long term.
The savings element has a guaranteed minimum growth rate.
LGA has exposure to loss in the event that interest rates decrease and it is unable to earn enough on the underlying assets to cover the guaranteed rate.
LGA is also exposed to loss should interest rates increase, as the underlying market value of assets will generally fall without a change in the surrender value.
The reserves for universal life and deferred annuities totalled $688m and $200m respectively at 31 December 2011 $708m and $218m at 31 December 2010 respectively.
The guaranteed interest rates associated with those reserves ranged from 0% to 5.5%, with the majority of the policies having guaranteed rates ranging from 3% to 4% 2010: 3% to 4%.
Non-participating savings business Savings products include contracts that provide minimum guaranteed rates of return.
The guarantee is aligned with current and projected rates of return from government securities.
Certain savings products include an exposure to interest rate and credit risk, managed through an active asset-liability management programme.
Open Ended Investment Vehicles These comprise SICAVS, the investment risks for which are borne by unit holders of these funds.
Key risks and controls The principal risks and associated controls relevant to our International products are consistent with those identied for our Risk and Savings businesses and therefore have not been repeated here.
Balance sheet foreign exchange currency translation exposure in respect of the Groups international subsidiaries is actively managed in accordance with a policy, agreed by the Group Board, which allows net foreign currency assets to be hedged through the use of derivatives.
