16 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 RISK.
HIGHLIGHTS LEADING POSITION IN KEY MARKETS PERFORMANCE UNDERLINED WITH APE SALES OF 498M 2011 2010 UP 30% ON PREVIOUS YEAR 2010: 382M.
1 2 1 2 PVNBP Contribution Margin PVNBP Contribution Margin m m % m m % FIRST 1BN PENSION BULK ANNUITY Protection 931 86 9.3 860 55 6.4 SCHEME AND FIRST LONGEVITY INSURANCE Annuities 2,515 252 10.0 2,065 245 11.9 TRANSACTION COMPLETED IN 2011.
Longevity n a 7 n a n a n a n a Total 3,446 345 9.8 2,925 300 10.3 GROWTH IN BOTH OPERATIONAL CASH GENERATION AND NET CASH GENERATION.
1 The present value of new business premiums PVNBP on the EEV basis is dened as the present value of annual premiums plus single premiums for any given period.
It is calculated using the same assumptions as for the REDUCED NEW BUSINESS STRAIN contributions from the new business but determined as at the point of sale.
ON INCREASED VOLUMES OF 2 From new business on an EEV basis.
OPERATING PROFIT Strong operating profit performance exceeding that achieved in the previous year.
561m 2010: 560m NET CASH GENERATION Net cash generation has increased by 5% on 2010 with reduced new business strain in protection on higher volumes of business.
451m Lower new business surplus in annuities of 35m 2010: 60m.
2010: 429m IFRS PROFIT BEFORE TAX IFRS profit before tax up 71m on 2010 with a contribution from investment variances of 172m 2010: 102m.
733m 2010: 662m OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 17 INDIVIDUAL PROTECTION We continue to grow sales of non-mortgage related protection products and sales of protection for business needs and large 131m sumpolicies.
NEW BUSINESS APE Sales in all distribution channels have been strong in 2011, 2010: 118m reecting our competitive position, the increasing focus of distributors on protection and improved awareness amongst consumers of the need for these products.
In 2011 we signed an agreement with Barclays to be their sole supplier of advised sales of family protection for five years.
401m paid out for individual protection claims in 2011.
GROUP PROTECTION Sales down 19% as traditional corporate markets continue to be adversely impacted by the uncertain economic environment.
46m Our group protection business paid out 268m in claims to help NEW BUSINESS APE relieve the financial suffering of over 2,000 policyholders and 2010: 57m dependants in 2011.
ANNUITIES 2011 was a very strong year for annuity new business.
251m Bulk Annuities pension scheme insurance solutions grew premium income by 62%, including successful completion NEW BUSINESS APE 2010: 207m ofthebulk annuity scheme with the trustees of the Turner & Newall Pension Scheme for over 1bn.
An additional 70m of APE was generated by the first pure longevity insurance transaction with a pension scheme, Pilkington Superannuation Scheme.
Legal & General insures the pension scheme against adverse change in the longevity experience of its pensioners.
Annuity payments of 1.4bn made in 2011.
GENERAL INSURANCE Gross written premiums are up 8% on 2010, the growth coming from our household book whilst Mortgage Payment Protection volumes 304m remained broadly at.
GROSS WRITTEN PREMIUMS Total new business at 110m was 38% ahead of the prior year GWP 2010: 281m 2010: 80m.
Operating expenses have been controlled in line with businessgrowth.
Operating profit of 42m 2010: loss of 8m reects generally favourable weather experience during the year.
168m paid out for general insurance claims in 2011.
18 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 RISK.
STRATEGY We have maintained our leading positions in our key markets Our five strategic objectives are applied across and delivered strong results all business units.
The following illustrates them in action in the Risk division.
For further information please see page 35.
IMPERATIVE ACTIVITY CUSTOMER Raise prole and reputation AND BRAND in terms of social purpose and responsibility.
CAPITAL Develop and implement plans MANAGEMENT to optimise use of capital.
ORGANISATIONAL Build greater management CAPABILITY capability and maintain employee engagement and leadership scores.
JOHN POLLOCK DIVERSIFICATION Work with Government and Industry to develop products GROUP EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR RISK that can support welfare change.
Risk products are distributed through bank and building UK GROWTH Develop opportunities to help society partners, IFAs and consultants, direct sales and build growth in protection and annuity markets.
INDIVIDUAL PROTECTION GROUP PROTECTION Legal & General continues to be the leading provider We continue to adapt and improve the products we offer of death and illness insurance products in the UK.
to help employers protect the wellbeing of their staff.
In 2011 we delivered improvements to make it easier In 2011 we launched Workplace Recovery: an integrated for individuals to access cover, launching simplied healthcare solution that works with an employers other underwriting in the first quarter of the year, enabling arrangements to avoid unnecessary duplication and usto provide certainty of cover to three quarters of the associated extra costs.
The Telegraph Group Ltd, as applicants at the point of sale.
This system can also pilot of the scheme, has seen the number of employee nowbe used for third-party consumer online websites.
sickness absence days decrease from an average 5.3 in 2009, to 3.0 in 2011.
Customer service and retention of policies have both improved and we have cut the time taken to process In the Group Income Protection market we were the first claims.
We work continuously on initiatives to reduce provider to release our declinature rates and we continue claims payout turnaround times.
Investment in process to see improvements in the number of people we development has enabled costs to be signicantly help return to work through our early intervention and lowered allowing reductions in premiums for customers, rehabilitation policies.
retention of competitive pricing positions and improved returns for the business.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 19 ANNUITIES DISTRIBUTION We continue to be a leading provider for both annuities Legal & General Network the Network, our in-house to individuals who have saved for their retirement and mortgage and protection-led distribution business, bulk annuities or other fide-risking solutions to dened was successful despite difficult market conditions.
Network encompasses the full range of capabilities and services needed to support intermediary rms who Individual annuities had another successful year receiving operate in the mortgage market.
The provision of expert over 1 billion in single premium income and further and compliant advice continues to be very important broadened our range of distribution.
As a source of to UK consumers, and we anticipate that the new business in the long term, we were pleased to secure regulations for mortgage sales will increase this.
a place on the Annuities panel for NEST National Employment Savings Trust.
Within the Network, sales of protection products have continued to grow, and the Mortgage Club increased Bulk annuities pension scheme insurance solutions its share of intermediated mortgage lending to 20.3%, business had a groundbreaking year, growing premium 2010:16.3%.
income materially and completing a bulk annuity scheme with the Trustees of Turner & Newall Pension Scheme.
During the year, the Network established several new We also completed our first pure longevity insurance trading relationships with large distribution rms, transaction with the Pilkington Superannuation Scheme.
ensuring that scale has been maintained in a rapidly The business also acted to manage its overall longevity consolidating market.
exposure by completing two bulk longevity reinsurance transactions during the year.
GENERAL INSURANCE OUTLOOK During the year we have expanded our online capability by establishing our presence on all of the major thirdWe anticipate that growth in newer types of bulk annuity party consumer websites as well as benefiting from the deals will continue and that in the individual market enhancements to our own website which went live in late consumers will continue to delay their retirement in 2010.
The broker channel has also shown continued growth the uncertain economic climate.
We believe there is with new deals signed in the period as well as increased potential to increase our share of the protection market activity with existing partners.
We have established a due to consolidation.
dedicated sales force to increase our penetration of the regional broker and IFA markets.
Although this has not signicantly impacted on the 2011 result, we feel that this provides a platform for future growth.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING REGULATORY The suite of regulatory changes impacting the Risk business includes Solvency II, Gender directive, I-E tax regime, RDR and MMR.
CHANGE We shall build on our considerable expertise in managing capital, exible pricing capabilities and distribution strengths.
We will continue to engage with regulators to ensure compliance whilst minimising risks and capitalising on any opportunities.
BOND MARKETS Although we continue to broaden the range of investment assets backing our annuities business, xed interest securities remain a significant proportion of the overall investment portfolio, potentially exposing us to volatility in returns and the risk of default.
We have developed considerable expertise in the management of credit risks associated with our bond portfolio, and continue to ensure it remains high quality.
Despite market volatility in 2011, the asset portfolio backing the annuity business experienced no credit defaults.
WEATHER EVENTS As a significant writer of household insurance, our general insurance business is exposed to adverse weather events and the effects of changing weather patterns.
Our ood and weather models together with our catastrophe reinsurance programme seek to limit our exposure to loss from adverse weather events.
As an active participant in ClimateWise we are at the centre of shaping the insurance sectors global approach to environmental risk.
