174 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 46 MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES CONTINUED Available regulatory capital resource risks The Groups available capital resources are sensitive to changes in market conditions, both to changes in the value of the assets and to the impact which changes in investment conditions may have on the value of the liabilities.
Capital resources are also sensitive to assumptions and experience relating to mortality and morbidity and, to a lesser extent, expenses and persistency.
The most significant sensitivities arise from the following four risks: market risk in relation to UK participating business which would crystallise if adverse changes in the value of the assets supporting this business could not be fully reected in payments to policyholders because of the effect of guarantees and options.
The capital position of this business would also deteriorate if increases to the market cost of derivatives resulted in an increase in the liability for guarantees and options in the realistic balance sheet.
market risk in relation to the UK annuity business, which would crystallise if the return from the xed interest investments supporting this business were lower than that assumed for reserving.
mortality risk in relation to the UK annuity business, which would crystallise if the mortality of annuitants improved more rapidly than the assumptions used for reserving.
mortality risk in relation to the UK and US term assurance businesses, which would crystallise if mortality of the lives insured was higher than that assumed, possibly because of an epidemic.
A range of management actions is available to mitigate any adverse impact from changing market conditions and experience, including changes to with-profits bonus rates, changes to discretionary surrender terms and charging for guarantees.
To the extent that management actions are expected only to offset partially adverse experience, then liabilities would be increased to anticipate the future impact of the adverse experience and total capital resources would be reduced.
Table 2 below provides management estimates of the impact on IGD surplus to changes in market conditions: Table 2 IGD sensitivity analysis Impact Impact on surplus on surplus capital capital 2011 2010 bn bn Sensitivity test 20% fall in equity values 0.4 0.2 40% fall in equity values 0.7 0.5 15% fall in property values 0.1 0.1 100bp increase in interest rates 0.2 100bp increase in credit spreads 0.1 Details of IFRS sensitivity analysis can be found in Table 7 of Note 48.
EEV sensitivity analysis can be found in Note 17 to the supplementary financial statements.
