40 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 RISK MANAGEMENT HOW WE MANAGE RISK.
Understanding the risks implicit in ourbusiness and Our risk management culture the markets in which we operate provides us with real is embedded across all of our competitive advantage.
As Group Chief Risk officer my role is to ensure that we By selecting those risks that can giveus sustainable returns, and closely managing unrewarded risks, clearly define our appetite for risk, we aim to optimise how we use our capital and make with an effective framework in place commercially effective decisions that help deliver to control risks in line with appetite.
Our risk appetite framework expresses the types of risk we are prepared to be exposed to in pursuit of our business strategy, the minimum capital requirements that we wish to maintain and the degree of volatility in earnings that we are prepared to accept.
We have well established strategies for managing market, insurance, credit, liquidity and operational risk.
Formal policies define our approaches to risk management and the minimum control standards to ensure that risks are managed in line with appetite.
We set limits for our material risk exposures, which we monitor on a continuous basis.
We also deploy a range of risk management techniques to manage and mitigate risks, thereby controlling our risk exposures in line with these limits.
For example, we use derivative instruments ANDREA BLANCE to hedge unrewarded risks as part of our asset liability GROUP CHIEF RISK OFFICER management activity and reinsurance programmes to transfer significant aggregations and concentrations of insurance riskexposures.
Our framework of controls includes documented underwriting policies and structured delegated pricing and underwriting authorities.
It also includes investment policies which take into account the nature of our OUR RISK APPETITE PRINCIPLES STRATEGY We manage a diversied portfolio in which we accept risk in the normal course ofbusiness and aim to deliver sustainable returns on risk based capital in excess ofour cost of capital.
We have an appetite for the risks we understand and are rewarded for and which are consistent with the delivery of our strategic objectives.
CAPITAL We aim to maintain an appropriate buffer of capital resources over the minimum regulatory capital requirements.
LIQUIDITY We expect to be able to meet our payment and collateral obligations under extreme, but plausible liquidity stressscenarios.
VOLATILITY We have low appetite for unexpected volatility in excess of our disclosed sensitivities.
CUSTOMER AND We aim to protect our reputation to ensure that there is no material damage to the Groups franchise.
REPUTATION OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 41 RISK GOVERNANCE: RISK MANAGEMENT Responsibility for risk management is embedded within the Groups AT A GLANCE business divisions.
Challenge and oversight of the effectiveness of risk management is provided by Group functions and formal Group level risk committees.
Independent assurance on the effectiveness of both business risk management, and the Group level oversight and challenge processes, isprovided by Internal Audit.
The effective management of risk is essential to GROUP OVERSIGHT FUNCTIONS: delivery of the Groups Group Chief Risk officer.
strategy and the generation Group Actuarial.
COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT: Key indicators monitor actual risk exposures to target positions.
Risk mitigation programmes are established where risk exposures areoutside tolerance or more effective use of capital can be achieved.
liabilities, guarantees and other embedded options given During 2011 extreme stresses included evaluation topolicyholders.
of the impact of a return to recession, factors resulting in market illiquidity and a range of possible Euro We operate a continuous risk identication and break-upscenarios.
assessment process under which all our businesses consider changes in the prole of existing and The overall operation of the Groups risk management emerging risks.
We record the risks we have identied framework is overseen by the Group Risk Committee, and allocate responsibility to an owner to assess and whose membership comprises non-executive directors manage them within agreed tolerances.
Risk mitigation of the Board.
Key review activities of the Committee plans are developed and implemented to manage or during 2011 are set out at page 63. respond to these risks.
As the nature, probability or impact of risks may change over time, these plans are Note 48 on page 178 describes the risks to which our kept under regular review to ensure that they remain core product lines are exposed and our approach to robust andappropriate.
Our risk identication and managing those risks, together with sensitivity analysis assessment process is underpinned by a Group-wide setting out how changes in a range of risk factors may programme of stress and scenario tests.
These tests impact our results.
aim to demonstrate the resilience of our balance sheet to a range of market conditions and external events and We set out an analysis of the Groups principal risks to ensure that we maintain our target levels of capital.
and uncertainties on pages 42 and 43.
OUR RISK LANDSCAPE MARKET We have an appetite for market risk within our annuities and With profits We have limited appetite for significant losses or volatility from market risk and RISK businesses, and our shareholder funds, where we are rewarded for it.
so we set clear risk limits which must be adhered to by Group businesses.
CREDIT We have appetite for credit risk to the extent that accepting this risk We have limited appetite for significant losses from counterparty failures RISK enables us to optimise policyholder and Group risk adjusted returns.
and we therefore establish clear risk limits which must be adhered to by Group businesses.
INSURANCE We have an appetite for longevity, mortality and morbidity risk as We have a low appetite for persistency and expense risks.
We manage these risks RISK we expect to add value by accepting such risks.
by investigations and monitoring experience and reecting the conclusions in our product design and reserving strategies.
LIQUIDITY We have no appetite to fail to meet our obligations when they fall due We maintain at Group level sufficient liquid assets and standby facilities to RISK or to incur material losses on forced asset sales to meet obligations.
meet a prudent estimate of the Groups cash outows over a period of two years, as identied through annual planning processes.
OPERATIONAL We have very limited appetite for large operational losses due to the We aim to implement effective controls to reduce operational risk exposures RISK likely customer impact, reputational damage and opportunity costs.
except where the costs of such controls exceed the expected benets.
42 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 RISK MANAGEMENT PRINCIPAL RISKS ANDUNCERTAINTIES POTENTIAL IMPACT ON KEY RISK PRINCIPAL UNCERTAINTIES MITIGATION LEGAL & GENERAL Changes in regulation or legislation may The Retail Distribution Review RDR, RDR has required us to make As set out on page 23 we have havea detrimental effect on our strategy the rules for which come into force significant changes to our products continued to invest in ensuring that orprotability on 31 December 2012, will change the and distribution processes, our business processes comply with regulations for the provision of sales particularly for our Savings business.
the new regulatory requirements Legislation and government scal policy can advice for retail investment products While the majority of required and that our business partners are inuence our product design, theretention of and the relationship between advisers change has been executed, factors positioned to distribute our products existing business and our required reserves and manufacturers of these products.
that could still hinder successful under the new regime.
We remain for future liabilities.
Regulation defines the transition include late publication of committed to helping our customers overall framework for the design, marketing and the final rules, consumers failing to and business partners transition to distributionof our products, and the prudential understand the change and financial the new framework.
The nature of long-term advisers exiting the market, all of business can result in certain regulatory which may adversely impact the changeshaving a retrospectiveeffect.
earnings of our Savings business.
Solvency II SII, the implementation Proposed rules have reduced the We continue to actively participate of which has moved back 12 months potential for rms writing long-term with Government and regulatory to 1 January 2014, will lead to a business, such as annuities, to hold bodies in the UK and Europe to ensure fundamental change in the way that a disproportionate amount of capital capital requirements accurately insurance companies are required relative to the risk exposure.
However, reect the risks implicit in insurance to calculate prudential capital.
until detailed calibration rules for products.
Further details are set While the high level regulation is capital models are nalised, there out at page 33.
Our SII programme dened, detailed rules governing remains a range of capital outcomes.
is on track to deliver required the approaches to determining the The scope and duration of transitional capabilities in advance of the SII quantum of capital and the transition arrangements remain undecided.
from the current regime are still to be nalised.
The International Accounting We support the need for clear and We are working with the IASB, the Standards Boards IASBs project on consistent financial reporting: European Insurance CFO forum accounting for insurance contracts, however, the proposals of the latest and the ABI to ensure that the IASB which seeks to improve and ensure exposure draft may result in a proposals are appropriate to the consistency in accounting, is targeted significant change in the timing of insurance sector and meet the needs to be either re-exposed or issued profit recognition, inconsistencies of investors.
in near final form in late 2012, with with capital measurement under possible implementation between SII and could result in increased 2014 and 2016. complexity for users of accounts.
The FSAs With-profits Consultation Effective governance of with-profits We have worked with the FSA and CP11 5 proposed changes to the business and the fair treatment of industry bodies to ensure that rules and guidance over the operation policyholders is sound business proposed rule changes reect the of with-profits funds, which may have practice.
However, the differing needs of all stakeholders in those a significant impact on the future interpretation and application of with-profit funds that remain open operation, governance and strategy regulation over time may have a to business.
The FSA detrimental effect on our strategy published a Policy Statement PS and profitability.
12 4 on 7 March 2012 and we are currently reviewing the impact of the rule changes.
During 2012 the FSA will begin We support a robust regulatory We are engaged with our regulators to transition into the Prudential regime for the financial services to understand the impact of the new Regulatory Authority and Financial sector.
However, there is a risk that regimes on our business.
As set out Conduct Authority, two distinct and the new regimes will not reect on page 41, the establishment of a separate regulatory bodies.
Each differences between insurance and CRO team and a separate Regulatory body will establish its own regulatory banking business models, resulting Compliance team will enable us framework from 2013. in additional capital requirements or to deploy resource and manage lead to duplication of activities and regulatory relationships in line with increased costs of regulation.
Changes in the corporation tax Whilst, draft rules were published for We are actively participating in regime for life insurance companies industry consultation in December the consultation process with will come into effect on 1 January 2011, final rules are not anticipated HM Treasury and HM Customs & 2013.
Reform is made necessary until the publication of the 2012 Revenue and have commissioned by Solvency II which will replace Finance Act.
The financial and an internal project to ensure that the existing reporting framework operational impact of the proposals our business processes will be fully upon which life company taxation therefore remains uncertain.
compliant with the new rules in time is currently based.
Investment market performance or conditions The outlook for the UK economy Continuing economic uncertainty We model our business plans across in the broader economy mayadversely remains uncertain.
Recent economic may increase propensity for a broad range of economic scenarios impactour earnings and profitability growth has been subdued with no consumer saving benefiting our retail and take account of alternative sign of a sustained recovery.
However, other economic outlooks within our overall The performance and liquidity of investment as impacting domestic economic product segments such as protection business strategy.
As part of our markets, interest rate movements and ination conditions, ongoing concerns for the may experience reduced demand, medium-term plan we have sought can impact the value of investment assets we hold stability of the eurozone have resulted impacting our new business volumes to ensure focus upon those market to meet the obligations arising from insurance in volatile investment markets.
segments that will be resilient in business as well asthe value of the obligations projected conditions.
Details of our themselves, resulting in mismatches in the prole business strategy are set out on pages of cash ows of our assets and liabilities.
significant 35 to 37. falls in investment values can also impact the fee Although European governments Market disruption from a major We are actively monitoring the income of our investment management business.
have taken action to stabilise the sovereign debt event may impact impact of the eurozone crisis on our Broader economic conditions can impact the timing economies of weaker members of our ability to execute hedging businesses and the adequacy of our of the purchase and retention of retail financial the eurozone, there is a risk that the strategies that ensure the prole of contingency plans.
As set out on servicesproducts.
euro will continue to be inherently our assets and liability cash ows are page 63, the Group Risk Committee unsustainable unless some countries appropriately matched.
An exit from has given specic consideration default and leave the euro, or there the euro may result in the temporary to the risks and how they may be is movement towards closer closure of markets, uncertainty over mitigated.
Sensitivities to interest rate scal integration.
the operation of financial instruments mismatches, exposures to worldwide and imposition of capital controls, equity markets and currencies, are set particularly impacting our out on pages 189 to 191. investment management and European businesses.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 43 PRINCIPAL RISKS ANDUNCERTAINITIES POTENTIAL IMPACT ON KEY RISK PRINCIPAL UNCERTAINTIES MITIGATION LEGAL & GENERAL In dealing with issuersof debt and other A default event within the banking Market reaction to significant credit We actively manage our exposure types of counterparty the Groupis exposed sector, or a major sovereign debt rating downgrades or a default to default risk, setting robust totherisk of default event, could result in dislocation of event could result in the short-term counterparty selection criteria and bond markets, signicantly widening diminution in the market value of exposure limits.
We continue to As part of our strategy to match long-term assets and credit spreads, and in extreme corporate bond assets held in respect broaden asset classes backing our liabilities, exposures arise to the issuers of sovereign conditions contagion may result of our annuities business and in annuities business, including the and corporate debt, and other financial instruments.
in default by strongly rated issuers extreme circumstances may require use of property lending, and sale We also have exposures to banking, money market of debt.
an increase in default provisions for and leaseback assets.
Details of our and reinsurance counterparties, and the providers potential or actual defaults.
A failure default provisions are set out at page of settlement, custody and IT services.
by a key service provider may result in 14.
Exposures to credit risk are set short-term operational disruption of out on page 192 and changes in credit our business processes.
Our service providers are also subject to rigorous selection criteria.
As a UK-based Group, our earnings are The financial crisis, subsequent As a significant participant in the We actively manage our brand and inuenced by theperformance and perception investment performance and low long-term savings markets, we are seek to differentiate our business of the UKnancial services sectoras a whole interest rate environment together inherently exposed to downturns model from that of our competitors, with consumers perceptions of the in new business volumes and focusing on our customers needs Investment market performance, actions by robustness of financial institutions persistency levels as a consequence through a diversied portfolio of risk, regulators against organisations operating in the may impact consumer attitudes to of changes in consumer sentiment.
savings and investment management financial services sector and shock events can long-term savings.
In addition, as set out impactthe confidence of customers in the sector action in the banking sector with on pages 28 to 31 we continue to asawhole.
Such events may also result in changes regard to Payment Protection focus on developing our international to the regulatory and legislative environment in Insurance PPI, may adversely impact businesses.
As set out on page 63 which we operate.
consumers perception of the value the Group Risk Committee has given of insurance products.
specic consideration to how we manage reputation risk.
Regulatory and legislative responses We support a robust regulatory We seek to engage with regulators to events in the banking sector regime for the financial services and legislators at a UK and European continue.
Within Europe, EIOPA has sector.
However, there is a risk that level to assist in the evaluation been established as an EU-wide policy regulatory responses to market of change and inuence the setting body for the regulators of events lead to excessively prudent development of outcomes that meet European insurers and, as outlined regulation: capital inefficiencies as a the needs of all stakeholders.
We above, within the UK the FSA is to result of regulation aimed at banks encourage our executive and senior be split into separate prudential and being read across to insurers without management to actively participate in conduct regulators.
Separately the reference to the different business a broad range of industry, regulatory US Foreign Account Tax Compliance models: and a more aggressive and intra-governmental forums, Act will introduce new customer supervision and enforcement including the ABI, FSA and EU bodies.
disclosure obligations on UK insurers regime resulting in additional capital from July 2013. requirements and increased costs of regulation.
Reserves for long-term business may require In writing annuity business, pricing We undertake significant analysis We remain focused on developing revision as a result of changes in experience, requires assumptions to be made of longevity and mortality risks to a comprehensive understanding of regulation or legislation for factors such as improvements in ensure an appropriate premium is annuitant mortality, including the the general health of the population charged for the risks we take on and development of cause of death The writing of long-term insurance business and advances in medical science.
For that our reserves remain appropriate.
models using UK population data and necessarily requires the setting of assumptions protection business, assumptions However, extreme events, such as engaging directly with the medical for long-term trends in factors such as mortality, are made for the expected level of a rapid advance in medical science profession and scientific community.
persistency, valuation interest rates, expenses mortality, taking account of factors leading to signicantly enhanced For our protection and general and credit defaults.
Extreme events may require such as pandemics.
annuitant longevity or an event insurance businesses we continue to recalibration of these assumptions.
Forced causing widespread mortality evolve and develop our underwriting changesin reserves can also be required as a morbidity, coupled with a reinsurer capabilities.
The sensitivities of our resultof changes in regulation orlegislation.
default, may require assumptions to UK long-term business to annuitant be recalibrated impacting profitability mortality and reinsurer default are set and capital.
There is an increasing trend for Our product pricing assumptions We continue to highlight to legislators legislative intervention in the for annuities, protection and other the benets to consumers of being pricing of products irrespective of insurance business reect the risks able to price insurance products on differing risk factors such as age or we assess as being exposed to.
the risks implicit in that business.
There is a risk that European A requirement to price products are supporting the UK legislator on or national legislators interpret irrespective of differing risk factors, the implementation approach for the the application of legislation in a such as age or gender, will potentially 2011 ruling by the European Court of way that has unforeseen adverse increase the costs of insurance Justice ECJ that insurance product consequences for insurance to certain consumers, reducing pricing must be gender neutral from 21 businesses and their customers their propensity to purchase.
Any December 2012, without retrospective or introduce a retrospection retrospection of legislation would application to existing business.
The Group may notmaximise opportunities The UK Government is consulting significant changes in the markets We seek to ensure we have market from structural and other changes within on a broad range of changes to the in which we operate may require the leading expertise in the core elds in thenancial servicessector provision of state benets, with review and realignment of elements which we operate, and actively focus increased focus on self provision.
Such of our business strategy.
A failure on retaining the best personnel with The financial services sector continues to go changes will affect the way consumers to be sufciently responsive to the knowledge to design and support through a period of change.
This presents arange approach protecting their income and potential change and understand our products, and manage their ofchallenges aswell as opportunities to providers planning for retirement.
Separately, the implication to our businesses, evolution as market and consumer ofsufcientscale such asLegal & General.
the implementation of RDR and or the incorrect execution of change requirements change.
We believe we Solvency II will change the competitive may impact the achievement of our have a strong record on responding landscape in which we operate.
A material failure in our business Our product manufacturing, We have constructed our framework As highlighted on page 14, in October processes may result in unanticipated distribution and administration of internal controls to minimise the 2011 we completed the relocation of  activities, together with the risk of unanticipated loss or damage to our UK data centre.
The migration management of a substantial our reputation.
We seek to continually will further mitigate the IT system Our business processes can be complex, portfolio of investment assets, review and improve the framework.
risks to which we are exposed.
withsignicant reliance placed upon IT systems necessarily requires significant Our internal audit function also We also continue to invest in new and processes to support the administration investment in IT systems, people provides independent assurance on systems, including those to support of our products: the modelling of liabilities and and processes to ensure that we meet the adequacy and effectiveness of our Annuities, Group Protection capital requirements: and the reporting of our the expectations of our customers, our controls.
However, no system General and Investment Management nancialperformance.
as well as complying with regulatory, of internal control can completely businesses.
The report of the Audit legal and financial reporting eliminate the risk of error, financial Committee on page 59 outlines its requirements.
The complexity of loss, fraudulent actions or work during the year in reviewing activities can increase our exposure reputational damage.
to operational and reputation risks.
