Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2011 99 RISK MANAGEMENT All narrative is unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Tables are both audited and unaudited as stated.
The audited information is required to comply with the requirements of relevant International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Groups approach to risk 100 Risk as a strategic differentiator 101 State funding and state aid 102 Risk governance 102 Principal risks and uncertainties 106 Full analysis of risk drivers 112 Financial soundness 112 Credit risk 129 Market risk 164 Operational risk 167 Insurance risk 169 Business risk 170 Lloyds Banking Group 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement the groups approach to risk is founded on a robust control framework and a strong risk management culture which guides the way all employees approach their work, the way they behave and the decisions they make.
Progress in 2011 Priorities for 2012 The Group has a fully embedded conservative approach to, and Risk Divisions mission in 2012 is to support sustainable growth through: prudent appetite for, risk and has in place disciplined controls over Strategy: Supporting the delivery of the Groups strategic plan, the risk profile for all new business, aligned to the strategic review.
within risk appetite The Group has made good progress in reducing non-core assets Risk Infrastructure: Continue to invest in and develop our and improving the asset quality ratio.
risk systems Excellent progress in fide-risking the Retail books.
Solid progress Risk Culture: Build and leverage on our strong risk culture of in Wholesale and good progress to tackle the issues in the business ownership international books.
Regulatory Change: Be a role model Our continued focus on our conduct risk agenda to ensure we are achieving the best outcomes for our customers is completely People Agenda: Continue to attract, retain and develop aligned with being the best bank for customers.
high quality people The Groups approach to risk Governance the groups approach to risk is founded on a robust control framework and a strong risk management culture which guides the way all employees approach their work, behave and make decisions promptly.
Board-level engagement, coupled with the direct involvement of senior management in group wide risk issues at group executive Committee level, ensures that issues are promptly escalated and remediation plans are initiated.
the interaction of the executive and non-executive governance structures relies upon a culture of transparency and openness that is encouraged by both the Board and senior management.
Risk Appetite the Board takes the lead by establishing the tone at the top and approving group risk appetite which is then cascaded throughout the group in terms of policies, authorities and limits.
the Board ensures that senior management implements policies and procedures designed to promote professional behaviour and integrity.
Culture the Board ensures that senior management implements risk policies and risk appetites that either limit or, where appropriate, prohibit activities, relationships, and situations that could be detrimental to the groups risk profile.
the group has a conservative business model embodied by a risk culture founded on prudence and individual accountability, where the needs of customers are paramount.
the focus has been and remains on building and sustaining long-term relationships with customers, through good and bad economic times.
Enterprise-Wide Risk Management the group uses an enterprise-Wide Risk management framework for the identification, assessment, measurement and management of risk.
it seeks to maximise value for shareholders over time by aligning risk appetite with corporate strategy, assessing the impact of emerging risks and developing risk tolerances and mitigating strategies.
the framework seeks to strengthen the groups ability to identify and assess risks, aggregate and report group wide risks and refine risk appetite.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 101 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Decision Making the Risk Committee, chaired by a non-executive Director, comprises other non-executive Directors and oversees the groups risk exposures.
the Chief Risk Officer regularly informs the Risk Committee of the aggregate risk profile and has direct access to the Chairman and members of the Risk Committee.
the group Risk Committee and the group Asset and Liability Committee are chaired by the group Chief executive.
the aggregate group wide risk profile and risk appetite are discussed at these monthly meetings.
Risk as a strategic differentiator the groups strategy and risk appetite were developed together to ensure one informed the other in creating a strategy that delivered on becoming the best bank for our customers whilst creating sustainable growth over time.
Strong Control Framework A strong control framework remains a priority for the group and is the foundation for the delivery of effective risk management.
the group optimises performance by allowing business units to operate within approved parameters.
the groups approach to risk management ensures that business units remain accountable for risk.
Conservative Approach the group has a fully embedded conservative approach to, and prudent appetite for risk.
Board Level Reporting the group continues to enhance its capabilities by providing to the Board both qualitative and quantitative data including stress testing analysis on risks associated with strategic objectives.
taking risks which are well understood, consistent with strategy and appropriately remunerated, is a key driver of shareholder return.
Risk analysis and reporting supports the identification of opportunities as well as risks and provide an aggregate view of the overall risk portfolio.
the groups key risks, management actions and performance against risk appetite are monitored and reported at group level.
Accountability Risk is included as one of the five principal criteria within the groups balanced scorecard on which business area and individuals performance is judged.
Business executives have specified risk management objectives, and incentive schemes take account of performance against these.
the Risk function oversees the performance assessment of business areas and senior staff to ensure adherence to the groups risk and control frameworks and oversees that performance has been achieved within risk appetite.
Risk Division During 2011 good progress has been made in creating a more agile Risk function through further delayering the management structure and simplifying the operating model.
this reinforces the model of a strong and independent Risk function that keeps the group safe, supports sustainable business growth and minimises losses within risk appetite.
Risk Transformation the groups continued investment agenda, ensures Risk systems, processes and management information continue to meet the needs of the group and external stakeholders.
Reflecting the importance the group places on risk management, risk is included as one of the five principle in 2011, there has been a significant criteria within the groups balanced improvement in our Balance sheet, scorecard on which business areas capital and funding position.
and individual staff performance and the group achieved a significant remuneration is judged.
reduction in its impairment charge in 2011, due primarily to lower corporate real estate charges in Wholesale and strong Retail performance.
All divisions experienced a reduction in impairment Conservative risk appetite across the As part of the allocation of investment charges of above 20 per cent from 2010. shape of our existing and new business under the group strategic Review, the taking into account customer outcomes, continued development of risk systems operational risks, impact on our people, was a key priority to maintain our robust as well as credit, funding and stressed control framework over the long-term.
Approved by the Board and now fully embedded through the whole control framework policies, procedures and limits.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement State funding and state aid Hm treasury currently holds approximately 40.2 per cent of the groups ordinary share capital.
United kingdom Financial investments Limited UkFi as manager of Hm treasurys shareholding continues to operate in line with the framework document between UkFi and Hm treasury managing the investment in the group on a commercial basis without interference in day-to-day management decisions.
there is a risk that a change in government priorities could result in the framework agreement currently in place being replaced leading to interference in the operations of the group, although there have been no indications that the government intends to change the existing operating arrangements.
the group made a number of undertakings to Hm treasury arising from the capital and funding support, including the provision of additional lending to certain mortgage and business sectors for the two years to 28 February 2011, and other matters relating to corporate governance and colleague remuneration.
the lending commitments were subject to prudent commercial lending and pricing criteria, the availability of sufficient funding and sufficient demand from creditworthy customers.
these lending commitments were delivered in full in the second year.
the subsequent agreement known as merlin between five major Uk banks including the group and the government in relation to gross business lending capacity in the 2011 calendar year was subject to a similar set of criteria.
the group delivered in full its share of the commitments by the five banks, both in respect of lending to smes in respect of overall gross business lending.
the group has made a unilateral lending pledge for 2012 as part of its publicly announced sme charter.
in addition, the group is subject to european state aid obligations in line with the Restructuring Plan agreed with Hm treasury and the eU College of Commissioners in november 2009, which is designed to support the long-term viability of the group and remedy any distortion of competition and trade in the european Union eU arising from the state aid given to the group.
this has placed a number of requirements on the group including an asset reduction target from a defined pool of assets by the end of 2014 and the disposal of certain portions of its retail business by the end of november 2013. in June 2011 the group issued an information memorandum to potential bidders of this retail banking business, which the european Commission confirmed met the requirements to commence the formal sale process for the sale no later than 30 november 2011.
On 14 December 2011 the group announced that having reviewed the formal offers made, its preferred option was for a direct sale and that it was entering into exclusive discussions with the Co-operative group.
the group is also continuing to progress an initial Public Offering iPO in parallel.
the group continues to work closely with the eU Commission, Hm treasury and the monitoring trustee appointed by the eU Commission to ensure the successful implementation of the Restructuring Plan.
Risk governance the embedding of integrated governance, risk and control frameworks throughout the group has continued, through a consistent approach to risk appetite, policies, delegated authorities and governance committee structures.
the risk governance structure is intended to strengthen risk evaluation and management, whilst also positioning the group to manage the changing regulatory environment in an efficient and effective manner.
the risk governance structure for Lloyds Banking group is shown in table 1.1.
Board and Board Committees the Board, assisted by Risk Committee and Audit Committee, approves the groups overall governance, risk and control frameworks and risk appetite.
the Board also reviews the groups aggregate risk exposures and concentrations of risk to ensure that these are consistent with the Boards agreed appetite for risk.
the roles of the Board, Audit Committee and Risk Committee are shown in the corporate governance section on pages 177 to 186 and further key risk oversight roles are described below.
the Risk Committee, which comprises non-executive Directors, oversees and challenges the development, implementation and maintenance of the groups risk management framework, ensuring that its strategy, principles, policies and resources are aligned internally to its risk appetite as well as externally to regulation, corporate governance and industry best practice.
the Risk Committee regularly reviews the groups risk exposures across the primary risk drivers and the detailed risk types.
the Group Executive Committee supports the group Chief executive in ensuring the effectiveness of the groups risk management framework and the clear articulation of the groups risk policies, whilst also reviewing the groups aggregate risk exposures and concentrations of risk.
throughout 2011 businesses provided the group executive Committee with regular updates on business performance, always including a review of their key risks.
the group executive Committee is supported by other group committees as shown in table 1.1, and in particular by: the Group Asset and Liability Committee is responsible for the strategic management of the groups assets and liabilities and the profit and loss implications of balance sheet management actions.
it is also responsible for the risk management framework for market risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and earnings volatility.
the Group Incident Executive sets the strategic direction for the groups response to significant incidents which could affect its ability to continue to operate, and instigates any tactical initiatives required.
the Group Stress Testing Committee is responsible for reviewing, challenging and recommending to group executive Committee the annual stress testing of the groups operating plan based on internal and FsA recommended scenarios, annual european Banking Authority stress tests, and other group wide macroeconomic stress tests.
the Group Product Governance Committee provides strategic and senior oversight over design, launch and management of products, including new product approval, annual product reviews and management of risk in the back book.
the Group Risk Committee reviews and recommends the groups risk appetite and governance, risk and control frameworks, high-level group policies and the allocation of risk appetite.
the group Risk Committee regularly reviews risk exposures and risk reward returns.
During 2011, the groups risk committee framework has been reviewed in order to ensure more effective risk management, clearer accountabilities, and more efficient and simplified processes.
A new risk committee framework has been implemented, whereby the group Risk Committee is supported by the following Committees: marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 103 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Credit Risk Committees, which are responsible for the development and effectiveness of the relevant credit risk management framework, clear description of the groups credit risk appetite, setting of high-level group credit policy, and compliance with regulatory credit requirements.
Risk Committees monitor and review the groups aggregate credit risk exposures and concentrations of risk on behalf of the group Risk Committee.
the Group Market Risk Committee, which on behalf of the group Asset and Liability Committee, monitors and reviews the groups aggregate market risk exposures and concentrations and provides a proactive and robust challenge around business activities giving rise to market risks.
the Insurance Risk Committee monitors, reviews and makes recommendations on the risk management framework, risk strategy and appetite for the insurance business, ensuring that the policy and oversight framework for insurance risk management is appropriate.
the committee reviews and challenges relevant insurance reporting and issues arising, including: the groups aggregate portfolio of insurance risk against approved plans and risk appetite and the need and opportunity for effecting insurance risk mitigation.
the Group Operational Risk Committee, which is responsible for identifying significant current and emerging operational risks or accumulation of risks and control deficiencies across the group and reviewing associated oversight plans to ensure pre-emptive risk management action.
the Committee also seeks to ensure that adequate business area engagement occurs to develop, implement and maintain the groups operational risk management framework.
the Group Compliance and Conduct Risk Committee is responsible for forming a group wide view of the groups compliance and conduct risk profile, reviewing the effectiveness of compliance and conduct risk frameworks and reviewing relevant polices and engagement with regulators.
the Group Financial Crime Committee serves as the principal group forum for reviewing and challenging the management of financial crime risk including the overall strategy and performance and engagement with financial crime authorities.
the Committee is accountable for ensuring that, at group level, financial crime risks are effectively identified and managed within risk appetite and that strategies for financial crime prevention are effectively co-ordinated and implemented across the group.
the Group Model Governance Committee is responsible for setting the framework and standards for model governance across the group, including establishing appropriate levels of delegated authority and principles underlying the groups risk modelling framework, specifically regarding consistency of approach across business units and risk types.
it approves risk models other than a small number defined as highly material to the group, which are approved by the group Risk Committee.
this also meets FsA BiPRU requirements regarding the governance and approval for internal Ratings Based models, including internal Assessment models, market Risk VaR and Advanced measurement approach models.
table 1.1: Risk governance structures Risk Division Committees Audit Risk Reporting Reporting Board Wholesale, Committee Committee Commercial and International Credit Risk Committees Retail and G GEC members Committees Wealth Credit Risk Committees Group Aggregation, Executive Independent escalation Committee challenge Group Market Risk Committee Independent Aggregation, challenge escalation Group Group Asset Group Group Stress Product Group Risk and Liability Incident Testing Governance Committee Insurance Committee Executive Committee Committee Risk Committee Group Audit Primary Group escalation Operational Risk Committee Business areas Enterprise Risk Committees Wholesale Asset Group Retail and Commercial Independent Independent Banking and Finance Compliance Wealth Risk Risk challenge challenge Markets Risk Risk and Conduct Committee Committee Committee Committee Risk Committee Insurance International Group Group Reporting Reporting Group Division Business Functions Operations Financial Executive Risk Executive Risk Crime t Committee Committees Committees Commi tee Committee First line of defence Group Model Governance Committee Independent Challenge Third line of defence Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information Second line of defence r Lloyds Banking Group 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Risk Division, headed by the Chief Risk Officer, consists of eleven Risk Directors and their specialist teams.
these teams provide oversight and independent challenge to business management and support the senior executive and the Board with independent reporting on risks and opportunities.
Risk Directors, responsible for each risk type, meet on a regular basis under the Chairmanship of the Chief Risk Officer to review and challenge the risk profile of the group and to ensure that mitigating actions are appropriate.
Business Unit managing Directors executives have primary responsibility for measuring, monitoring and controlling risks within their areas of accountability and are required to establish control frameworks for their businesses that are consistent with the groups policies and are within the parameters set by the Board, group executive Committee and Risk Division.
Compliance with policies and parameters is overseen by the Risk Committee, the group Risk Committee, the group Asset and Liability Committee, and Risk Division, and independently challenged by group Audit.
Risk management oversight the Chief Risk Officer oversees and promotes the development and implementation of consistent group wide governance risk and control frameworks.
the Chief Risk Officer, supported by the Risk Directors, provides objective challenge to the groups senior management.
the group executive Committee and the Board receive regular briefings and guidance from the Chief Risk Officer to ensure awareness of the overarching risk management framework and a clear understanding of their accountabilities for risk and internal control.
Risk Directors, who report directly to the Chief Risk Officer, are allocated responsibility for specific risk types and are responsible for ensuring the adequacy of the framework for their risk types as well as the oversight of the risk profile across the group.
Risk Directors also support specific business areas to provide an enterprise-wide risk management perspective.
the Director of group Audit provides independent assurance to the Audit Committee and the Board that risks within the group are recognised, monitored and managed within acceptable parameters.
group Audit is fully independent of Risk, seeking to ensure objective challenge to the effectiveness of the risk governance framework.
table 1.2: Risk management framework The Lloyds Banking Group business strategy and objectives Policy framework and accountability and risk appetite Risk Control Risk and Control Risk Independent Risk Monitoring Activities Assessment Measurement Reviews Identification Reporting Action plans and tracking People Systems and tools Risk management in the business Line management is directly accountable for the management of risks arising in their individual businesses.
A key objective is to ensure that business decisions strike an appropriate balance between risk and reward, consistent with the groups risk appetite.
All business areas complete a control effectiveness review annually see page 186, reviewing the effectiveness of their internal controls and putting in place a programme of enhancements where appropriate.
executives of each business area and each group executive Committee member certify the accuracy of their assessment.
Risk management in the business forms part of a tiered risk management model, as shown above, with Risk Division providing oversight and challenge, and the Chief Risk Officer and group committees establishing the group wide perspective.
this approach provides the group with an effective mechanism for developing and embedding risk policies and risk management strategies which are aligned with the risks faced by its businesses.
it also seeks to facilitate effective communication on these matters across the group.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 105 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Risk management framework the groups risk management principles and framework cover all the types of risk which could impact on its banking and insurance businesses.
the group uses an enterprise-wide risk management framework to maximise shareholder value over time by aligning risk management with the corporate strategy, assessing the impact of emerging risks, and developing tolerances and mitigating strategies.
the framework ensures that policies and controls can be adapted to reflect adjustments to business strategy and risk appetite in response to changing market conditions.
the principal elements of the framework are shown in table 1.2. these map to the components of the internal control framework issued by the Committee of sponsoring Organisations of the treadway Commission.
the Lloyds Banking Group business strategy and objectives are used to determine the groups high level risk appetite and measures and metrics for the primary risk drivers see table 1.3. the risk appetite is proposed by the group Chief executive following review by the group Risk Committee and group Asset and Liability Committee, and is approved by the Board.
the approved high level appetite and limits are delegated to the group Chief executive and then cascaded in consultation with the group Risk Committee and group Asset and Liability Committee to members of the group executive Committee and the business.
the risk appetite is executed through Policy Framework and Accountabilities, comprising the following levels of policy: Principles: Board-level statements of principle for the six primary risk drivers High-level group policy: policy statements for the main risk types which align to each risk driver Detailed group policy: more specific and detailed policy statements of group policy Business Area policy: local policy which is produced by exception where a greater level of detail is needed by a business area than is appropriate for group-level policy.
All policies are reviewed annually to ensure they remain fit for purpose.
During 2011, the groups Policy Framework has been reviewed with a view to simplification, which will be implemented over the coming year.
Colleagues are expected to be aware of and to comply with the policies and procedures which apply to them and their work.
Line management in each business area has primary responsibility for ensuring that they do so.
Risk Division oversees the effective implementation of policy, and group Audit provides independent assurance to the Board about the effectiveness of the groups internal control framework and adherence to policy.
Clear and consistent risk identification is undertaken using a common risk language to define and categorise risks see table 1.3, also supporting risk aggregation and standardised reporting.
Proportionate control activities are in place mitigating or transferring risk where appropriate.
Risk and control assessments including the annual control effectiveness review are undertaken assessing the effectiveness of mitigating actions and whether risk exposures are consistent with the groups risk appetite.
the impact of risks and issues is determined through effective risk measurement, including modelling, stress testing and scenario analysis to assess financial, reputational and regulatory capital implications.
the outcomes of independent reviews including internal and external audit and regulatory reviews are reflected in risk management activities and action plans.
Monitoring processes are in place supporting the reporting and escalation of significant issues or losses to appropriate levels of management.
Business areas monitor and report on their risk levels against risk appetite and their performance against relevant limits or policies.
Risk reporting is reviewed by the business executive sitting as a risk committee, to ensure that senior management is satisfied with the overall risk profile, risk accountabilities and progress on any necessary action plans and tracking.
information is provided to Risk Division for review and aggregation to feed into regular reporting on risk exposures and material issues.
At group level a consolidated risk report and risk appetite dashboard are produced which are reviewed and debated by the group Risk Committee, Risk Committee and the Board to ensure that they are satisfied with the overall risk profile, risk accountabilities and mitigating actions.
the report and dashboard provide a monthly assessment of the aggregate residual risk for the primary risk drivers, comparing the assessment with the previous periods and providing a forecast for the next twelve months and also provides an assessment of emerging risks, which could impact the group over the next five years.
the overall effectiveness of the risk management framework depends on the people undertaking these activities and the quality of the supporting systems and tools.
the risk transformation programme has initiated a significant investment in risk infrastructure to strengthen the groups risk management capability.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Principal risks and uncertainties At present the most significant risks faced by the group, which are derived from the primary risk drivers and detailed risk types in table 1.3 page 112, are shown below.
these risks could impact on the success of delivering against the groups long-term strategic objectives.
For further information on the economy see pages 21 and 22.
Liquidity and funding Principal Risks Liquidity and funding continues to remain a key area of focus for the group and the industry as a whole.
Risk Definition Like all major banks, the group is dependent on confidence in the short and long term wholesale funding markets.
should the group, due to exceptional circumstances, be unable to continue to source sustainable Liquidity risk is defined as the risk funding, its ability to fund its financial obligations could be impacted.
that the group has insufficient the combination of right-sizing the balance sheet and continued development of the retail deposit base has financial resources to meet its seen the groups wholesale funding requirement reduce in the past year.
the progress the group has made commitments as they fall due, or to date in diversifying its funding sources has further strengthened its funding base.
can only secure them at excessive During the first half of 2011 the group accelerated term funding initiatives and the run down of certain cost.
non-core asset portfolios allowing a further reduction in total government and central bank facilities.
the group repaid its remaining drawings under the Bank of england sLs scheme in full during 2011.
Funding risk is defined as the risk Outstandings under the Credit guarantee scheme reduced in line with their contractual maturities, with that the group does not have 23.5 billion remaining at end December.
the outstanding amount matures during 2012. sufficiently stable and diverse the second half of 2011 has seen more difficult funding markets as investor confidence was impacted sources of funding or the funding by concerns over the Us debt ceiling and subsequent downgrade.
this was followed by increased fears over eurozone sovereign debt levels, downgrades and possible defaults and concerns are ongoing over structure is inefficient.
the potential downside effects from financial market volatility.
Despite this the group continued to fund adequately, maintaining a broadly stable stock of primary liquid assets during the year and meeting its regulatory liquidity ratio targets at all times.
Liquidity is managed at the aggregate group level, with active monitoring at both business unit and group level.
monitoring and control processes are in place to address both internal and regulatory requirements.
in a stress situation the level of monitoring and reporting is increased commensurate with the nature of the stress event.
the group carries out stress testing of its liquidity position against a range of scenarios, including those prescribed by the FsA.
the groups liquidity risk appetite is also calibrated against a number of stressed liquidity metrics.
the groups stress testing framework considers these factors, including the impact of a range of economic and liquidity stress scenarios over both short and longer term horizons.
internal stress testing results at 31 December 2011 show that the group has liquidity resources representing more than 130 per cent of modelled outflows from all wholesale funding sources, corporate deposits and rating dependent contracts under the groups severe liquidity stress scenario.
in 2011, the group has maintained its liquidity levels in excess of the iLg regulatory minimum FsAs individual Liquidity Adequacy standards at all times.
Funding projections show the group will achieve the proposed Basel iii liquidity and funding requirements in advance of expected implementation dates.
the groups stress testing shows that further credit rating downgrades may reduce investor appetite for some of the groups liability classes and therefore funding capacity.
in the fourth quarter of 2011, the group experienced downgrades in its long-term rating of between one and two notches from three of the major rating agencies.
the impact that the group experienced following the downgrades was consistent with the groups modelled outcomes based on the stress testing framework.
the group has materially reduced its wholesale funding in recent years and operates a well diversified funding platform which together lessen the impact of stress events.
the groups borrowing costs and issuance in the capital markets are dependent on a number of factors, and increased cost or reduction of capacity could materially adversely affect the groups results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
in particular, reduction in the credit rating of the group or deterioration in the capital markets perception of the groups financial resilience, could significantly increase its borrowing costs and limit its issuance capacity in the capital markets.
As an indicator over the last 12 months the spread between an index of A rated long term senior unsecured bank debt and an index of similar BBB rated bank debt, both of which are publicly available, has ranged between 60 and 115 basis points.
the applicability to and implications for the groups funding cost would depend on the type of issuance, and prevailing market conditions.
the impact on the groups funding cost is subject to a number of assumptions and uncertainties and is therefore impossible to quantify precisely.
Downgrades of the groups long term debt rating could lead to additional collateral posting and cash outflow.
A hypothetical simultaneous two notch downgrade of the groups long-term debt rating from all major rating agencies, after initial actions within managements control, could result in an outflow of 11 billion of cash, 4 billion of collateral posting related to customer financial contracts and 24 billion of collateral posting associated with secured funding.
these effects do not take into account additional management and restructuring actions that the group has identified that could materially reduce the amount of required collateral postings under derivative contracts related to its own secured funding programmes.
the downgrades that the group experienced in the fourth quarter of 2011 did not significantly change its borrowing costs, reduce its issuance capacity or require significant collateral posting.
the group notes the February 2012 announcement from moodys placing the ratings of 114 european financial institutions, including Lloyds Banking group, on review for downgrade.
even in the case of a simultaneous two notch downgrade from all rating agencies, the group would remain investment grade.
At 31 December 2011, the group had 202 billion of highly liquid unencumbered assets in its liquidity portfolio which are available to meet cash and collateral outflows.
this liquidity is available for deployment at immediate notice, subject to complying with regulatory requirements, and is a key component of the groups liquidity management process.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 107 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Liquidity and funding continued Mitigating Actions the group takes many mitigating actions with respect to this principle risk, key examples include: the group has maintained its liquidity levels in excess of the iLg regulatory minimum FsAs individual Liquidity Adequacy standards at all times.
Funding projections show the group will achieve the proposed Basel iii liquidity and funding metrics in advance of expected implementation dates.
the Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR is due to be implemented on 1 January 2015 and the net stable Funding Ratio nsFR has a 1 January 2018 implementation date.
the european Commission released its proposal for implementing Basel iii into europe CRD iV in July 2011 and we note that discussions over the final detail are ongoing.
the group carries out monthly stress testing of its liquidity position against a range of scenarios, including those prescribed by the FsA.
the key dependencies on successfully funding the groups balance sheet include the continued functioning of the money and capital markets: successful right-sizing of the groups balance sheet: the repayment of the government Credit guarantee scheme facilities in accordance with the agreed terms: no more than limited further deterioration in the Uks and the groups credit rating: and no significant or sudden withdrawal of deposits resulting in increased reliance on money markets.
Additionally, the group has entered into a number of eU state aid related obligations to achieve reductions in certain parts of its balance sheet by the end of 2014. these are assumed within the groups funding plan.
the requirement to meet this deadline may result in the group having to provide funding to support these asset reductions and or disposals and may also result in a lower price being achieved.
term wholesale funding issuance for the year totalled 35 billion, in excess of plan, representing 2 billion pre-funding of the requirement for 2012. the group term funding ratio wholesale funding with a remaining life of over one year as a percentage of total wholesale funding improved to 55 per cent 50 per cent at 31 December 2010 due to good progress in new term issuance and a reduction in short term money market funding the wholesale funding position includes debt issued under the legacy government Credit guarantee scheme, for which the last maturity will occur in 2012. total wholesale funding reduced by 47 billion to 251 billion, with the volume with a residual maturity less than one year falling 36 billion to 113 billion.
the ratio of customer loans to deposits improved to 135 per cent compared with 154 per cent at 31 December 2010.
Loans and advances reduced by 41 billion and customer deposits increased by 23 billion, representing growth of 6 per cent in 2011.
For further information on Liquidity and funding risk, see page 112. Credit Principal Risks Arising in the Retail, Wholesale, Commercial, and Wealth and international divisions, reflecting the risks Risk Definition inherent in the groups lending activities and, to a much lesser extent in the insurance division in respect of investment of own funds.
Adverse changes in the credit quality of the groups Uk and or international the risk of reductions in earnings borrowers and counterparties, or in their behaviour, would be expected to reduce the value of the groups and or value, through financial assets and materially increase the groups write-downs and allowances for impairment losses.
Credit risk can loss, as a result of the failure of the be affected by a range of factors, including, inter alia, increased unemployment, reduced asset values, lower party with whom the group has consumer spending, increased personal or corporate insolvency levels, reduced corporate profits, increased contracted to meet its obligations interest rates or higher tenant defaults.
Over the last four years, the global banking crisis and economic both on and off balance sheet.
downturn has driven cyclically high bad debt charges.
these have arisen from the groups lending to: Wholesale customers including those in Wealth and international : where companies continue to face difficult business conditions.
impairment levels have reduced materially since the peak of the economic downturn and more aggressive risk appetite in the HBOs businesses when elevated corporate default levels and illiquid commercial property markets resulted in heightened impairment charges.
the Uk economy remains fragile.
Consumer and business confidence is low, consumer spending has been falling over the past year, the reduction in public sector spending is deepening and exports are failing to offset domestic weakness.
the possibility of further economic weakness remains.
Financial market instability represents an additional downside risk.
the group has exposure in both the Uk and internationally, including europe, ireland, UsA and Australia, particularly in commercial real estate lending, where we have a high level of lending secured on secondary and tertiary assets.
Retail customers including those in Wealth and international : have seen Uk bad debts reduce further in 2011 as a result of risk management activity and more stable, low interest rate Uk economic conditions.
these portfolios will remain strongly linked to the economic environment, with inter alia house price falls, unemployment increases, consumer over-indebtedness and rising interest rates being possible impacts to the secured and unsecured retail exposures.
Mitigating Actions the group takes many mitigating actions with respect to this principle risk, key examples include: the group follows a relationship based business model with risk management processes, appetites and experienced staff in place.
Further details on mitigating actions are detailed on pages 130 to 132.
For further information on Credit risk, see page 129.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Regulatory Principal Risks Regulatory exposure is driven by the significant volume of current legislation and regulation within the Uk Risk Definition and overseas with which the group has to comply, along with new or proposed legislation and regulation Regulatory risk is the risk of which needs to be reviewed, assessed and embedded into day-to-day operational and business practices reductions in earnings and across the group.
this is particularly the case in the current market environment, which continues to witness high levels of government and regulatory intervention in the banking sector.
or value, through financial or reputational loss, from failing to Lloyds Banking group faces increased political and regulatory scrutiny as a result of the groups perceived comply with the applicable laws, size and systemic importance following the acquisition of HBOs group.
Independent Commission on Banking the government appointed an independent Commission on Banking iCB to review possible measures to reform the banking system and promote stability and competition.
the iCB published its final report on 12 september 2011 putting forward recommendations to require ring-fencing of the retail activities of banks from their investment banking activities and additional capital requirements beyond those required under current drafts of the Capital Requirements Directive iV.
the Report also makes recommendations in relation to the competitiveness of the Uk banking market, including enhancing the competition remit of the new Financial Conduct Authority FCA, implementing a new industry-wide switching solution by september 2013, and improving transparency.
the iCB, which following the final report was disbanded, had the authority only to make recommendations, which the government could choose to accept or reject.
the iCB specifically recommended in relation to the groups eC mandated branch disposal Project Verde, that, to create a strong challenger in the Uk banking market, the entity which results from the divestment should have a share of the personal current account PCA market of at least 6 per cent although this does not need to arise solely from the current accounts acquired from the Company and a funding position at least as strong as its peers.
the iCB did not specify a definitive timeframe for the divested entity to achieve a 6 per cent market share of PCAs but recommended that a market investigation should be carefully considered by competition authorities if a strong and effective challenger has not resulted from the Companys divestment by 2015. the iCB did not recommend explicitly that the Company should increase the size of the Project Verde disposal agreed with the european Commission but recommended that the government prioritise the emergence of a strong new challenger over reducing market concentration through a substantially enhanced divestment by the group.
the government published its response to the iCB recommendations on 19 December 2011. the government supported the recommendation that an entity with a larger share of the PCA market than the 4.6 per cent originally proposed might produce a more effective competitor.
in relation to the groups announcement that it was to pursue exclusive negotiations with the Co-operative group, the government commented that such a transaction would deliver a significant enhancement of the PCA market share, with the share divested by the group combining with the Co-operative groups existing share to create a competitor with approximately 7-8 per cent.
the government also stated that the execution of the divestment is a commercial matter, and it has no intention of using its shareholding to deliver an enhancement.
New Regulatory Regime On 27 January 2012, the government published the Financial services Bill.
the proposed new Uk regulatory architecture will see the transition of regulatory and supervisory powers from the FsA to the new Financial Conduct Authority FCA and Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA.
the PRA will be responsible for supervising banks, building societies and other large firms.
the FCA will focus on consumer protection and market regulation.
the Bill is also proposing new responsibilities and powers for the FCA.
the most noteworthy are the proposed greater powers for the FCA in relation to competition and the proposal to widen its scope to include consumer credit.
the Bill is expected to take effect in early 2013. in April 2011, the FsA commenced an internal reorganisation as a first step in a process towards the formal transition of regulatory and supervisory powers from the FsA to the new FCA and PRA in 2013.
Until this time the responsibility for regulating and supervising the activities of the group and its subsidiaries will remain with the FsA.
On 2 April the FsA will introduce a new twin peaks model and the intention is to move the FsA as close as possible to the new style of regulation outlined in the Bill.
there will be two independent groups of supervisors for banks, insurers and major investment firms covering prudential and conduct.
All other firms ie those not dual regulated will be solely supervised by the conduct supervisors.
in addition, the european Banking Authority, the european insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the european securities and markets Authority as new eU supervisory Authorities are likely to have greater influence on regulatory matters across the eU.
Capital and Liquidity evolving capital and liquidity requirements continue to be a priority for the group.
the Basel Committee on Banking supervision has put forward proposals for a reform package which changes the regulatory capital and liquidity standards, the definition of capital, introduces new definitions for the calculation of counterparty credit risk and leverage ratios, additional capital buffers and development of a global liquidity standard.
implementation of these changes is expected to be phased in between 2013 and 2018. marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 109 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Regulatory continued Anti Bribery the Bribery Act 2010 came fully into force on 1 July 2011. it enhances previous laws on bribery and is supported by some detailed guidance issued by the ministry of Justice on the steps a business needs to take to embed adequate procedures to prevent bribery.
A company convicted of failing to have adequate procedures to prevent bribery could receive an unlimited fine.
the group operates a group wide AntiBribery Policy, applicable to all of its businesses, operations and employees, which incorporates the requirements of the Uk Bribery Act 2010.
Sanctions the group takes very seriously its responsibilities for complying with legal and regulatory sanctions requirements in all the jurisdictions in which it operates.
in order to assist adherence to relevant economic sanctions legislation, the group has enhanced its internal compliance processes including those associated with customer and payment screening.
the group has continued the delivery of a programme of staff training regarding policies and procedures for detecting and preventing economic sanctions non-compliance.
US Regulation significant regulatory initiatives from the Us impacting the group include the Dodd-Frank Act which imposes specific requirements for systemic risk oversight, securities market conduct and oversight, bank capital standards, arrangements for the liquidation of failing systemically significant financial institutions and restrictions to the ability of banks to engage in proprietary trading activities known as the Volcker Rule.
the Act will have both business and operational implications for the group within and beyond the Us.
in addition the Foreign Account tax Compliance Act requires non-Us financial institutions to enter into disclosure agreements with the Us treasury and all non-financial non-Us entities to report and or certify their ownership of Us assets in foreign accounts or be subject to 30 per cent withholding tax.
European Regulation At a european level, the pace of regulatory reform has increased with a number of new directives or changes to existing directives planned in the next 12 months including a revised markets in Financial instruments Directive, transparency Directive, insurance mediation Directive and a Fifth Undertakings in Collective investments in transferable securities Directive as well as a proposed Directive regulating Packaged Retail investment Products.
Mitigating Actions the group takes many mitigating actions with respect to this principal risk, key examples include: Independent Commission on Banking We continue to play a constructive role in the debate with the government and other stakeholders on all issues under consideration in relation to the iCBs recommendations.
New Regulatory Regime the group continues to work closely with the regulatory authorities and industry associations to ensure that it is able to identify and respond to regulatory changes and mitigate against risks to the group and its stakeholders.
Capital and Liquidity the group is continuously assessing the impacts of regulatory developments which could have a material effect on the group and is progressing its plans to implement regulatory changes and directives through change management programmes.
Anti Bribery the group has no appetite for bribery and explicitly prohibits the payment, offer, acceptance or request of a bribe, including facilitation payments.
the group has enhanced its internal compliance processes including those associated with payment screening, colleague training and hospitality.
US and European Regulation the group is continuously assessing the impacts of regulatory developments which could have a material effect on the group and is progressing its plans to implement regulatory changes and directives through change management programmes.
the group is also continuing to progress its plans to achieve solvency ii compliance.
For further information on Regulatory risk, see page 167.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Market Risk Principal Risks the group has a number of market risks, the principal ones being: Risk Definition there is a risk to the groups banking income arising from the level of interest rates and the margin of the risk of reductions in earnings interbank rates over central bank rates.
A further banking risk arises from competitive pressures on product and or value, through financial terms in existing loans and deposits, which sometimes restrict the group in its ability to change interest or reputational loss, from rates applying to customers in response to changes in interbank and central bank rates.
unfavourable market moves: equity market movements and changes in credit spreads impact the groups results.
including changes in, and the main equity market risks arise in the life assurance companies and staff pension schemes.
increased volatility of, interest rates, market-implied inflation Credit spread risk arises in the life assurance companies, pension schemes and banking businesses.
rates, credit spreads, foreign Continuing concerns about the fiscal position in eurozone countries resulted in increased credit spreads in exchange rates, equity, property the areas affected, and fears of contagion affected the euro and widened spreads between central bank and and commodity prices.
Mitigating Actions the group takes many mitigating actions with respect to this principal risk, key examples include: market risk is managed within a Board approved framework using a range of metrics to monitor the groups profile against its stated appetite and potential market conditions.
market Risk is reported regularly to appropriate committees.
the groups trading activity is small relative to our peers and is not considered to be a principal risk.
the average 95 per cent 1-day trading Value at Risk VaR was 6 million for the year to 31 December 2011.
For further information on market risk, see page 164.
Customer treatment Principal Risks Customer treatment and how the group manages its customer relationships affect all aspects of the groups Risk Definition operations and are closely aligned with achievement of the groups strategic vision to be the best bank for the risk of regulatory censure customers.
As a provider of a wide range of financial services products across different brands and numerous and or a reduction in earnings distribution channels to an extremely broad and varied customer base, we face significant conduct risks, such value, through financial as: products or services not meeting the needs of our customers: sales processes which could result in selling or reputational loss, from products to customers which do not meet their needs: failure to deal with a customers complaint effectively inappropriate or poor customer where we have got it wrong and not met customer expectations.
there remains a high level of scrutiny regarding the treatment of customers by financial institutions from regulatory bodies, the press and politicians.
the FsA in particular continues to drive focus on conduct of business activities through its supervision activity.
there is a risk that certain aspects of the groups business may be determined by regulatory bodies or the courts as not being conducted in accordance with applicable laws or regulations, or fair and reasonable treatment in their opinion.
the group may also be liable for damages to third parties harmed by the conduct of its business.
Mitigating Actions the group takes many mitigating actions with respect to this principal risk, key examples include: the groups Conduct Risk strategy and supporting framework have been designed to support our vision and strategic aim to put the customer at the heart of everything we do.
We have developed and implemented a framework to enable us to deliver the right outcomes for our customers, which is supported by policies and standards in key areas, including product governance, sales, responsible lending, customers in financial difficulties, claims and complaints handling.
the group actively engages with regulatory bodies and other stakeholders in developing its understanding of current customer treatment concerns.
For further information on Customer treatment, see page 167. marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 111 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 People Principal Risks the quality and effectiveness of the groups people are fundamental to its success.
Consequently, the Risk Definition groups management of material people risks is critical to its capacity to deliver against its long-term the risk of reductions in earnings strategic objectives.
Over the next year the groups ability to manage people risks successfully may be or value through financial or affected by the following key drivers: reputational loss arising from the groups continuing structural consolidation and the sale of part of our branch network under Project ineffectively leading colleagues Verde may result in disruption to our ability to lead and manage our people effectively.
responsibly and proficiently, the continually changing, more rigorous regulatory environment may impact our people strategy, managing people resource, remuneration practices and retention.
supporting and developing macroeconomic conditions and negative media attention on the banking sector may impact retention, colleague talent, or meeting colleague sentiment and engagement.
regulatory obligations related to our people.
Mitigating Actions the group takes many mitigating actions with respect to this principal risk, key examples include: strong focus on leadership and colleague engagement, through delivery of strategies to attract, retain and develop high calibre staff together with implementation of rigorous succession planning.
A continued focus on people risk management across the group.
ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to Approved Persons and the FsA Remuneration Code, and embedding compliant and appropriate colleague behaviours in line with group policies, values and people risk priorities.
strengthening risk management culture and capability across the group, together with further embedding of risk objectives in the colleague performance and reward process.
For further information on People risk, see page 167.
Insurance Risk Principal Risks the major sources of insurance risk are within the insurance businesses and the groups defined benefit Risk Definition staff pension schemes pension schemes.
insurance risk is inherent in the insurance business and can be the risk of reductions in earnings affected by customer behaviour.
insurance risks accepted relate primarily to mortality, longevity, morbidity, and or value, through financial persistency, expenses, property and unemployment.
the primary insurance risk of the groups pension or reputational loss, due to schemes is related to longevity.
fluctuations in the timing, insurance risk within the insurance businesses has the potential to significantly impact the earnings and frequency and severity of insured capital position of the insurance Division of the group.
For the groups pension schemes, insurance risk underwritten events and to could significantly increase the cost of pension provision and impact the balance sheet of the group.
fluctuations in the timing and amount of claims settlements.
Mitigating Actions the group takes many mitigating actions with respect to this principal risk, key examples include: insurance risk is reported regularly to appropriate committees and boards.
Actuarial assumptions are reviewed in line with experience and in-depth reviews are conducted regularly.
Longevity assumptions for the groups pension schemes are reviewed annually together with other iFRs assumptions.
insurance risk is controlled by robust processes including underwriting, pricing-to-risk, claims management, reinsurance and other risk mitigation techniques.
For further information on insurance risk, see page 169.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Full analysis of risk drivers table 1.3: Risk drivers Primary Financial Credit Market Operational Insurance Business risk drivers Soundness Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Regulatory Customer treatment People Mortality Liquidity and funding Supplier management Basis risk Longevity Retail Customer processes Capital Interest rate Financial crime Morbidity Wholesale Financial and Money laundering prudential regulatory Foreign exchange Persistency Commercial Execution of Detailed and sanctions reporting strategy Equity Property risk types Wealth and Security Disclosure International Credit spread Expenses IT systems Tax Change Unemployment Organisational Infrastructure Page 112 Page 129 Page 164 Page 167 Page 169 Page 170 Risk drivers the groups risk language is designed to capture the groups primary risk drivers.
A description of each primary risk driver, including definition, appetite, control and exposures, is included below.
these are further sub-divided into 33 more granular risk types to enable more detailed review and facilitate appropriate reporting and monitoring, as set out in table 1.3. through the groups risk management processes, these risks are assessed on an ongoing basis and seek to ensure optimisation of risk and reward and that, where required, appropriate mitigation is in place.
Both quantitative and qualitative factors are considered in assessing the groups current and potential future risks.
Financial soundness Financial soundness risk has three key risk components covering liquidity and funding risk: capital risk: and financial and prudential regulatory reporting, disclosure and tax risk.
Liquidity and funding risk Definition Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the group does not have sufficient financial resources to meet its commitments when they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
Funding risk is further defined as the risk that the group does not have sufficiently stable and diverse sources of funding or the funding structure is inefficient.
Risk appetite Liquidity and funding risk appetite for the banking businesses is set by the Board and reviewed on an annual basis.
this statement of the groups overall appetite for liquidity risk is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
With the support of the group Asset and Liability Committee, the group Chief executive allocates this risk appetite across the group.
it is reported through various metrics that enable the group to manage liquidity and funding constraints.
the group Chief executive, assisted by the group Asset and Liability Committee regularly reviews performance against risk appetite.
exposure Liquidity exposure represents the amount of potential outflows in any future period less committed inflows.
Liquidity is considered from both an internal and regulatory perspective.
measurement A series of measures are used across the group to monitor both short and long-term liquidity including: ratios, cash outflow triggers, wholesale funding maturity profile, early warning indicators and stress test survival period triggers.
the Board approved liquidity risk appetite links a number of these measures to balance sheet progression set out in the group funding plan, with regular reporting to the group Asset and Liability Committee and the Board.
strict criteria and limits are in place to ensure highly liquid marketable securities are available as part of the portfolio of liquid assets.
Details of contractual maturities for assets and liabilities form an important source of information for the management of liquidity risk.
note 56 to the financial statements on page 337 sets out an analysis of assets and liabilities by relevant maturity grouping.
in order to reflect more accurately the expected behaviour of the groups assets and liabilities, measurement and modelling of the behavioural aspects of each is constructed.
this forms the foundation of the groups liquidity controls.
mitigation the group mitigates the risk of a liquidity mismatch in excess of its risk appetite by managing the liquidity profile of the balance sheet through both short-term liquidity management and long-term funding strategy.
short-term liquidity management is considered from two perspectives: marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 113 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 business as usual and liquidity under stressed conditions, both of which relate to funding in the less than one year time horizon.
Longer term funding is used to manage the groups strategic liquidity profile which is determined by the groups balance sheet structure.
Longer term is defined as having an original maturity of more than one year.
the groups funding and liquidity position is underpinned by its significant customer deposit base, and has been supported by stable funding from the wholesale markets with a reduced dependence on short-term funding.
A substantial proportion of the retail deposit base is made up of customers current and savings accounts which, although repayable on demand, have traditionally in aggregate provided a stable source of funding.
Additionally, the group accesses the short-term wholesale markets to raise interbank deposits and to issue certificates of deposit and commercial paper to meet short-term obligations.
the groups short-term money market funding is based on a qualitative analysis of the markets capacity for the groups credit.
the group has developed strong relationships with certain wholesale market segments, and also has access to corporate customers to supplement its retail deposit base.
the ability to deploy assets quickly, either through the repo market or through outright sale, is also an important source of liquidity for the groups banking businesses.
the group holds sizeable balances of high grade marketable debt securities as set out in table 1.4 which can be sold to provide, or used to secure, additional short term funding should the need arise from either market counterparties or central bank facilities european Central Bank, Federal Reserve, Bank of england and Reserve Bank of Australia.
monitoring Liquidity is actively monitored at business unit and group level.
Routine reporting is in place to senior management and through the groups committee structure, in particular the group Asset and Liability Committee which meets monthly.
Liquidity policies and procedures are subject to independent oversight.
Daily monitoring and control processes are in place to address both statutory and prudential liquidity requirements.
in addition, the framework has two other important components: Firstly, the group stress tests its potential cash flow mismatch position under various scenarios on an ongoing basis.
the cash flow mismatch position considers on-balance sheet cash flows, commitments received and granted, and material derivative cash flows.
specifically, commitments granted include the pipeline of new business awaiting completion as well as other standby or revolving credit facilities.
Behavioural adjustments are developed, evaluating how the cash flow position might change under each stress scenario to derive a stressed cash flow position.
scenarios cover both Lloyds Banking group name specific and systemic difficulties.
the scenarios and the assumptions are reviewed at least annually to gain assurance they continue to be relevant to the nature of the business.
secondly, the group has a contingency funding plan embedded within the group Liquidity Policy which has been designed to identify emerging liquidity concerns at an early stage, so that mitigating actions can be taken to avoid a more serious crisis developing.
the group has invested considerable resource to ensure that it satisfies the governance, reporting and stress testing requirements of the FsAs new iLAs liquidity regime.
the group has noted the industry move towards strategic balance sheet measures of the funding profile and has started to monitor and forecast the groups net stable Funding Ratio nsFR and Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR.
the group is aware that the regulatory liquidity landscape is subject to potential change.
specifically, in relation to the papers issued by the Basel Committee on Banking supervision strengthening the resilience of the banking sector and international framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring the group has actively participated in the industry-wide consultation and calibration exercises which took place through 2010.
During the year, the individual entities within the group, and the group, complied with all of the externally imposed liquidity and funding requirements to which they are subject.
Liquidity and funding management in 2011 Liquidity and funding continues to remain a key area of focus for the group and the industry as a whole.
Like all major banks, the group is dependent on confidence in the short and long term wholesale funding markets.
should the group, due to exceptional circumstances, be unable to continue to source sustainable funding, its ability to fund its financial obligations could be impacted.
the second half of 2011 has seen more difficult funding markets as investor confidence was impacted by concerns over the Us debt ceiling and subsequent downgrade.
this was followed by increased fears over eurozone sovereign debt levels, downgrades and possible defaults, and concerns are ongoing over the potential downside effects from financial market volatility.
Despite this, the group continued to fund adequately, maintaining a broadly stable stock of primary liquid assets during the year and meeting its regulatory liquidity ratios at all times.
the key dependencies on successfully funding the groups balance sheet include the continued functioning of the money and capital markets: successful right-sizing of the groups balance sheet: the repayment of the government Credit guarantee scheme facilities in accordance with the agreed terms: no further deterioration in the groups credit rating: and no significant or sudden withdrawal of deposits resulting in increased reliance on money markets.
the combination of right-sizing the balance sheet and continued development of the retail deposit base has seen the groups wholesale funding requirement reduce materially in the past two years.
the progress the group has made to date in diversifying its funding sources has further strengthened its funding base.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement table 1.4: Group funding by type audited 2011 2011 2010 2010 bn % bn % 1 Deposits from banks 25.4 3.9 26.4 3.9 1 Debt securities in issue: Certificates of deposit 28.0 4.3 42.4 6.2 Commercial paper 18.0 2.7 32.5 4.8 2 medium-term notes 69.8 10.6 87.7 12.9 Covered bonds 36.6 5.6 32.1 4.7 securitisation 37.5 5.7 39.0 5.7 189.9 28.9 233.7 34.3 1 subordinated liabilities 35.9 5.4 37.9 5.6 3 total wholesale funding 251.2 38.2 298.0 43.8 Customer deposits 405.9 61.8 382.5 56.2 4 Total Group funding 657.1 100.0 680.5 100.0 1 A reconciliation to the groups balance sheet is provided on page 116.
2 medium-term notes include 23.5 billion of funding from the Credit guarantee scheme.
3 the groups definition of wholesale funding aligns with that used by other international market participants: including interbank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities.
4 excluding repos and total equity.
total wholesale funding reduced by 47 billion to 251 billion, with the volume with a residual maturity less than one year falling 35 billion to 113 billion.
term wholesale funding for the year totalled 35 billion, in excess of plan, representing 2 billion pre-funding of the requirement for 2012. the group term funding ratio wholesale funding with a remaining life of over one year as a percentage of total wholesale funding improved to 55 per cent 50 per cent at 31 December 2010 due to good progress in new term issuance and a reduction in short term money market funding.
total wholesale funding is analysed by residual maturity as follows: table 1.5: Wholesale funding by residual maturity audited 2011 2011 2010 2010 bn % bn % Less than one year 113.3 45.1 148.6 49.9 One to two years 26.0 10.4 46.8 15.7 two to five years 60.2 23.9 52.3 17.6 more than five years 51.7 20.6 50.3 16.8 Total wholesale funding 251.2 100.0 298.0 100.0 Less than one year: Of which secured 24.4 21.5 38.4 25.8 Of which unsecured 88.9 78.5 110.2 74.2 113.3 45.1 148.6 49.9 greater than one year: Of which secured 63.0 45.7 55.4 37.1 Of which unsecured 74.9 54.3 94.0 62.9 137.9 54.9 149.4 50.1 the table below summarises the groups term issuance during 2011. the challenge of meeting the groups 2011 issuance plan in a very volatile market was successfully accomplished by the ability of the group to access a diverse range of markets and currencies, both in unsecured and secured form.
table 1.6: Analysis of 2011 term issuance audited Sterling US Dollar Euro Other currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn securitisation 2.5 6.1 1.9 0.8 11.3 medium-term notes 0.2 4.2 2.6 2.8 9.8 Covered bonds 1.2 2.4 3.6 1 Private placements 3.7 1.6 4.8 0.5 10.6 Total issuance 7.6 11.9 11.7 4.1 35.3 1 Private placements include structured bonds and term repurchase agreements repos.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 115 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 the wholesale funding position includes debt issued under the legacy government Credit guarantee scheme, for which the last maturity will occur in October 2012. table 1.7: Analysis of government and central bank facilities audited 2011 2010 bn bn Credit guarantee scheme 23.5 45.4 Other 51.2 Total government and central bank facilities 23.5 96.6 the ratio of customer loans to deposits improved to 135 per cent compared with 154 per cent at 31 December 2010.
Loans and advances reduced by 41 billion and customer deposits increased by 23 billion, representing growth of 6 per cent in 2011. table 1.8: Group funding position audited 2011 2010 Change bn bn % As at 31 December Funding requirement 1 Loans and advances to customers 548.8 589.5 7 2 Loans and advances to banks 10.3 10.5 2 Debt securities 12.5 25.7 51 3 Available-for-sale financial assets secondary 12.0 25.7 53 4 Cash balances 4.1 3.6 14 Funded assets 587.7 655.0 10 5 Other assets 286.1 269.6 6 873.8 924.6 5 6 On balance sheet primary liquidity assets: Reverse repurchase agreements 17.3 7.3 4 Balances at central banks primary 56.6 34.5 64 Available-for-sale financial assets primary 25.4 17.3 47 Held to maturity 8.1 7.9 3 7 3.5 trading and fair value through profit or loss Repurchase agreements 7.2 96.7 67.0 44 Total Group assets 970.5 991.6 2 5 Less: other liabilities 251.6 229.1 10 Funding requirement 718.9 762.5 6 Funded by 7 Customer deposits 405.9 382.5 6 Wholesale funding 251.2 298.0 16 Repurchase agreements 15.2 35.1 57 total equity 46.6 46.9 1 Total funding 718.9 762.5 6 1 excludes 16.8 billion 31 December 2010: 3.1 billion of reverse repurchase agreements.
2 excludes 21.8 billion 31 December 2010: 15.6 billion of loans and advances to banks within the insurance businesses and 0.5 billion 31 December 2010: 4.2 billion of reverse repurchase agreements.
3 secondary liquidity assets comprise a diversified pool of highly rated unencumbered collateral including retained issuance.
4 Cash balances and balances at central banks primary are combined in the groups balance sheet.
5 Other assets and other liabilities primarily include balances in the groups insurance businesses and the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities.
6 Primary liquidity assets are FsA eligible liquid assets including Uk gilts, Us treasuries, euro AAA government debt and unencumbered cash balances held at central banks.
7 excluding repurchase agreements of 8.0 billion 31 December 2010: 11.1 billion.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement encumbered assets the group remains a consistent issuer in a number of secured funding markets, in particular RmBs and covered bonds see table 1.6. the groups level of encumbrance arising from external issuance of securitisation and covered bonds has remained broadly constant, reflecting the maturity and stability of the groups utilisation of this form of term funding, and the established cycle of redemptions and new issuance.
total notes issued externally from secured programmes ABs and covered bonds have increased from 71.1 billion at 31 December 2010 to 74.1 billion, reflecting gross issuance of 14.9 billion in 2011.
A total of 118.5 billion 2010: 143.6 billion of notes issued under securitisation and covered bond programmes have also been retained internally, the bulk of which are held to provide a pool of collateral eligible for use at central bank liquidity facilities.
A small proportion of the retained collateral has been pledged in bilateral financing transactions.
Other assets pledged as collateral in special purpose entities for example ABCP conduits decreased from 17.1 billion at 31 December 2010 to 8.8 billion, largely as a result of a reduction in the size of the groups holdings of debt securities.
Within the asset-backed conduits, assets are encumbered as security for short term asset-backed CP investors in the vehicles: such funding forms part of debt securities in issue disclosed in note 37 on page 266. table 1.9: Reconciliation of Group funding figure from table 1.4 to the balance sheet audited Included in Fair value funding and other analysis accounting Balance table 1.4 Repos methods Sheet bn bn bn bn At 31 December 2011 Deposits from banks 25.4 14.4 39.8 Debt securities in issue 189.9 4.8 185.1 subordinated liabilities 35.9 0.8 35.1 total wholesale funding 251.2 14.4 Customer deposits 405.9 8.0 413.9 Total 657.1 22.4 At 31 December 2010 Deposits from banks 26.4 24.0 50.4 Debt securities in issue 233.7 4.8 228.9 subordinated liabilities 37.9 1.7 36.2 total wholesale funding 298.0 24.0 Customer deposits 382.5 11.1 393.6 total 680.5 35.1 Liquidity management Liquidity is managed at the aggregate group level, with active monitoring at both business unit and group level.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 117 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Downgrades of the groups long term debt rating could lead to additional collateral posting and cash outflow.
the downgrades that the group experienced in the fourth quarter of 2011, did not significantly change its borrowing costs, reduce its issuance capacity or require significant collateral posting.
the group notes the February 2012 announcements from moodys placing the ratings of 114 european financial institutions, including Lloyds Banking group, on review for downgrade.
At 31 December 2011, the group had 202 billion of highly liquid unencumbered assets in its liquidity portfolio which are available to meet cash and collateral outflows, as illustrated in the table below.
table 1.10: Liquidity portfolio unaudited 2011 2010 bn bn Primary liquidity 94.8 97.5 secondary liquidity 107.4 62.4 Total 202.2 159.9 Average Average 2011 2010 2011 2010 Primary liquidity bn bn bn bn Central bank cash deposits 56.6 34.5 51.4 46.7 government bonds 38.2 63.0 48.4 41.3 Total 94.8 97.5 99.8 88.0 Average Average 2011 2010 2011 2010 Secondary liquidity bn bn bn bn High-quality ABs covered bonds 1.4 15.3 8.0 16.3 Credit institution bonds 2.1 5.4 3.7 7.2 Corporate bonds 0.3 0.4 0.6 0.3 Own securities retained issuance 81.6 34.1 76.8 27.4 Other securities 8.6 7.2 9.2 5.9 1 Other 13.4 6.4 Total 107.4 62.4 104.7 57.1 1 includes other central bank eligible assets.
Following the introduction of the FsAs individual Liquidity guidance under iLAs, the group now manages its liquidity position as a coverage ratio proportion of stressed outflows covered by primary liquid assets rather than by reference to a quantum of liquid assets: the liquidity position reflects a buffer over the regulatory minimum.
the group receives no recognition under iLAs for assets held for secondary liquidity purposes.
Primary liquid assets of 94.8 billion represent approximately 133 per cent 95 per cent at 31 December 2010 of our money market funding positions and are approximately 84 per cent 66 per cent at 31 December 2010 of all wholesale funding with a maturity of less than a year, and thus provides substantial buffer in the event of continued market dislocation.
in addition to primary liquidity holdings the group has significant secondary liquidity holdings providing access to open market operations at a number of central banks which the group routinely makes use of as part of its normal liquidity management practices.
Future use of such facilities will be based on prudent liquidity management and economic considerations, having regard for external market conditions.
the group notes the Basel Committees Principles of sound Liquidity Risk management and supervision sound Principles.
the planned introduction of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR - January 2015 and net stable Funding Ratio nsFR - January 2018 contained within CRD iV are intended to raise the resilience of banks to potential liquidity shocks and provide the basis for a harmonised approach to liquidity risk management.
the LCR measure promotes short term resilience of the liquidity profile by ensuring that banks have sufficient high quality liquid assets to meet potential funding outflows in a stressed environment within a one month period.
the nsFR promotes resilience over a longer time horizon by requiring banks to fund their activities with a more stable source of funding on a going concern basis.
this has a time horizon of one year and has been developed to ensure a sustainable maturity structure of assets and liabilities.
the guidance issued by the Basel Committee is still subject to final ratification by the eU and the methodology is likely to be refined on the basis of feedback from banks and regulators during the observation period.
the actions already announced to right size the balance sheet are expected to ensure compliance with the future minimum standards.
these standards are expected to be 100 per cent for both ratios by their respective effective dates.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Hybrid capital securities coupon payments since 31 January 2010, the group has been prohibited under the terms of an agreement with the european Commission, from paying discretionary coupons and dividends on certain of its hybrid capital securities.
this prohibition ended on 31 January 2012.
We recommenced payments on certain hybrid capital securities from 31 January 2012.
Future coupons and dividends on these hybrid capital securities will only be paid subject to, and in accordance with, the terms of the relevant securities.
the payments on those of the hybrid capital securities that are not cash-cumulative and which are expected, subject to their terms and conditions, to be paid in 2012 are estimated to amount to approximately 170 million.
in the context of recent macro prudential policy discussions, the Board of Lloyds Banking group has decided to issue new Lloyds Banking group ordinary shares to raise this amount.
the group has entered into an agreement with a third-party financial institution in connection with the issue of these new ordinary shares.
such ordinary shares are expected to be issued, subject to market conditions, by the end of April 2012 at a price determined by reference to the volume weighted average price of our ordinary shares in a period prior to their date of issue.
Capital risk Definition Capital risk is defined as the risk of the group having a sub-optimal amount or quality of capital or that capital is inefficiently deployed across the group.
Risk appetite Capital risk appetite is set by the Board and reported through various metrics that enable the group to manage capital constraints and market expectations.
the group Chief executive, assisted by the group Asset and Liability Committee, regularly reviews performance against risk appetite.
A key metric is the groups core tier 1 capital ratio which the group currently aims to maintain prudently in excess of 10 per cent.
this and other aspects of appetite will be kept under review in the light of further clarity of regulatory and accounting reforms.
exposure A capital exposure arises where the group has insufficient regulatory capital resources to support its strategic objectives and plans, and to meet external stakeholder requirements and expectations.
the groups capital management approach is focused on maintaining sufficient capital resources to prevent such exposures whilst optimising value for shareholders.
measurement the groups regulatory capital is divided into tiers depending on level of subordination and ability to absorb losses.
Core tier 1 capital as defined in the FsA letter to the British Bankers Association in may 2009, comprises mainly shareholders equity and non-controlling interests, after deducting goodwill, other intangible assets and 50 per cent of the net excess of expected loss over accounting provisions and certain securitisation positions.
Accounting equity is adjusted in accordance with FsA requirements, particularly in respect of pensions and Available-for-sale assets.
tier 1 capital, as defined by the european Community Banking Consolidation Directive as implemented in the Uk by the FsAs general Prudential sourcebook genPRU, is core tier 1 capital plus tier 1 capital securities less 50 per cent of material holdings in financial companies.
tier 2 capital, defined by genPRU, comprises qualifying subordinated debt and some additional provisions and reserves after deducting 50 per cent of the excess of expected loss over accounting provisions, and certain securitisation positions and material holdings in financial companies.
total capital is the sum of tier 1 and tier 2 capital after deducting investments in subsidiaries and associates that are not consolidated for regulatory purposes.
in the case of Lloyds Banking group, this means that the net assets of its life assurance and general insurance businesses and the non-financial entities that are held by our private equity including venture capital businesses, are excluded from its total regulatory capital.
A number of limits are imposed by the FsA on the proportion of the regulatory capital base that can be made up of subordinated debt and preferred securities: for example the amount of qualifying tier 2 capital cannot exceed that of tier 1 capital.
the minimum total capital required under pillar 1 of the Basel ii framework is the Capital Resources Requirement CRR calculated as 8 per cent of risk weighted assets.
in addition to the minimum requirements for total capital, the FsA has made statements to explain it also operates a framework of targets and expected buffers for core tier 1 and tier 1 capital.
in order to address the requirements of pillar 2 of the Basel ii framework, the FsA currently sets additional minimum requirements through the issuance of individual Capital guidance iCg for each Uk bank calibrated by reference to the CRR.
A key input into the FsAs iCg setting process is each banks internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
the group has been given an iCg by the FsA.
the FsA has made it clear, however, that iCg remains a confidential matter between each bank and the FsA.
the group maintains its own buffer to ensure that the regulatory minimum requirements and regulatory targets and buffers are met at all times.
Additionally an extensive series of stress analyses is undertaken during the year to determine the adequacy of the groups capital resources against the FsA minimum requirements in severe economic conditions.
During the course of 2011 the eBA undertook two european wide exercises to assess the capital strength of the larger banks within the sector.
the first of these, in July 2011, sought to assess the resilience of european banks to severe shocks and their specific solvency in hypothetical stress events under certain restrictive conditions.
the stress test was carried out based on common methodology and key common assumptions.
the assumptions and methodology were established to assess banks capital adequacy against a 5 per cent core tier 1 capital benchmark.
As a result of the assumed shock the estimated consolidated core tier 1 ratio of the group was 7.7 per cent at the worst point of the stress in 2012. marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 119 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 the second exercise, in December 2011, required banks to strengthen their capital position by building up temporary capital buffers against sovereign debt exposures to reflect market prices.
in addition, it required banks to establish a buffer such that the core tier 1 ratio reaches a minimum level of 9 per cent by the end of June 2012. the groups consolidated core tier 1 ratio from this exercise was 10.1 per cent.
During the course of the year there have been a number of significant regulatory reform developments: CRD iii came into force on 31 December 2011 resulting in increased risk weighted assets for market and credit risk.
the european Commission published a draft of the new Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation CRD iV which will implement within the eU the so called Basel iii reforms for an enhanced global capital accord developed by the Basel Committee on Banking supervision.
Lloyds Banking group was one of 29 banks identified by the Financial stability Board as being of global systemic importance g-siFis and which will be subject to stronger capital adequacy requirements than Basel iii.
the list of g-siFis will be reviewed annually from a pool of around initially 70 institutions.
in December the government announced that it would implement the key recommendations of the Uks independent Commission on Banking covering the ring-fencing of certain banking activities, bail-in of senior unsecured debt, higher loss absorption capability and depositor preference.
the group is aware that there is currently a review of the endorsed ratings that may be used in internal Ratings Based iRB models and the group is working on the assumption that no material changes to our modelling approaches will result from the review.
many of the details of the way these reforms will be integrated within the Uk are still to be finalised.
in the meantime the group continues to monitor their development very closely and to analyse their potential impact whilst ensuring that the group continues to have a strong loss absorption capacity exceeding regulatory requirements as currently formulated.
the impact of the reforms will gradually phase in as they are subject to a long transition period through to 2022. that allows time for the group to further strengthen its capital position as necessary through business performance and mitigating actions.
mitigation the group has developed procedures to ensure that compliance with both current and potential future requirements are understood and that policies are aligned to its risk appetite.
the group is able to accumulate additional capital through profit retention, by raising equity via, for example, a rights issue or debt exchange and by raising tier 1 and tier 2 capital by issuing subordinated liabilities.
the cost and availability of additional capital is dependent upon market conditions and perceptions at the time.
the group has in issue, as part of tier 2 capital resources, enhanced Capital notes which will convert to core tier 1 capital in the event that groups published core tier 1 ratio as defined by the FsA in may 2009 falls below 5 per cent.
Additional measures which have been used to manage the groups capital position include seeking to strike an appropriate balance of capital held within its insurance and banking subsidiaries and through improving the quality of its capital through liability management exercises.
Regulatory requirements are primarily controlled through the quality and volume of lending but are also affected through the modelling approaches used to determine risk weighted assets and expected losses.
in order to pay dividends, the groups Uk subsidiaries need to have distributable reserves.
Whilst the groups direct subsidiary, Lloyds tsB Bank plc has distributable reserves, one of the groups indirect principal subsidiaries, Bank of scotland plc, does not and is currently unable to pay dividends.
there is a risk that any profits earned by Bank of scotland plc and its subsidiaries may be unable to be remitted to the group holding company as dividends.
this risk is mitigated by management who can elect to restructure the capital resources of a subsidiary entity.
monitoring Capital is actively managed and regulatory ratios are a key factor in the groups budgeting and planning processes.
Capital raised takes account of expected growth and currency of risk assets.
Capital policies and procedures are subject to independent oversight.
Regular reporting of actual and projected ratios, including those that would occur under stressed scenarios, is made to the senior Asset and Liability Committee, the group Asset and Liability Committee, the group Risk Committee and the Board.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement table 1.11: Capital resources audited 2011 2010 m m Core tier 1 shareholders equity per balance sheet 45,920 46,061 non-controlling interests per balance sheet 674 841 Regulatory adjustments to non-controlling interests 577 524 Regulatory adjustments: Adjustment for own credit 136 8 Defined benefit pension adjustment 1,004 1,052 Unrealised reserve on AFs debt securities 940 747 Unrealised reserve on AFs equity 386 462 Cash flow hedging reserve 325 391 Prudent valuation adjustments 32 Other items 4 3 43,190 45,991 Less: deductions from core tier 1 goodwill 2,016 2,016 intangible assets 2,310 2,390 50% excess of expected losses over impairment 720 50% of securitisation positions 153 214 Core tier 1 capital 37,991 41,371 1 non-controlling preference shares 1,613 1,507 1 Preferred securities 4,487 4,338 Less: deductions from tier 1 50% of material holdings 94 69 Total tier 1 capital 43,997 47,147 Tier 2 Undated subordinated debt 1,859 1,968 Dated subordinated debt 21,229 23,167 Less: restriction in amount eligible Unrealised gains on available for sale equity 386 462 eligible provisions 1,259 2,468 Less: deductions from tier 2 50% excess of expected losses over impairment 720 50% of securitisation positions 153 214 50% of material holdings 94 69 Total tier 2 capital 23,766 27,782 Supervisory deductions Unconsolidated investments life 10,107 10,042 Unconsolidated investments general insurance and other 2,660 3,070 Total supervisory deductions 12,767 13,112 Total capital resources 54,996 61,817 1 Covered by grandfathering provisions issued by FsA.
table 1.12: Risk Weighted Assets and Capital Ratios unaudited 2011 2010 m m Risk-weighted assets 352,341 406,372 Ratios Core tier 1 ratio 10.8% 10.2% tier 1 capital ratio 12.5% 11.6% total capital ratio 15.6% 15.2% marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 121 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 table 1.13: Analysis of risk-weighted assets unaudited 2011 2010 m m Divisional analysis of risk-weighted assets Retail 103,237 109,254 Wholesale 163,766 196,164 Commercial 25,434 26,552 Wealth and international 47,278 58,714 group Operations and Central items 12,626 15,688 352,341 406,372 Risk type analysis of risk-weighted assets Foundation iRB 90,450 114,490 Retail iRB 98,823 105,475 Other iRB 9,433 14,483 Advanced Approach 198,706 234,448 standardised Approach 103,525 124,492 Credit risk 302,231 358,940 Operational risk 30,589 31,650 market and counterparty risk 19,521 15,782 Total risk-weighted assets 352,341 406,372 Risk-weighted assets reduced by 54,031 million to 352,341 million, a decrease of 13 per cent.
this reflects risk weighted asset reductions across all banking divisions driven by balance sheet reductions of non-core assets, lower core lending balances and stronger management of risk.
Retail risk weighted assets reduced by 6,017 million mainly due to lower lending balances and the reducing mix of unsecured lending.
the reduction of Wholesale risk weighted assets of 32,398 million primarily reflects the balance sheet reductions including treasury asset sales and the run down in other non-core asset portfolios.
this has been partly offset by an increase in market risk weighted assets, as a result of the implementation of CRD iii.
Risk weighted assets within Wealth and international have reduced by 11,436 million as a result of asset run-off and write off and foreign exchange movements.
integration of model activity previously undertaken on a separate heritage basis was largely completed in 2010 and there have been no significant migrations to iRB methodologies during 2011. in common with other banking groups operating on an iRB basis we anticipate moving some activity that is currently measured on the standardised approach over to an iRB methodology.
these changes will take place primarily during 2012 and 2013. tier 1 capital Core tier 1 capital has decreased by 3,380 million largely reflecting losses in the period.
in addition there has been an increase in excess of expected losses over impairment losses, reflecting the reduction of legacy lending that is subject to very high provision levels and replacement with new lending.
tier 2 capital tier 2 capital has decreased in the period by 4,016 million reflecting the increase in excess of expected losses over impairment, as noted above, and a reduction in eligible provisions.
in addition, dated subordinated debt has also reduced in the period, partly due to amortisation and partly due to a capital restructuring exercise in December 2011, which resulted in a net overall redemption of dated subordinated debt.
supervisory deductions supervisory deductions mainly consist of investments in subsidiary undertakings that are not within the banking group for regulatory purposes.
these investments are primarily the scottish Widows and Clerical medical life and pensions businesses together with general insurance business.
Also included within deductions for other unconsolidated investments are investments in non-financial entities that are held by the groups private equity including venture capital businesses.
During the period there has been a decrease in supervisory deductions primarily due to reduced holdings in private equity businesses, and in some cases changes to the level and or nature of investments resulting in a reclassification as material holdings.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 122 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement the movements in core tier 1 and total capital in the period are shown below: table 1.14: Movements in core tier 1 and total capital during the year audited Core tier 1 Total m m At 1 January 2011 41,371 61,817 Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 2,787 2,787 Decrease in regulatory post-retirement benefit adjustments 48 48 Decrease in goodwill and intangible assets deductions 80 80 increase in excess of expected losses over impairment allowances 720 1,440 increase in material holdings deduction 50 Decrease in eligible provisions 1,209 Decrease in supervisory deductions from total capital 345 Decrease in dated subordinated debt 1,938 Other movements 1 130 At 31 December 2011 37,991 54,996 table 1.15: Analysis of capital ratios unaudited Lloyds TSB Bank Group Bank of Scotland Group 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m tier 1 50,220 49,375 17,432 21,470 tier 2 25,214 21,073 13,148 15,002 supervisory deductions 23,159 13,112 983 1,672 Total capital 52,275 57,336 29,597 34,800 RWAs 352,341 406,372 199,249 250,598 Ratios Core tier 1 12.2% 10.5% 8.4% 8.3% tier 1 14.3% 12.2% 8.7% 8.6% total capital 14.8% 14.1% 14.9% 13.9% Capital ratios for Lloyds tsB Bank group reflect a restructuring of internal capital undertaken in the period, which has significantly strengthened the core tier 1 and tier 1 positions.
Capital ratios in both entities have benefited from a reduction in risk-weighted assets in the period.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 123 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Life insurance businesses the business transacted by the life insurance companies within the group comprises unit-linked business, non profit business and with-profits business.
several companies transact either unit-linked and or non-profit business, but scottish Widows plc scottish Widows and Clerical medical investment group Limited Clerical medical hold the only large With Profit Funds managed by the group.
Basis of determining regulatory capital of the life insurance businesses Available capital resources Available capital resources represent the excess of assets over liabilities calculated in accordance with detailed regulatory rules issued by the FsA.
Assets are generally valued on a basis consistent with that used for accounting purposes with the exception that, in certain cases, the value attributed to assets is limited and which follows a market value approach where possible.
if the market is not active, the group establishes a fair value by using valuation techniques.
Liabilities are calculated using a projection of future cash flows after making prudent assumptions about matters such as investment return, expenses and mortality.
Discount rates used to value the liabilities are set with reference to the risk adjusted yields on the underlying assets in accordance with the FsA rules.
Other assumptions are based on recent actual experience, supplemented by industry information where appropriate.
the assessment of liabilities does not include future bonuses for with-profits policies that are at the discretion of management, but does include a value for policyholder options likely to be exercised.
Regulatory capital requirements each life insurance company must retain sufficient capital to meet the regulatory capital requirements mandated by the FsA: the basis of calculating the regulatory capital requirement is given below.
except for scottish Widows and Clerical medical, the regulatory capital requirement is a combination of amounts held in respect of actuarial reserves, sums at risk and maintenance expenses the Long-term insurance Capital Requirement and amounts required to cover various stress tests the Resilience Capital Requirement.
the regulatory capital requirement is deducted from the available capital resources to give statutory excess capital.
For scottish Widows and Clerical medical, no Resilience Capital Requirement is required.
However, a further test is required in respect of the With Profit Funds.
this involves comparing the statutory basis of assessment with a realistic basis of assessment as described below.
the FsA requires each life insurance company which contains a With Profit Fund in excess of 500 million to also carry out a realistic valuation of that fund.
the group has two such funds: one within scottish Widows and one within Clerical medical.
the word realistic in this context reflects the fact that assumptions are best-estimate as opposed to prudent.
this realistic valuation is an assessment of the financial position of a With Profit Fund calculated under a methodology prescribed by the FsA.
the valuation of with-profits assets in a With Profit Fund on a realistic basis differs from the valuation on a statutory basis as, in respect of nonprofits business written in a With Profit Fund, it includes the present value of the anticipated future release of the prudent margins for adverse deviation.
in addition, the realistic valuation uses the market value of assets without the limit affecting the statutory basis noted above.
the realistic valuation of liabilities includes an allowance for future bonuses.
Options and guarantees are valued using a stochastic simulation model which values these liabilities on a basis consistent with tradable market option contracts a market-consistent basis.
the model takes account of policyholder behaviour on a best-estimate basis and includes an adjustment to reflect future uncertainties where the exercise of options by policyholders might increase liabilities.
Further details regarding the stochastic simulation model are given in the section entitled Options and guarantees on page 127. the realistic excess capital is calculated as the difference between realistic assets and realistic liabilities of the With Profit Fund with a further deduction to cover various stress tests the Risk Capital margin.
in circumstances where the realistic excess capital position is less than the statutory excess capital, the company is required to hold additional capital to cover the shortfall.
Any additional capital requirement under this test is referred to as the With Profit insurance Capital Component.
the determination of realistic liabilities of the With Profit Funds includes the value of internal transfers expected to be made from each With Profit Fund to the non Profit Fund held within the same life insurance entity.
these internal transfers may include charges on policies where the associated costs are borne by the non Profit Fund.
the With Profit insurance Capital Component may be reduced by the value, calculated in the stress test scenario, of these internal transfers, but only to the extent that credit has not been taken for the value of these charges in deriving actuarial reserves for the relevant non Profit Fund.
Capital statement the following table provides more detail regarding the capital resources available to meet regulatory capital requirements in the life insurance businesses.
the figures quoted are based on managements current expectations pending completion of the annual financial returns to the FsA.
the figures allow for an anticipated transfer of 85 million from the non Profit Fund of scottish Widows Annuities Ltd to its shareholder fund.
During 2011, as part of a project to rationalise the group structure Clerical medical was purchased by scottish Widows for 1,846 million.
scottish Widows recovered 1,485 million of this amount as a result of capital transactions with its holding company.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 124 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement table 1.16: Capital resources unaudited UK Life Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK Non Profit Shareholder Overseas Total With Profit Fund With Profit Fund Fund Fund Life Business Life Business m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 statutory basis shareholders funds: Held outside the long-term funds 1,843 632 2,475 Held within the long-term funds 6,592 312 6,904 total shareholders funds 6,592 1,843 944 9,379 Adjustments onto a regulatory basis: Unallocated surplus within insurance business 242 58 300 Value of in-force business 5,491 818 6,309 Other differences between iFRs and regulatory valuation of assets and liabilities 107 163 124 68 estimated share of realistic liabilities consistent with the FsA reporting treatment 341 58 399 Qualifying loan capital 1,997 1,997 support arrangement assets 184 184 Available capital resources 85 1,024 3,677 250 5,036 At 31 December 2010 statutory basis shareholders funds: Held outside the long-term funds 1,414 721 2,135 Held within the long-term funds 8,029 401 8,430 total shareholders funds 8,029 1,414 1,122 10,565 Adjustments onto a regulatory basis: Unallocated surplus within insurance business 322 321 643 Value of in-force business 6,172 843 7,015 Other differences between iFRs and regulatory valuation of assets and liabilities 625 919 111 183 estimated share of realistic liabilities consistent with the FsA reporting treatment 409 58 467 Qualifying loan capital 1,991 1,991 support arrangement assets 344 344 Available capital resources 257 263 2,138 2,486 390 5,534 Available capital resources for With Profit Funds are presented in the table on a realistic basis as this is more onerous than on a regulatory basis.
Formal intra-group capital arrangements scottish Widows has a formal arrangement with one of its subsidiary undertakings, scottish Widows Unit Funds Limited, whereby the subsidiary company can draw down capital from scottish Widows to finance new business which is reinsured from the parent to its subsidiary.
scottish Widows has also provided subordinated loans to its fellow group undertaking scottish Widows Bank plc.
no such arrangement exists for Clerical medical.
Constraints over available capital resources Scottish Widows scottish Widows was created following the demutualisation of scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance society in 2000. the terms of the demutualisation are governed by a Court-approved scheme of transfer the scheme which, inter alia, created a With Profit Fund and a non-Participating Fund and established protected capital support for the with-profits policyholders in existence at the date of demutualisation.
much of that capital support is held in the non-Participating Fund and, as such, the capital held in that fund is subject to the constraints noted below.
Requirement to maintain a Support Account: the scheme requires the maintenance of a support Account within the non-Participating Fund.
the quantum of the support Account is calculated with reference to the value of assets backing current with-profits policies which also existed at the date of demutualisation.
Under the scheme assets can only be transferred from the non-Participating Fund if the value of the remaining assets in the fund exceeds the value of the support Account.
scottish Widows has obtained from the FsA permission to include the value of the support Account or, if greater, the excess of realistic liabilities for business written before demutualisation over the relevant assets subject to the non-Participating Fund being able to cover this amount by its surplus admissible assets in assessing the realistic value of assets marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 125 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 available to the With Profit Fund.
At 31 December 2011, the estimated value of surplus admissible assets in the non-Participating Fund was 1,198 million 31 December 2010: 1,693 million and the estimated value of the support Account was zero 31 December 2010: 197 million.
However, at 31 December 2011, the excess of realistic liabilities with-profits business written down before demutualisation over the relevant assets was 67 million 31 December 2010: 55 million which, in accordance with the FsAs permission, has been used to assess the estimated value of realistic assets available to the With Profit Fund and has therefore reduced the value of the non-Participating Funds surplus admissible assets by that amount.
Further Support Account: the Further support Account is an extra tier of capital support for the with-profits policies in existence at the date of demutualisation.
the scheme requires that assets can only be transferred from the non-Participating Fund if the economic value of the remaining assets in the fund exceeds the aggregate of the support Account and Further support Account.
Unlike the support Account test, the economic value used for this test includes both admissible assets and the present value of future profits of business written in the non-Participating Fund or by any subsidiaries of that fund.
the balance of the Further support Account is expected to reduce to nil by the year 2030.
At 31 December 2011, the estimated net economic value of the non-Participating Fund and its subsidiaries for the purposes of this test was 5,494 million 31 December 2010: 4,322 million and the estimated combined value of the support Account and Further support Account was 2,291 million 31 December 2010: 2,446 million.
Other restrictions in the Non-Participating Fund: in addition to the policies which existed at the date of demutualisation, the With Profit Fund includes policies which have been written since that date.
As a result of statements made to policyholders that investment policy will usually be the same for both types of business, there is an implicit requirement to hold additional regulatory assets in respect of the business written after demutualisation.
the estimated amount required to provide such support at 31 December 2011 is 117 million 31 December 2010: 147 million.
scottish Widows has obtained from the FsA permission to include the value of this support in assessing the realistic value of assets available to the With Profit Fund.
there is a further test requiring that no amounts can be transferred from the non-Participating Fund of scottish Widows unless there are sufficient assets within the Long-term Fund to meet both policyholders reasonable expectations in light of liabilities in force at a year end and the new business expected to be written over the following year.
Clerical Medical the surplus held in the Clerical medical With Profit Fund can only be applied to meet the requirements of the fund itself or distributed according to the prescribed rules of the fund.
shareholders are entitled to an amount not exceeding one ninth of the amount distributed to policyholders in the form of bonuses on traditional with-profits business.
the use of capital within the fund is also subject to the terms of the scheme of demutualisation effected in 1996 and the conditions contained in the Principles and Practices of Financial management of the fund.
Capital within the Clerical medical non Profit Fund is available to meet the With Profit Fund requirements.
Other life insurance businesses except as described above capital held in Uk non Profit Funds is potentially transferable to other parts of the group, subject to meeting the regulatory requirements of these businesses.
there are no prior arrangements in place to allow capital to move freely between life insurance entities or other parts of the group.
Overseas life business includes several life companies outside the Uk, including germany and ireland.
in all cases the available capital resources are subject to local regulatory requirements, and transfer to other parts of the group is subject to additional complexity surrounding the transfer of capital from one country to another.
Movements in regulatory capital the movements in the groups available capital resources in the life business can be analysed as follows: table 1.17: Movements in available capital resources unaudited UK Life Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK Non Profit Shareholder Overseas Total With Profit Fund With Profit Fund Fund Fund Life Business Life Business m m m m m m At 31 December 2010 257 263 2,138 2,486 390 5,534 Changes in estimations and in demographic assumptions used to measure life assurance liabilities 24 41 289 91 6 391 Dividends and capital transactions 1,483 1,057 156 582 Change in support arrangements 160 160 new business and other factors 12 304 80 43 22 307 At 31 December 2011 85 1,024 3,677 250 5,036 With Profits Funds Available capital in the scottish Widows With Profit Fund has decreased from 257 million at 31 December 2010 to an estimated 85 million at 31 December 2011. this is largely as a result of a reduction in the support arrangements from the non Profit Fund.
Available capital in the Clerical medical With Profit Fund has decreased from 263 million at 31 December 2010 to an estimated zero at 31 December 2011. the fund is in the process of distributing the free estate.
Ultimately all surplus will be distributed to policyholders hence the available capital at 31 December 2011 is zero.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 126 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Uk non Profit Funds Available capital in the Uk non Profit Funds has decreased from 2,138 million at 31 December 2010 to an estimated 1,024 million at 31 December 2011. the main cause of the decrease was the impact of capital transactions supporting the purchase of Clerical medical by scottish Widows in July 2011. this was partially offset by increases in available capital from changes in assumptions.
it should be noted that the decrease in the non Profit Fund from the purchase of Clerical medical is largely compensated for by an increase in the available capital in the shareholder Funds.
Uk Life shareholder Funds Available capital in the Uk Life shareholder Funds has increased from 2,486 million at 31 December 2010 to an estimated 3,677 million at 31 December 2011. the main cause of the increase was the impact of capital transactions supporting the purchase of Clerical medical by scottish Widows.
Overseas life business Available capital has decreased during 2011 due to a significant dividend payment which was only partially offset by profits emerging on new and in force business.
Analysis of policyholder liabilities reported in the balance sheet in respect of the groups life insurance business is as follows.
With Profit Fund liabilities are valued in accordance with FRs 27. table 1.18: Analysis of policyholder liabilities unaudited Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK Non Profit Overseas Total With Profit Fund With Profit Fund Funds Life Business Life Business m m m m m At 31 December 2011 With Profit Fund liabilities 13,651 9,300 4 22,955 Unit-linked business excluding that accounted for as non-participating investment contracts 38,474 7,801 46,275 Other life insurance business 8,745 55 8,800 insurance and participating investment contract liabilities 13,651 9,300 47,223 7,856 78,030 non-participating investment contract liabilities 45,469 4,167 49,636 Total policyholder liabilities 13,651 9,300 92,692 12,023 127,666 At 31 December 2010 With Profit Fund liabilities 13,845 10,394 5 24,244 Unit-linked business excluding that accounted for as non-participating investment contracts 38,641 8,011 46,652 Other life insurance business 8,527 90 8,617 insurance and participating investment contract liabilities 13,845 10,394 47,173 8,101 79,513 non-participating investment contract liabilities 47,058 4,304 51,362 total policyholder liabilities 13,845 10,394 94,231 12,405 130,875 Capital sensitivities shareholders funds shareholders funds outside the long-term business fund, other than those used to match regulatory requirements, are mainly invested in assets that are less sensitive to market conditions.
With Profit Funds the with-profit realistic liabilities and the available capital for the With Profit Funds are sensitive to both market conditions and changes to a number of non-economic assumptions that affect the valuation of the liabilities of the fund.
the available capital resources and capital requirements are sensitive to the level of the stock market, with the position worsening at low stock market levels as a result of the guarantees to policyholders increasing in value.
However, the exposure to guaranteed annuity options increases under rising stock market levels.
An increase in the level of equity volatility implied by the market cost of equity put options also increases the market consistent value of the options given to policyholders and worsens the capital position.
Various hedging strategies are used to manage these exposures.
the most critical non-economic assumptions are the level of take-up of options inherent in the contracts higher take-up rates are more onerous, mortality rates lower mortality rates are generally more onerous and lapses prior to dates at which a guarantee would apply lower lapse rates are generally more onerous where guarantees are in the money.
the sensitivity of the capital position and capital requirements of the With Profit Funds is partly mitigated by the actions that can be taken by management.
Other long-term funds Outside the With Profit Funds, assets backing actuarial reserves in respect of policyholder liabilities are invested so that the values of the assets and liabilities are broadly matched.
the most critical non-economic assumptions are mortality rates in respect of annuity business written lower marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 127 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 mortality rates are more onerous.
Reinsurance arrangements are in place to reduce the groups exposure to deteriorating mortality rates in respect of life insurance contracts.
in addition, poor cost control would gradually reduce the available capital and lead to an increase in the valuation of the liabilities through an increased allowance for future costs.
Assets held in excess of those backing reserves are invested predominantly in cash and cash like instruments.
the investment strategy is determined in line with the policy of Lloyds Banking group to minimise both the profit volatility and the working capital defined as available capital less minimum required capital required to ensure all capital requirements continue to be met under a range of stress tests.
Options and guarantees the group has sold insurance products that contain options and guarantees, both within the With Profit Funds and in other funds.
Options and guarantees within the With Profit Funds the most significant options and guarantees provided from within the With Profit Funds are in respect of guaranteed minimum cash benefits on death, maturity, retirement or certain policy anniversaries, and guaranteed annuity options on retirement for certain pension policies.
For those policies written in scottish Widows pre-demutualisation containing potentially valuable options and guarantees, under the terms of the scheme a separate memorandum account was set up within the With Profit Fund of scottish Widows called the Additional Account which is available, inter alia, to meet any additional costs of providing guaranteed benefits in respect of those policies.
the Additional Account had a value at 31 December 2011 of 2.0 billion 2010: 1.8 billion.
the eventual cost of providing benefits on policies written both pre and post demutualisation is dependent upon a large number of variables, including future interest rates and equity values, demographic factors, such as mortality, and the proportion of policyholders who seek to exercise their options.
the ultimate cost will therefore not be known for many years.
As noted above, under the realistic capital regime of the FsA, the liabilities of both the Clerical medical and scottish Widows With Profit Funds are valued using a market-consistent stochastic simulation model.
this model is used in order to place a value on the options and guarantees which captures both their intrinsic value and their time value.
the most significant economic assumptions included in the model are: Risk-free yield.
the risk-free yield is defined as spot yields derived from the Uk gilt yield curve.
the calibration of the stochastic simulation model uses implied volatilities of derivatives where possible, or historical observed volatility where it is not possible to observe meaningful prices.
For example, as at 31 December 2011, the 10 year equity-implied at-the-money assumption was set at 27.2 per cent 31 December 2010: 26.1 per cent.
the assumption for property volatility was 15 per cent 31 December 2010: 15 per cent.
the volatility of interest rates has been calibrated to the implied volatility of swaptions which was broadly 19 per cent 31 December 2010: 15 per cent.
the model includes a matrix of the correlations between each of the underlying modelled asset types.
the correlations used are consistent with long-term historical returns.
the most significant non-economic assumptions included in the model are management actions in respect of investment policy and bonus rates, guaranteed annuity option take-up rates and assumptions regarding persistency both of which are based on recent actual experience and include an adjustment to reflect future uncertainties where the exercise of options by policyholders might increase liabilities, and assumptions regarding mortality which are based on recent actual experience and industry tables.
Options and guarantees outside the With Profit Funds A number of typical guarantees are provided outside the With Profit Funds such as guaranteed payments on death e. g. term assurance or guaranteed income for life e. g. annuities.
in addition, certain personal pension policyholders in scottish Widows, for whom reinstatement to their occupational pension scheme was not an option, have been given a guarantee that their pension and other benefits will correspond in value to the benefits of the relevant occupational pension scheme.
the key assumptions affecting the ultimate value of the guarantee are future salary growth, gilt yields at retirement, annuitant mortality at retirement, marital status at retirement and future investment returns.
there is currently a provision, calculated on a deterministic basis, of 61 million 31 December 2010: 57 million in respect of those guarantees.
if future salary growth were 0.5 per cent per annum greater than assumed, the liability would increase by some 2 million.
if yields were 0.5 per cent lower than assumed, the liability would increase by some 9 million.
Financial and prudential regulatory reporting, disclosure and tax risk Definition the risk of reputational damage, loss of investor confidence and or financial loss arising from the adoption of inappropriate accounting policies, ineffective controls over financial, prudential regulatory and tax reporting, failure to manage the associated risks of changes in taxation rates, law, ownership or corporate structure and the failure to disclose accurate information about the group on a timely basis.
Risk appetite the risk appetite is set by the Board and reviewed on an annual basis or more frequently.
it includes complying with statutory and regulatory reporting requirements and avoiding the need for restatement of publicly disclosed information.
exposure exposure represents the sufficiency of the groups policies and procedures to maintain adequate systems, processes and controls to support statutory, prudential regulatory and tax reporting, to prevent and detect financial reporting fraud, to manage the groups tax position and to support market disclosures.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement mitigation the group maintains a system of internal controls, which is designed to: ensure that accounting policies are consistently applied, transactions are recorded and undertaken in accordance with delegated authorities, that assets are safeguarded and liabilities are properly recorded: enable the calculation, preparation and reporting of financial, prudential regulatory and tax outcomes in accordance with applicable international Financial Reporting standards, statutory and regulatory requirements: ensure that disclosures are made on a timely basis in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements and as far as possible are consistent with best practice and in compliance with the British Bankers Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
monitoring Financial reporting risk, prudential regulatory reporting risk, tax risk and disclosure risk are all actively monitored at business unit and group levels.
there are specific programmes of work undertaken across the group to support: annual assessments of 1 the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and 2 the effectiveness of the groups disclosure controls and procedures, both in accordance with the requirements of the Us sarbanes Oxley Act: annual certifications by the senior Accounting Officer with respect to the maintenance of appropriate tax accounting arrangements, in accordance with the requirements of the 2009 Finance Act.
the group also has in place an assurance process to support its prudential regulatory reporting and monitoring activities designed to identify and review tax exposures on a regular basis.
there is ongoing monitoring to assess the impact of emerging regulation and legislation on financial, prudential regulatory and tax reporting.
the group has a disclosure committee which assists the group Chief executive and group Finance Director in fulfilling their disclosure responsibilities under relevant listing requirements.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 129 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Credit risk Definition the risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, as a result of the failure of the party with whom the group has contracted to meet its obligations both on and off balance sheet.
Risk appetite Credit risk appetite is set at Board level and is described and reported through a suite of metrics derived from a combination of accounting and credit portfolio performance measures, which include the use of various credit risk rating systems as inputs.
these metrics are supported by more detailed appetite metrics at Divisional and business level and by a comprehensive suite of policies, sector caps, product and country limits to manage concentration risk and exposures within the groups approved risk appetite.
this statement of the groups overall appetite for credit risk is reviewed and approved annually.
With the support of the group Risk Committee, the group Chief executive allocates this risk appetite across the group.
Exposures the principal sources of credit risk within the group arise from loans and advances to retail customers, financial institutions, sovereigns and corporate clients.
the credit risk exposures of the group are set out in note 56 to the financial statements on page 322. Credit risk exposures are categorised as retail, arising primarily in the Retail and Wealth and international Divisions, commercial and corporate, financial institutions or sovereigns arising in the Wholesale, Commercial and Wealth and international Divisions.
in terms of loans and advances, credit risk arises both from amounts lent and commitments to extend credit to a customer as required.
these commitments can take the form of loans and overdrafts, or credit instruments such as guarantees and standby, documentary and commercial letters of credit.
With respect to commitments to extend credit, the group is potentially also exposed to loss in an amount equal to the total unused commitments.
However, the likely amount of loss is less than the total unused commitments, as most retail term commitments to extend credit can be cancelled without notice and the creditworthiness of customers is monitored frequently.
in addition, most wholesale commitments to extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards, which are monitored regularly.
Credit risk can also arise from debt securities, private equity investments, derivatives and foreign exchange activities.
note 19 to the financial statements on page 251 shows the total notional principal amount of interest rate, exchange rate, credit derivative and equity and other contracts outstanding at 31 December 2011. the notional principal amount does not, however, represent the groups credit risk exposure, which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the group.
such amounts are reflected in note 56 to the financial statements on page 322. Credit risk exposures in the insurance businesses arise primarily from holding investments and from exposure to reinsurers.
A significant proportion of the investments are held in unit-linked and with-profits funds where the shareholder risk is limited, subject to any guarantees given.
note 2 H to the financial statements on page 221 provides details of the groups approach to the impairment of financial assets.
Measurement in measuring the credit risk of loans and advances to customers and to banks at a counterparty level, the group reflects three components: i the probability of default by the counterparty on its contractual obligations: ii current exposures to the counterparty and their likely future development, from which the group derives the exposure at default: and iii the likely loss ratio on the defaulted obligations the loss given default.
For regulatory capital purposes the groups rating systems assess probability of default and if permitted, exposure at default and loss given default, in order to derive an expected loss.
if not permitted, regulatory prescribed exposure at default and loss given default values are used in order to derive an expected loss.
in contrast, impairment allowances are recognised for financial reporting purposes only for loss events that have occurred at the balance sheet date, based on objective evidence of impairment.
Due to the different methodologies applied, the amount of incurred credit losses provided for in the financial statements differs from the amount determined from the expected loss models that are used for internal operational management and banking regulation purposes.
the group assesses the probability of default of individual counterparties using internal rating models tailored to the various categories of counterparty.
in its principal retail portfolios exposure at default and loss given default models are also in use.
they have been developed internally and use statistical analysis, combined, where appropriate, with external data and subject matter expert judgement.
each rating model is subject to a validation process, undertaken by independent risk teams, which includes benchmarking to externally available data, where possible.
the most material rating models are approved by the group Risk Committee.
Responsibility for the approval of the remaining material rating models, and the governance framework in place around all Lloyds Banking group models, is delegated to the group model governance Committee.
each probability of default model segments counterparties into a number of rating grades, each representing a defined range of default probabilities details of these rating scales are published in Lloyds Banking groups Pillar iii disclosure.
exposures migrate between rating grades if the assessment of the counterparty probability of default changes.
each rating system is required to map to a master scale, which supports the consolidation of credit risk information across portfolios through the adoption of a common rating scale.
given the differing risk profiles and credit rating considerations, the underlying risk reporting has been split into two distinct master scales, a retail master scale and a wholesale master scale note 56 to the financial statements on page 323 provides an analysis of the portfolio and page 134 provides details of our Credit risk portfolio.
the quality definition of both retail and non-retail counterparties exposures is largely based on the outcomes of credit risk probability of default PD models.
the group operates a significant number of different rating models, typically developed internally using statistical analysis and may use management judgement retail models rely more on the former: non-retail models include more of the latter, especially in the larger corporate and more specialised lending portfolios.
internal data is supplemented with external data in model development, where appropriate.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 130 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement the models vary, inter alia, in the extent to which they are point in time versus through the cycle.
the models are subject to rigorous validation and oversight governance, including where appropriate, benchmarking to external information.
in non-retail portfolios the PD models segment counterparties into a number of rating grades, with each grade representing a defined range of default probabilities, and there are a number of different model rating scales.
Counterparties exposures migrate between rating grades if the assessment of the PD changes.
the modelled PDs map to a non-retail master scale which enables the consolidation of credit risk information, and it is this that forms the basis for the iFRs credit quality characterisation.
in retail, for reporting purposes, counterparties are also segmented into a number of rating grades, each representing a defined range of default probabilities and exposures migrate between rating grades if the assessment of the counterparty probability of default changes.
the nature, construction and calibration of retail and non-retail models are very different and so too are their respective master scales not least in their graduality.
the distribution of probabilities of default is also different, which precludes reportage on a single consolidated basis.
Mitigation the group uses a range of approaches to mitigate credit risk.
internal control Credit principles and policy: Risk Division sets out the credit principles and policy according to which credit risk is managed.
Principles and policies are reviewed at least annually, and any changes are subject to a review and approval process.
Policies, where appropriate, include lending guidelines, which define the responsibilities of lending officers and provide a disciplined and focused benchmark for credit decisions.
these policies and procedures define chosen target market and risk acceptance criteria.
these have been and will continue to be fine-tuned as appropriate and include the use of early warning indicators to help anticipate future areas of concern and allow us to take early and proactive mitigating actions.
the group uses a variety of lending criteria within Retail when assessing applications for mortgages and unsecured lending.
the general approval process uses credit acceptance scorecards and involves a review of an applicants previous credit history using information held by credit reference agencies CRA.
the group also assesses the affordability of the borrowings to the borrower under stressed scenarios including increased interest rates.
in addition, the group has in place quantitative limits such as product maximum limits, the level of borrowing to income and the ratio of borrowing to collateral.
some of these limits relate to internal approval levels and others are hard limits above which the group will reject the application.
the group also has certain criteria that are applicable to specific products such as for applications for a mortgage on a property that is to be let by the applicant.
the groups lending practices within Retail have changed since 2009 in several ways: the group has lowered its maximum loan-to-value thresholds, which have been reduced across all mortgage product types: the group has withdrawn from specialist secured lending since early 2009 selfcertificated and sub-prime lending and increased credit scorecard cut-offs for both secured and unsecured lending: the group has tightened its assessments and the maximum limit for affordability of borrowings for both secured and unsecured lending.
in addition, the number of properties permitted in buy-to-let portfolios has been reduced.
For Uk mortgages, the groups policy is to reject all standard applications with a loan-to-value LtV greater than 90 per cent.
For mainstream mortgages the group has maximum per cent LtV limits which depend upon the loan size.
Buy-to-let mortgages are limited to a maximum of 1,000,000 and 75 per cent LtV.
All mortgage applications above 500,000 are subject to manual underwriting.
the groups approach to underwriting applications for unsecured products in Retail takes into account the total unsecured debt held by a customer and their affordability.
the group rejects any application for an unsecured product where a customer is registered as bankrupt or insolvent, or has a County Court Judgment registered at a CRA used by the group.
in addition, for credit cards the group rejects any applicant with total unsecured debt greater than 50,000 registered at the CRA: or revolving debt-to-income ratio greater than 75 per cent: or total unsecured debt-to-income ratio greater than 100 per cent.
For unsecured personal loan applications, we reject any applicant with total unsecured debt greater than 50,000 registered at the CRA.
Rules around refinancing of debt have also been made more stringent since 2009 as a result of the application of rules relating to the total unsecured debt held by a customer and the groups approach in assessing affordability.
this has resulted in fewer customers being eligible to refinance unsecured debt.
Counterparty limits: Limits are set against all types of exposure in a counterparty name, in accordance with an agreed methodology for each exposure type.
this includes credit risk exposure on individual derivative transactions, which incorporates potential future exposures from market movements.
Aggregate facility levels by counterparty are set and limit breaches are subject to escalation procedures.
Credit scoring: in its principal retail portfolios, the group uses statistically based decisioning techniques primarily credit scoring models.
the Risk Division reviews model effectiveness, while new models and model changes are referred by them to the appropriate model governance Committees for approval.
the most material changes are approved in accordance with the governance framework set by the group model governance Committee.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 131 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 individual credit assessment and sanction: Credit risk in wholesale portfolios is subject to individual credit assessments, which consider the strengths and weaknesses of individual transactions and the balance of risk and reward.
exposure to individual counterparties, groups of counterparties or customer risk segments is controlled through a tiered hierarchy of delegated sanctioning authorities.
Approval requirements for each decision are based on the transaction amount, the customers aggregate facilities, credit risk ratings and the nature and term of the risk.
the groups credit risk appetite criteria for counterparty underwriting is generally the same as that for assets intended to be held over the period to maturity.
Controls over rating systems: the group has established an independent team in the Risk Division that sets common minimum standards, designed to ensure risk models and associated rating systems are developed consistently, and are of sufficient quality to support business decisions and meet regulatory requirements.
internal rating systems are developed and owned by the Risk Division.
Line management takes responsibility for ensuring the validation of the rating systems, supported and challenged by independent specialist functions in their respective division.
Cross-border and cross-currency exposures: the Board sets country risk appetite.
Within these, country limits are authorised by the country limits panel, taking into account economic, financial, political and social factors.
group policies stipulate that these limits must be consistent with, and support the approved business and strategic plans of the group.
Concentration risk: Credit risk management includes portfolio controls on certain industries, sectors and product lines to reflect risk appetite.
Credit policy is aligned to the groups risk appetite and restricts exposure to certain high risk countries and more vulnerable sectors and segments.
note 21 to the financial statements on page 255, provides an analysis of loans and advances to customers by industry for wholesale customers and product for retail customers.
exposures are monitored to prevent an excessive concentration of risk.
these concentration risk controls are not necessarily in the form of a maximum limit on lending, but may instead require new business in concentrated sectors to fulfil additional hurdle requirements.
the groups large exposures are reported in accordance with regulatory reporting requirements.
stress testing and scenario analysis: the credit portfolio is also subjected to stress testing and scenario analysis, to simulate outcomes and calculate their associated impact.
events are modelled at a group wide level, at divisional and business unit level and by rating model and portfolio, for example, within a specific industry sector.
specialist expertise: Credit quality is maintained by specialist units providing, for example: intensive management and control see intensive Care section : security perfection, maintenance and retention: expertise in documentation for lending and associated products: sector specific expertise: and legal services applicable to the particular market place and product range offered by the business.
Daily settlement limits: settlement risk arises in any situation where a payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the expectation of a corresponding receipt in cash, securities or equities.
Daily settlement limits are established for each counterparty to cover the aggregate of all settlement risk arising from the groups market transactions on any single day.
Credit risk assurance and review: Risk oversight teams monitor credit performance trends, review and challenge exceptions to planned outcomes, and test the adequacy of credit risk infrastructure and governance processes throughout the group.
this includes tracking portfolio performance against an agreed set of key risk indicators.
group Credit Risk Assurance, a group level function comprising experienced credit professionals, is also in place.
in conjunction with Risk senior management, this team carries out independent risk based credit reviews, providing individual business unit assessment of the effectiveness of risk management practices and adherence to risk controls across the diverse range of the groups wholesale businesses and activities, facilitating a wide range of audit, assurance and review work.
these include cyclical standard credit reviews, non-standard reviews, project reviews, credit risk rating model reviews and bespoke assignments, including impairment reviews as required.
the work of group Credit Risk Assurance continues to provide executive and senior management with assurance and guidance on credit quality, effectiveness of credit risk controls and accuracy of impairments.
the determination of cash flows for cases in the Business support Units BsU is undertaken by a specialist risk team who gather a range of information from various sources including the customer, professional advisers and the groups own credit teams to fully understand and appraise the customers business and circumstances.
A more detailed assessment is undertaken to assist in reducing risk exposure and highlighting potential strategic options.
this often involves the group, in addition to using its own internal experts, engaging professional advisers to perform independent Business Reviews iBRs and, where relevant, independently value collateral held.
in more complex cases, such as those involving work-out strategies, the review may also involve: critically assessing customers ability to successfully manage the business effectively in a distressed situation where turnaround is required: analysis of market sector factors, i. e. products, customers, suppliers, pricing and margin issues: performance review of operational areas that should be considered in terms of current effectiveness and efficiency and scope for improvements: financial analysis to model plans and factor in potential sensitivities, vulnerabilities and upsides: and determining the most appropriate corporate and capital structure suitable for the work-out strategy concerned.
the above assessment, monitoring and control processes continue throughout the period the case is managed within the BsU.
Collateral the principal collateral types for loans and advances are: mortgages over residential and commercial real estate: charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and accounts receivables: charges over financial instruments such as debt securities and equities: and guarantees received from third parties.
the group maintains guidelines on the acceptability of specific classes of collateral.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 132 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Collateral held as security for financial assets other than loans and advances is determined by the nature of the instrument.
Debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills are generally unsecured, with the exception of asset-backed securities and similar instruments, which are secured by portfolios of financial assets.
Collateral is generally not held against loans and advances to financial institutions, except where securities are held as part of reverse repurchase or securities borrowing transactions or where a collateral agreement has been entered into under a master netting agreement.
Derivative transactions with wholesale counterparties are typically collateralised under a Credit support Annex in conjunction with the isDA master Agreement.
it is the groups policy that collateral should always be realistically valued by an appropriately qualified source, independent of both the credit decision process and the customer, at the time of borrowing.
Collateral is reviewed on a regular basis in accordance with business unit credit policy, which will vary according to the type of lending and collateral involved.
For residential mortgages, the group adjusts open market property values to take account of the costs of realisation and any discount associated with the realisation of the collateral.
in order to minimise the credit loss, the group may seek additional collateral from the counterparty as soon as impairment indicators are identified for the relevant individual loans and advances.
the group considers risk concentrations by collateral providers and collateral type, as appropriate, with a view to ensuring that any potential undue concentrations of risk are identified and suitably managed by changes to strategy, policy and or business plans.
master netting agreements Where it is efficient and likely to be effective generally with counterparties with which it undertakes a significant volume of transactions, the group enters into master netting agreements.
Although master netting agreements do not generally result in an offset of balance sheet assets and liabilities, as transactions are usually settled on a gross basis, they do reduce the credit risk to the extent that, if an event of default occurs, all amounts with the counterparty are terminated and settled on a net basis.
the groups overall exposure to credit risk on derivative instruments subject to master netting agreements can change substantially within a short period, since it is affected by each transaction subject to the agreement.
Other credit risk transfers the group also undertakes asset sales, securitisations and credit derivative based transactions as a means of mitigating or reducing credit risk, taking into account the nature of assets and the prevailing market conditions.
Monitoring in conjunction with Risk, businesses identify and define portfolios of credit and related risk exposures and the key benchmarks, behaviours and characteristics by which those portfolios are managed in terms of credit risk exposure.
this entails the production and analysis of regular portfolio monitoring reports for review by senior management.
Risk Division in turn produces an aggregated review of credit risk throughout the group, including reports on significant credit exposures, which are presented to the group Risk Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
the performance of all rating models is monitored on a regular basis, in order to seek to ensure that models provide appropriate risk differentiation capability, the generated ratings remain as accurate and robust as practical, and the models assign appropriate risk estimates to grades pools.
All models are monitored against a series of agreed key performance indicators.
in the event that the monitoring identifies material exceptions or deviations from expected outcomes, these will be escalated in accordance with the governance framework set by the group model governance Committee.
Intensive care of customers in difficulty Retail Assets the groups aim in offering forbearance and other assistance to retail customers in financial distress is to benefit both the customer and the group by: discharging the groups regulatory and social responsibilities to support its customers and act in their best long-term interests: and bringing customer facilities back into a sustainable position which, for residential mortgages, also means keeping customers in their homes.
the group offers a range of tools and assistance to support retail customers who are encountering financial difficulties.
Cases are managed on an individual basis, with the circumstances of each customer considered separately and the action taken judged as being affordable and sustainable for the customer.
Operationally, the provision and review of such assistance is controlled through the application of an appropriate policy framework: controls around the execution of policy: regular review of the different treatments to confirm that they remain appropriate: monitoring of customers performance and the level of payments received: and management visibility of the nature and extent of assistance provided and the associated risk.
Assistance is provided through trained colleagues in branches and dedicated telephony units, and via online guidance material.
For those customers requiring more intensive help, assistance is provided through dedicated support units where tailored repayment programmes can be agreed.
Customers are actively supported and referred to free money advice agencies when they have multiple credit facilities, including those at other lenders, that require restructuring.
Within the Collections and Recoveries functions, the sharing of best practice and alignment of policies across the group has helped to drive more effective customer outcomes and achieve operational efficiencies.
One component of our relationship management approach is to contact customers showing signs of financial difficulty, discussing with them their circumstances and offering solutions to prevent their accounts falling into arrears.
the specific tools available to assist customers vary by territory and product and the customers status.
in defining the treatments offered to customers who have experienced financial distress, the group distinguishes between the following three categories: Forbearance a temporary account change to assist customers through periods of financial difficulty where arrears do not accrue at the original contractual payments such as a temporary capital payment break.
Financial distress assistance an account change for customers in financial distress where arrears accrue at the contractual payment such as a short-term arrangement to pay.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 133 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Repair an account change used to repair a customers position when they have emerged from financial difficulty, such as capitalisation of arrears when a payment track record has been re-established.
to assist customers in financial distress, the group also participates in, or benefits from, the following Uk government government sponsored programmes for households: income support for mortgage interest: this is a government medium-term initiative that provides certain defined categories of customers, principally those who are unemployed, access to a benefit scheme, paid for by the government, which covers all or part of the interest on the mortgage.
Qualifying customers are able to claim for mortgage interest on up to 200,000 of the mortgage.
All decisions regarding an individuals eligibility and any amounts payable under the scheme rest solely with the government.
Payments are made directly to the group by the appropriate government department.
Homeowner mortgage support scheme: this is a government medium-term initiative that enables borrowers affected by temporary reductions in income to access reduced payments for a period of up to two years.
the government provides a partial guarantee to the group whilst a customer participates in the plan.
Decisions on eligibility, principally whether the group expects the borrowers earnings to recover fully, initially rest with the group and must be made on the basis of detailed information received from an independent fee-free advisor.
After a year, the customer must undergo a further full assessment made by the advice agency.
the customer must pay at least 30 per cent of the interest due.
Any shortfall in payments made during the period covered by the scheme is collected through increased payments over the remaining term.
the scheme was closed to new customer applications in April 2011 by the Department of Communities and Local government.
mortgage Rescue scheme: this is a government short-term initiative for borrowers in difficulty and facing repossession, who would have priority for re-housing by a local authority e. g. the elderly, disabled, single parents.
eligible customers can have their property bought in full or part by the social rented sector and then remain in their home as a tenant or shared equity partner.
if the property is sold outright the mortgage is redeemed in full.
Wholesale Assets including Commercial in order to support wholesale customers that encounter difficulties during the current economic downturn, the group increased the size of its dedicated Business support Unit BsU to cover all its Uk and international portfolios.
Wholesale credit facilities are reviewed on a regular basis and more frequently where required.
When financial stress is exhibited, the customer would be transferred at an early stage to our specialist BsU and Customer support teams.
the over-arching aim of BsU is to work with each customer to try and resolve the issues, to restore the business to a financially viable position and facilitate a business turnaround.
this could be through a number of channels, including providing advice on how to develop and implement turnaround strategies, and considering potential restructuring of debt and forbearance.
this may involve using turnaround professionals, for example accountants and valuers.
BsU Relationship managers are highly experienced and operate in a closely controlled and monitored environment, including regular oversight and ongoing close scrutiny by senior management.
exposure is minimised through a combination of appropriate forbearance, asset sales, restructuring and work-out strategies.
Customer support provides intensive care and support to Commercial sme customers in difficulty.
Whilst the customer relationship remains with the Relationship manager, they are supported by a Customer support manager to oversee and manage identified risk.
the main types of forbearance for wholesale customers in financial distress could include: Covenant resets and breach of covenant waivers extension of facilities outside of agreed terms Capital repayment holidays Debt for equity swaps Partial debt write off Forbearance alone is not necessarily an indicator of impairment but will always be a trigger point for the Bank to review the customers credit and assess whether the risk has changed.
multiple types of forbearance concessions often occur on the more distressed cases managed in BsU or Customer support.
each case is treated depending on its own specific circumstances and our strategy and offer of forbearance is largely dependent on the individual situation.
early identification, control and monitoring are key.
One of the components of the approach to forbearance and early identification of issues used for wholesale assets is our Credit Risk Classification Policy, which is designed to identify and highlight portfolio levels of asset quality as well as individual problem credits.
this policy includes our good book mainstream early warning process identifying special mention and sub standard cases.
this process seeks to ensure that Relationship managers act promptly to identify, and highlight to senior management, customers that have the possibility to become higher risk in the future.
Customers classified as special mention sub standard are subject to additional controls and regular monitoring routines, including oversight by BsU and the independent Credit sanctioning function.
Concessions granted under forbearance would be classified in our Credit Risk Classification system according to the severity of the customers financial distress.
management information is produced which gives a high level view of asset quality, with clearly defined parameters and features.
trends and warning signs are reported and advised to senior management promptly, which include issues not yet identified by rating models.
A robust review and challenge process is applied to each credit if asset quality declines, initiating an appropriate and measured response.
As the financial stress of a credit deteriorates the Credit Risk Classification helps to determine the route and management of the customer.
Repeat Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 134 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement transgressions of forbearance would be reflected in the strategy to manage the customer and an objective reassessment of any impairment will be undertaken on a regular basis.
this is subject to independent review and sanctioning.
in addition, the group, through its banking businesses, participates in a number of initiatives designed to assist small and medium-sized enterprises.
these include: the Lending Code: introduced by the British Bankers Association in november 2009, the Lending Code is a voluntary set of commitments and standards of good practice to ensure that lenders act fairly and reasonably in all dealings with customers.
this has been reviewed and updated in march 2011, not only to incorporate the key elements of the statement of Principles, a previously issued brochure which outlined an agreed approach to working with micro-enterprise customers entities with fewer than 10 employees and having a turnover of less than A2 million, but also to introduce key elements of the work of the Business Finance taskforce see below.
A leaflet A guide to the Lending Code for micro-enterprises provides an introduction to the standards customers should expect from the banks, building societies and credit-card providers who follow the Lending Code.
Business Finance taskforce: the group through its banking businesses has taken a leading role in the Business Finance taskforce, which committed to a number of key actions in three broad areas: i improving customer relationships: ii ensuring better access to finance and iii providing better information and promoting customer understanding.
key elements of this include: the lending appeals process: if a lending application is declined, customers have the right to appeal that decision.
We have committed to respond to 90 per cent of appeals with a decision within 15 working days.
the finance application checklist: Details of the type of information we may ask customers to provide in order to support their lending application.
Business mentoring: Businesses may benefit from the support of a business mentor.
co. uk is a free online service that enables businesses to locate local independent mentoring organisations that suit their specific business needs.
2012 sme Charter: Our 2012 sme Charter details our commitment to supporting Uk business and incorporates our pledge to support any viable business through temporary difficulties and into recovery.
As part of our commitment to this, we issue a Letter of Concern to customers when we have concerns about their business or the groups relationship with them.
this aims to generate early dialogue between the customer and the group, so that a joint approach to the situation can be agreed with them.
the groups accounting policy for loan renegotiations and forbearance is set out in note 2 H to the financial statements.
Our credit risk portfolio in 2011 Overview the group achieved a significant reduction in its impairment charge in 2011 to 9,787 million from 13,181 million in 2010, due primarily to lower corporate real estate and real estate related charges in Wholesale, lower charges in the irish portfolio together with strong Retail performance.
All divisions experienced impairment charge reductions by over 20 per cent from 2010. these lower charges were principally supported by the continued application of our prudent risk appetite and strong risk management controls resulting in improved portfolio and new business quality, continued low interest rates, and broadly stable Uk property prices, partly offset by weakening Uk economic growth and rising unemployment.
the groups overall core impairment charge during 2011 was materially lower compared to 2010, due primarily to strong Retail performance offset by higher core impairments in Wholesale due to a few specific cases.
the groups non-core impairment charge in 2011 was also materially lower compared to 2010. this is primarily driven by lower impairment from the non-core corporate real estate and real estate related lending portfolios in Wholesale, together with the non-core irish portfolio.
Prudent credit policies and procedures are in place throughout the group, focusing on development of enduring client relationships.
As a result of this approach, the credit quality of new lending remains strong.
the groups more difficult exposures are being managed successfully in the current challenging economic environment by the Wholesale Business support Units and Retail Collection and Recovery Units.
the groups exposure to ireland has been closely managed, with a dedicated Uk-based business support team in place to manage the winding down of the irish book.
the group continues to proactively manage down sovereign as well as banking and trading book exposure to selected eurozone countries.
Divestment strategy is focused on balance sheet reduction and disposal of higher risk positions.
table 1.19: Impairments on Group loans and advances audited 2011 2010 Change m m % Retail 1,970 2,747 28 Wholesale 2,901 4,064 29 Commercial 303 382 21 Wealth and international 4,610 5,988 23 Central items 3 Total impairment charge 9,787 13,181 26 marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 135 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 table 1.20: Impairment charge by division audited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 to customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2011 Retail 356,907 8,822 2.5 2,718 30.8 Wholesale 135,395 27,756 20.5 11,537 41.6 Commercial 29,681 2,915 9.8 880 30.2 Wealth and international 56,394 20,776 36.8 12,583 60.6 Reverse repos and other items 17,066 595,443 60,269 10.1 27,718 46.0 1 impairment provisions 27,718 2 Fair value adjustments 2,087 Total Group 565,638 At 31 December 2010 Retail 368,981 9,750 2.6 3,096 31.8 Wholesale 158,002 31,658 20.0 14,863 46.9 Commercial 29,649 2,856 9.6 992 34.7 Wealth and international 66,368 20,342 30.7 10,684 52.5 Reverse repos and other items 3,378 626,378 64,606 10.3 29,635 45.9 1 impairment provisions 29,635 2 Fair value adjustments 4,146 total group 592,597 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
2 the fair value adjustments relating to loans and advances were those required to reflect the HBOs assets in the Companys consolidated financial records at their fair value and took into account both the expected future impairment losses and market liquidity at the date of acquisition.
the unwind relating to future impairment losses requires significant management judgement to determine its timing which includes an assessment of whether the losses incurred in the current period were expected at the date of the acquisition and assessing whether the remaining losses expected at the date of the acquisition will still be incurred.
the element relating to market liquidity unwinds to the income statement over the estimated useful lives of the related assets until 2014 for wholesale loans and 2018 for retail loans although if an asset is written off or suffers previously unexpected impairment then this element of the fair value will no longer be considered a timing difference liquidity but permanent impairment.
in 2011, a net credit of 1,943 million 2010: 3,118 million relates to the unwind of HBOs acquisition fair value adjustments.
Of that amount, 1,693 million 2010: 2,229 million relates to impairment losses incurred which were expected at the date of acquisition.
the fair value unwind in respect of loans and advances is expected to continue to decrease in future years as fixed-rate periods on mortgages expire, loans are repaid or written off, and will reduce to zero over time.
table 1.21: Total impairment charge audited 2011 2010 Change m m % total impairment losses on loans and advances to customers 9,712 12,958 25 Loans and advances to banks 13 Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 49 57 14 Available-for-sale financial assets 81 115 30 Other credit risk provisions 55 64 Total impairment charge 9,787 13,181 26 Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 136 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement table 1.22: Impairment charge by division core unaudited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 to customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2011 Retail 328,524 7,151 2.2 2,310 32.3 Wholesale 78,772 3,904 5.0 2,320 59.4 Commercial 28,289 2,885 10.2 858 29.7 Wealth and international 7,991 265 3.3 100 37.7 Reverse repos and other items 17,066 460,642 14,205 3.1 5,588 39.3 impairment provisions 5,588 Fair value adjustments 1,171 Total Group 453,883 At 31 December 2010 Retail 338,174 8,067 2.4 2,715 33.7 Wholesale 87,892 4,430 5.0 2,323 52.4 Commercial 27,618 2,835 10.3 976 34.4 Wealth and international 8,435 202 2.4 74 36.6 Reverse repos and other items 3,378 465,497 15,534 3.3 6,088 39.2 impairment provisions 6,088 Fair value adjustments 2,138 total group 457,271 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
table 1.23: Total impairment charge core unaudited 2011 2010 Change m m % Retail 1,796 2,629 32 Wholesale 741 576 29 Commercial 296 381 22 Wealth and international 51 26 96 Central items 3 Total impairment charge 2,887 3,612 20 marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 137 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 table 1.24: Impairment charge by division non-core unaudited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 to customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2011 Retail 28,383 1,671 5.9 408 24.4 Wholesale 56,623 23,852 42.1 9,217 38.6 Commercial 1,392 30 2.2 22 73.3 Wealth and international 48,403 20,511 42.4 12,483 60.9 Reverse repos and other items 134,801 46,064 34.2 22,130 48.0 impairment provisions 22,130 Fair value adjustments 916 Total Group 111,755 At 31 December 2010 Retail 30,807 1,683 5.5 381 22.6 Wholesale 70,110 27,228 38.8 12,540 46.1 Commercial 2,031 21 1.0 16 76.2 Wealth and international 57,933 20,140 34.8 10,610 52.7 Reverse repos and other items 160,881 49,072 30.5 23,547 48.0 impairment provisions 23,547 Fair value adjustments 2,008 total group 135,326 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
table 1.25: Total impairment charge non-core unaudited 2011 2010 Change m m % Retail 174 118 47 Wholesale 2,160 3,488 38 Commercial 7 1 Wealth and international 4,559 5,962 24 Total impairment charge 6,900 9,569 28 Pages 138 to 155 provide the Credit risk divisional split.
Outlook group the Uk economy is fragile with a weak short-term economic outlook generally expected.
Consumer and business confidence remains low, relatively high inflation has reduced consumer spending power and exports are falling.
in addition to the possibility of further economic deterioration, financial market instability represents an additional downside risk.
Uncertainty over the best way forward for the highly indebted eurozone persists and poses a serious threat to the global economic recovery, with political instability and contagion to other eurozone countries increasing in the last quarter of 2011.
Financial markets are expected to remain dislocated and volatile, with the risk of contagion unlikely to dissipate in the near term, and this continues to place strains on funding markets at a time when many financial institutions in particular have material ongoing funding needs.
the groups Wholesale leveraged finance portfolios and its commercial real estate and real estate related property lending portfolios remain particularly vulnerable, especially in the significant secondary and tertiary asset lending book.
the impact of further economic weakness will also be felt in the traditional lending portfolios in Corporate and Commercial.
in addition, the irish economic outlook remains challenging and the property market depressed, and both these factors could further adversely impact the wholesale and retail irish portfolios.
However, despite the downside risks, against its base case economic assumptions, the group expects the total impairment charge in 2012 to reduce by a similar percentage amount to the reduction in 2011, reflecting the stabilisation of its portfolios and proactive risk management activities.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 138 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Credit Risk Retail Overview the Retail impairment charge was 1,970 million in 2011, a decrease of 777 million, or 28 per cent, from 2010. the decrease in the Retail impairment charge was driven by the unsecured portfolio as a result of the improved quality of new business and effective portfolio management.
the Retail impairment charge for loans and advances to customers, as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers, decreased to 0.54 per cent in 2011 from 0.74 per cent in 2010. the overall value of assets entering arrears in 2011 were lower in both unsecured and secured lending compared to 2010. non-core represents 8 per cent of total Retail assets as at 31 December 2011 and is primarily specialist mortgages which is closed to new business and has been in run-off since 2009. table 1.26: Retail impairment charge 2011 2010 Change audited m m % secured 463 292 59 Unsecured 1,507 2,455 39 Total impairment charge 1,970 2,747 28 2011 2010 Change unaudited m m % Core: secured 330 250 Unsecured 1,466 2,379 1,796 2,629 32 non-core: secured 133 42 Unsecured 41 76 174 118 47 Total impairment charge 1,970 2,747 28 impaired loans and provisions Retail impaired loans decreased by 0.9 billion to 8.8 billion compared with 31 December 2010 and, as a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers, decreased to 2.5 per cent from 2.6 per cent at 31 December 2010. impairment provisions, as a percentage of impaired loans, reduced to 30.8 per cent from 31.8 per cent at 31 December 2010. marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 139 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 the Retail divisions loans and advances to customers are analysed in the following table: table 1.27: Impairments on Retail loans and advances audited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % As at 31 December 2011 secured 332,143 6,452 1.9 1,651 25.6 Unsecured: Collections 1,233 5.0 1,067 86.5 2 Recoveries 1,137 4.6 24,764 2,370 9.6 1,067 total gross lending 356,907 8,822 2.5 2,718 30.8 1 impairment provisions 2,718 Fair value adjustments 1,377 Total 352,812 As at 31 December 2010 secured 341,069 6,769 2.0 1,589 23.5 Unsecured: Collections 1,826 6.6 1,507 82.5 2 Recoveries 1,155 4.1 27,912 2,981 10.7 1,507 total gross lending 368,981 9,750 2.6 3,096 31.8 1 impairment provisions 3,096 Fair value adjustments 2,154 total 363,731 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
2 Recoveries assets are written down to the present value of future expected cash flows on these assets.
the Retail divisions loans and advances to customers are analysed in the following table: table 1.28: Retail loans and advances to customers audited 2011 2010 m m secured: mainstream 256,518 265,368 Buy to let 48,276 46,356 specialist 27,349 29,345 332,143 341,069 Unsecured: Credit cards 10,192 11,207 Personal loans 11,970 13,881 Bank accounts 2,602 2,624 Others 200 24,764 27,912 Total Retail gross lending 356,907 368,981 Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 140 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement table 1.29: Impairments on Retail loans and advances core unaudited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2011 secured 304,589 4,895 1.6 1,265 25.8 Unsecured: Collections 1,202 5.0 1,045 86.9 2 Recoveries 1,054 4.4 23,935 2,256 9.4 1,045 total gross lending 328,524 7,151 2.2 2,310 32.3 impairment provisions 2,310 Fair value adjustments 1,111 Total Retail 325,103 As at 31 December 2010 secured 311,500 5,231 1.7 1,247 23.8 Unsecured: Collections 1,777 6.6 1,468 82.6 2 Recoveries 1,059 4.0 26,674 2,836 10.6 1,468 total gross lending 338,174 8,067 2.4 2,715 33.7 impairment provisions 2,715 Fair value adjustments 1,755 total Retail 333,704 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 141 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 table 1.30: Impairments on Retail loans and advances non-core unaudited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2011 secured 27,554 1,557 5.7 386 24.8 Unsecured: Collections 31 3.8 22 71.0 2 Recoveries 83 10.0 829 114 13.8 22 total gross lending 28,383 1,671 5.9 408 24.4 impairment provisions 408 Fair value adjustments 266 Total Retail 27,709 As at 31 December 2010 secured 29,569 1,538 5.2 342 22.2 Unsecured: Collections 49 4.0 39 79.6 2 Recoveries 96 7.7 1,238 145 11.7 39 total gross lending 30,807 1,683 5.5 381 22.6 impairment provisions 381 Fair value adjustments 399 total Retail 30,027 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
secured Secured impairment charge the impairment charge increased by 171 million, to 463 million in 2011 compared to the previous year.
the impairment charge as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers, increased to 0.14 per cent from 0.09 per cent in 2010. the provision coverage increased reflecting a less certain outlook on house prices and appropriate provisioning against existing credit risks which have longer emergence periods due to current low interest rate environment, partially offset by underlying improvements in the quality of the portfolio.
impairment provisions held against secured assets reflect the groups view of appropriate allowance for incurred losses.
the group holds appropriate impairment provisions for customers who are experiencing financial difficulty, either on a forbearance arrangement or who may be able to maintain their repayments whilst interest rates remain low.
At December 2011, 1.2 per cent of loan balances were on a forbearance arrangement, compared to 1.3 per cent at 31 December 2010.
Secured impaired loans impaired loans decreased by 0.3 billion to 6.5 billion at 31 December 2011 and, as a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers, reduced to 1.9 per cent from 2.0 per cent at 31 December 2010. the number of customers going into arrears reduced throughout 2011 in comparison with 2010. specialist lending remains closed to new business and this book has been in run-off since 2009.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 142 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Secured arrears the percentage of mortgage cases greater than three months in arrears excluding repossessions remained stable at 2.3 per cent at 31 December 2011 compared to 31 December 2010 and 30 June 2011. the percentage of specialist mortgage cases greater than three months in arrears excluding repossessions increased to 7.5 per cent at 31 December 2011 from 6.4 per cent at 31 December 2010 with the majority of this growth occurring in the first half of 2011. table 1.31: Mortgages greater than three months in arrears excluding repossessions unaudited Number of cases Total mortgage accounts % 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2011 2010 2011 2010 Cases Cases % % Greater than three months in arrears excluding repossessions mainstream 53,734 55,675 2.0 2.1 Buy to let 7,805 7,577 1.8 1.8 specialist 13,677 12,582 7.5 6.4 Total 75,216 75,834 2.3 2.3 1 Value of debt Total mortgage balances % 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m % % Greater than three months in arrears excluding repossessions mainstream 5,988 6,247 2.3 2.4 Buy to let 1,145 1,157 2.4 2.5 specialist 2,427 2,262 8.9 7.7 Total 9,560 9,666 2.9 2.8 1 Value of debt represents total book value of mortgages in arrears.
the stock of repossession was stable with 3,043 cases at 31 December 2010 and 3,054 at 31 December 2011, and is broadly consistent with prior years and below the Council of mortgage Lenders average.
Secured loan to value analysis the average indexed loan-to-value LtV on the mortgage portfolio at 31 December 2011 was 55.9 per cent compared with 55.6 per cent at 31 December 2010. the average LtV for new mortgages and further advances written in 2011 was 62.1 per cent compared with 60.9 per cent for 2010. the tables below show LtVs across the principal mortgage portfolios.
the indexed LtV in excess of 100 per cent as a percentage of closing loans and advances ending 31 December 2011 reduced to 12.0 per cent 39.7 billion, compared with 13.2 per cent 44.9 billion at 31 December 2010. this decrease in negative equity was driven by the regional mix of business being biased towards areas experiencing house price growth despite national house prices falling.
2 Average loan-to-value is calculated as total loans and advances as a percentage of the total collateral assigned to these loans and advances.
Unsecured in 2011 the impairment charge on loans and advances to customers reduced by 948 million to 1,507 million compared with 2010. this reflected continued improving business quality and portfolio trends resulting from the groups conservative risk appetite, with a focus on lending to existing customers.
A combination of the groups risk appetite, reduced demand from customers for new unsecured borrowing and existing customers continuing to reduce their personal indebtedness contributed to loans and advances to customers reducing by 3.1 billion to 24.8 billion at 31 December 2011. the impairment charge as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers decreased to 5.66 per cent in 2011 from 8.11 per cent in 2010, with the impairment charge reducing at a greater rate than the reduction in average loans and advances in 2011. impaired loans decreased by 0.6 billion to 2.4 billion which represented 9.6 per cent of closing loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2011, compared with 10.7 per cent at 31 December 2010. the reduction in impaired loans is a result of tightening credit policy across the credit lifecycle, including stronger controls on customer affordability.
Retails exposure to revolving credit products has been actively managed to ensure that it is appropriate to customers changing financial circumstances.
the portfolios show a level of early arrears for accounts acquired since 2009 which are at pre-recession levels, highlighting an underlying improvement in the risk profile of the business.
impairment provisions decreased by 0.4 billion, compared with 31 December 2010, to 1.1 billion.
this reduction was primarily a result of the movement of assets from Collections to Recoveries, at which point they are written down to the present value of future expected cash flows.
the proportion of impaired loans that have been written down to the present value of future expected cash flows on these assets has increased to 48.0 per cent at 31 December 2011 from 38.7 per cent at 31 December 2010. impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans in collections increased to 86.5 per cent at 31 December 2011 from 82.5 per cent at 31 December 2010.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 144 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Credit Risk Wholesale Overview impairment losses for 2011 decreased significantly to 2,901 million, from 4,064 million for 2010. the decrease in the underlying impairment charge during 2011 is primarily driven by lower impairment from the corporate real estate and real estate-related lending portfolios, partly offset mainly by higher impairment on leveraged acquisition finance exposures during 2011 where the dampened effect of Uk economic conditions had the most impact.
Whilst subdued Uk economic conditions and weaker consumer confidence is evident in a number of sectors, the reduction in the impairment charge also reflects continued strong risk management and the low interest rate environment, helping to maintain defaults at a lower level.
the group has proactively managed down sovereign as well as banking and trading book exposures to selected european countries.
Divestment strategy was focused on balance sheet reduction and disposing of higher risk positions.
A robust credit risk management and control framework is in place across the combined portfolios and a prudent risk appetite approach continues to be embedded across the division.
significant resources continue to be deployed into the Business support Units, which focuses on key and vulnerable obligors and asset classes.
table 1.33: Wholesale impairment charge unaudited 2011 2010 Change m m % Wholesale excluding Asset Finance 2,701 3,800 29 Asset Finance 200 264 24 Total impairment charge 2,901 4,064 29 Core 741 576 29 non-core 2,160 3,488 38 Total impairment charge 2,901 4,064 29 Wholesales impairment charge decreased 1,163 million, or 29 per cent, compared to 4,064 million during 2010.
Despite a subdued Uk economic environment in 2011, impairment charges have decreased substantially compared with 2010 due to robust proactive risk management, an appropriately impaired portfolio against our current economic assumptions and a low interest rate environment helping to maintain defaults at a lower level.
impairment charges as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers reduced to 1.95 per cent from 2.23 per cent in 2010. impairment charge core Core impairments during 2011 were higher compared to 2010, which is primarily attributable to a few specific cases reflecting the nature of impairments in a wholesale portfolio.
impairment charge non-core non-core impairments in 2011 were lower than 2010, primarily reflecting lower impairment from non-core corporate real estate and real estate related asset portfolios.
this reflected a stabilisation of commercial property prices in 2011. non-core impairments in 2010 particularly the first half were significant as a result of the scale and pace of deterioration in the property sector and poorer quality heritage HBOs lending.
impaired loans and provisions Wholesales impaired loans reduced by 3,902 million to 27,756 million compared with 31 December 2010. the reduction is due to new impaired assets mainly in the Corporate Real estate Business support Unit being more than offset by write-offs on irrecoverable assets, the sale of previously impaired assets, net repayments and transfers back to good book.
Furthermore, the flow of assets into impaired status reduced during the year compared to 2010. impairment provisions also reduced as a result of write-offs and a lower impairment rate on newly impaired assets especially in the corporate real estate and real estate related portfolios.
As a result of this, impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans reduced to 41.6 per cent from 46.9 per cent at 31 December 2010.
As a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers, impaired loans increased to 20.5 per cent from 20.0 per cent at 31 December 2010. this increase is a result of the reducing level of total loans and advances to customers as at 31 December 2011 compared with 31 December 2010.
We continue to monitor our vulnerable portfolios within Wholesale and, where appropriate, remedial risk mitigating actions are being undertaken.
impaired loans and provisions core Core impaired loans reduced by 526 million to 3,904 million compared with 31 December 2010. the reduction is primarily due to the restructuring of assets.
these restructured assets had a lower impairment coverage resulting in core impairment provisions as a percentage of core impaired loans increasing to 59.4 per cent from 52.4 per cent at 31 December 2010.
As a percentage of closing core advances, core impaired loans remained unchanged compared 31 December 2010 at 5.0 per cent.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 145 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 impaired loans and provisions non-core non-core impaired loans reduced by 3,376 million to 23,852 million compared with 31 December 2010. the reduction reflects the strategy to fide-risk the group through deleverage of the non-core portfolio, with significant disposals achieved mostly in the real estate and leveraged finance portfolios.
these portfolios continue to be the main contributor of newly impaired assets, but lower coverage ratios are required now than seen in previous years.
this is driving the reduced coverage ratio.
non-core impairment provisions as a percentage of non-core impaired loans reduced to 38.6 per cent from 46.1 per cent at 31 December 2010.
As a percentage of closing non-core advances, impaired loans increased to 42.1 per cent from 38.8 per cent at 31 December 2010. this increase is a result of impaired loans reducing more slowly than total non-core advances.
non-core impairment provisions as a percentage of non-core impaired assets are lower at 38.6 per cent compared to 59.4 per cent for core, mainly a factor of the asset mix, where the non-core portfolios are heavily weighted toward real estate and real estate related portfolios where security is often a larger influence on the impairment outcome.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 146 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement table 1.34: Impairments on Wholesale loans and advances audited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % As at 31 December 2011 Corporate 68,772 5,631 8.2 3,051 54.2 Corporate Real estate BsU 21,326 15,211 71.3 5,631 37.0 Wholesale equity 113 113 100.0 100 88.5 Wholesale markets 35,802 5,584 15.6 2,009 36.0 treasury and trading 2,220 Asset Finance 7,162 1,217 17.0 746 61.3 total Wholesale 135,395 27,756 20.5 11,537 41.6 Reverse repos 16,836 impairment provisions 11,537 Fair value adjustments 617 Loans and advances to customers 140,077 Loans and advances to banks 8,443 2 Debt securities 12,489 3 Available-for-sale financial assets 12,554 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
2 Of which Wholesale markets is 12,135 million, Wholesale equity 195 million, treasury and trading 150 million, Asset Finance 7 million, and Corporate 2 million.
3 Of which Wholesale markets is 7,798 million, Wholesale equity 1,797 million, treasury and trading 2,922 million and Corporate 37 million.
impaired loans impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to impaired closing impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2010 Corporate 80,670 6,635 8.2 3,629 54.7 Corporate Real estate BsU 26,151 17,518 67.0 8,092 46.2 Wholesale equity 140 108 77.1 107 99.1 Wholesale markets 40,042 5,718 14.3 1,992 34.8 treasury and trading 1,050 Asset Finance 9,949 1,679 16.9 1,043 62.1 total Wholesale 158,002 31,658 20.0 14,863 46.9 Reverse repos 3,096 impairment provisions 14,863 Fair value adjustments 1,562 Loans and advances to customers 144,673 Loans and advances to banks 12,401 2 Debt securities 25,779 3 Available-for-sale financial assets 29,458 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
2 Of which Wholesale markets is 25,120 million, Wholesale equity 487 million, treasury and trading 163 million, Asset Finance 7 million, Corporate 2 million and Commercial 2 million.
3 Of which Wholesale markets is 21,279 million, Wholesale equity 2,109 million, treasury and trading 6,011 million and Corporate 59 million.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 147 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 table 1.35: Impairments on Wholesale loans and advances core unaudited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2011 total Wholesale 78,772 3,904 5.0 2,320 59.4 Reverse repos 16,836 impairment provisions 2,320 Fair value adjustments 9 Loans and advances to customers 93,279 Loans and advances to banks 8,153 Debt securities 155 Available-for-sale financial assets 3,110 At 31 December 2010 total Wholesale 87,892 4,430 5.0 2,323 52.4 Reverse repos 3,096 impairment provisions 2,323 Fair value adjustments 136 Loans and advances to customers 88,529 Loans and advances to banks 11,994 Debt securities 402 Available-for-sale financial assets 7,377 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
table 1.36: Impairments on Wholesale loans and advances non-core unaudited Impairment Loans and Impaired provisions advances to Impaired loans as a % of Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans closing advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2011 total Wholesale 56,623 23,852 42.1 9,217 38.6 Reverse repos impairment provisions 9,217 Fair value adjustments 608 Loans and advances to customers 46,798 Loans and advances to banks 290 Debt securities 12,334 Available-for-sale financial assets 9,444 At 31 December 2010 total Wholesale 70,110 27,228 38.8 12,540 46.1 Reverse repos impairment provisions 12,540 Fair value adjustments 1,426 Loans and advances to customers 56,144 Loans and advances to banks 407 Debt securities 25,377 Available-for-sale financial assets 22,081 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 148 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Corporate the 68,772 million of loans and advances to customers in the Corporate portfolio is structured across a number of different portfolios and sectors as detailed below: UK Corporate major Corporate balance sheets remained relatively stable during the first half of 2011 with corporates continuing to reduce debt and build up liquidity reserves.
mergers and acquisition activity has been minimal and focus has been on refinancing existing facilities.
in line with economic commentary, some consumer related sectors in the Uk are now feeling the impact of a slowdown in spending.
Commodity price volatility is a potential concern in terms of required funding and customer profitability.
Financial Institutions Continuing concerns over sovereign fiscal deficits and public sector debt levels have necessitated increased scrutiny and risk reduction to the european banking sector, in particular banks domiciled in the weaker eurozone countries.
trading exposures are in large part either short term and or collateralised and inter bank lending activity is mainly very short term with strong investment grade counterparties.
Mid-Markets Corporate Customers in this sector are predominantly Uk-focused and mainly dependent on the performance of the domestic economy.
some of our clients trading has, unsurprisingly, proved challenging in a number of sectors in 2011, particularly those reliant on consumer discretionary expenditure.
Retail, hotels, leisure and construction have all been vulnerable to the wider economic environment during the year, with the majority of impairments in the year arising in these sectors.
the impact of public sector austerity measures has also been evident in some sectors, with these also contributing to the impairment charge in the year.
the mid-markets segment of the Uk Corporate market appears to have limited direct vulnerability to events in the weaker eurozone countries, however the segment is more directly exposed to any flow-through effect on the Uk economy resulting from weaker export demand.
US Corporate the business continues to be predominately investment grade focused and the balance sheets of Us major Corporates remain relatively strong, with good levels of liquidity.
the reduction in the non-core corporate portfolio has continued through a combination of secondary sales, refinancings, and realisation of property assets.
the year-end impairment position is one of modest net write backs with new impairments on existing cases more than offset by recoveries.
Overall, portfolio asset quality remains strong.
Corporate Real Estate Outside of London and the south east, activity in the Corporate Real estate market remains weak, in part due to declining values and the focus on only prime properties and prime tenants.
Rental growth, where achievable by our clients in the regions, is slow.
market demand for debt is low, especially for new facilities from our core customers, despite messaging that we are open for business which meets our lending criteria.
Customers are adopting a wait and see approach, fide-gearing where they can, and conserving cash.
in addition, with a significant proportion of our assets supporting property investments, tenant default is an area of continuing vulnerability especially where the lending is underpinned by secondary or tertiary assets.
With a continuing high level of loan maturities due over the next few years, refinancing risk remains a market-wide issue.
However, our core portfolios are characterised by strong management teams with proven asset management skills and or acceptable lease maturity profiles with borrowers meeting their interest cover and debt service obligations.
new propositions are structured and priced in line with our prudent risk appetite.
Corporate Real estate Business support Unit the Corporate Real estate Business support Unit has continued to make strong progress executing on its active asset management programme for the complex portfolio of over 1800 cases it manages.
this has resulted in a further fall in the impairment total to 1,273million 2010: 2,427 million, after the peak experienced in 2009.
Despite capital values improving 17.8 per cent from their trough in 2009, we have seen the improving trend in the real estate market in 2011 weaken for all but prime or central London based real estate.
the management of the portfolio has focussed on continuing to support its long-term customers and at the same time reduce the exposure to real estate through managed sales, which has resulted in a realisation of over 4.8 billion of cash receipts in 2011 despite the worsening transactional market.
in addition there has been over 5 billion of restructurings undertaken with longer term facilities put in place to support our customer base.
Over the past two years, a total of over 8.5 billion of asset sales through managed disposals has occurred which has resulted in an overall 14.6 billion reduction of gross loan exposure in the Uk.
We have also concluded one of the largest loan portfolio sales in the market in December which provided a significant 923 million deleveraging of our real estate exposure.
During the year a number of new initiatives have been introduced including the sale of assets specifically grouped under receivership, which is the first time such a sale has been achieved: and an arrangement with a publicly quoted asset manager to facilitate certain residential portfolios through the receivers.
such arrangements demonstrate our desire to find solutions to ensure we maximise the recovery from these loan positions or portfolios through managing for value the underlying real estate and we continue to seek innovative ways to achieve this aim.
Wholesale equity the Wholesale equity portfolio assets representing equity Risk including ordinary equity, preference shares and debt securities totals 4.9 billion split 3.8 billion on balance sheet commitments and 1.1 billion as yet undrawn, the majority of which relates to Lloyds Development Capital and the Funds investment business.
the overall size of the portfolio has shown a downward trend in the second half of 2011, in the main due to significant disposals of a number of assets from the Project Finance business.
Continuing concerns around sovereign debt in the eurozone and disappointing economic data from the major economies has resulted in ongoing volatility in equity markets.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 149 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Wholesale markets Loans and advances to customers of 35.8 billion largely comprise balances in the structured Corporate Finance portfolio, which includes Acquisition Finance leveraged lending, Project Finance and Asset Based Finance ship Finance, Aircraft Finance, Rail Capital and Corporate Asset finance.
the dampened effect of Uk economic conditions has been felt in the Acquisition Finance portfolio resulting in a higher impairment charge on leveraged exposures during 2011 compared to 2010.
However, a number of sectors remain vulnerable, especially retail, leisure and healthcare, and refinancing risk is also an issue, with significant loan maturities due in the next few years.
in ship Finance, the outlook for the container, tanker and dry bulk sectors is challenging.
Wholesale markets is also responsible for the treasury Assets portfolio which mainly encompasses a portfolio of Asset-Backed securities and financial institution Floating Rate note positions.
Portfolio credit quality remained relatively stable over the year and the portfolio size continues to be actively reduced through asset sales and from bond maturities.
Further details of Wholesale Divisions Asset-Backed securities portfolio is provided in note 56 to the financial statements on pages 335 and 336. treasury and trading treasury and trading acts as the link between the wholesale markets and the groups balance sheet management activities and provides pricing and risk management solutions to both internal and external clients.
the portfolio comprises 6.0 billion of loans and advances to banks, 2.9 billion of Available-for-sale debt securities and 2.2 billion of loans and advances to customers excluding reverse repos.
the majority of treasury and tradings funding and risk management activity is transacted with investment grade counterparties including sovereign central banks and much of it is on a secured basis, such as repos facing a Central Counterparty CCP.
During the year Lloyds Banking group became a member of LCH swapClear as part of a move to reduce counterparty risk by clearing standardised derivative contracts through a CCP.
treasury and trading has reduced the government bond portfolio in response to growing concern over market conditions in the eurozone resulting in minimal exposure to weaker eurozone sovereigns.
the credit quality of the government bond portfolio is almost solely AAA AA rated sovereign debt.
Asset Finance there has been a marginal improvement in credit quality in relation to the retail portfolios during the year.
impairments remain lower than anticipated, particularly in the Personal Financial services portfolios and the retail motor loans portfolio.
Asset quality also continues to improve in response to the continuing strategy to enhance the quality of new business written especially motor Finance and following the closure of Personal Financial services to new business.
the credit quality profile across the non-retail portfolios also remains relatively stable, and underlying impairment levels have reduced against 2010 levels, reflecting a material slow down in new default cases.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 150 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Credit Risk Commercial Overview impairment losses for 2011 decreased significantly to 303 million, from 382 million for 2010. the decrease reflects the continued application of our prudent credit risk appetite approach and the benefits of the low interest rate environment which has helped maintain defaults at a lower level.
Portfolio metrics including delinquencies and assets under close monitoring have generally remained steady or improved.
Due to the continuing uncertainty regarding the economic outlook, we remain cautious.
Downward pressures on consumer spending from a weakening labour market, still-high household indebtedness and rising government budgetary pressures continue to imply vulnerability for a number of sectors, most notably retail, motor traders and restaurants.
Commercial continues to operate rigorous processes to enhance control and monitoring activities which play a crucial role in identifying customers showing early signs of financial distress and bringing them into our support model.
table 1.37: Impairment charge unaudited 2011 2010 Change m m % Core 296 381 22 non-core 7 2 Total impairment charge 303 382 21 Commercials impairment charge decreased 79 million, or 21 per cent, compared to 382 million during 2010. this reflects the continued application of a prudent credit risk appetite for new business and a low interest rate environment helping to maintain defaults at a lower level.
impairment charges as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers reduced to 1.06 per cent from 1.24 per cent in 2010. the majority of the business is based around full banking relationships.
the relatively small non-core portfolio has continued to reduce throughout 2011. impaired loans and provisions Commercials impaired loans increased by 59 million to 2,915 million compared with 31 December 2010.
Despite this small increase, impairment provisions reduced.
this is as a result of lower default rates at the smaller end of the portfolio and write-offs.
As a result, impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans reduced to 30.2 per cent from 34.7 per cent at 31 December 2010.
As a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers, impaired loans increased to 9.8 per cent from 9.6 per cent at 31 December 2010. table 1.38: Impaired loans and provisions audited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2011 Commercial 29,681 2,915 9.8 880 30.2 impairment provisions 880 Fair value adjustments 51 Loans and advances to customers 28,750 At 31 December 2010 2 Commercial 29,649 2,856 9.6 992 34.7 impairment provisions 992 Fair value adjustments 103 Loans and advances to customers 28,554 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
2 2010 figures have been restated for transfers from Corporate.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 151 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 table 1.39: Impaired loans and provisions core unaudited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2011 Commercial 28,289 2,885 10.2 858 29.7 impairment provisions 858 Fair value adjustments 51 Loans and advances to customers 27,380 At 31 December 2010 Commercial 27,618 2,835 10.3 976 34.4 impairment provisions 976 Fair value adjustments 103 Loans and advances to customers 26,539 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
table 1.40: Impaired loans and provisions non-core unaudited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2011 Commercial 1,392 30 2.2 22 73.3 impairment provisions 22 Fair value adjustments Loans and advances to customers 1,370 At 31 December 2010 Commercial 2,031 21 1.0 16 76.2 impairment provisions 16 Fair value adjustments Loans and advances to customers 2,015 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 152 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Credit Risk Wealth and International Overview in Wealth and international, impairment charges totalled 4,610 million, a decrease of 23 per cent from 5,988 million in 2010. the reduction predominantly reflects lower impairment charges in our irish portfolio where the rate of impaired loan migration has slowed.
impairment coverage has increased in ireland to 62 per cent from 54 per cent, primarily reflecting further falls in the commercial real estate market during 2011, and further vulnerability exists.
On the irish Wholesale portfolio, 84 per cent of the portfolio is now impaired at a coverage ratio of 61 per cent.
On the irish Retail portfolio, impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans has increased to 73 per cent against a backdrop of falling house prices and an increase in borrowers falling into arrears.
Further provisioning has been necessary in the groups Australasian portfolio primarily reflecting geographical real estate concentrations where market conditions and asset valuations have remained weak in 2011. the group has successfully started to reduce its non-core exposure to ireland with a reduction in gross advances in excess of 2.6 billion during 2011 with disposals in the period being broadly in line with current provisioning levels.
the group has also significantly reduced its exposure in its Australasian business by Aus $2.1 billion including the successful disposal of a 1 billion portfolio of impaired Australasian real estate loans in the last quarter of 2011. the levels of disposals during the year represent 40 per cent of the gross impaired portfolio.
the majority of Wealth and internationals assets are non-core and in run-off.
table 1.41: Wealth and International impairment charge audited 2011 2010 Change m m % Wealth 100 46 117 international: ireland 3,187 4,264 25 Australia 1,034 1,362 24 Wholesale europe 204 210 3 Other international 85 106 20 4,510 5,942 24 Total impairment charge 4,610 5,988 23 table 1.42: Wealth and International impairment charge core unaudited 2011 2010 Change m m % Wealth 33 26 27 international 18 Total impairment charge 51 26 96 table 1.43: Wealth and International impairment charge non-core unaudited 2011 2010 Change m m % Wealth 67 20 235 international 4,492 5,942 24 Total impairment charge 4,559 5,962 24 Wealth and internationals impairment charge in 2011 almost entirely related to non-core portfolios.
the impairment charge decreased by 1,378 million to 4,610 million compared with 2010. impairment charges as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers decreased to 7.37 per cent from 8.9 per cent in 2010. marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 153 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 impaired loans and provisions total impaired loans increased by 434 million to 20,776 million compared with 20,342 million at 31 December 2010 and as a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers increased to 36.8 per cent from 30.7 per cent at 31 December 2010. the increase in impaired loans predominantly relates to the groups non-core book in ireland where impaired loans increased by 1.9 billion during 2011 reflecting ongoing difficulties in the economy.
this results in 66 per cent of the total irish portfolio now being classified as impaired 84 per cent wholesale.
impaired loans in the Australasian book reduced by 1.4 billion driven by write offs and impaired asset disposals.
impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased to 60.6 per cent from 52.5 per cent at 31 December 2010. the coverage ratio in the groups irish Portfolio has increased further reflecting continuing weakness in real estate markets where further vulnerability exists.
table 1.44: Impairments on Wealth and International loans and advances audited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2011 Wealth 8,781 399 4.5 162 40.6 international: ireland Retail 7,036 1,415 20.1 1,034 73.1 ireland Wholesale 17,737 14,945 84.3 9,133 61.1 Australia 9,745 2,780 28.5 1,609 57.9 Wholesale europe 6,356 978 15.4 475 48.6 Other 6,739 259 3.8 170 65.6 47,613 20,377 42.8 12,421 61.0 Wealth and international 56,394 20,776 36.8 12,583 60.6 impairment provisions 12,583 Fair value adjustments 42 Total Wealth and International 43,769 At 31 December 2010 Wealth 9,472 353 3.7 116 32.9 international: ireland Retail 7,673 870 11.3 616 70.8 ireland Wholesale 19,755 13,575 68.7 7,147 52.6 Australia 14,587 4,187 28.7 2,208 52.7 Wholesale europe 7,322 1,007 13.8 420 41.7 Other 7,559 350 4.6 177 50.6 56,896 19,989 35.1 10,568 52.9 Wealth and international 66,368 20,342 30.7 10,684 52.5 impairment provisions 10,684 Fair value adjustments 327 total Wealth and international 55,357 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 154 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement table 1.45: Impairments on Wealth and International loans and advances core unaudited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % As at 31 December 2011 Wealth 4,998 245 4.9 82 33.5 international 2,993 20 0.7 18 90.0 Wealth and international 7,991 265 3.3 100 37.7 impairment provisions 100 Fair value adjustments Total 7,891 As at 31 December 2010 Wealth 5,513 202 3.7 74 36.6 international 2,922 Wealth and international 8,435 202 2.4 74 36.6 impairment provisions 74 Fair value adjustments 144 total 8,217 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
table 1.46: Impairments on Wealth and International loans and advances non-core unaudited Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % As at 31 December 2011 Wealth 3,783 154 4.1 80 51.9 international 44,620 20,357 45.6 12,403 60.9 Wealth and international 48,403 20,511 42.4 12,483 60.9 impairment provisions 12,483 Fair value adjustments 42 Total 35,878 As at 31 December 2010 Wealth 3,959 151 3.8 42 27.8 international 53,974 19,989 37.0 10,568 52.9 Wealth and international 57,933 20,140 34.8 10,610 52.7 impairment provisions 10,610 Fair value adjustments 183 total 47,140 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 155 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Wealth total impaired loans increased by 46 million, or 13 per cent to 399 million compared with 353 million at 31 December 2010 and as a percentage of closing loans and advances increased to 4.6 per cent from 3.7 per cent at 31 December 2010. impairment charges increased by 54 million to 100 million compared with 2010 primarily due to increased charges in the groups spanish mortgage book reflecting a deteriorating housing market and economy in spain.
impairment charges as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers increased to 1.1 per cent from 0.5 per cent in 2010. ireland total impaired loans increased by 1,915 million, or 13 per cent to 16,360 million compared with 14,445 million at 31 December 2010 and as a percentage of closing loans and advances increased to 66.0 per cent from 52.7 per cent at 31 December 2010. impairment charges decreased by 1,077 million to 3,187 million compared to 2010. impairment charges as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers decreased to 11.9 per cent from 15.4 per cent in 2010.
Continuing weakness in the irish real estate markets resulted in a further increase in impaired wholesale loans and coverage in 2011. the majority of irish retail provisions relate to a residential mortgage portfolio where impairment charges have increased in relation to 2010 due to a continued decline in residential property prices and higher arrears levels, including customers on a forbearance arrangement.
table 1.47: Impairments on Ireland loans and advances audited 2011 2010 Gross Impaired gross impaired loans loans Provisions loans loans Provisions m m m m m m Commercial Real estate 10,872 9,807 6,194 11,685 9,232 4,791 Corporate 6,865 5,138 2,939 8,070 4,343 2,356 Retail 7,036 1,415 1,034 7,673 870 616 Total 24,773 16,360 10,167 27,428 14,445 7,763 the most significant contribution to impairment in ireland is the Commercial Real estate portfolio.
impairment provisions provide 63 per cent coverage on impaired commercial real estate loans.
mortgage lending at the year end comprised 99 per cent of the retail portfolio with impaired loans of 1.4 billion and impairment coverage of 70 per cent.
2.6 billion of wholesale lending within the Commercial Real estate and corporate portfolios relates to sterling loans secured on Uk property.
Within the Commercial Real estate portfolio, over 90 per cent of the portfolio is now impaired.
the average impairment coverage ratio has increased in the year to 63 per cent 52 per cent 31 December 2010 reflecting the continued deteriorating irish economic conditions and irish commercial property market.
the group has successfully started to reduce its non-core exposure to ireland with disposals in excess of A1 billion in the period broadly in line with current provisioning levels.
Australasia total impaired loans decreased by 1,407 million, or 34 per cent to 2,780 million compared with 4,187 million at 31 December 2010. the decrease in impaired loans in the period is as a result of impaired asset disposals and write offs partially offset by further migration of cases to impaired status.
total impaired loans as a percentage of closing loans and advances decreased to 28.5 per cent from 28.7 per cent at 31 December 2010. impairment charges decreased by 328 million to 1,034 million compared to 2010. impairment charges as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers decreased to 8.2per cent from 9.3 per cent in 2010. impairment on the groups Commercial Real estate portfolio in Australasia was the main contributor to the full year charge.
this portfolio is exposed to Australian non-metropolitan real estate markets where market conditions and asset valuations in 2011 have remained weak.
the group has significantly reduced its remaining exposure to these markets following the successful disposal of a 1 billion portfolio of loans during the last quarter of 2011 in our two most challenging markets gold Coast and new Zealand.
A specific charge of 70 million was also incurred in the period as a result of losses arising from the earthquake in new Zealand.
Wholesale europe total impaired loans decreased by 29 million, or 3 per cent to 978 million compared with 1,007 million at 31 December 2010 and as a percentage of closing loans and advances increased to 15.4 per cent from 13.8 per cent at 31 December 2010. impairment charges decreased by 5 million to 204 million compared to 2010. impairment charges as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers increased to 2.9 per cent compared to 2.8 per cent in 2010.
Commercial real estate was the primary driver of the impairment charge in Wholesale europe reflecting provisions on a small number of specific transactions.
Other international impairments mainly relate to the corporate business in Dubai and the Dutch mortgage business.
total impaired loans decreased by 91 million, or 26 per cent to 259 million compared with 350 million at 31 December 2010 and as a percentage of closing loans and advances decreased to 3.8 per cent from 4.6 per cent at 31 December 2010. impaired loans predominantly relate to a limited number of corporate exposures and the reduction in impaired balances primarily reflects write offs in respect of two loans that have been exited in the period.
impairment charges decreased by 21 million to 85 million compared to 2010. impairment charges as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers decreased to 1.2 per cent from 1.3 per cent in 2010.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 156 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Exposures to selected Eurozone countries the following section summarises the groups direct exposure to certain european countries which have been identified on the basis of a standard & Poors rating of A or less, as at 31 December 2011. the exposures are shown at their balance sheet carrying values and are based on the country of domicile of the counterparty, unless otherwise indicated.
the group manages its exposures to individual countries through authorised country limits which take into account economic, financial, political and social factors.
in addition, the group manages its direct risks to the selected countries by establishing and monitoring risk limits for individual banks, financial institutions and corporates.
indirect risk is taken into account, where it is determined that counterparties have material direct exposures to the selected countries.
the group has established a eurozone instability steering group in order to monitor developments within the eurozone on a daily basis, carry out stress testing through detailed scenario analysis and complete appropriate due diligence on the groups exposures.
the following tables summarise exposures to the selected eurozone countries by type of counterparty: table 1.48: Eurozone exposure by counterparty unaudited Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Direct sovereign exposure 16 17 33 Central Bank balances 35 35 Banks 207 433 142 1,692 2,474 Asset backed securities 55 376 39 341 375 1,186 Other financial institutions 272 88 19 27 406 Other corporate 431 8,894 81 298 2,935 12,639 Retail 6,027 11 1,649 7,687 insurance assets 68 47 39 154 Total 486 15,844 704 811 6,769 24,614 At 31 December 2010 Direct sovereign exposure 31 54 85 Central Bank balances 44 44 Banks 1,818 596 362 2,437 5,213 Asset backed securities 75 867 594 447 987 2,970 Other financial institutions 74 151 65 146 436 Other corporate 473 11,632 228 267 2,769 15,369 Retail 7,202 10 1,769 8,981 insurance assets 107 294 110 511 total 548 21,700 1,894 1,151 8,316 33,609 in addition to the above countries, the group has total exposures with six other european countries which are rated A or below.
no balance with one individual country exceeds 350 million.
these balances primarily relate to corporate exposures.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 157 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Direct sovereign exposures Our sovereign exposures are primarily to the Uk and the group continues to have minimal exposure, in aggregate, which could be considered to be direct recourse to the sovereign risk of the selected countries.
total exposures to the selected countries are 33 million 31 December 2010: 85 million and are primarily in respect of loans and advances held at amortised cost, with no impairments recognised.
Direct sovereign exposures include those to the export Credit Agencies for italy and spain.
since 2009, the group has proactively managed and reduced limits and exposures to these countries.
Derivatives with sovereigns and sovereign referenced credit default swaps are insignificant.
in addition to direct sovereign exposures, the group maintains deposit balances with a number of european Central banks for regulatory and liquidity management purposes.
For the selected countries, the group has a central bank balance with spain of 35 million 2010: 44 million.
table 1.49: Exposures to Banks unaudited Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Amortised cost 46 41 17 33 137 Available for sale: Cost 193 194 198 1,848 2,433 AFs reserve 57 14 74 300 445 136 180 124 1,548 1,988 net trading assets 188 59 247 Derivatives net CDs assets and liabilities Derivatives other 25 24 1 52 102 Total exposure 207 433 142 1,692 2,474 At 31 December 2010 Amortised cost 42 59 62 52 215 Available for sale: Cost 923 512 362 2,586 4,383 AFs reserve 82 9 62 265 418 841 503 300 2,321 3,965 net trading assets 919 25 38 982 Derivatives net CDs assets and liabilities 9 9 Derivatives other 16 26 42 total exposure 1,818 596 362 2,437 5,213 included within exposures to banks and other financial institutions, and treated as available for sale assets, are Covered Bonds of 1.7 billion 2010: 2.0 billion.
the covered bonds are ultimately secured on a pool of mortgage assets in the countries concerned and benefit from over-collaterisation, with an overall weighted maturity of approximately five years.
Remaining exposures to banks held at amortised cost are predominantly short-term and relate to general banking facilities, money market and repo facilities and fixed and floating rate notes.
no impairments are held against these exposures.
in addition there are unitilised and uncommitted money market lines and repo facilities of approximately 1.7 billion predominantly in respect of spanish and italian banks.
Bank limits have been closely monitored with amounts and tenors reduced where appropriate.
net trading assets relate to exposures within the credit trading market-making business.
there has been a large reduction in trading assets in the year in line with the overall group balance sheet.
Derivative balances are shown at fair value adjusted where master netting agreements exist and net of cash collateral of 155 million.
there are credit default swap positions referenced to banking groups domiciled in italy net long of 1 million and net short of 4 million and spain net short of 10 million.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 158 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement table 1.50: Asset Backed Securities unaudited Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Amortised cost 32 221 26 208 211 698 Available for sale: Cost 44 268 14 219 213 758 AFs reserve 21 113 1 86 49 270 23 155 13 133 164 488 Total exposure 55 376 39 341 375 1,186 At 31 December 2010 Amortised cost 37 558 467 241 600 1,903 Available for sale: Cost 51 417 149 261 471 1,349 AFs reserve 13 108 22 55 84 282 38 309 127 206 387 1,067 total exposure 75 867 594 447 987 2,970 Country of exposure for asset backed securities are based on the location of the underlying assets.
Within the asset backed securities exposures, the underlying assets are primarily residential mortgages.
significant exposure reductions were achieved during 2011, primarily through asset sales.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 159 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 table 1.51: Other financial institutions unaudited Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Amortised cost 255 18 273 Available for sale: Cost AFs reserve net trading assets 5 34 8 27 74 Derivatives other 12 36 11 59 Total exposure 272 88 19 27 406 At 31 December 2010 Amortised cost 33 43 58 77 211 Available for sale: Cost 23 4 27 AFs reserve 23 4 27 net trading assets 17 99 5 68 189 Derivatives other 1 5 2 1 9 total exposure 74 151 65 146 436 exposures to other financial institutions primarily relate to balances held within insurance companies and funds.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 160 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement table 1.52: Other Corporate Exposures unaudited Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Amortised cost: gross exposure 407 15,910 69 125 2,192 18,703 impairment allowances 43 7,961 1 25 149 8,179 364 7,949 68 100 2,043 10,524 net trading assets Derivatives other 19 31 2 167 219 On balance sheet exposures 383 7,980 68 102 2,210 10,743 Off balance sheet exposures 48 914 13 196 725 1,896 Total exposure 431 8,894 81 298 2,935 12,639 At 31 December 2010 Amortised cost: gross exposure 384 17,512 135 130 1,849 20,010 impairment allowances 19 6,561 7 2 111 6,700 365 10,951 128 128 1,738 13,310 net trading assets 47 47 Derivatives other 6 36 2 38 82 On balance sheet exposures 371 11,034 130 128 1,776 13,439 Off balance sheet exposures 102 598 98 139 993 1,930 total exposure 473 11,632 228 267 2,769 15,369 Other Corporate balances within individual countries comprise: greece the exposures in greece principally relate to shipping loans to greek shipping companies where the assets are generally secured and the vessels operate in international waters: repayment is mainly dependent on international trade and the industry is less sensitive to the greek economy.
ireland see page 155 for further details on irish exposures.
italy and Portugal exposures comprise lending to corporates, including a small amount of commercial real estate exposure.
spain the corporate exposure in spain is mainly local lending 90 per cent of the total spanish exposures comprising corporate loans and project finance facilities 81 per cent and commercial real estate portfolio 19 per cent.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 161 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 table 1.53: Retail Exposures unaudited Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Amortised cost: gross exposure 7,061 11 1,685 8,757 impairment allowances 1,034 70 1,104 On balance sheet exposures 6,027 11 1,615 7,653 Off balance sheet exposures 34 34 Total exposure 6,027 11 1,649 7,687 At 31 December 2010 Amortised cost: gross exposure 7,818 10 1,712 9,540 impairment allowances 616 35 651 On balance sheet exposures 7,202 10 1,677 8,889 Off balance sheet exposures 92 92 total exposure 7,202 10 1,769 8,981 Retail exposures within spain are predominantly secured residential mortgages, where about half of the borrowers are expatriates.
impaired lending represents 6 per cent 31 December 2010: 6 per cent of the portfolio, with a coverage ratio of 49 per cent 31 December 2010: 31 per cent.
see page 155 for further details on irish exposures.
table 1.54: Insurance Assets unaudited Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 68 47 39 154 At 31 December 2010 107 294 110 511 Assets held by the insurance Business are held outside the with profits and unit linked funds.
Approximately 127 million of these exposures relate to direct investments where the issuer is resident in spain, italy or ireland and the credit rating is consistent with the tight credit criteria defined under the appropriate investment mandate.
the remaining exposures relate to interests in two funds administered by sWiP the global Liquidity Fund and the short term Fund where in line with the investment mandates, cash is invested in the money markets.
For these funds, which are domiciled in ireland, the exposure is analysed on a look through basis to the underlying assets held and the insurance businesss pro rata share of these assets rather than treating all the holding in the fund as exposure to ireland.
Within the above exposures there are no sovereign exposures.
table 1.55: Other European Exposures unaudited the group has the following exposures to sovereigns, banks, asset backed securities and other financial institutions in the following european countries: Austria Belgium France Germany Luxembourg Netherlands Switzerland m m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Direct sovereign exposure 2 74 217 656 2 Central Bank balances 4 203 3 9,594 125 Banks 202 404 1,517 1,291 4 712 937 Asset backed securities 525 703 176 Other financial institutions 5 11 143 100 14 173 77 At 31 December 2010 Direct sovereign exposure 78 842 1,837 153 2 Central Bank balances 3 4 70 4 10,846 297 Banks 762 1,009 1,675 3,007 35 1,342 1,072 Asset backed securities - 75 806 1,678 7 1,319 Other financial institutions 289 21 308 313 34 788 74 Banks and Financial institutions in the above countries may have exposures to other european countries that have standard and Poors rating of A or lower.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 162 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement environmental risk management We work in line with group policies and procedures to manage the environmental impact of our lending activities.
Our group wide Credit Risk Policy requires all business loans to be assessed for material environmental risks as part of the credit sanctioning process.
in 2011, we launched an electronic environmental risk screening system, which is the primary mechanism for assessing environmental risk in Wholesale.
this provides real time screening of location specific and sector based risks that may be present in a transaction.
Where a risk is identified, the transaction is referred to our expert in-house environmental Risk team for further review and assessment, as outlined below.
Additional support is provided by the groups panel of environmental consultants as required.
table 1.56: Our environmental risk management approach Group Credit Policy Environmental Risk Initial Detailed Environmental Environmental transaction review due diligence risk approval screening Divisional Credit Policies Relationship In-house team, retained Panel including any conditions teams consultancy consultants Business Unit Processes Sector briefings Supporting tools Legislation briefings Colleagues are trained in environmental risk management as part of our standard credit risk training course, and the team provides bespoke training to teams upon request.
supporting this training, a range of documents are provided to all colleagues online including environmental risk theory, procedural guidance, and information on environmental legislation and sector-specific environmental impacts.
Project Finance: equator Principles Lloyds Banking group is a signatory to the equator Principles.
these support our approach to assessing and managing environmental and social issues in project finance.
Project finance is often used to fund the development and construction of major infrastructure and industrial projects.
the equator Principles are applicable to project finance transactions above Us$10 million and provide a framework to support responsible decision-making.
We have a robust, group wide approach to assess, monitor and report equator Principle transactions.
We also provide ongoing training for lending officers: information on the equator Principles is included in all our training and we offer more in-depth training for staff working in project finance.
Projects are categorised depending on the level of perceived risk and magnitude of impact they pose, in relation to a set of criteria issued by the international Finance Corporation iFC.
the categories are as follows: Category A Projects with potential significant adverse social or environmental impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented: Category B Projects with potential limited adverse social or environmental impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures: and Category C Projects with minimal or no social or environmental impacts.
Lending officers are responsible for undertaking initial classification of transactions that qualify under the equator Principles.
their assessments are subject to further review by our in-house environmental Risk team, and for higher risk transactions by our equator Principles Review group, comprising experts from both our Risk and Project Finance teams.
this ensures that each transaction is compliant and is consistent with our environmental risk policy.
We provide a range of training and support materials to our risk and transactional staff to ensure that they are familiar with the requirements of the Principles.
in 2011, we participated in the equator Principles strategic Review process which examined the scope of application, transparency, implementation and governance of the Principles.
it is the first step of a longer term process to determine the future direction of the Principles and ensure they are fit for purpose.
We believe that the collective effort of financial institutions will ensure that the equator Principles continue to play an industry leading role and will continue to engage in the update process.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 163 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 table 1.57: Status of Categorised Projects unaudited A B C Total Completed 15 10 25 in Progress 1 4 4 9 not Completed 2 4 6 1 21 18 40 table 1.58: Status of Projects by Industry unaudited Energy and Renewables Infrastructure Utilities Total Completed 16 4 5 25 in Progress 5 3 1 9 not Completed 2 4 6 23 11 6 40 throughout 2011, the group continued to provide finance for a wide range of projects within the renewables, energy & utilities and infrastructure sectors that have the capability to deliver positive social and environmental outcomes.
this year saw a 56 per cent increase in the value of renewables projects that the group provided finance for compared to 2010.
When completed, renewable projects within the Uk funded during 2011 will provide over 540,000 homes with renewable energy, avoiding tens of thousands of tonnes of CO emissions each year.
2 table 1.59: Industry of Completed Transactions unaudited No.
m Renewables 16 611 infrastructure 5 316 energy & Utilities 4 123 25 1,050 table 1.60: Geography of Completed Transactions unaudited A B C Total Uk 5 4 9 Americas 7 5 12 europe 1 1 Australasia 2 1 3 15 10 25 Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 164 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Market risk Definition the risk of reductions in earnings, value, capital and or reserves, through financial or reputational loss, arising from unexpected changes in financial prices, including interest rates, inflation rates, exchange rates, credit spreads and prices for bonds, commodities, equities, property and other instruments.
it arises in all areas of the groups activities and is managed by a variety of different techniques.
Risk appetite market risk appetite is defined with regard to the quantum and composition of market risk that currently exists in the group and the groups risk preferences.
this statement of the groups overall appetite for market risk is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
individual members of the group executive Committee ensure that market risk appetite is further delegated to an appropriate level within their areas of responsibility.
Exposures the groups banking activities expose it to the risk of adverse movements in interest rates, credit spreads, exchange rates and equity prices, with little or no exposure to commodity risk.
the volatility of market values can be affected by both the transparency of prices and the amount of liquidity in the market for the relevant asset.
most of the groups trading activity is undertaken to meet the requirements of wholesale and retail customers for foreign exchange and interest rate products.
However, some interest rate, exchange rate and credit spread positions are taken using derivatives and other on-balance sheet instruments with the objective of earning a profit from favourable movements in market rates.
market risk in the groups retail portfolios and in the groups capital and funding activities arises from the different repricing characteristics of the groups non-trading assets and liabilities.
interest rate risk arises predominantly from the mismatch between interest rate insensitive liabilities and interest rate sensitive assets.
Risk also arises from the margin of interbank rates over central bank rates.
A further banking risk arises from competitive pressures on product terms in existing loans and deposits, which sometimes restricts the group in its ability to change interest rates applying to customers in response to changes in interbank and central bank rates.
Foreign currency risk also arises from the groups investment in its overseas operations.
the groups insurance activities also expose it to market risk, encompassing interest rate, exchange rate, property, credit spreads and equity risk: With Profit Funds are managed with the aim of generating rates of return consistent with policyholders expectations and this involves the mismatch of assets and liabilities.
Unit-linked liabilities are matched with the same assets that are used to define the liability but future fee income is dependent upon the performance of those assets.
this forms part of the Value of in-force business, see note 30 to the financial statements on page 260.
For other insurance liabilities the aim is to invest in assets such that the cash flows on investments will match those on the projected future liabilities.
it is not possible to eliminate risk completely as the timing of insured events is uncertain and bonds are not available at all of the required maturities.
As a result, the cash flows cannot be precisely matched and so sensitivity tests are used to test the extent of the mismatch.
surplus assets are held primarily in four portfolios: a in the long-term funds of scottish Widows plc and its subsidiaries: b in the shareholder funds of life assurance companies: c investment portfolios within the general insurance business and d within the main fund of Heidelberger Lebensversicherung Ag.
the groups defined benefit staff pension schemes are exposed to significant risks from the constituent parts of their assets and from the present value of their liabilities, primarily equity and real interest rate risk.
For further information on pension scheme assets and liabilities please refer to note 43 to the financial statements on page 275.
Measurement the following market risk measures are used for risk reporting and setting risk appetite limits and triggers: Value at Risk VaR : for short term liquid positions a 1-day 95 per cent VaR is used: for structural positions a 1-year 95 per cent VaR is used standard stresses: interest Rates 25bp: equities 10 per cent: Credit spreads relative 30 per cent widening Bespoke extreme stress scenarios: e. g. stock market crash Both VaR and standard stress measures are also used in setting divisional market risk appetite limits and triggers.
Although an important market standard measure of risk, VaR has limitations.
these arise from the use of limited historical data, an assumed distribution, defined holding periods, set confidence intervals and frequency of calculation.
the exposure level at the confidence interval does not convey any information about potential losses which may arise if this level is exceeded.
A 95 per cent confidence interval with a 1 day holding period is equivalent to an expected 1 in 20 day loss.
Where VaR models are less well suited to the nature of positions, the group recognises these limitations and supplements its use with a variety of other techniques.
these reflect the nature of the business activity, and include interest rate repricing gaps, open exchange positions and sensitivity analysis.
stress testing and scenario analysis are also used in certain portfolios and at group level, to simulate extreme conditions to supplement these core measures.
trading book VaR 1-day 99 per cent is compared daily against both forecast and actual profit and loss.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 165 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 trading assets and other treasury positions Based on the 95 per cent confidence level, assuming positions are held overnight and using observation periods of the preceding 300 business days, the VaR for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 based on the groups global trading positions as detailed in table 1.61. the risk of loss measured by the VaR model is the potential loss in earnings given the confidence level and assumptions noted above.
the total and average trading VaR does not assume any diversification benefit across the five risk types, which now includes inflation.
the maximum and minimum VaR reported for each risk category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the maximum and minimum VaR reported as a whole.
the group internally uses VaR as the primary measure for all trading book positions arising from short term market facing activity.
table 1.61: VaR trading assets and other treasury positions see Measurement page 164 audited 2011 2010 Close Average Maximum Minimum Close m m m m m interest rate risk 2.6 3.0 5.9 1.8 3.9 Foreign exchange risk 0.4 0.5 1.6 0.2 0.4 equity risk Credit spread risk 3.1 2.3 4.5 1.0 1.6 inflation risk 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.1 0.3 Total VaR 6.3 6.0 9.7 4.1 6.2 non-trading market risk in non-trading books consists almost entirely of exposure to changes in interest rates including the margin between interbank and central bank rates.
this is the potential impact on earnings and value that could occur when, if rates fall, liabilities cannot be re-priced as quickly or by as much as assets: or when, if rates rise, assets cannot be re-priced as quickly or by as much as liabilities.
Risk exposure is monitored monthly using, primarily, market value sensitivity.
this methodology considers all re-pricing mismatches in the current balance sheet and calculates the change in market value that would result from a set of defined interest rate shocks.
Where re-pricing maturity is based on assumptions about customer behaviour these assumptions are also reviewed monthly.
A limit structure exists to ensure that risks stemming from residual and temporary positions or from changes in assumptions about customer behaviour remain within the groups risk appetite.
the following table shows, split by material currency, Lloyds Banking group sensitivities as at 31 December 2011 to an immediate up and down 25 basis points change to all interest rates.
table 1.62: Non-trading audited 2011 2010 Up 25bps Down 25bps Up 25bps Down 25bps m m m m sterling 53.1 54.7 86.9 88.4 Us Dollar 0.4 0.3 11.1 11.4 euro 15.7 15.9 8.9 9.0 Australian Dollar 1.8 1.8 1.2 1.2 Other 1.4 1.3 3.0 3.1 Total 72.4 74.0 71.1 72.3 Base case market value is calculated on the basis of the Lloyds Banking group current balance sheet with re-pricing dates adjusted according to behavioural assumptions.
the above sensitivities show how this projected market value would change in response to an immediate parallel shift to all relevant interest rates market and administered.
this is a risk based disclosure and the amounts shown would be amortised in the income statement over the duration of the portfolio.
the measure, however, is simplified in that it assumes all interest rates, for all currencies and maturities, move at the same time and by the same amount.
Pension schemes management of the assets of the groups defined benefit pension schemes is the responsibility of the scheme trustees, who also appoint the scheme Actuaries to perform the triennial valuations.
the group monitors its pensions exposure holistically using a variety of metrics including accounting and economic deficits and contribution rates.
these and other measures are regularly reviewed by the group Asset and Liability Committee and the group market Risk Committee and used in discussions with the trustees, through whom any risk management and mitigation activity must be conducted.
the schemes main exposures are to equity risk, real rate risk and credit spread risk.
Accounting for the pension schemes under international Accounting standard iAs 19 spreads any adverse impacts of these risks over time.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 166 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement insurance portfolios the groups market risk exposure in respect of insurance activities described above is measured using eeV as a proxy for economic value.
the pre-tax sensitivity of eeV to standardised stresses is shown below for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010. impacts have only been shown in one direction but can be assumed to be reasonably symmetrical.
Opening and closing numbers only have been provided as this data is not volatile and consequently is not tracked on a daily basis.
table 1.63: Insurance portfolios audited 2011 2010 m m equity risk impact of 10% fall pre-tax 339.4 367.4 interest rate risk impact of 25 basis point reduction pre-tax 59.2 82.1 Credit spread risk impact of relative 30% widening 237.3 163.0 Mitigation Various mitigation activities are undertaken across the group to manage portfolios and seek to ensure they remain within approved limits.
Banking non-trading activities interest rate risk arising from the different repricing characteristics of the groups non-trading assets and liabilities, and from the mismatch between interest rate insensitive assets and interest rate sensitive liabilities, is managed centrally.
matching assets and liabilities are offset against each other and interest rate swaps are also used to manage the residual exposure to within the non-traded market Risk Appetite.
the corporate and retail businesses incur foreign exchange risk in the course of providing services to their customers.
All non-structural foreign exchange exposures in the non-trading book are transferred to the trading area where they are monitored and controlled within the trading Risk Appetite and any residual risk is hedged in the market.
insurance activities investment holdings are diversified across markets and, within markets, across sectors.
Holdings are diversified to minimise specific risk and the relative size of large individual exposures is monitored closely.
For assets held outside unit-linked funds, investments are only permitted in countries and markets which are sufficiently regulated and liquid.
Monitoring the group Asset and Liability Committee and the group market Risk Committee regularly review high level market risk exposure including, but not limited to, the data described above.
they also make recommendations to the group Chief executive concerning overall market risk appetite and market risk policy.
exposures at lower levels of delegation are monitored at various intervals according to their volatility, from daily in the case of trading portfolios to monthly or quarterly in the case of less volatile portfolios.
Levels of exposures compared to approved limits are monitored by Risk Division and where appropriate, escalation procedures are in place.
Banking activities trading is restricted to a number of specialist centres, the most important centre being the treasury and trading business in London.
these centres also manage market risk in the wholesale non-trading portfolios, both in the Uk and internationally.
the level of exposure is strictly controlled and monitored within approved limits.
Active management of the wholesale portfolios is necessary to meet customer requirements and changing market circumstances.
market risk in the groups retail portfolios and in the groups capital and funding activities is managed centrally within limits defined in the detailed group policy for interest rate risk in the banking book, which is reviewed and approved annually.
insurance activities market risk exposures from the insurance businesses are controlled via approved investment policies and triggers set with reference to the groups overall risk appetite and regularly reviewed by the group market Risk Committee: the With Profit Funds are managed in accordance with the relevant funds principles and practices of financial management and legal requirements.
the investment strategy for other insurance liabilities is determined by the term and nature of the underlying liabilities and asset liability matching positions are actively monitored.
Actuarial tools are used to project and match the cash flows.
investment strategy for surplus assets held in excess of liabilities takes account of the legal, regulatory and internal business requirements for capital to be held to support the business now and in the future.
the group also agrees strategies for the overall mix of pension assets with the pension scheme trustees.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 167 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Operational risk Definition the risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, from inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, or from people related or external events.
there are a number of categories of operational risk: Regulatory Regulatory risk is the risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, from failing to comply with the applicable laws, regulations or codes.
Customer treatment the risk of regulatory censure and or a reduction in earnings value through financial or reputational loss, from inappropriate or poor customer treatment.
People the risk of reductions in earnings or value through financial or reputational loss arising from ineffectively leading colleagues responsibly and proficiently, managing people resource, supporting and developing colleague talent, or meeting regulatory obligations related to our people.
supplier management the risk of reductions in earnings and or value through financial or reputational loss from services with outsourced partners or third-party suppliers.
Customer processes the risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, resulting from poor externally facing business processes.
Customer process risk includes customer transaction and processing errors due to incorrect capturing of customer information and or system failure.
Financial crime the risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, associated with financial crime and failure to comply with related regulatory obligations, these losses may include censure, fines or the cost of litigation.
this includes risks associated with fraud and bribery.
money laundering and sanctions the risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, associated with failure to comply with prevailing regulatory obligations on activities related to money laundering, sanctions and counter terrorism, these losses may include censure, fines or the cost of litigation.
security the risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, resulting from theft of or damage to the groups assets, the loss, corruption, misuse or theft of the groups information assets or threats or actual harm to the groups people.
this also includes risks relating to terrorist acts, other acts of war, geopolitical, pandemic or other such events.
it systems the risk of reductions in earnings and or value through financial or reputational loss resulting from the failure to develop, deliver or maintain effective it solutions.
Change the risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, from change initiatives failing to deliver to requirements, budget or timescale, failing to implement change effectively or failing to realise desired benefits.
Organisational infrastructure the risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, resulting from poor internally facing business processes at group, divisional or business unit level.
Organisational infrastructure in this context embraces the structures, systems and processes that provide direction, control and accountability for the enterprise.
Risk appetite the group has developed an impact on earnings approach to operational risk appetite.
this involves looking at how much the group could lose due to operational risk losses at various levels of certainty.
in setting operational risk appetite, the group looks at both impact on solvency and the groups reputation.
the group has zero risk appetite for regulatory breaches or systemic unfair outcomes for customers.
to achieve this, the group encourages and maintains an appropriately balanced regulatory compliance culture and promotes policies and procedures to enable businesses and their staff to operate in accordance with the laws, regulations and voluntary codes which impact on the group and its activities.
Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 168 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Exposures By its very nature, operational risks can arise from a wide range of the groups activities that involve people, processes and systems.
the groups principal operational risks relate to the groups ability to attract, retain and motivate its people, the rate and scale of change arising from the groups strategic review programme, the way in which the group treats its customers and the regulatory environment in which it operates.
the group continues to face risks relating to its ability to attract, retain, and develop high calibre talent, as a result of challenges arising from ongoing regulatory and public interest in remuneration practices.
in addition there is uncertainty from eU state aid requirements and independent Commission on Banking proposals on banking reform.
the breadth of the strategic review programme is such that all parts of the group are impacted to a degree.
the risks associated with the programme, including implementation and delivery, are the subject of rigorous oversight by business areas and Risk Division, with challenges by internal Audit, commensurate to the scale of the change.
Customer treatment and how the group manages its customer relationships affect all aspects of the groups operations and are closely aligned with achievement of the groups strategic aim to be the best bank for customers.
there is currently a high level of scrutiny regarding the treatment of customers by financial institutions from the press, politicians and regulatory bodies see note 54 to the financial statements.
Regulatory exposure is driven by the significant volume of current legislation and regulation within the Uk and overseas with which the group has to comply, along with new or proposed legislation and regulation which needs to be reviewed, assessed and embedded into day-to-day operational and business practices across the group as a whole.
this is particularly the case in the current market environment, which is witnessing increased levels of government and regulatory intervention in the banking sector.
Measurement Operational risks are measured against a set of risk appetite metrics, with appropriate limits and triggers, which have been approved by the Board.
Mitigation the groups operational risk management framework consists of the following key components: identification and categorisation of the key operational risks facing a business area, including defining risk appetite.
Risk assessment, including impact assessment of financial and non-financial impacts e. g. reputational risk for each of the key risks to which the business area is exposed.
Control assessment, evaluating the effectiveness of the control framework covering each of the key risks to which the business area is exposed.
Loss and incident management, capturing actions to manage any losses facing a business area.
the development of key Risk indicators for management reporting, including the monitoring of risk appetite.
Oversight and assurance of the risk management framework in businesses.
scenarios for estimation of potential loss exposures for material risks.
the group purchases insurance to mitigate certain operational risk events.
Monitoring Business unit risk exposure is reported to Risk Division where it is aggregated at group level and a report prepared.
the report is discussed at the monthly group Operational Risk Committee and Compliance & Conduct Committee.
these committees can escalate matters to the Chief Risk Officer, or higher committees, if appropriate.
the insurance programme is monitored and reviewed regularly, with recommendations being made to the groups senior management annually prior to each renewal.
insurers are monitored on an ongoing basis, to ensure counterparty risk is minimised.
A process is in place to manage any insurer rating changes or insolvencies.
the group has adopted a formal approach to operational risk event escalation.
this involves the identification of an event, an assessment of the materiality of the event in accordance with a risk event impact matrix and appropriate escalation.
marketplace trends 21 Lloyds Banking Group Business model and strategy 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 169 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Our London 2012 partnership 42 summary of group results 44 Divisional results 54 Other financial information 86 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99 1 171 205 355 Insurance risk Definition the risk of reductions in earnings capital and or value, through financial or reputational loss, due to fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of insured underwritten events and to fluctuations in the timing and amount of claim settlements.
this includes fluctuations in profits due to customer behaviour.
Risk appetite insurance risk appetite is defined with regard to the quantum and composition of insurance risk that exists currently in the group and the groups risk preferences.
it takes account of the need for each entity in the group to maintain solvency in excess of the minimum level required by the entitys jurisdictional legal or regulatory requirements.
the groups appetite for solvency and earnings in insurance entities is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
Exposures the major sources of insurance risk within the group are the insurance businesses and the groups defined benefit staff pension schemes.
the nature of insurance business involves the accepting of insurance risks which relate primarily to mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency, expenses, property damage and unemployment.
the prime insurance risk of the groups staff pension schemes is related to longevity.
Measurement insurance risks are measured using a variety of techniques including stress and scenario testing: and, where appropriate, stochastic modelling.
1 Current and potential future insurance risk exposures are assessed and aggregated using risk measures based on 1-in-200 year stresses and other supporting measures where appropriate, including those set out in notes 38 and 39 to the financial statements.
Mitigation A key element of the control framework is the consideration of insurance risk by a suitable combination of high level Committees Boards.
For the life assurance businesses the key control bodies are the Board of scottish Widows group Limited sWg with the more significant risks also being subject to review by the group executive Committee and or Board.
For the general insurance businesses the key control bodies which are subsidiary entity Boards of sWg are the Boards of the legal entities including Lloyds tsB general insurance Limited, st. Andrews insurance plc and the irish subsidiaries.
All group staff pension schemes issues are covered by the group Asset and Liability Committee and the group Risk Committee.
the overall insurance risk is mitigated through pooling and through diversification across large numbers of individuals, geographical areas, and different types of risk exposure.
insurance risk is primarily controlled via the following processes: Underwriting the process to ensure that new insurance proposals are properly assessed Pricing-to-risk new insurance proposals are priced to cover the underlying risks inherent within the products Claims management Product design Policy wording Product management the use of reinsurance or other risk mitigation techniques.
in addition, exposure limits by risk type are derived from the business planning process and used as a control mechanism to ensure risks are taken within solvency risk appetite.
At all times, close attention is paid to the adequacy of reserves, solvency management and regulatory requirements.
the most significant insurance risks in the life assurance companies are longevity risk and persistency risk.
the merits of longevity risk transfer and hedging solutions are regularly reviewed.
general insurance exposure to accumulations of risk and possible catastrophes is mitigated by reinsurance arrangements which are broadly spread over different reinsurers.
Detailed modelling, including that of the potential losses under various catastrophe scenarios, supports the choice of reinsurance arrangements.
Appropriate reinsurance arrangements also apply within the life and pensions businesses with significant mortality risk and morbidity risk being transferred to our chosen reinsurers.
Options and guarantees are incorporated in new insurance products only after careful consideration of the risk management issues that they present.
in respect of insurance risks in the staff pension schemes, the group ensures that effective communication mechanisms are in place for consultation with the trustees to assist with the management of risk in line with the groups risk appetite.
Monitoring Ongoing monitoring is in place to track the progression of insurance risks.
this normally involves monitoring relevant experiences against expectations for example claims experience, option take up rates, persistency experience, expenses, non-disclosure at the point of sale, as well as evaluating the effectiveness of controls put in place to manage insurance risk.
Reasons for any significant divergence from experience are investigated and remedial action is taken.
1 group pension schemes utilise 1-in-20 year stresses Overview r Business review Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 170 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk mAnAgement Business risk Definition Business risk is defined as the risk that the groups earnings are adversely impacted by a sub optimal business strategy or the sub optimal implementation of the strategy.
in assessing business risk, consideration is given to internal and external factors.
Risk appetite Business risk appetite is encapsulated in the groups budget and medium-term plan, which are sanctioned by the Board on an annual basis.
Divisions and business units plans are aligned to the groups overall business risk appetite.
Exposures the groups portfolio of businesses exposes it to a number of internal and external factors: internal factors: resource capability and availability, customer treatment, service level agreements, products and funding and the risk appetite of other risk categories: and external factors: economic, technological, political, social and ethical, environmental, regulatory, market expectations, reputation and competitive behaviour.
Measurement An annual business planning process is conducted at group, divisional and business unit level which includes a quantitative and qualitative assessment of the risks that could impact the groups plans.
Within the planning round, the group conducts both scenario analysis and stress tests to assess risks to future earning streams.
stress testing and scenario analysis are fully embedded in the groups risk management practice.
the group assesses a wide array of scenarios including economic recessions, regulatory action scenarios, scenarios specific to the operations of each part of the business, as well as reverse stress tests.
Mitigation As part of the annual business planning process, the group develops a set of management actions to prevent or mitigate the impact on earnings in the event that business risks materialise.
Additionally, business risk monitoring, through regular reports and oversight, results in corrective actions to plans and reductions in exposures where necessary.
Revenue and capital investment decisions require additional formal assessment and approval.
Formal risk assessment is conducted as part of the financial approval process.
significant mergers and acquisitions by business units require specific approval by the Board.
in addition to the standard due diligence conducted during a merger or acquisition, Risk Division conducts, where appropriate, an independent risk assessment of the target company.
Monitoring the groups strategy is reviewed and approved by the Board, which includes the group executive Committee and the group Risk Committee.
Regular reports are provided to the group executive Committee and the Board on the progress of the groups key strategies and plans, including assessment of performance against Risk Appetite.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2011 171 governance Board of Directors 172 Directors report 174 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187
