32 Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are described below.
The Group is subject to a variety of Overview of Principal Risks: foreseeable and unforeseeable risks and uncertainties which may have an impact Market Risks Operational Risks on the Groups ability to execute its strategy and deliver its expected performance.
The Clients and competition Change management identification, assessment and management of these risks are central to the Groups Changing regulatory environment Employees operating framework.
The risk management framework is described in the Corporate Fiscal regime and political environment Security threats Governance section on page 44.
Ongoing operations In addition to the principal market and operational risks outlined below, the Group Investment risk is exposed to financial risks that are detailed on pages 73 to 75.
Principal Market Risks The risks arising from the economic, political, competitive and regulatory environment within which the Group operates.
Risks Mitigating factors and Change additional commentary from last year Clients and competition We operate in markets that are characterised by The Group has implemented a new, structured client increasing competition and choice for clients, as well engagement programme with senior management as continued concentration of business from a relatively sponsorship and named individuals responsible for small customer base.
Client alignment is paramount to ensuring effective customer liaison.
This, coupled For more the successful operation and growth of our business.
with a focus on cost reduction and new technology information deployments, is designed to increase our competitiveness.
see the Whilst regulatory changes removed some The early results of these initiatives have seen our share Business barriers to competition and afforded the Group of trading in cash equities stabilise in the past year.
Review, the opportunity to compete for pan-European pages 16 to 25. trading, it also resulted in increased competition, We aim to align our commercial activities with the a consequent loss of market share and pressure interests of our major clients as demonstrated through on fee levels in the Groups existing markets.
our successful partnership with 12 global investment banks to grow the market for pan-European equity and In our international primary markets business derivatives trading through Turquoise.
New York remains competitive but there is increasing competition from Asia, particularly We maintain a dedicated international marketing Hong Kong, which is seeking to attract high team focused on key target markets, promoting the profile international listings.
benefits of listing on Group markets to international issuers, the global advisory community and the stakeholders.
The proposed merger with TMX Group is intended, among other objectives, to enhance our leading position in the international listings market.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties 33 Risks Mitigating factors and Change additional commentary from last year Changing regulatory environment Following the financial crisis and other market Changes in the regulatory environment form a key events eg the Flash Crash in the USA, a range input into our strategic planning.
of measures intended to reduce risk in financial We continually monitor regulatory developments services have been proposed or are under discussion For more and have direct engagement with regulatory in the EU, often mirroring similar proposals in other information and Government authorities at a national, EU jurisdictions, principally the USA.
see Market and international level.
We also have relationships position and Driven in part, but not exclusively, by commitments with the key political stakeholders at EU and UK level.
outlook, to the G20 objectives by the EU and Member States, Potential impacts from regulatory change are page 9 and these measures will lead to closer and more intrusive assessed and, depending on the impact, opportunities Chairmans regulation of all financial services firms and are developed and mitigating actions are planned.
As the various proposals take shape, there is greater There is also strong political pressure for increased certainty about the proposed measures.
The Group central EU supervision and regulation in reaction to considers that, balancing the negative and positive the financial crisis.
outcomes, the likelihood of major adverse regulatory The key measures directly affecting the Group are development has reduced slightly during the course likely to be the Review of MiFID, European Market of the year as the proposals in the MiFID review Infrastructure Regulation EMIR and Short Selling and EMIR in particular become more certain.
There are also planned measures on Further opportunities exist for the Group to capital requirements, central securities depositories, deliver solutions to help the market address the securities law, corporate governance, market abuse, changing regulatory environment.
issuer transparency, financial transaction activity The Group believes that it should be able to taxes and crisis management.
ensure that the Groups capital requirements In the UK, the Government is progressing with its remain appropriate.
plans to replace the FSA with two new regulators, the PRA micro prudential regulation and FCA conduct, markets and consumer protection.
The Financial Policy Committee will advise on macro systemic risk.
Regulatory change creates a more uncertain environment for the Group to plan and execute its business strategy.
Changes may occur that have an adverse effect on the Groups business but may also provide new growth opportunities.
Associated risks include potentially increased capital requirements and higher compliance costs.
For further information visit: www.
com 34 Business Review Risks Mitigating factors and Change additional commentary from last year Fiscal regime and political environment Public finances in Europe are under increasing pressure The Group liaises closely with Government bodies as Governments tighten the fiscal environment, which and maintains cross party political relationships, could reduce activity in capital markets.
playing an active role by sharing expertise and experience with policy makers on the impact For more Londons status as a global financial centre could of Government and regulatory decisions on information be diminished by a tax regime that is less attractive financial markets.
see Market than alternative global locations and by increasing position and regulatory pressures, thereby reducing its ability The Groups revenue base is not wholly dependent outlook, to retain and or attract investment.
This could have on London with approximately half its total annual pages 8 to 9 a significant impact on the Groups revenues.
income being generated from its Italian businesses.
and Risk The reduction in UK corporation tax over the next The move away from corporate debt and in particular management, four years provides some certainty and benefit for bank financing is positive for the Groups equity pages 73 to 75. the Group.
In addition, Government debt requirements can assist the Groups fixed income business.
As the Group extends its reach into other geographical regions so its exposure to political risk also increases.
The Group maintains regular contact with key Governmental parties in Sri Lanka and has With the acquisition of MillenniumIT the Group is appropriate contingency plans in place to ensure now exposed to any increase of political instability key technology operations are not dependent in Sri Lanka where MillenniumITs development on a single geography.
Changes to the constitution following Presidential and parliamentary elections in 2010 could increase the risk of intrusive political or regulatory action or erode the quality of the current working environment.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties 35 Principal Operational Risks The risks arising from the people, systems and processes through which the Group operates.
Risks Mitigating factors and Change additional commentary from last year Change management The Group has a number of major, complex The senior management team, which has been projects and strategic actions underway further strengthened during the year, is focused concurrently, including implementation of on the implementation of the Groups strategy and new technology systems, cost management the project pipeline in view of their importance to For more initiatives, a client engagement programme the Groups future success.
information and strategic development of the Groups post see Chairmans Each project is managed via a dedicated project trade and derivatives businesses.
If not delivered Statement, workstream, overseen by senior management.
to sufficiently high standards and within agreed pages 10 to 11 timescales, these could have an adverse impact on Rigorous software design methodologies, testing and Chief the operation of core services, and revenue growth, regimes and test environments are employed to Executives as well as damaging the Groups reputation.
The volume of simultaneous change could also Product development teams are being strengthened lead to a loss of client goodwill, and the projects to ensure that the Group can continue to deliver are not certain to deliver the anticipated synergies advanced trading and information technology and cost benefits.
With regard to the capability to meet clients needs.
of the Groups MillenniumIT offering, losing the The risk has reduced as the Group has successfully balance between key growth projects and ongoing implemented significant projects in the past year, product development may undermine the future including IDEMs migration to SOLA and the roll competitiveness of the Groups technology platforms.
out of Millennium Exchange in the UK.
Employees The calibre, quality and retention of employees The Group operates a performance management are critical to the success of the Group.
and appraisal system, and Executive development opportunities are provided with the Nominations The loss of key members of staff could have Committee responsible for considering succession For more an adverse impact on the Groups operations plans for key senior positions.
information and ability to execute its change programme.
see Our wider The Group recognises the importance of retaining A performance related annual bonus and pay review responsibility, and developing employee skills and balancing resource process is in place for all employees and regular pages 30 to 31 allocation in the face of the changing nature of the benchmarking of reward and incentive systems and Remuneration Groups business environment.
is performed to ensure they are competitive.
Report, pages The Groups ability to attract and retain high quality The Group also offers Long Term Incentive Plans 48 to 57. individuals depends on the condition of recruitment for high performers and critical staff, although markets and corresponding compensation packages these have not realised any value in recent years.
of financial services, technology firms and regulators Staff turnover is monitored and reported to with which the Group competes for the same key staff.
This risk likelihood has fluctuated in the current year in the context of increased recruitment activity A centralised training budget, which has been particularly in the financial services sector in London recently increased, allows a co-ordinated which has resulted in some increase in staff attrition approach to development across the Group.
rates but generally the risk remains unchanged.
com 36 Business Review Risks Mitigating factors and Change additional commentary from last year Security threats The Group is dependent on having secure premises The Group has well established business continuity and uninterrupted operation of its IT systems and and crisis management procedures.
Potential security threats therefore The Group take security threats very seriously require continuous monitoring and assessment.
and has robust security arrangements in place.
Terrorist and cyber attacks and similar activities Extensive information and IT security measures directed against our offices, operations, computer are in place.
These include the monitoring of systems or networks could disrupt our markets, intelligence and close liaison with the police harm staff, tenants and visitors, and severely and Government agencies.
disrupt our business and operations.
Similarly civil or political unrest could impact on companies Security risk has increased, however risk within the Group.
mitigation against both physical and IT threats is long and well established.
Long term unavailability of key premises or trading and information outages and corruption of data could lead to the loss of client confidence and reputational damage.
Security risks have escalated due to the increasing sophistication of cyber crime.
Ongoing operations The Groups businesses and major revenue The performance and availability of the Group streams are highly dependent on secure and stable systems are constantly reviewed and monitored technology performing to high levels of availability to prevent problems arising where possible and and throughput.
Any technology failures will impact ensure a prompt response to any potential service For more on our clients and can potentially lead to a loss of interruption issues.
information trading volumes and adversely impact the Groups see Business The Groups Technology Services management reputation and brand.
Review team mitigates this risk by ensuring prioritisation Technology The Group now increasingly provides its IT of all development and operations activities, and Services, development and operations in-house, with resource utilisation and allocation is kept under pages 24 to 25. particular reliance on MillenniumIT following the constant review.
successful migration of the Groups UK markets onto The MillenniumIT systems are designed to be Millennium technology.
Whilst this gives the Group fault tolerant and in addition alternative standby a greater degree of control in this area, there remains computer facilities are maintained to minimise a risk of resource over-stretch to meet both the the risk of system disruptions.
requirements of the Group and those of third parties.
The Group actively manages relationships with The Group also has dependencies on a number of key strategic IT suppliers to avoid any breakdown third parties for the provision of hardware, software, in service provision which could adversely affect communication and networks for elements of its the Groups businesses.
Where possible the Group trading, data and other systems.
has identified alternative suppliers that could be engaged in the event of a third party failing to deliver on its contractual commitments.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties 37 Risks Mitigating factors and Change additional commentary from last year Investment risk The Groups clearing provider, CC&G, holds a To date, CC&G has not experienced a failure of one significant quantum of cash and securities deposited of its deposit counterparties nor any loss as a result as margin or as default funds by clearing members.
of the default of a member.
There is a risk of a partial loss of the funds should a For more The financial risks associated with clearing trades bank in which funds are deposited default.
information are mitigated by: see Business CC&G guarantees trades and manages counterparty strict membership rules: Review risk in a range of assets and instruments including the maintenance of prudent levels of margin Post Trade cash equities, derivatives, energy products and and default funds to cover exposures to Services, Government bonds.
As such the Group is exposed participants: and pages 20 to 21 to country risk, credit risk, issuer risk, market risk, back-up credit facilities supporting daily liquidity.
and Risk liquidity risk, interest rate risk and FX risk.
management, Committees overseeing membership, risk and pages 73 to 75. financial risk meet on a regular basis.
Investments are made in compliance with the Financial Management Policy issued by the Financial Risk Committee of CC&G.
This limits deposits of margin and default funds to investment grade banks or if unrated Italian listed banks that are appropriately capitalised.
During the year we have extended the number of counterparties that take CC&Gs deposits to diversify this risk and we maintain a close dialogue with Bank of Italy, the regulator of CC&G and its deposit-taking bank counterparties.
All deposits are monitored daily and are subject to regular reporting to the Executive Committee.
