Monitor and review Man Group plc Report and accounts 24 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 We are formalising our three lines of defence framework for Risk management certain operation risks.
This has been agreed conceptually in 2011 and is in the process of implementation across Man with a particular focus on Product & Client Operations and Technology.
Strong risk management supports sustainable Our risk management framework and system of internal controls performance and is essential to protect the are designed to identify and manage risks within the context of the Boards risk appetite.
Although Man and the investors in its long-term interests of both Mans shareholders products are potentially susceptible to losses should negative and the investors in our products.
events transpire, we believe our risk management framework creates long-term value through the process of risk aware Risk management framework decision making.
The Board is ultimately responsible for defining Mans risk appetite and monitoring the overall risk exposures.
The risk Establish risk context, criteria and appetite.
management policies and supporting guidance communicate Mans attitude towards taking risk, minimum standards of control to be applied, acceptable risks and setting thresholds and limits Risk assessment for those risks that Man accepts.
Risk identification Analysis The Executive Committee is accountable for all risks assumed in Evaluation and prioritisation the business and responsible for the execution of appropriate risk management discipline within the framework of policy and delegated authority set out by the Board and Chief Executive.
The business units are the first line of defence in our risk Risk response management framework.
The principle of individual Transfer or mitigate accountability and responsibility for risk management is an Improve controls important feature of our corporate culture.
Terminate Hedge or insure The Risk Assurance Committee and the Finance Committee Accept comprise Executive Committee members and senior management from both the businesses and risk control functions and provide oversight across all risks faced by the Risk appetite business.
The Risk Assurance Committee is chaired by the In the first quarter of 2011, the Board revised and approved General Counsel and oversees the operational, regulatory and Mans Risk Appetite Statements which cover both investment reputational risks faced by the Group and the internal control management risks i. e. risks arising from the execution of the environment.
The Finance Committee is chaired by the Finance investment management mandates for the funds and Man risks Director and approves actual and contingent use of the Group i. e. risks faced by our shareholders.
The risk appetite balance sheet and monitors the adequacy of economic and statements related to the investment managers provide a regulatory capital and liquidity buffers.
Both committees operate consistent underpinning to risk appetite across Mans investment to monitor and manage risks according to the Boards risk platforms principally AHL, GLG and Man Multi-Manager.
Further information relating to the Risk Assurance areas addressed include compliance with investment mandates, Committee and Finance Committee is contained in the Risk maintenance of liquidity, compliance with external financing Management section of the report from the Chairman of the terms, compliance with laws and regulations, management and Audit & Risk Committee.
mitigation of counterparty risk and the overall maintenance of our reputation as an investment manager.
Day to day independent and objective assessment and monitoring of risk is provided by various control functions at the The risk appetite statements for Man cover both quantitative Group level and in the business.
These control functions, which and qualitative aspects.
The key quantitative statements include Group Risk, Finance, Legal and Compliance, Human include maintenance of profitability, adherence to Mans Resources and Information Security, act in conjunction with the external financing arrangements, and management of risk Risk Assurance Committee and the Finance Committee as the taking activity using Mans capital and liquidity framework.
In addition, risk management functions Qualitative statements address regulatory and reputational reside within each business unit, with formal reporting lines and risks, operational risks in the execution of business plans, and segregation of duties for the key risk, compliance, legal and risks related to decision making, especially in relation to new finance functions.
Internal Audit acts as the third line of defence business opportunities.
by providing independent and objective assurance on the robustness of the risk management framework and the appropriateness and effectiveness of internal controls.
Communication and consultation Man Group plc Report and accounts 25 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Principal risks As part of our risk governance framework we have created a risk dashboard, comprising more than 20 risk types faced by both the investment manager and Man.
The status of these risks is regularly reported to the Executive Committee, Risk Assurance Committee, Audit & Risk Committee and the Board.
The principal risks listed below are taken from the dashboard and are those that we believe could have a significant effect on our business in the current environment.
Fund underperformance risk Fund underperformance directly reduces funds under management and thus adversely impact potential management and performance fee income for the Company.
Negative performance could have a proportionately larger impact for geared products, where investment exposure may be reduced on a leveraged basis.
Furthermore, Man is exposed to the risk that investors redeem their investments because of poor performance, either on an absolute basis or relative to a benchmark, competitors or other investment opportunities.
Assessment Hedge fund strategies generally performed poorly Response Although 2011 was a difficult year, Man accepts in 2011 across the markets, as indicated by the 4.8% decline in fund performance as a key business risk that also provides the HFRI Weighted Composite Index.
This decline marks the substantial upside revenue potential.
The risk of negative third year of negative performance since inception of the index investment performance from any particular strategy is in 1990, but the second such decline in the past four years.
mitigated by the diversified range of strategies and products Details of our fund performance are on page 35.
AHL that we offer our global client base.
Products that have leveraged exposure are actively managed Man regularly monitors its performance relative to competitors to ensure that investors capital is preserved and managed in and attempts to attribute performance differentials.
accordance with each products mandate.
In 2011, approximately 70% of Mans revenues were generated from AHL products or products which allocate to AHL.
The Groups profitability is therefore significantly affected by AHL investment performance.
As of 31-Dec-2011, Mans FUM attributed to guaranteed products was approximately $10 billion.
Due to the leverage in these products, their returns are more sensitive to underlying investment performance.
Counterparty risk In the course of 2011, there was increased market focus on financial institution capital and liquidity as a result of European sovereign exposure and decreased profitability.
These events have highlighted the importance and benefits of proactive counterparty risk management, a result of which Man and its fund investors avoided any credit losses during the period.
Assessment Man has significant counterparty exposure with Response Man seeks to transact with the strongest financial respect to its cash held on deposit see Finance Directors institutions and to diversify counterparty risk.
The Finance review on page 17.
Committee meets regularly to review counterparties, reallocate exposures and set limits in line with Mans Investors in Man funds and products are exposed to credit risk risk appetite.
of prime brokers, clearing houses, futures clearers, depository banks and guarantee providers, if any.
In 2011, Man decided to reduce business or terminate relationships with a number of banks or brokers which Furthermore, a default that causes Man or its investors to had significant exposure to Eurozone risks.
experience losses may adversely affect our reputation and could increase fund underperformance risk see above.
AHL monitors counterparty risk for the exchanges and clearing houses where it chooses to trade.
Amongst other tools and inputs that provide indicators of counterparty credit quality, Man monitors credit spreads of our main trading counterparties and banks as a forward indicator of their credit quality.
During the second half of 2011, the average credit spread for banks nearly doubled to 400500 basis points, which is considered stressed under current market conditions.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 26 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Risk management continued Operational risk Operational risk arises from the potential for the Group to suffer losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or external events.
This can include losses arising from fraud, unauthorised trading, mis-selling of products or errors in fund prospectuses, failures of due diligence or breach of investment mandate, operational technology failures, and errors in investment algorithms.
Assessment Operational risk incidents could adversely affect Response The Executive Committee and the business are the the business and the prospects for Man.
Operational risk is first line of defence to ensure that controls operate effectively routinely monitored and assessed by Group Risk and to mitigate operational risks.
Compliance through: The directors and senior managers of the Group are committed to maintaining high standards of control and a 1 key risk indicators these are identified by the business risk aware culture to safeguard the Groups assets, reputation and reported to the Risk Assurance Committee and Audit and franchise.
The Group pays particular attention to & Risk Committee: operational and reputational risks relating to discretionary 2 analysis of internal and external operational risk incidents trading activities, product suitability, sales practices at operational incidents are analysed and reported by the intermediaries and the accuracy of its valuation and business to the control functions so that improvements can investor reporting processes.
be made to the control framework.
These incidents are reviewed by the Risk Assurance Committee and Audit & Independent custodial, fund administrators and valuation Risk Committee: and service providers are engaged to provide services to the fund 3 operational risk scenario analysis we model 21 different products.
A dedicated team monitors the quality and reliability operational risk scenarios across the business.
Each of administration and valuation service providers.
scenario is evaluated in terms of potential loss and expected frequency.
Controls and insurance when Significant resources are devoted to protecting the appropriate are identified to mitigate risk of loss and the resilience of the Groups information technology systems, residual risk is evaluated against the Boards risk appetite.
including formal business continuity plans and remote data back-up and disaster recovery facilities for each of its key locations.
Business continuity is routinely tested to maintain effectiveness.
An insurance programme provided by a syndicate of third party insurers is designed to maximise the breadth of cover in respect of key third party liabilities, loss of Group assets, business interruption and peoplerelated exposures.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 27 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 1st line 2nd line 3rd line Three lines of defence Investment Management, Business and Support Group Risk, Compliance Functions.
and Control Functions Internal Audit Ensure effective Independent oversight Independent and management of risks and controls objective assurance on within organisational robustness of risk During 2011, Mans Board Review and challenge risk scope management framework has further developed and assessment and reporting formalised its three lines Risk identification and by 1st line Review appropriateness of defence model for management of effectiveness of internal Aggregate and review certain operational risks.
controls Ensure compliance with risks across the relevant risk appetite organisation statements Monitor adherence to risk appetite statement Discretionary trading risk Monitoring and controlling the activities of discretionary traders to ensure the resulting trades are consistent with each funds investment mandate and within Mans broader Risk appetite statements.
Assessment The investment managers operate under Response The portfolio managers have automated investment mandates for the funds.
These mandates specify, processes to monitor at the desk level compliance with the to varying degrees, the types of instruments that can be investment mandates under which they trade.
Within each traded, concentration limits, leverage limits, and the overall investment manager there are dedicated risk management risk and return parameters of the products.
In addition, staff who monitor compliance throughout the day.
The risk many of the products are required to comply to regulatory managers monitor positions against trading limits across requirements that further specify credit and concentration a range of metrics including Value at Risk, position limits and liquidity constraints.
concentrations, stress events, scenario analysis and liquidity measures.
Using internally developed risk management The risk associated with a significant breach of a mandate software, the team generates daily reports and can monitor could result in compensation by Man to the affected fund intraday risks.
This forms the first line of defence.
The and potential payments of regulatory fines or sanctions.
independent risk managers reporting to the Chief Risk Officer form the second line of defence.
These teams monitor the investment managers and in addition perform scenarios to identify potential risks and tail events.
The GLG Risk Committee, whose membership comprises the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Operating Officer for Man, the head of GLG investment risk and senior GLG traders, meets biweekly to review investment performance and risks as well as strategies and topical issues in the light of current market conditions.
These processes provide risk control and oversight to the activity of the GLG trading desks, as well as providing transparency to firm-wide risk management.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 28 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Risk management continued Reputation risk Our ability to gain and retain the confidence of our investors and intermediaries is highly dependent on building and preserving reputation as a leading alternative investment manager.
This risk is driven primarily by our other principal risks, as any material failure could ultimately impair our reputation.
Assessment For Man, key aspects of reputation management Response Our reputation depends primarily on how we include the avoidance of negative publicity and maintaining manage our principal risks.
As reputation is also built upon competitive performance of our products.
Reputation risk is perception, Man regularly communicates with its stakeholders difficult to quantify.
The effects of a failure to maintain our to understand their current concerns and to help bridge any reputation could result in investor redemptions and an inability communication gaps.
Our governance framework, including to market our products.
This could result in a loss of profitability our risk appetite statements, are established by the Board and in our business.
From these, policies and procedures are compiled that form part of the employee handbook which communicates to our staff important matters that help preserve our corporate reputation.
Man has regular training to raise staff awareness of specific issues.
All conflicts of interest and potential reputation risks are managed through the Risk Assurance Committee, the Audit & Risk Committee, and ultimately the Board.
Key person risk Man employs a talented array of individuals across our businesses.
Their retention and the continued recruitment of additional professionals is a key priority for the future success of the firm.
Assessment Man operates a large distribution network and Response Man constantly aims to attract the best talent provides a broad range of investment management capabilities within the industry, and the historical strength of both the Man and products, thus minimising the impact of losing particular and GLG brands, together with our leading position in the key individuals.
hedge fund industry, is a key factor in helping us to achieve this objective.
Man further mitigates key person risk through a firmly established succession planning process.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 29 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Legal and regulatory focus corporate structuring, transactions and governance Man operates within a tightly-controlled legal and regulatory the development, structuring and maintenance of fund framework, appropriate to the nature of the products and platforms and products services we provide.
The last two years have seen a major legal work around fund financing: advising and structuring overhaul of much of this framework, and this work will continue local distribution arrangements through 2012 and beyond.
One of Mans key priorities is to legal due diligence on new managers for our multi-manager anticipate, assess and respond to these changes, and to business identify any opportunities that may arise.
legal work around prime brokerage and trading arrangements The financial services industry is in the midst of a wide-ranging implementation and monitoring of appropriate global and review of regulatory structures and rules at the national, local compliance policies and procedures regional and global level.
For a business such as Man, legal and leading and maintaining relationships with key regulators regulatory considerations impact all areas of the business: from around the globe our corporate governance, to the structuring and distribution of maintaining Mans UK listing and providing support to Man our products, and to the way we undertake business around Groups Board through the company secretariat the globe.
As described in the Marketplace section on page 19, we are now seeing the first wave of implementation of detailed Mans General Counsel also chairs the Risk Assurance rules in key areas such as OTC derivative clearing, and this Committee thereby providing strong legal and regulatory input process is set to continue.
We consider our strengths and to Mans risk management processes.
A key challenge for 2012 resources in this area to be a key competitive differentiator.
will be to stay ahead of the anticipated regulatory changes, as we move into the implementation phase.
Man has in place a strong legal and regulatory framework to address these requirements, built into the business and Man entities are regulated by 22 financial regulators and underpinned by our legal and regulatory function.
This team self-regulatory organisations in 17 jurisdictions around the was integrated immediately upon completion of the GLG world.
Our long-standing regulatory experience and transaction, and operates as a single unit across the firm.
relationships with key regulators should position Man well to anticipate and maximise any opportunities that arise as a result Made up of individuals with experience in key areas, such as of these regulatory changes, and to realise potential benefits legal practitioners and compliance and finance professionals, and capture opportunities for investors and shareholders.
and with a physical presence and local expertise in key jurisdictions, the team is able to provide a multi-disciplinary service to the business.
The scope of its work encompasses areas such as: Regulatory framework risk Changes to the regulatory framework around Mans global business.
Assessment We are seeing a number of processes underway Response Man has been planning around the new regulatory simultaneously: the finalisation and implementation of detailed initiatives ever since their first emergence e. g. the publication rules in a number of key areas e. g. OTC derivative clearing of the first draft of the AIFM Directive in April 2009.
We have and the AIFM Directive : the negotiation of a number of further worked closely with regulators, trade bodies and other market high-level framework measures such as the MiFID review : participants to assess the potential impact of these changes and the possibility of further, new regulatory measures such on our investors and our business.
as the possible implementation of a financial transaction tax.
Upon identification of new regulatory changes, responsibility for the analysis and assessment of the new measures and their potential impacts is allocated to affected groups within the team, who then take them forward.
Distribution legal risk Changes to rules around distribution of products to retail investors in certain jurisdictions.
Assessment Changes are being made to the UK regime around Response Man has formed a working group aimed at distribution of investment products to retail investors for assessing and responding to these regulatory changes that implementation at the end of 2012 : a similar review is currently has recommended a number of changes to prepare for these under discussion at the European level.
