party 55 Overview 02 Markets and risks Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Key risks Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 The Merger has resulted in some changes to our key risksbut our management of risk has not changed and reflects the previous approach adopted by both bwin and PartyGaming of asking: What if?
Assessing key risks Spotlight on: We conduct a continuous process of Group-wide assessments that examine whether any risk has increased, decreased or Our key risks become obsolete: identify any new risks, especially from recent key business events: and the likelihood of a risk occurring and what level of impact it would have on Change in risk versus 2010 Rationale for change theGroup.
Technology Following the completion of the Merger, we held eight risk Increased Impact of the Merger and workshops across keybusiness areas as well as for the changingsystems executive team, that included the Co-CEOs, Jim Ryan and Regulation and compliance Norbert Teufelberger, the Chief Financial Officer, Martin Increased Increased number of regulatory Weigold, and the Chief Operating Officer, Joachim Baca.
regimes and added complexity mitigated by greater experience from In addition, the Group Risk Committee, chaired by operating in regulated markets MartinWeigold, has met twice since the Merger completed Taxation toensure that all strategic risks were identified and to reach Increased Increased number of tax-paying aconsensus on the significant risks identified by the eight jurisdictions functional workshops.
These risks are then reported to the Integration of bwin and PartyGaming Audit Committee for review.
No change Unlevel playing field in poker The workshops also serve to impress the importance Reduced Following action by the US authorities, ofriskmanagement throughout all business functions.
the large US-facing sites are no longer Facilitated by the Internal Audit & Risk Management team, active in thatmarket.
However, theworkshops involve key people from each of the Groups PokerStars remains a large competitor prime functions including Technology, Marketing, each of the product verticals, Human Resources, Operations, Finance, Regulatory Affairs, Legal and Company Secretarial.
Many of the threats and challenges faced by online gaming companies are similar to those faced by other leisure and entertainment industries.
They include competition, changesto consumer tastes, maintaining healthy financial ratios in compliance with banking covenants and loss of keypersonnel.
party 56 Markets and risks Annual report & accounts 2011 Key risks There are also certain risks that are more specific to Regulation and compliance bwin.
party and to the online gaming industry that deserve Regulation is probably the most complex of our key risks and particular mention.
managing it effectively is a critical process for the Group, Our five main risk groups are: especially given the number of countries that are introducing regulatory regimes each of which have different requirements.
Technology Our compliance obligations range from administration of Regulation and compliance ourgaming licences in Gibraltar, Alderney, Denmark, France Taxation and Italy to assessing what impact country-specific and pan-regional rules and regulations might have on our business Integration andthe wider industry.
Whilst political and cultural attitudes Unlevel playing field in poker towards online gaming continue to evolve, there is always a risk that certain territories may seek to prohibit or restrict one or Technology more of the products that we offer or online gaming entirely.
Technology is at the core of our business.
Improving our We have a dedicated regulatory and compliance function gaming platform and products is a never-ending and vital thatreports directly to the Co-CEOs and is closely supported process that maintains our competitive edge, keeps us by our legal and country management teams.
We undergo abreast of evolving consumer tastes and upholds our aseries of external audits as required under our gaming valuable reputation for offering responsible, safe and licences and also perform our own compliance assessment securegamingproducts.
process, ensuring that policies and procedures are being Most of our gaming technology is proprietary, which means followed and are working effectively.
that we are better placed to manage risks associated with We advocate that the best way to protect consumers is to technological and regulatory change than competitors that license andregulate online gaming with a commercially rely on third-party software and systems.
viable framework, one in which there is a greater incentive to be within the regulatory net than outside it.
To do otherwise However, we share the industrys general risks that arise from serves the interests of black-market operators that are only sourcing broadband and communications, data management too happy to accept wagers from unsuspecting consumers and storage services as well as a raft of other services from focused on the best returns.
Through our efforts, this is a external suppliers.
We seek to offset these risks by not concept that is now being grasped by several countries becoming overly reliant on any single supplier as well as around the world and particularly so in Europe where a having in place disaster recovery centres and business number of countries are actively considering developing continuity plans across the Group.
The Merger has prompted an increase in technology risk as Taxation we migrate from separate platforms and systems to a single centralised operating system, one that supports four gaming Taxation is the third category of risk which we believe is verticals across multiple brands and territories.
Group companies operate for tax purposes only office functions are also being harmonised and while less where they are incorporated, domiciled or registered.
important from a revenue perspective, this also increases Revenues earned from customers located in a particular operational risk for the business.
To mitigate this risk we have jurisdiction may give rise to further taxes in that jurisdiction.
planned extensively and will run appropriate tests before If such taxes are levied, either on the basis of existing law switching to any new systems.
orthe current practice of any tax authority, or by reason of achange in law or practice, then this may have a material adverse effect on the amount of tax payable by the Group.
Wemanage these risks by considering tax as part of our overall business planning.
party 57 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Integration The process of integrating bwin and PartyGaming is extremely complex, requiring substantial management attention and other resources.
While there can be no guarantee that all elements of the integration will be successful, the significant investment in planning and preparation ahead of the Merger has proved worthwhile.
Themain risks in this category are achieving financial synergies: the loss of key personnel: and the eventual migration of players to a single e-gaming platform.
To ensure we remain on target, a dedicated Integration Management Office was established to, inter alia, drive and monitor progress across each of the synergy streams as well as identify constraints and inter-dependencies.
The Board has put in place a series of incentive plans, the details of which can be found in the Remuneration Report, in order to ensure that key personnel are retained.
There remains a risk associated with the migration of players to a single technology platform, however we have put together a detailed plan to ensure a smooth transition that will take place during the second half of 2012 and have already assumed a 15% player loss into our financial synergy targetsdisclosed at the time of the Merger.
Unlevel playing field in poker This risk arose principally from US-facing poker sites that upuntil 15 April 2011 had enjoyed a significant competitive On the ball advantage from the fact that they continued to accept Eight risk workshops were held wagers from US-based customers, providing superior player across key business areas following liquidity and cashflow that could be reinvested in European completion of the Merger markets.
However, following the steps taken on 15 April 2011 by USauthorities that resulted in the closure of the US-facing activities of PokerStars, Full Tilt and Absolute Poker Ultimate Bet, this risk has now changed.
While PokerStars remains the largest operator in most markets and a very strong competitor, the risk level has been reduced to one of strong competition.
Full Tilt Poker has been closed since losing its gaming licence on 29 June 2011 and Absolute Poker Ultimate Bet has also ceased trading.
