During the year, a revised risk review services.
To manage risks we employ people Risk overview with experience of working within challenging process was introduced at operating and Group level with the intention of business environments, target initiatives at key issues and thoroughly plan any upgrade identifying and quantifying key risks and considering the adequacy of the way they works.
Below is a summary of some of the key risks identified by the Economic conditions A significant downturn in the global economy review which could affect our business.
Investors should consider them along or poor local or national economic conditions may adversely affect our operations and with other information provided in this annual report.
trading, impacting our profitability, ability to obtain finance and pay dividends.
The Investment Caribbean economy continues to suffer.
Whilst other regions have not been as We operate an active merger, acquisition and investment strategy which seeks new affected, implementation of government austerity measures delayed agreement on opportunities and, following thorough analysis, will execute them if appropriate.
There is risk certain new projects.
Our businesses are of failure or of an incorrect merger, acquisition geographically spread and that assists in and or investment strategy being pursued reducing overall exposure.
We continue to and potential that new sources of growth monitor key economic indicators and remain may prove insufficient or fail to develop.
prepared to take action to protect profitability We manage this risk by ensuring we employ and cash flow in the event of a downturn in experienced, knowledgeable individuals who any of our markets.
undertake due diligence and if necessary, obtain specialist advice.
The risks on any Licences, regulation and political potential investment are thoroughly The provision of telecommunications services discussed by the Board of Directors.
is governed by applicable laws, regulations and government licences.
The Group actively Business development engages with governments and regulators Revenue and profit growth from customers in advance of licences and operating increasing use of mobile data, pay TV and agreements expiring.
However, there are risks value added services are essential to the that our licences are not renewed, or renewed Groups future growth.
If these services fail to on less favourable terms.
Furthermore, perform as anticipated, or if we fail to identify licences could possibly be revoked or and mobilise into new business lines within amended following changes in regulation, sufficient time, our revenue and profit may laws, government policy and or the economic decrease as other core services reach full or political environment, or due to not fulfilling market penetration.
Our marketing and our regulatory requirements, default, or to product development strategies are promote public interest.
In particular, without focused to enable our businesses to reach changes to the regulatory environment in full potential.
We also engage experts Jamaica the Group will struggle to make an to examine external product development.
acceptable return on the capital it has invested which in turn could affect the Competitive activity carrying value of our investment.
The Group We operate in competitive markets, continues to make vigorous efforts to seek a implementing plans to provide good value level playing field in bringing about changes and enhance our proposition to customers.
to the current regulatory environment.
Competitor activity, new entrants and further The Group may also be unable to obtain liberalisation could all reduce our market new or additional licences to implement share and margins, which in turn could affect new services or technology.
Reflecting that, we regulatory environments could become Key Risks continue to invest in our network, enhance anti-competitive.
These risks could affect customer relationship systems, advance Investment the value of our investments, cause a service quality, focus on loyalty and retention Business development business to cease operating, severely programmes, conduct market analysis and Competitive activity restrict its operations and or limit the run marketing promotions, as well as tightly Business change Groups strategic options.
Economic conditions Licences, regulation and political Some of the territories we operate in Technology Business change offer low or favourable taxation conditions, Joint Ventures We continually work to strengthen our attracting large companies, several of which Service disruption business.
When necessary, we implement are also our customers.
Changes to those tax Network and data security improvement strategies for underperforming regimes could result in customers moving People areas for instance, our Jamaica win back their operations.
We also provide services Corporate ethics activity.
There is a risk that such strategies to governments which may be affected Counterparty fail to achieve business improvement, which following changes in the political environment.
Foreign exchange and taxation in turn could affect the carrying value of our Both of these risks could impact on the Litigation investments and assets.
Similarly there are Groups revenues and profitability.
Liquidity Funding risks that network or system maintenance We manage these risks by active liaison with Pensions and upgrades do not deliver expected governments and regulators to encourage a Shared brand improvements or cause disruption to existing positive working relationship consisting of 34 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Business review open dialogue at senior level in both are unavailable due to industrial action or a Liquidity Liquidity risk could arise where the Group organisations.
We also monitor developments national emergency.
We continuously review in regulatory environments of our businesses.
incentive, succession and retention plans, does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet its obligations and communicate with our colleagues and engage Technology with unions, keep up to date with health commitments as they fall due, or can access funding only at excessive cost.
Exceptional Technological development may render warnings and undertake colleague existing products, services and supporting engagement surveys.
market events could adversely impact any of the business units affecting their ability to infrastructure non-competitive.
Increased rate and level of investment in new Corporate ethics meet obligations as they fall due.
The Group forecasts and monitors cash generation and technologies could affect our cash flow and We sustain a strong ethical culture through profits.
The Group keeps new technology developing robust procedures, emphasising the maturity profile of its financing facilities by ensuring sufficient liquidity to fund both developments under constant review.
core values and providing colleagues with the information they need to make ethical the business units and the Groups financial Mobile telecommunications are a vital part obligations.
We have raised sufficient credit decisions.
The Groups anti-bribery policy has of our business.
Concerns are occasionally been updated to provide further guidance in lines to meet medium-term liquidity needs expressed that mobile phones and light of the forthcoming implementation of and continue to maintain good relationships transmitters may pose long-term health risks.
the Bribery Act 2010, supplemented by a with our core banks.
There is a risk that we may lose a strategic training programme.
revenue stream or be exposed to litigation Funding if such claims are proven.
We continue to Counterparty Our financing agreements are subject to keep updated of research in this field.
The Group and business units routinely certain covenants.
If we were to be in breach enter into a range of significant customer of these covenants, we may face early Joint ventures and supplier contracts.
In any agreement repayment of the funding facilities, thereby Although our preference is to gain there are counterparty risks, for example, affecting our cash position.
Our actual and management control in a joint venture insolvency of the customer or supplier or forecast financial performance is checked business, that is not always possible.
a default on their obligations, which could against these covenants monthly.
Where we do not, we are often unable to affect the profitability or cash flow of the influence their performance or ensure they business and or its ability to perform.
To manage this risk, We manage these risks through robust Our main UK defined benefit pension scheme we endeavour to have some operational procurement processes, good contract is well managed and measures have been involvement and engagement with local governance and regular review and taken to reduce the financial risk exposures.
management of our main customers However, the value of the schemes assets and suppliers.
and liabilities are affected by market Service disruption movements.
The Group may also have to Our networks are critical to providing an Foreign exchange and taxation make additional contributions to the scheme effective service to customers.
Like other The Group generates all its profits from if its assumptions change.
We maintain telecoms operators, our businesses also outside the UK, and so profits and associated regular dialogue with the scheme Trustees depend on other operators to provide investments are exposed to exchange rate who manage its assets with appropriate network access and interconnect services for fluctuations and changes to tax law.
The external advice, and supporting the Trustees the origination, carriage and or termination Group also finances its operations by way with the aim of reducing financial risk.
of some of their telecommunications services.
of borrowings in several currencies.
These Furthermore, our network and IT systems factors create a potential risk of adverse Shared brand are vulnerable to interruption from natural financial impact on the results of business The rights to the Cable & Wireless trade disasters, fire, security breaches, terrorist units and the Group.
Foreign exchange risks marks are shared between Cable & Wireless action and human error.
Network or IT failure are managed by use of hedging contracts see Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless could result in the loss of customers and in notes 26 and 43, matching the currencies Worldwide plc, pursuant to the terms of claims for loss of service.
We continue to of material cash in-flows and expenditure trade mark licences which took effect update our business continuity and disaster and those of significant borrowings.
Both Cable & Wireless recovery plans, maintain crisis management of changes to tax laws are managed by Communications and Cable & Wireless and emergency response teams, insurance development of close working relationships Worldwide are subject to severe restrictions cover and employ network resilience to with fiscal authorities, continuous monitoring in using the Cable & Wireless trade marks mitigate the effects of these risks.
of proposed legislative change and due outside of their own allocated territories, consideration of appropriate changes to except in relation to their respective carrier Network and data security the Group contracting arrangements, tax businesses, and for certain incidental and Despite security management across the compliance processes and holding structure.
To the extent that Cable Group network, there is a risk that third & Wireless Communications has activities parties may gain unauthorised access to the Litigation outside of its allocated territories which are network and to sensitive data.
The business Not uncommon to most large organisations, not part of its carrier business, it must has information security procedures and there is a risk of litigation against our business operate under trade marks other than the controls in place which are regularly reviewed units.
Such risks are more prevalent in more Cable & Wireless trade marks.
Breach by and remedial action plans implemented litigious regions such as Panama and the either party on the agreement of how the where necessary.
Unfavourable rulings could affect Cable & Wireless trade mark should be used our financial performance and reputation.
could result in litigation or potential People However, if we are the subject of litigation, reputational issues.
Our people are one of our most important we will, as appropriate, defend our position assets.
We have incentive, succession and vigorously using internal and external advice retention plans in place to reduce the risk of and support.
losing key personnel or significant numbers of trained people.
The Group also faces risk of disruption if significant numbers of personnel Cable & Wireless Communications 35
