Key features of our system of risk management include: The Groups risk management system is subject toregular review to ensure compliance with the A continuing process for the identification and requirements of the Combined Code and Turnbull evaluation of significant risks to the achievement guidance 2005 on internal control and risk ofbusiness objectives: management.
Management process in place to mitigate significant risks: The Directors are ultimately responsible for the Ongoing monitoring of significant risks that may Groups risk management system and for reviewing change the businesses risk profile: and its effectiveness.
The risk management system is A regular review by the business of both the type and designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk amount of external insurance purchased, bearing in of failure to achieve business objectives and there mind the availability of such cover, its cost and is an ongoing process in place for identifying, likelihood and magnitude of the risk involved.
assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting onthe significant risks faced by the business.
The The Board receives a bi-annual report, through the process has been in place for the year under review Audit Committee, of the significant risks and progress and up to the approval of these financial statements.
on delivery of the mitigating factors.
The principal risks facing the Group, which have been considered by the Board, are detailed below.
Key risk Mitigating activity Economic environment Should the current economic trading conditions Senior leadership is closely involved in monitoring worsen or the UK Government announce further current economic trading conditions and putting in spending cuts to address the UK public spending place actions to react to any identified changes.
deficit, our business may be affected economically.
This could affect our growth and profitability as wellas our ability to finance our business and paydividends.
BT market dominance In the UK we are reliant on BTs network to deliver We engage with Ofcom to encourage balanced some services to our customers in a similar manner regulation and where appropriate we will appeal to all major telecom operators.
BT is also our largest against decisions that are perceived to favour the competitor.
As BT is both the main competitor and interests of BT.
main supplier to telecommunication operators, the regulator Ofcom, must regulate BTs practices to ensure that a fair and competitive environment is maintained.
Any failure of Ofcom to deliver a fair market could have a material effect on our results.
36 Key risk Mitigating activity Network infrastructure Our network infrastructure is a critical asset without We have extensive business continuity and disaster it we would be unable to provide customers with recovery plans, crisis management and emergency their contracted services.
Our network is vulnerable response teams and insurance cover in place.
to interruption and damage from natural disasters, fire, security breaches, terrorist action, human error We monitor network faults and ensure that serious and other factors outside of our control.
service impacting incidents are escalated to senior management for customer liaison purposes and are Maintaining an uninterrupted and high-quality technically resolved as quickly as possible.
service over our network infrastructure is critical to our abilityto attract and retain customers.
Providing We also strive constantly to improve our network and acompetitive service level depends partly on our add resilience where issues are identified.
ability to maintain and upgrade our networks in a cost-effective and timely manner.
Failure of part or all of our network or IT infrastructure may result in the loss of customers or we may receive claims from customers based on loss of service, affecting our reputation and results.
IT security The security of our customers data is of importance.
Data security monitoring measures are in place and We have significant volumes of sensitive data subject to frequent review to identify any apparent passing through our network.
Should security risks which are then remedied.
measures fail and there be a breach which resulted in a loss of data we would be exposed to significant contract-related and regulatory consequences.
Contractual delivery As a telecommunication provider in the enterprise We monitor key aspects of our operational delivery and public sector markets we are dependent upon toensure compliance with those aspects of the substantial contracts with large customers.
These contractual performance that have the most contracts may have stringent performance criteria significant financial penalty attached should there and high or unlimited liability limits should we fail to bea fall in performance.
deliver on the performance criteria.
Regulatory compliance We are subject to regulation from a number of We maintain regular dialogue and monitor the actual separate bodies.
Regulatory change is a continuing and potential changes to the regulatory framework process.
Changes in laws, regulations or under which we operate.
Negative impacting matters governmental policy affecting our activities and are responded to and appropriate actions taken to those of our competitors could significantly influence lessen the impact upon the business.
how we operate our business and introduce new products and services.
Changes could adversely affect our ability to set prices, enter new markets orcontrol our costs.
Pension funding Our main defined benefit pension scheme, based in We engage in regular dialogue with the scheme the UK, is well managed and measures have been Trustees who manage the schemes assets with taken to reduce financial risk exposures.
the triennial valuation is currently in progress and it may be that the value of the schemes assets and liabilities are affected by market movements and we may have to make additional contributions to the scheme based upon this valuation.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 37
