RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT There has been significant investment in risk and capital management at Old Mutual over the past two years.
This has been sponsored from the top of the organisation, at both Executive and Board level, and driven through the new Group operating model and a Group-wide project iCRaFT integrated Capital Risk and Finance Transformation.
The Groups Board Risk Committee which was established in 2010 has overseen these developments in risk management including setting the risk appetite limitsand monitoring the Groups risk profile.
We are now at a stage where the new operating model and risk management at Old Mutual is embedded in our businesses, and iCRaFT is becoming part of business as usual.
Risk frameworks, governance and the Groups internal capital model are designed and overseen centrally We have clear risk appetite but implemented by our global businesses locally.
This is limits representing reinforced through senior Group Executive representation in the local business unit boards coupled with a formalised economic capital, cash flow dual reporting for all key control functions.
and earnings at risk as well In 2010 we set out the Groups risk strategy and stated risk preferences.
This has guided the business strategy and as operational risk and the planning processes for the business units and the Group.
business performance is We have clear risk appetite limits representing economic capital, cash flow and earnings at risk as well as operational monitored against these risk and the business performance is monitored against these limits.
This is used by the Remuneration Committee limits.
as a factor in determining incentive payments.
Sue Kean We are well placed for the forthcoming regulatory changes Chief Risk Officer under Solvency II and the South African equivalent Solvency Assessment and Management SAM.
We have an internal capital model which delivered the first results in June 2011, our risk, capital and liquidity policies and processes have been enhanced and we have much greater line of sight on the key risks in the businesses and how these interact.
In particular there is now centralised sign-off of all new products which contain guarantees using risk-based capital metrics, and prior approval for any significant changes to the business unit risk profile.
The risks in the Bermuda business, in run-off, remain significant but these are well known and very actively managed and monitored.
The remainder of this section of the report is intended to provide a more granular understanding of our target and actual risk profile, together with a description of each of the key risks.
The full description of risk and governance framework is provided on the website.
Given the modelling process involved, the data in this report is at 30 June 2011.
Find out more online at: www.
com reportingcentre 72 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statement Shareholder information Risk prole current and target Groups Target Risk Prole % When we set out the Groups risk strategy and preferences in 2010 we distinguished between the risk and the return preferences.
The Groups risk preferences outline our position on different risk types, identifying the risks that we QQ Market Policyholder 34 actively seek, avoid or view neutrally.
The return preferences Q Business 23 are driven by the probability and size of the returns.
This is Q Credit Other 12 intended to serve as a guide to steer the medium-term Q Currency 4 planning cycle and hence implementing these preferences Q Liability 15 will take time.
For more information on these, please visit Q Market Shareholder 5 the Risk section on the Group website.
Q Operational 7 The current and target risk profile of the Group is shown This includes all business written in the Group at June 2011. in the pie charts.
A comparison of the actual profile in 2011 The target prole in the 2010 Accounts did not include Nedbank.
compared to the profile in 2010 is shown in the table underneath.
The introduction of our Solvency II model during 2011 means that the data for 2011 includes some Current Risk Prole June 2011 % modelling changes.
The current and target risk profiles are drawn on a standalone basis, allowing for no diversification of risks within or between business units or risk types for example, UK business risk is not balanced against UK QQ Market Policyholder 27 operational risk.
Q Business 25 Q Credit Other 13 In 2011 the sale of US Life significantly reduced the Q Currency 5 proportion of credit risk in the Group.
The profile has not yet Q Liability 13 been adjusted to reflect the proposed sale of Nordic.
One Q Market Shareholder 6 of the priorities for 2012 will be to revisit the target risk profile Q Operational 11 and consequent risk strategy in the light of changes in the composition of the Group.
The table below shows the progress the Group made since the risk strategy and target risk profile was rolled out: Marginal impact 2010 vs 2011 of extra exposure on economic Expected return Target 2010 2011 capital at a Group relative to Risk Category prole Risk preference prole prole level BU 100% target Market Policyholder 34% For 26% 27% 86% Excellent Credit and Other 12% Against 22% 13% 64% Neutral Business 23% Neutral 24% 25% 47% Good Market Shareholder 5% Against 4% 6% 78% Poor Liability 15% Strongly for 8% 13% 11% Excellent Operational 7% Strongly against 12% 11% 42% Very poor Currency 4% Against 4% 5% 81% Poor Unless taken in the form of well-governed and managed banking-related credit risk Assumes risk is correctly priced This was referred to as ALM risk in the 2010 Accounts Old Mutual plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The business plans for 2011 specifically targeted a Our exposure to other risk types are generally in line with reductionin business and operational risk, whilst seeking our target profile.
Reported exposure to these risk types are to take on more liability and market risk where properly expected to move marginally from year to year as the model priced, for example through more protection products or refinements are made and the effect of interactions with other guarantees.
The Market Policyholder risk category includes risk types changes.
the ALM risk from guarantee business.
This remains a central tenet of the Long-Term Savings LTS product development Looking forward, the Group will continue to manage towards the stated target risk profile.
This will be driven by the products strategy.
The increase shown above for liability risk appears greater than is the case, as the economic capital figures are we sell greater focus on protection business in Europe as well as our focus on strong enterprise risk management in expressed in terms of % of the total and hence the reduction in credit risk has increased the % for all other risk areas.
particular managing our exposure to operational risk.
Understanding and identifying significant risks There have also been some changes in the classification and modelling methodology as we have moved to the Solvency II to Old Mutual model for June 2011 results production.
Our business is affected by numerous uncertainties, some of which are potential threats but can also be seen as Our exposure to operational risk has come down as we opportunities if we make the right value-enhancing decisions.
have reduced geographical spread and business lines, The section below defines the major risk types and however, there is still work to do to achieve our target summarises the actions we adopt to mitigate the risks exposure.
Over the course of 2011 we have rolled out a and optimise the opportunities that they present.
new enterprise risk management methodology and system for measuring operational risk losses.
This greater focus and measurement has enhanced our ability to manage operational risk and the risk appetite targets are set to reduce this risk type over time.
Risk type and potential Group mitigating actions and Business unit management actions threat or uncertainty opportunities and opportunities Business risk Q Quarterly Group-led reviews with each Product design in the LTS businesses The main business risk the Group is business unit ensuring regular dialogue ensures technically sound pricing and exposed to is the risk of poor persistency and oversight of business performance structures whilst positioning the product or retention of customers, resulting in correctly in difficult market conditions.
Q Business risk is monitored against income not covering the expense base Risk-adjusted profit signatures and market consistent embedded value that was assumed at the time of writing improved persistency are key features MCEV experience variances and, the business.
High lapse rates and upfront ofthe product strategy.
where appropriate, actions are agreed costs are key risk drivers in this category.
to mitigate negative trends Business risk is a significant risk on This risk category also incorporates the unit-linked and asset management Q Lapse rates and persistency risk of unsatisfactory new business business which is materially exposed to information are monitored through margins, driven by volume and business market, credit or insurance risk: experience investigations mix: persistency experience losses driven Q Wealth Management, Nordic and Retail by regulatory changes: poor client Q Within the Group, we examine the Europe manage significant unit-linked administrative service: or economicimpact on earnings and capital by portfolios.
While these risks are driven client behaviours.
stress testing both increased and important in Emerging Markets, they decreased new business volumes to represent a lower proportion of The June 2011 business risk economic understand these impacts overallrisk capital split allows for diversification both Q Old Mutual is well diversified across within business risk and between Q Nedbank Group actively manages geographies and product lines, business risk and other risk categories.
business risk through its management minimising the impact of sectoror structures and an earnings-at-risk Business risk % territory-specific economic downturns methodology similar to the Groups Q The key mitigation for product design riskappetite metrics.
and approval is the review process conducted by the LTS product teams and by the Group Actuarial team.
Q Lapse Persistency 43 Q Banking Business 19 Q Expense Level 16 Q Expense Ination 11 Q Asset Management Business 6 Q Retained Rebates 4 Q New Business 1 74 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statement Shareholder information Risk type and potential Group mitigating actions and Business unit management actions threat or uncertainty opportunities and opportunities Market Policyholder risk Q Business units exposed to downside Q Some of our life assurance products The impact of market movements market risk are required to take account contain investment guarantees and on policyholder assets and liabilities of the structure of their asset and options.
A reduction in interest rates covers mismatches of assets relative to liability portfolios, the local regulatory and equity markets can cause options liabilities.
Also the impact of a change in environment and Group policies to be in-the-money, with a potentially fund-related management fees earned adverse impact on profit Q Risk management strategies designed from client portfolios as a consequence to mitigate market risk are tailored to Q We manage market policyholder risk of movements in asset markets.
the type of contracts sold.
Where through asset-liability matching, interest contracts are related purely to longevity, rate swaps and hedges, equity hedges, The June 2011 market policyholder mortality and morbidity risk, there is and currency swaps, borrowings and riskeconomic capital split allows for typically no sharing of better-thanforward foreign exchange contracts to diversification both within market risk expected or required investment mitigate currency risk andbetween market risk and other returns.
Under unit-linked and or riskcategories.
Q Smooth bonus products constitute a market-linked contracts, policyholders Market Policyholder Risk % significant proportion of the South African receive the full investment return on the business.
We pay particular attention to underlying assets, less any applicable declaring bonuses in a responsible fees, and the only residual market risk manner, to meet our promise to clients relates to variation in asset-based fees that returns will be less volatile over time as a result of fluctuations in the than purely market-linked returns.
Net underlying assets investment returns not distributed are Q In most other classes of investmentcredited to bonus-smoothing reserves to related contracts, investment returns support consistent bonus declarations are attributed to, or shared with, when markets are low Q Equity 74 policyholders in the form of vesting and Q Q When investing shareholders funds, we Volatility 17 or non-vesting bonuses.
Non-vesting address equity price risks through Q Yield Curve 6 bonuses offer an option for investment policies which tightly limit the Q management action, as they can be Property 2 extent of investment in equities or equity withheld in adverse circumstances Q Hedge Effectiveness 1 funds.
As a result, the shareholder assets Q The Bermuda business, in run-off, is invested to back the statutory capital subject to substantial market risk due requirements of each legal entity in the to the nature of the guarantees in the Group are predominantly invested in products.
The risks are monitored on a sovereign bonds and cash, hence daily basis and we are subject to a exposure of shareholder assets to dynamic hedging programme which is marketrisk is relatively small overall.
governed by the Group Oversight Other practices include: Committee, comprising Group and Bermuda Board members.
Q Our Principles and Practices of Financial Management govern the management of discretionary participating contracts in South Africa, including bonus-sharing rules and management actions to be taken in adverse conditions Q Stock selection and investment analysis are supported by a well-developed research function Q In our investment guidelines assetliability duration matching is used forfixed annuities, especially wherespecific guarantees apply.
Othernon-profit policies are also suitably matched Q Market risk on with-profit policies, where investment risk is shared withinvestors, is mitigated by appropriate bonus declaration practices and hedging Q Interest rate and equity hedging are used where movements can lead to anincrease in the value of investment guarantees options, causing a reduction in earnings and shareholder capital.
We have implemented an Internal Economic Scenario Generator in South Africa, which allows us to dynamically hedge our interest rate andequity exposures.
Old Mutual plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk type and potential Group mitigating actions and Business unit management actions threat or uncertainty opportunities and opportunities Credit risk The Groups credit risk policy, limits The Group Credit Risk Policy sets out The Group is exposed to the risk of credit andreporting systems have recently the principles and mandatory minimum defaults.
This includes counterparty risk beenreviewed.
standards for the management of credit where an asset is not repaid in and counterparty risk across the Old Q We have introduced improvements to accordance with the terms of the contract.
Mutual Group, which include: allow us to adopt a more dynamic and Credit risk also encompasses lending risk timely approach to identifying and Q The credit risk the business is willing for instance in our banking businesses, managing credit risk exposures to accept where a borrower becomes unable to Q The Group only deals with approved Q The current credit risk profile and repay outstanding balances.
counterparties and, where appropriate, exposure to credit risk concentrations Client defaults on financial guarantee obtains sufficient collateral as a means Q The future target credit risk profile and obligations are also an element of of mitigating the financial loss from credit risk limits that comply with the creditrisk.
We continuously monitor the business risk appetite.
Exposure by Sector Increasing activity in the unsecured The Groups exposure to the European December 2011 % personal loans within Old Mutual peripheral economies is not deemed Emerging Markets, from the Mass significant and is primarily to highly-rated Foundation Cluster, is subject to Group institutions.
At the time of writing this standards and risk assessment.
report, the Group has less than 2 million exposure to the sovereign debt of With the consolidation in 2011 of the European peripheral economies: the Zimbabwean businesses into Old Mutual exposure has been reduced over the Emerging Markets, came the local course of the last year from 10 million.
This We intend to maintain our exposures at business will also be subject to complying Q Retail 29 low levels and to continue monitoring and rolling out Group standards and Q Financials 23 developments in this region.
Q Industrials 10 Credit exposure was reduced by Nedbank manages credit risk exposures Q All Industries 10 11.5 billion as a result of the sale of through its credit risk management Q Government 7 US Life.
framework, which encompasses Q comprehensive credit policies, limits, Other 21 As our primary banking business, governance structures and internal risk Nedbank carries the majority of our credit models that are fully Basel II compliant risk through its lending and other financing and in line with Group policies and activities.
To address the changing contribute to its significant credit risk conditions impacting on credit risk this exposure.
We expect impairment levels year, Nedbank has: toremain stable or even start to reduce during 2012.
This is due to a number of Q Closely monitored credit risk loss ratios factors including a slowdown in lending, and other key indicators through its the introduction of tighter lending criteria credit risk monitoring committees and the stabilisation of economic Q Tightened credit granting criteria conditions.
forexample, on home loans it has tightened loan-to-value criteria, increased acceptance standards and where appropriate, restructured credit risk agreements Q Tightened controls over large payments to and from global banks Q Increased staff to administer collections.
76 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statement Shareholder information Risk type and potential Group mitigating actions and Business unit management actions threat or uncertainty opportunities and opportunities Liability risk We manage liability risk by: Incorrect pricing bases give rise The Group assumes liability risk by issuing tounderwriting risk.
The business Q Writing a mix of business over insurance contracts under which it agrees unitswithsignificant liability risk are multipleinsurance classes and to compensate the policyholder or other EmergingMarkets and M&F.
Business beneficiary if a specified uncertain future thatis weakly correlated with liability Q In Emerging Markets the relatively event affecting the policyholder occurs.
risk eg unit-linked business provides weakcorrelation of liability risk with This risk includes mortality and morbidity ahedge against liability risk due to a ourother risk types reduces our risk in the LTS business units and a risk of diversification effect exposure after diversification over loss from events such as fire or accident several insurance classes and a in Mutual & Federal M&F, our general Q Using sophisticated management numberof geographical segments insurance business unit.
information systems which provide current data on the risks to which Q Maintenance and use of sophisticated The June 2011 liability risk diversified weareexposed management information systems economic capital allows for diversification which provide current data on the both within liability risk and between Q Calculating premiums and monitoring risksto which we are exposed liability risk and other risk categories.
claims patterns using actuarial modelsbased on past experience Q Use of actuarial models to calculate Liability Risk % andstatistical methods premiums and monitor claims patternsusing past experience and Q In our underwriting policy, we specify statistical methods Group requirements for concluding insurance contracts and assuming Q Guidelines for concluding insurance liability risks contracts and assuming liability risks, such as underwriting principles and Q Using reinsurance to limit exposure to product pricing procedures large single claims and catastrophes and increase our insurance capacity Q Reinsurance to limit our exposure Q Mortality 43 to large single claims and catastrophes Q Building an effective mix of assets that Q Disability 16 back insurance liabilities based on the Q An effective mix of assets that back Q Mortality Catastrophe 16 nature and term of those liabilities.
insurance liabilities based on those liabilities nature and term Q Longevity 12 Q Disability Catastrophe 11 Q A key change project for M&F in 2011 Q has been to implement new, bestNon-Life Liability 2 practice underwriting standards and processes in the underwriting division, which will enhance deal approval processes and risk-based pricing methodology Q Reinsurance plays an extremely important role in the management of liability risk and exposure at M&F.
Note: the term insurance risks is defined, for accounting purposes, as the risks other than financial risk that influence the insurance liabilities associated with insurance contracts as detailed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements on page 138.
For life assurance business thesearise through exposure to unfavourable claims experience on life assurance, critical illness and other protection business and exposure tounfavourable operating experience in respect of factors such as persistency levels and management expenses.
For general insurance it alsoincludes the risk of loss from fire, accident or other claim source.
These risks are included within the liability risk and business risk categoriesdescribed.
Old Mutual plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk type and potential Group mitigating actions and Business unit management actions threat or uncertainty opportunities and opportunities Operational risk Operational loss is inherent to our Q We developed the RCSA process The risk arising from operational activities, business and difficult to eliminate entirely.
significantly during 2011, and the for example a failure of a major systems, However, by using sensitive indicative increased quality and quantity of data or losses incurred as a consequence of triggers we can respond to events has enabled more granular review of people and or process failures, including beforethey occur.
operational risk across the Group external events.
Specific examples Q Operational risk is one of the driving Q Following appropriate training and includeour ability to attract and retain key metrics in our risk appetite framework.
strengthening local risk teams across staff with the necessary skills to help the Our appetite for operational risk is to the Group, we are beginning to realise Group meet its objectives, and adequate continually reduce exposure from the benefits of a consistent, Groupprotection of people, premises and data events that we are able to manage wide RCSA process.
The data has including IT sustainability and andcontrol enhanced our Board risk reports infrastructure.
andsupports a more effective Q We continue to focus on areas where capitalmodel.
we can add value for shareholders reducing operational risk losses that directly impact profits, refining our risk categorisation model to enable more accurate and consistent reporting of events across the Group, and using more advanced mathematical conceptsto translate data inputs intocapital amounts Q Both Risk and Control Self Assessment RCSA and internal risk events are usedto validate the accuracy of scenarios used in our Advanced Management Approach to operational risk capital modelling Q OpenPages, our risk management tool, is widely used throughout the Group helping businesses to understand operational risk better, ensure there areno repeatedly occurring inherent weaknesses, and enhance the controlframework.
The table on next page gives a breakdown of the Groups principal operational risks.
78 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statement Shareholder information The principal operational risks we face are listed below.
Risk description 2011 commentary Key mitigations Regulatory and tax risk In the wake of the deepening financial Old Mutual is well positioned to meet Regulatory requirements continue crisis, global regulators have continued increased regulatory expectations since to evolve, with a range of new prudential toissue a raft of new regulation.
While we scan the regulatory environment on and business conduct regulations coming much of the detail is still evolving, the a global basis.
to fruition over the next couple of years.
direction is towards an intensifying Dedicated Group and business Business conduct regulation continues to regulatory environment with even unitcompliance teams closely evolve with a greater focus on customer tightercontrols on banking and asset monitornewand changing regulatory protection, and compliance with all management.
Structural reform has led developments and liaise regularly aspects of tax legislation is becoming anumber of global regulators to adopt withlocal regulators and trade bodies increasingly complex as the system of atwin peaks regulatory model, which toinfluence outcomes positively.
isexpected to result in an increased focuson business conduct activities.
The Group provides a co-ordination role Solvency II and its South African Customer protection in developing in relation to the FSA, which is the lead equivalent, SAM, are both currently markets and information security and authority for Old Mutual plc under the planned to come into effect at the start privacy are also regulatory hotspots.
Financial Groups Directive and for of2014.
Additional risk also arises in approval of our internal model application relation to responsibilities for reporting Solvency II and SAM in South Africa under Solvency II.
routine customer, employee and other will create step changes in insurance transactions to the tax authorities and prudential regulation, with focus on The iCRaFT project is designed to deliver adherence to processing risk procedures internal risk and capital management all Solvency II and SAM requirements, as a is important.
and the more proactive nature of Group minimum.
It made good progress in 2011 supervision under the Group internal and project deliverables are on target as We need to correctly assess the impact model approval process.
we transition into business as usual.
ofthese changes and respond to them ina timely manner to efficiently manage Governments continue to impose All major business units have dedicated regulatory required capital.
greaterburdens on taxpayers as they in-house tax resources who assess and seek to enhance revenue yield and monitor new developments.
For example This could translate into lower returns to transfer more of the cost of tax compliance the changes introduced by the SA budget shareholders or being unable to provide to taxpayers.
The risk for the Group is in February 2012 are already being customers with products at a price which amplified by its broad geographical considered when pricing our policyholder is acceptable to them, thereby restricting spread, which requires it to manage a products, and actions are being taken to: our business opportunities.
diversity of changing tax requirements Q Update systems to enable Old Mutual andregulations.
In addition to the risk of a fine, penalty topay the right amount of tax to orregulatory censure, non-compliance theauthorities carries a growing risk of regulatory intervention that could impact on Q Review product pricing structures and ourability to operate.
We have adopted a Group-wide taxriskmanagement policy which requires tax review of major strategic initiatives andproduct developments before implementation.
Old Mutual plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk description 2011 commentary Key mitigations IT and data security Across the LTS businesses the operating We developed a new Group policy for Poor IT infrastructure and resilience could model was changed during 2011, information security and privacy in 2011, result in disruption to our businesses with providing greater centralised control for which will be rolled out and embedded adverse consequences on customer ITinfrastructure whilst enhancing the within the different business units during service, loss of customer data and failure seniority and experience of the Chief 2012.
The roll-out of the policy will also to manage the business effectively.
Information Officers in the business.
ensure that information security is included in the LTS IT strategy and that Physical security and information security key risks and appropriate control are areas of increasing risk and regulatory frameworks are in place.
Q2 2012 will focus particularly in relation to information seea refresh of our periodic information security, where the UK and Europe have security benchmarking exercise, to seen increasing enforcement activity measure how well embedded the Group andfines.
policy is in the different IT processes New privacy and consumer protection andpractices across the Group.
laws have also been introduced in South Group information security standards Africa, although the practical regulatory arebased on good practice and data enforcement bodies are still evolving.
People risk There were a number of new Our first-ever Group culture survey had Delivery of the business strategy requires appointments to senior roles and a very high response rate.
Without the right leadership team reorganisations to action plans to achieve the desired culture culture, leadership behaviours and strengthen our senior talent which shift have been developed and are being management practices we will be unable could have destabilised teams.
to attract, retain and motivate the talent Selection and appointment needed to We have continued to develop our we need to deliver the business strategy.
be rigorous to ensure that we upgraded leadership and emerging talent by our leadership capability.
enhancing development opportunities through mobility and targeted The year saw further developments in structuredprogrammes.
regulatory requirements on executive remuneration and its alignment with Each appointment into a senior role, risk-based measures.
whether internal or external, includes independent external assessment.
We introduced a new performance management system, which provides for the assessment of both business results and behaviours for the 2011 performance review.
We also broadened the use of incentive pools determined by measures including economic profit.
80 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statement Shareholder information Risk type and potential Group mitigating actions and Business unit management actions threat or uncertainty opportunities and opportunities Market Shareholder risk The Group monitors market risk as part of The Group market shareholder risk The impact on shareholder assets due to the risk appetite framework.
policy sets out the principles and changes in the value of financial assets or mandatory standards for the management Q The impact of changes in market risk liabilities arising from changes in equity, of market shareholder risk across the ismonitored and managed using bond and real estate prices, interest rates Old Mutual Group.
sensitivity analyses, through the and foreign exchange rates.
Our greatest business units own regulatory Q Business units are required to have exposure is to equity risk.
Market risk processes, with reference to the Groups awritten strategy for managing arises differently in the business units, risk appetite framework, and by other marketrisk which should reflect the depending on the types of assets and means.
This work is complemented by Group strategy.
Most of our shareholder the Groups capital modelling and assets are invested in sovereign bonds The business unit strategy must cover: embedded value reporting processes, which is included within the credit section which include assessments of the Q The approach to measuring and of the risk profile.
The analysis here sensitivity of our capital position and managing market risk represents just that part of shareholder embedded value to various funds subject to market risk.
Q Market risk return preferences marketchanges The June 2011 market shareholder Q The current market risk profile Q The upside presented by market risk is riskeconomic capital split allows for evident when equity values rise or Q Exposure concentrations diversification both within market risk interest rates move favourably.
andbetween market risk and other Q The future target market risk profile riskcategories.
Q Limits that comply with the business Market Shareholder Risk % risk appetite, and risk mitigation techniques.
Q Equity 86 Q Property 13 Q Yield Curve 1 Currency risk Q We manage currency risk to ensure that Q Intra-Group currency exposures are not Currency risk is firstly the risk at Group level Financial Groups Directive FGD capital typically hedged that net assets in business units invested in remains adequate and does not attract Q There is an allowance at business unit currencies other than sterling depreciate unwelcome regulatory attention.
We level for currency risk associated with relative to sterling, leading to a fall in Group arrange our assets and liabilities to direct revenue streams from net asset values currency translation risk.
ensure that FGD remains at suitable subsidiaries and related companies.
levels in stress scenarios Secondly, there is an allowance at business unit level for currency risk Q We manage currency risk associated associated with direct revenue streams with known flows of currencies from from subsidiaries and related companies.
business units to Group and vice versa if appropriate, such as future dividends and proceeds arising from disposals Q We test the devaluation of other currencies relative to sterling, and seek to match currency liabilities to assets inthe Groups consolidated balance sheet, eg by issuing debt in specific currencies, and or via the use of swaps.
Old Mutual plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk type and potential Group mitigating actions and Business unit management actions threat or uncertainty opportunities and opportunities Strategic and change risk Key risks that could adversely affect A rigorous annual strategy review and The risk of failing to implement the ourability to deliver the stated tracking process mitigates the risks in business strategy and the management of strategyinclude: thefollowing ways: associated changes to the business.
Q Unanticipated external changes arising Q To ensure ongoing ownership and from competitors, regulators and commitment, the Old Mutual Board and government bodies top leaders are actively involved in the annual review of the Group strategy Q Failure to clearly communicate Old Mutuals strategy, both internally Q The Group strategy is communicated and externally externally and simultaneously internally, to provide guidance to Q Unexpected performance shocks in the allOld Mutuals employees Groups underlying businesses Q The Group strategy clearly sets out Q Failure to clearly define, prioritise and thestrategic priorities for the Group monitor delivery of the most critical andprovides context for business Group-wide and local strategic unitplanning programmes Q Competitor activity and anticipated Q Decreasing staff engagement due to regulatory changes are monitored the uncertainties associated with locallyand included in business units organisational changes.
annual plans Q Progress against business plans is reported at four quarterly review meetings and remedial actions taken where necessary.
In addition, the key Group-wide strategic programmes are developed, tracked and reported on by the Strategic Implementation Office and the Group Strategy and Strategic Implementation teams work with the business leaders to define the activities that will support the strategy and track the progress of these activities Q The business units within the Group have taken steps to establish Change teams with Change Directors to  for the deliveryofkey programmes Q The Strategic Implementation team haveworked to provide a framework forchange that is monitored through the change risk policy.
This ensures that the risks of programme failure are reduced and the deliveries provide value for money for the investment inchange.
82 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statement Shareholder information Risk type and potential Group mitigating actions and Business unit management actions threat or uncertainty opportunities and opportunities Liquidity risk Our liquidity position is prudently The Group liquidity risk policy sets out Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group managed at both Group and business theprinciples and mandatory minimum isunable to meet its obligations as they unitlevel.
standards for the management of liquidity falldue, for example if counterparties risk across the Old Mutual Group: Q The Group-wide liquidity policy sets out providing short-term funding were to parameters within which all business Q Business units are required to assess withdraw or not roll over funding.
units must operate to identify, measure their liquidity risk, by conducting a It also includes the risk of being unable and manage liquidity risk review of their funding profile against tosell assets in an illiquid market, or not the nature of risk inherent within Q The Group Capital Management thebusiness being able to raise more capital, leading Committee reviews capital and liquidity toasset-liability matching problems and positions, with the Group Executive Q Business units must define their athreat to capital cover ratios.
Risk Committee providing additional liquidity risk appetite and propose Extreme market volatility may result in oversight and challenge measures for managing this which unexpected capital calls and stressed areappropriate and proportionate Q Liquidity headroom is one of our key liquidity positions.
It ensures we have sufficient liquidity to cover both asset Q The liquidity risk appetite must liquidity risk and funding liquidity risk determine the level of liquidity risk exposure the business is willing to Q The Group has rolled out a new accept in order to meet objectives liquiditypolicy in 2011, which is being andoptimise returns against capital embedded within business units.
TheGroup has a new documented Q The policy sets out the minimum Contingency Funding and Capital frequency with which the reports must Strategy which is continuing to evolve be prepared, the escalation process into 2012, with business units also andalso contingency plans developing local contingency plans Q The requirement for business unit Q The Basel Committee on Banking specific liquidity contingency plans.
Supervision issued new liquidity Liquidity risk management is a particular standards on 16 December 2010. focus in the Nedbank Group.
Manyof the key principles are already encapsulated in Nedbanks Liquidity Q A portfolio of marketable and highly Risk Management Framework.
liquid assets to meet unforeseen However, in order to meet the funding requirements is maintained requirements of the liquidity coverage Q Market liquidity by asset type and for a ratio by 2015 and the net stable funding continuum of plausible stress ratio by 2018, Nedbank and the other scenarios is part of the internal stress South African banks are working closely testing and scenario analysis process with the South African Reserve Bank SARB and National Treasury to Q The quantum of unencumbered assets address the structural challenges of available as collateral for stress funding compliance forthe local banking is measured and monitored on an industry, while atthe same time ongoing basis.
considering the unintended economic consequences which may arise from the proposed liquidity standards.
Old Mutual plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Our risk appetite framework has evolved significantly over Risk appetite RA denitions and limit setting the past few years.
We have enhanced the methodology, We continue to develop our risk appetite methodology notably in the way the RA limits are set and agreed with to ensure that there is a seamless transition of economic each business unit.
In particular, we have made limit-setting capital at risk into a Solvency II-compliant internal model an iterative part of the business planning process and calculation, which will include: ensure that this process produces local risk limits that reflect local business plans rather than setting limits in a Q Moving away from use of market consistent embedded purely top-down fashion.
As part of this process we set risk value as a proxy to estimate changes in assets and limits by risk type at both Group and business unit level.
liabilities in stress scenarios, towards a direct calculation of the results of these stresses Even though these RA limits need to be proposed only Q Redefining available financial resource to be compliant at business unit level, business units are encouraged with a Solvency II market-value balance sheet calculation to cascade the process down to legal entity level or even Q Reviewing risk-factor stress assumptions and the lower to segments, divisions or product lines as approach to modelling diversification benefits, with evidence that the RA framework is being embedded in methodology changes required to ensure a statistically their businesses.
robust approach Q Transitioned internal model initiatives to business as Throughout the year business units calculate their risk usual reporting during Q3 2011, to be used in decisionexposures against the appetite set by the Group.
The table making within our business.
below summarises the five quantitative measures we use to express our RA limits and exposures: Risk appetite limits Metric Explanation Group limit denition Economic Capital at The reduction in post-tax economic value broadly defined on Available Financial Resources AFR Risk ECaR amarket value balance sheet basis for life companies and as should not fall below 100% of internal IFRS equity for non-life companies over a one-year forwardeconomic capital ECaR.
looking time horizon that should only be exceeded seven times in 10,000 years 99.93% confidence level.
ECaR helps us to optimise risk-based decisions.
The stress tests underlying ECaR allow us to monitor our exposures and deepen our understanding of where the business could further improve its capital allocation.
ECaR is similar to the Solvency Capital Requirement SCR measure in Solvency II and has been calculated and reported within the Group for more than five years.
FGD Surplus Capital The reduction in Financial Groups Directive FGD surplus over The FGD surplus should not fall below at Risk FCaR a one-year forward-looking time horizon that should only be 1 billion more than once in 10 years.
exceeded once in 10 years 90% confidence level.
FGD is a key regulatory measure which is particularly importantto monitor in volatile economic conditions where ourpolicyholder and shareholder assets can significantly impact our position particularly since we hold these assets ina variety of currencies.
Earnings at Risk The reduction in pre-tax IFRS adjusted operating profit AOP EaR as a percentage of pre-tax AOP EaR over a one-year forward-looking time horizon that should only should not rise above 30% of planned be exceeded once in 10 years 90% confidence level.
earnings over the year ahead.
Cash flow at Risk The reduction in the cash portion of earnings over a one-year The cash proportion of earnings should CFaR forward-looking time horizon that should only be exceeded not fall in excess of 500 million more once in 10 years 90% confidence level.
Operational Risk The reduction in post-tax economic value due to one-in-10 year OpRisk as a percentage of pre-tax AOP OpRisk unexpected operational loss events 90% confidence level and should not rise above 10% of planned expected day-to-day losses, including reputational risk impacts.
84 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statement Shareholder information In addition to quantitative RA limits, we also use qualitative Incentivising the right behaviours RA principles and statements to guide our business units To support and incentivise the right behaviours in the and help to improve the clarity of our risk strategy in line executive management team, we have further embedded with the Groups risk appetite.
For 2011 all limits were met the governance framework designed in 2010 to align the with the exception of the EaR.
risk reward balance with corporate governance objectives and ensure it promotes effective risk management.
We have The Group earnings at risk result at June 2011 was above rolled out risk-related objectives to senior management and the original absolute target limit in sterling, however this was performance is measured and monitored every six months.
driven largely by the volatility in the legacy Bermuda business.
As a consequence the Board reviewed the basis The framework is supported by a remuneration policy that upon which the limits are set and agreed that, going does not encourage risk-taking beyond the Groups risk forward, Bermudas limit will be separate to the Groups, appetite.
This policy has been designed to eliminate since the Bermuda limit is subject to a series of detailed conflicts of interest and support business strategy, limits and monitoring.
The limits for the remaining business objectives, values, and the long-term interests of the Group.
are now expressed in terms of % of expected IFRS AOP It is overseen by a Remuneration Committee appointed by toallow for growth over the plan period.
the Board, consisting of at least three non-executive directors with relevant experience and a good knowledge Embedding risk management culture of the Group and the environment in which it operates.
We think of culture as the way in which we operate.
We Thisenables them to exercise competent judgement on have developed a set of behaviours that define the risk compensation policies and the incentives for managing risk, management culture we want.
These six behaviours are value and capital in line with stakeholders expectations.
core requirements of any role in the organisation, regardless of where the role reports or what the job is: We have made progress in aligning staff remuneration and incentives, explicitly taking into account the extent to which Q People are responsive to risk information and do not just risk exposures have delivered results, and whether these shrug it off risk exposures have complied with the agreed risk appetite.
Q Employees think carefully about the risks in their environment and understand how they impact Summary thebusiness In 2011 Old Mutual continued to embed tools, methodology and improved processes and governance frameworks that Q Employees understand the value of rules and policies, enhance the management and monitoring of risk and stick to them and challenge when necessary capital in order to create value.
Our progress is continually Q Inappropriate decisions and misleading information are driven by the Groups vision to have improved risk pointed out management practices and the appropriate behaviours Q Decisions about risk are made with clarity by the to underpin them.
rightpeople Q Employees share information openly: teams are transparent with one another and mistakes are notcovered up.
Old Mutual plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
