PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 Deloitte LLP as Auditor: and Winterflood Investment Trusts as Corporate Broker.
Further details of the Companys advisers can be found on page 13.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The principal risk factors relating to the Company can be divided into various areas: Investment Policy and Process There is no guarantee that the Investment Policy adopted by the Company will provide the returns sought by the Company.
The Board has established guidelines to ensure that the Investment Policy that is approved by shareholders is pursued by the Manager.
Risk management is an integral part of the investment management process.
The Manager effectively controls risk by ensuring that the Companys portfolio is always appropriately diversified.
In-depth and continual analysis of the fundamentals of all holdings gives the Manager a full understanding of all the financial risks associated with any particular security.
Market Movements and Portfolio Performance The majority of the Companys investments are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal risk for investors in the Company is of a significant fall in the markets and or prolonged period of decline in the markets relative to other forms of investment as well as bad performance of individual portfolio investments.
The prices of these securities are influenced by many factors including the general health of the world and particularly the UK economy including: interest rates, inflation, government policies, industry conditions, political and diplomatic events, tax laws, environmental laws and by the demand from investors for income.
The Manager strives to maximise the total return from the securities in which it invests, but these securities are influenced by market conditions and the Board acknowledges the external influences on portfolio performance.
While the Board obviously cannot influence market movements, it is vigilant in monitoring and taking steps to mitigate the effects of falls in markets should they occur.
The performance of the Manager is carefully monitored by the Board, and the continuation of the Managers mandate is formally reviewed each year.
The Board and the Manager maintain an active dialogue with the aim of ensuring that the market rating of the Companys shares reflects the underlying NAV and that share repurchase and issuance facilities help the management of this process.
Past performance of the Company, and all of the securities managed by the Manager, are not necessarily indicative of future performance.
For a fuller discussion of the economic and market conditions facing the Company and the current and future performance of the portfolio of the Company, please see both the Chairmans Statement on pages 5 and 6 and the Investment Managers Report on pages7 and8.
Ordinary Shares The market value of an ordinary share, as well as being affected by its NAV, also takes into account its dividend yield and prevailing interest rates.
As such, the market value of an ordinary share can fluctuate and may not always reflect its underlying NAV.
The market price of an ordinary share may therefore trade at a discount to its NAV.
As at 31 March 2011, an ordinary share of the Company traded at a discount of 1.1%.
During the year, the Companys shares traded at an average discount of 1.5% 2010: 3.1%.
There can be no guarantee that any appreciation in the value of the Companys investments will occur and investors may not get back the full value of their investment.
Due to the potential difference between the mid-market price of the ordinary shares and the prices at which they are sold, there is no guarantee that their realisable value will reflect their market price.
While it is the intention of the Directors to pay dividends to ordinary shareholders quarterly each year, the ability to do so will depend upon the level of income received from securities and the timing of receipt of such income by the Company.
Accordingly, the amount of the quarterly dividends paid to ordinary shareholders may fluctuate.
