70 DIRECTORS REPORT: gOvERnanCE: RISK ManagEMEnT anD InTERnaL COnTROL GOvernance risk manaGement and internal cOntrOl The board is responsible for the alignment of strategy and risk, and for maintaining a sound system of risk management and internal controls.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and any system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The framework incorporates a five-stage process as detailed in the diagram below.
Details of the groups key risks, together our risk mAnAgement FrAmework in detAil with the controls and procedures in place to mitigate the risks, can be found on pages 73 to 75 of the Directors report.
The key elements of the internal control 2 system, including the financial reporting risk Appetite processes, have been established in identiFiCAtion Risk appetite sets the accordance with the revised guidance for There is an ongoing process boundaries for acceptable Directors on the Combined Code and the of identifying risks which levels of risk and enables us to fSas Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
threaten the achievement of review and control business The company reports to shareholders on a business objectives.
activities and deliver the half-yearly basis.
In December each year, the board approves detailed budgets and cashflow forecasts for the year ahead.
It also approves outline 3 projections for the subsequent four years.
monitoring an update to the budget is approved in And reporting June each year.
actual performance against Assessment Risk assessments and action budget is monitored in detail within the Each identified risk is plans are monitored regularly groups management accounts and this is assessed and graded in terms and overseen by divisional risk supplemented with a rolling forecast of the of probability, impact and committees, the risk advisory full-year outturn.
The groups management the controls in place to group and the risk advisory accounts form part of the board papers for mitigate the risk.
committee on behalf of each meeting.
The audit committee, details of which can 5 ACtion plAns be found on pages 71 to 72 regularly reviews action plans are developed the adequacy of internal controls including for any risks where the level financial, operational and compliance controls 4 of exposure is deemed to in conjunction with the internal audit function be unacceptable.
an annual programme of work which targets and reports on higher risk areas is carried out by the internal audit function.
The operation of internal financial controls is monitored by regular management reviews, including a procedure by which each division certifies compliance quarterly.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance 71 The risk advisory committee, details of which There is an in-house internal audit function Audit Committee And Auditors can be found on page 72, considers the nature managed by the Head of audit & Risk.
The Audit Committee and extent of the risks facing the group, keeps internal audit function reports to the audit Members: them under review, reviews the framework to committee which helps to ensure the functions Manjit Wolstenholme Chairman mitigate such risks, and notifies the board of independence from group management, and Rob anderson changes in the status and control of risks.
It the audit committee reviews regular reports Robert Hough reports to the board on a regular basis.
In on the activity of this function.
addition, the risk advisory group, details of attendees by invitation: at its february and July meetings, the which can be found on page 72, formally reviews Peter Crook committee had a separate session with the the divisional risk registers four times a year andrew fisher groups auditors, PwC, without any executive and it reports to the risk advisory committee.
Chris gillespie director or employee of the company or group alister Turnbull Head of audit & Risk The board requires the divisions to operate in being present.
This gives members of the gary Thompson group financial Controller accordance with the group corporate policies committee the opportunity to raise any issues, PwC external auditors and divisions are obliged to certify compliance including any issues on the final or interim on a biannual basis.
results of the group, directly with PwC.
Manjit The audit committee has a formal schedule of Wolstenholme, as Chairman of the committee, a six-weekly finance forum, chaired by the matters reserved to it for decision, including also meets separately with the Head of audit finance Director and attended by divisional all matters relating to the appointment and & Risk on a quarterly basis.
finance directors and senior finance management reappointment of auditors, auditors including the heads of tax, treasury and risk, PwC have been the companys auditors for remuneration and the policy on the supply reviews and provides oversight of the key many years.
The external auditors are required of non-audit services to the company by the financial matters of the group.
The group to rotate the audit partners responsible for the auditors.
In addition, it monitors the integrity finance function establishes the process and group and subsidiary audits every five years of the financial statements of the group and timetable for financial reporting and consolidation and a new lead audit partner was appointed the formal announcements relating to the activities and identifies and approves changes in 2010.
There are no contractual obligations groups financial performance and reviews to accounting and financial reporting standards.
restricting the companys choice of external significant financial reporting judgments auditor.
PwC provide the committee with a contained in them.
It also approves the In accordance with the revised guidance for letter of independence, which is regularly internal audit plan annually and reviews the Directors on the Combined Code, the board updated and considered by the committee.
groups internal and external whistleblowing has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups policies and the register of benefits offered framework of internal controls during 2011.
In accordance with best practice and to directors in accordance with the companys The above process for identifying, evaluating guidance from the financial Reporting code of practice on benefits.
and managing the significant risks faced by Council, the audit committee will continue the group was in place throughout 2011 and to review during the next financial year Manjit Wolstenholme has chaired the up to 28 february 2012 and no significant the qualification, expertise, resources and committee since joining the board in 2007. failings or weaknesses were identified independence of the external auditors and She is a chartered accountant and is considered during this period.
the effectiveness of the audit process.
to have the recent and relevant financial experience required by the provisions of the Code.
The other members of the committee have a wide range of business and financial experience which is evidenced by their biographical summaries on pages 58 and 59.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 72 DIRECTORS REPORT: gOvERnanCE: RISK ManagEMEnT anD InTERnaL COnTROL GOvernance risk manaGement and internal cOntrOl The committee has adopted a policy on In 2011, the committee regularly considered The risk advisory committee delegates a the appointment of staff from the auditors a schedule of audit and non-audit work carried number of responsibilities to the risk advisory to positions within the various group finance out by PwC for the group.
This fell broadly into group which comprises the executive directors, departments.
It grades appointments into four four categories: fees payable for the audit of the Company Secretary, the group financial categories and sets out the approvals required.
the parent company and consolidated financial Controller and the Head of audit & Risk.
The neither a partner of the audit firm who has acted statements: audit of the companys subsidiaries Deputy Company Secretary and divisional as engagement partner, the quality review pursuant to legislation: other services pursuant risk managers also attend the meetings by partner, other key audit partners or partners in to legislation: and tax services.
The risk advisory group considers the chain of command, nor a senior member of the extent and nature of the risks facing the fees paid for non-audit work during the year the audit engagement team, may be employed group, the extent and categories of risk which amounted to 60,000, comprising further as group finance Director, group financial are acceptable to bear, the likelihood of any assurance services, tax advisory services and Controller or a divisional finance director.
risk materialising, the groups ability to other services.
no tax compliance services or mitigate any risk, and the costs of operating The company has a formal policy on the use acquisition related services either statutory particular controls relative to the benefits of auditors for non-audit work.
This policy is or non-statutory were provided by the auditors obtained.
It also reviews the key risk registers reviewed once a year.
during 2011. prepared by the group and the divisional risk The award of non-audit work to the auditors is The committee formally considered its committees four times a year, challenging and managed in order to ensure that the auditors effectiveness in 2011.
On the basis of the making changes where appropriate.
It submits are able to conduct an independent audit and board and committee evaluations undertaken, a schedule of key risks, the group and divisional are perceived to be independent by the groups the overall view was that the committee was key risk registers and the ICaaP to the risk shareholders and other stakeholders.
It was nevertheless agreed advisory committee for review and approval.
that it would be beneficial to allocate more The performance of non-audit work by the Throughout 2011, the risk advisory committee time for the committee meetings around the groups auditors is minimised and work is has overseen the continuing enhancement and interim and full year results and from 2012 it awarded only when, by virtue of their knowledge, embedding of the risk management framework has been agreed to hold additional meetings skills or experience, the auditors are clearly to across the group.
Improved reporting to an in both february and July in addition to the be preferred over alternative suppliers.
agreed risk appetite framework, complemented usual meetings in those months.
by focus on the key risks facing the group and, The group maintains an active relationship as required, detailed reporting on specific risks risk Advisory Committee with at least two other professional accounting allows effective risk monitoring and oversight Members: advisers.
The nature and cost of all non-audit by the committee and board.
Rob anderson Chairman work awarded to the groups external auditors andrew fisher for the period since the last meeting and for The committee formally considered its Robert Hough the year-to-date is reported to each meeting effectiveness in 2011.
On the basis of the Manjit Wolstenholme of the audit committee, together with an board and committee evaluation undertaken, the explanation as to why the auditors were overall view was that it was working effectively.
attendees by invitation: the preferred supplier.
Peter Crook approved by the board on 28 february 2012 Chris gillespie no information technology, remuneration, and signed by order of the board.
alister Turnbull Head of audit & Risk recruitment, valuation or general consultancy gary Thompson group financial Controller work may be awarded to the auditors without kenneth J mullen the prior approval of the chairman of the audit general Counsel and Company Secretary The groups risk management framework is committee and such approval is only given in 28 february 2012 overseen by the risk advisory committee on exceptional circumstances.
The chairman of behalf of the board.
The committees function the audit committee must approve in advance is to keep under review the groups risk any single award of non-audit work with an management framework, and to report to the aggregate cost of 250,000 or more.
It reviews the group and auditors may not perform internal audit work.
divisional key risk registers, considers the most important risks facing the group and is responsible for reviewing the groups Internal Capital adequacy assessment Process ICaaP prior to submission to the board.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance DIRECTORS REPORT: gOvERnanCE: RISk managEmEnT anD InTERnal COnTROl 73 73 Governance risks Set out below is a summary of the groups key risks together with the controls and procedures in place to mitigate the risks.
The summary is not intended to be an exhaustive or prioritised list of risks facing the group or a complete list of mitigating controls and procedures.
Risk descRiption mitigation pRogRess in 2011 RegulatoRy the risk of loss arising from a breach a central in-house legal team is in place which The group has implemented Risk of existing regulation or regulatory monitors legislative changes and supports divisional the changes following the changes in the markets within which compliance functions.
introduction of the EUs Consumer the group operates.
Expert third party legal advice is taken where necessary.
Increased focus on regulation The activity of regulators both Divisional compliance functions are in place which monitor particularly non-standard lenders.
in the EU and Uk continues compliance and report to divisional boards.
HmT BIS have commissioned There is constructive dialogue with regulators.
research into a cap on the total cost Full and active participation in all relevant regulatory review of credit, the results of which are and consultation processes in the Uk and EU.
The Consumer Credit Division CCD and vanquis Bank credit CCD tightened the underwriting CRedit Risk the risk that the group will suffer unexpected losses in the event of committees set policy and review credit performance.
criteria for both new and existing customers during 2011 and has customer defaults.
Credit risk is subject to ongoing review in the current enhanced its arrears management Defaults in the non-standard market economic climate and management continues to maintain processes during the year.
are typically higher than in more its tight underwriting stance.
mainstream markets although vanquis Bank continues to Comprehensive daily, weekly and monthly reporting demonstrate greater stability if maintain tight underwriting on kPIs.
controls for new accounts and CCD Home Credit loans are underwritten face-to-face by credit line increases following Pressure on customers incomes and agents in the customers home: agents maintain weekly progressive tightening between increased levels of unemployment contact with the customer and stay up to date with their 2007 and mid-2009 in light of and under-employment.
circumstances: agents commission is almost entirely based economic conditions.
on collections not credit issued: application and behavioural Both CCD and vanquis Bank have scoring is used to assist agents underwriting: Home Credit improved their impairment issues short-term, small-sum loans, with average issue performance in 2011. values of between 300 and 500 typically repayable over a year.
vanquis Bank uses highly bespoke underwriting including full external bureau data: a telephone interview is conducted prior to issuing credit: initial credit lines are low typically 250 : customers are re-scored monthly: an intensive call centre-based operation focuses on collections.
Business the risk of loss arising from the a clear group strategy is in place.
There is minimal active Risk failure of the groups strategy or competition in the non-standard a board strategy and planning conference is held annually.
management actions over the market and vanquis Bank Central resource is in place to develop corporate strategy.
continues to grow strongly new products and processes are thoroughly tested prior despite the application of tight Continued pressure on customers to roll-out.
incomes from rises in fuel, food and utility costs and a protracted period There is comprehensive monitoring of competitor products, measures taken to improve arrears of weak or negative growth in the Uk pricing and strategy.
management and bolster credit economy could impact the demand quality in CCD are proving to be the Robust business change functions oversee change for credit, impairments and the right approach in the current programmes.
The group has comprehensive monthly management Initiatives are in place to improve accounts, a monthly rolling forecast and a biannual operational efficiency in CCD budgeting process.
in 2012. loans are short term in nature and, in Home Credit, agents Opportunities to utilise the visit customers in their homes and are therefore able to stay vanquis Bank platform to increase up to date with customer circumstances.
The group has demonstrated the ability to manage the business through many cycles including the deterioration seen in the Uk economy and employment market during 2008 and 2009.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 74 DIRECTORS REPORT: gOvERnanCE: RISk managEmEnT anD InTERnal COnTROl Governance risks Risk descRiption mitigation pRogRess in 2011 Reputational the risk that an event or Credit and collection policies are designed to ensure that Customer satisfaction remains Risk circumstance could adversely impact both businesses adhere to responsible lending principles.
high in both CCD 91% and on the groups reputation, including vanquis Bank 84% a Compliance Committee oversees the application of the adverse publicity from the activities FSas treating customers fairly regime in vanquis Bank.
Customer complaints remain low of legislators, pressure groups and in both businesses.
Regular customer satisfaction surveys are undertaken the media.
Continued investment and focus media and pressure group activity on Corporate Responsibility The group invests in a centrally coordinated community increases during an economic and investment in the programme.
downturn or when the company is community programme.
Specialist in-house teams, external advisers and established achieved maximum score rating procedures are in place for dealing with media issues.
There is currently significant media and ranked joint first globally interest in the non-standard sector a proactive communication programme is targeted at key amongst financial services primarily focussed on the activities opinion formers and is coordinated centrally.
companies in the FTSE4good of the fast growing payday 130 year old Home Credit business is well understood and Index Series which measures the lending industry.
has been subject to regular regulator review and scrutiny.
environmental, social and governance ratings of listed companies worldwide.
opeRational the risk of loss resulting from it IT is managed in CCD and vanquis Bank by The groups IT systems are hosted Risk systems failure.
by proven external specialist suppliers and recovery vanquis Bank is reliant on third party There is significant experience of managing third party arrangements have been tested IT application and systems providers: IT arrangements within the businesses.
FDI for its core customer credit There are established disaster recovery procedures which Successful migration of the card platform.
are tested on a regular basis.
vanquis Bank core card processing newcastle Building Society nBS Specialist project teams are used to manage change platform during 2011. for its retail deposit platform.
Deposit platform successfully IT systems in Home Credit are Insurance policies are in place to cover eventualities such developed and implemented hosted by an external third party as business interruption, loss of IT systems and crime.
Rigorous selection processes for third party suppliers IT systems continue to be developed to ensure that they are best in class.
threats to agent safety make it Significant time and expenditure is invested in ensuring staff The group continues to focus unsafe to operate home collection.
significant time and effort promoting and training staff on agents in Home Credit are required assistance is given to agents to ensure that they are safety and providing assistance to carry cash to operate as agents safety aware.
to agents to ensure they remain supporting the issue of credit and Induction sessions and regular updates are provided on safety aware.
Safety awareness weeks form part of the annual calendar.
Safety incidents are monitored closely by management with follow-up actions taken.
the risk of loss resulting from loss IT and physical security policies are in place.
Processes surrounding physical or abuse of confidential data security in CCD have been further Dedicated resources are in place to support the or systems.
additional controls management of information security.
implemented to manage physical Both CCD and vanquis Bank utilise Reporting of security related incidents to divisional data distribution supported and store sensitive personal data as risk committees.
by a training and awareness part of their day to day operations.
Specialist departments are in place in each business programme.
There continues to be heightened to prevent, detect and monitor fraud.
focus and emphasis on data loss by There is regular fraud reporting to divisional boards and the Information Commissioner's to the group audit committee.
loss of key management or Effective recruitment, retention and succession planning Senior management turnover reduction in staff morale impacts strategies are in place.
remained very low in 2011. business performance.
The group has competitive remuneration and incentive The risk of loss of key staff is structures.
increased following the groups Effective training, development and communication are in successful performance over place throughout the group.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance 75 75 Risk descRiption mitigation pRogRess in 2011 liquidity Risk the risk that the group will have The model of borrowing long and lending short results in The group has continued to make insufficient liquid resources available a positive maturity mismatch, which means the duration of excellent progress in diversifying to fulfil its operational plans and or the receivables book is significantly less than the average its funding base.
meet its financial obligations as they duration of the groups funding.
This profile significantly Headroom on committed facilities fall due.
reduces the liquidity risk for the group.
of 288m as at 31 December The wider on-going restriction of a board approved policy is in place to maintain committed 2011 which, together with the credit available from banks and borrowing facilities which provide funding headroom for retail deposits programme at institutional investors continues.
at least the following 12 months, after assuming that vanquis Bank and the renewal vanquis Bank will fund 80% of its receivables book through of syndicated bank facilities of retail deposits.
382.5m, is sufficient to meet growth and contractual maturities The groups strategy of maintaining committed facility until may 2015. headroom and diversifying funding sources has resulted in a strong balance sheet position.
vanquis Bank commenced taking retail deposits in July 2011 and liquidity is managed by an experienced central had raised 140m of retail treasury department.
The vanquis Bank maintains a liquid assets buffer in line business is on target to achieve with the FSas liquidity guidelines.
funding up to 80% of its receivables There is daily monitoring of actual and expected cashflows.
with deposits by the end of 2012.
140m of private placements raised in early 2011, including 100m from m&g.
The group remains an investment grade credit, with a credit rating maintained at BBB with a stable outlook.
FinanCial the risk that the group suffers The groups tax matters are dealt with by an experienced Full implementation of tax controls Risk a loss as a result of unexpected in-house team.
advice is also sought from external advisors and procedures across the group.
CCD has continued to develop HmRC are placing greater emphasis There is a Board approved tax strategy, which has been the self-employed status of on taxation controls in assessing tax shared with HmRC, which is aligned with the groups agents policy.
risk and the associated level of mission, values and business strategy.
The strategy, which scrutiny placed on companies.
sets out the governance of tax, seeks to ensure that key tax risks are dealt with through a rigorous risk management framework, appropriate taxes are paid in each jurisdiction in which the group operates and that the groups reputation as a responsible taxpayer is safeguarded.
There are documented tax systems and controls to support the preparation and submission of the groups tax returns.
Taxation and human resource specialists support the business in ensuring developments are consistent with agents self-employed status.
There is a self-employed status policy in place which ensures that the relationship between the group and the agents it engages is such that the self-employed status is maintained.
pension Risk the risk that there may be The defined benefit pension scheme was substantially closed The groups pension asset insufficient assets to meet the to new members from 1January 2003. stands at 13.5m as at liabilities of the groups defined 31 December 2011.
Cash balance arrangements are now in place within the benefit pension scheme.
defined benefit pension scheme to reduce the exposure There has been greater emphasis The current economic environment to improving mortality rates.
on investment in bonds throughout results in increased volatility 2011 to reduce asset volatility.
The pension investment strategy aims to maintain an in equity markets and corporate appropriate balance of assets between equities and bonds.
new employees are invited to join the groups stakeholder Improving mortality rates in the Uk.
pension scheme which carries no investment or mortality risk for the group.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011
