466 Additional information | Risk factors Risk factors A number of factors risk factors affect Prudentials operating Global financial markets have experienced, and continue to results and financial condition and, accordingly, the trading price experience, significant volatility brought on, in particular, by of its shares.
The risk factors mentioned below should not be concerns over European and US sovereign debt, as well as regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all concerns about a general slowing of global demand reflecting potential risks and uncertainties.
The information given is as of the an increasing lack of confidence among consumers, companies date of this document, is not updated, and any forward looking and governments.
Upheavals in the financial markets may affect statements are made subject to the reservations specified below general levels of economic activity, employment and customer under Forward Looking Statements.
For example, insurers may experience an elevated incidence of claims, lapses, or surrenders of policies, and some Prudentials approaches to managing risks are explained in the policyholders may choose to defer or stop paying insurance Business review section under Risk and capital management.
The demand for insurance products may also be adversely affected.
If sustained, this environment is likely to Risks relating to Prudentials business have a negative impact on the insurance sector over time and may Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to market consequently have a negative impact on Prudentials business fluctuations and general economic conditions and profitability.
New challenges related to market fluctuations Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to market and general economic conditions may continue to emerge.
fluctuations and general economic conditions.
Uncertainty or negative trends in international economic and investment climates For some non-unit-linked investment products, in particular those could adversely affect Prudentials business and profitability.
written in some of the Groups Asian operations, it may not be Since 2008 Prudential has had to operate against a challenging possible to hold assets which will provide cash flows to match background of periods of unprecedented volatility in global capital exactly those relating to policyholder liabilities.
This is particularly and equity markets, interest rates and liquidity, and widespread true in those countries where bond markets are not developed and economic uncertainty.
Government interest rates have also fallen in certain markets where regulated surrender values are set with to historic lows in the US and UK.
These factors have, at times reference to the interest rate environment prevailing at the time during this period, had a material adverse effect on Prudentials of policy issue.
This results in a mismatch due to the duration and business and profitability.
uncertainty of the liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient assets of a suitable duration.
While this residual asset liability In the future, the adverse effects of such factors would be felt mismatch risk can be managed, it cannot be eliminated.
Where principally through the following items: interest rates in these markets remain lower than interest rates Investment impairments or reduced investment returns, which used to calculate surrender values over a sustained period, this could impair Prudentials ability to write significant volumes of could have an adverse impact on Prudentials reported profit.
new business and would have a negative impact on its assets In the US, fluctuations in prevailing interest rates can affect results under management and profit: from Jackson, which has a significant spread-based business, with Higher credit defaults and wider credit and liquidity spreads the majority of its assets invested in fixed income securities.
In resulting in realised and unrealised credit losses: particular, fixed annuities and stable value products written by Jackson expose Prudential to the risk that changes in interest Prudential in the normal course of business enters into a variety rates, which are not fully reflected in the interest rates credited to of transactions with counterparties, including derivative customers, will reduce spread.
The spread is the difference transactions.
Failure of any of these counterparties to discharge between the rate of return Jackson is able to earn on the assets their obligations, or where adequate collateral is not in place, backing the policyholders liabilities and the amounts that are could have an adverse impact on Prudentials results: and credited to policyholders in the form of benefit increases, subject Estimates of the value of financial instruments being difficult to minimum crediting rates.
because in certain illiquid or closed markets, determining the Declines in spread from these products or other spread businesses value at which financial instruments can be realised is highly that Jackson conducts could have a material impact on its subjective.
Processes to ascertain value and estimates of businesses or results of operations.
Jackson also writes a significant value require substantial elements of judgement, assumptions amount of variable annuities that offer capital or income protection and estimates which may change over time.
There could be market circumstances where the illiquidity also adds to uncertainty over the accessibility of derivatives that it enters into to hedge its market risks may not financial resources and may reduce capital resources as fully offset its losses, and any cost of the guarantees that remain valuations decline.
unhedged will also affect Prudentials results.
A significant part of the profit from Prudentials UK insurance operations is related to bonuses for policyholders declared on with-profits products, which are broadly based on historical and current rates of return on equity, real estate and fixed income securities, as well as Prudentials expectations of future investment returns.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Additional information 467 Prudential is subject to the risk of potential sovereign Prudential conducts its businesses subject to regulation debt credit deterioration owing to the amounts of and associated regulatory risks, including the effects sovereign debt obligations held in its investment of changes in the laws, regulations, policies and portfolio interpretations and any accounting standards Prudential is subject to the risk of potential sovereign debt credit in the markets in which it operates deterioration and default.
During 2011 and 2012, this risk has Changes in government policy, legislation including tax or heightened, particularly in relation to European and US sovereign regulatory interpretation applying to companies in the financial debt.
Investing in such instruments creates exposure to the direct services and insurance industries in any of the markets in which or indirect consequences of political, social or economic changes Prudential operates, which in some circumstances may be applied including changes in governments, heads of states or monarchs retrospectively, may adversely affect Prudentials product range, in the countries in which the issuers are located and the distribution channels, capital requirements and, consequently, creditworthiness of the sovereign.
Investment in sovereign debt reported results and financing requirements.
Also, regulators in obligations involves risks not present in debt obligations of jurisdictions in which Prudential operates may change the level corporate issuers.
In addition, the issuer of the debt or the of capital required to be held by individual businesses or could governmental authorities that control the repayment of the debt introduce possible changes in the regulatory framework for may be unable or unwilling to repay principal or pay interest when pension arrangements and policies, the regulation of selling due in accordance with the terms of such debt, and Prudential may practices and solvency requirements.
Furthermore, as a result have limited recourse to compel payment in the event of a default.
of the recent interventions by governments in response to global A sovereign debtors willingness or ability to repay principal and to economic conditions, it is widely expected that there will be a pay interest in a timely manner may be affected by, among other substantial increase in government regulation and supervision of factors, its cash flow situation, its relations with its central bank, the the financial services industry, including the possibility of higher extent of its foreign currency reserves, the availability of sufficient capital requirements, restrictions on certain types of transaction foreign exchange on the date a payment is due, the relative size of structure and enhanced supervisory powers.
the debt service burden to the economy as a whole, the sovereign Current EU directives, including the EU Insurance Groups debtors policy toward local and international lenders, and the Directive IGD, require European financial services groups to political constraints to which the sovereign debtor may be subject.
demonstrate net aggregate surplus capital in excess of solvency Periods of economic uncertainty may affect the volatility of market requirements at the group level in respect of shareholder-owned prices of sovereign debt to a greater extent than the volatility entities.
The test is a continuous requirement, so that Prudential inherent in debt obligations of other types of issues.
If a sovereign needs to maintain a somewhat higher amount of regulatory capital were to default on its obligations, this could have a material adverse at the group level than otherwise necessary in respect of some of effect on Prudentials financial condition and results of operations.
its individual businesses to accommodate, for example, short-term movements in global foreign exchange rates, interest rates, Prudential is subject to the risk of exchange rate deterioration in credit quality and equity markets.
The EU is also fluctuations owing to the geographical diversity developing a new solvency framework for insurance companies, of its businesses referred to as Solvency II.
The new approach will be based on Due to their geographical diversity, Prudentials businesses are the concept of three pillars minimum capital requirements, subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
Prudentials supervisory review of firms assessment of risk, and enhanced operations in the US and Asia, which represent a significant disclosure requirements and will cover valuations, the treatment proportion of operating profit and shareholders funds, generally of insurance groups, the definition of capital and the overall level write policies and invest in assets denominated in local currency.
A key aspect of Solvency II is that the Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate assessment of risks and capital requirements will be aligned more fluctuations on local operating results, it can lead to significant closely with economic capital methodologies, and may allow fluctuations in Prudentials consolidated financial statements upon Prudential to make use of its internal economic capital models, translation of results into pounds sterling.
The currency exposure if approved by the Financial Services Authority FSA or other relating to the translation of reported earnings is not currently relevant supervisory authority.
The Solvency II Directive was separately managed.
The impact of gains or losses on currency formally approved by the Economic and Financial Affairs Council in translations is recorded as a component of shareholders funds November 2009.
The European Parliament is currently discussing within other comprehensive income.
Consequently, this could the Omnibus II Directive which, once approved, will amend the impact on Prudentials gearing ratios defined as debt over debt Solvency II Directive.
In addition, the European Commission is plus shareholders funds.
continuing to develop the detailed rules that will complement the high-level principles of the Directive, referred to as implementing measures.
The Omnibus II Directive is expected to be finalised during 2012, with the implementing measures expected to be finalised later in 2012.
There is significant uncertainty regarding the final outcome of this process.
As a result there is a risk that the effect of the measures finally adopted could be adverse for Prudential, including potentially a significant increase in capital required to support its business and that Prudential may be placed at a competitive disadvantage to other European and non-European financial services groups.
468 Additional information | Risk factors | continued Risk factors Various jurisdictions in which Prudential operates have created In the US, federal and state regulators have focused on, and investor compensation schemes that require mandatory continue to devote substantial attention to, the mutual fund, fixed contributions from market participants in some instances in the index annuity and insurance product industries.
This focus includes event of a failure of a market participant.
As a major participant new regulations in respect of the suitability of sales of certain in the majority of its chosen markets, circumstances could arise products.
As a result of publicity relating to widespread perceptions where Prudential, along with other companies, may be required of industry abuses, there have been numerous regulatory inquiries to make such contributions.
and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms.
The Groups accounts are prepared in accordance with current In Asia, regulatory regimes are developing at different speeds, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS applicable to driven by a combination of global factors and local considerations.
The International Accounting Standards There is a risk that new requirements are introduced that challenge Board IASB introduced a framework that it described as Phase I, current practices, or are retrospectively applied to sales made prior which permitted insurers to continue to use the statutory basis of to their introduction.
accounting for insurance assets and liabilities that existed in their jurisdictions prior to January 2005.
In July 2010, the IASB Litigation, disputes and regulatory investigations may published an Exposure Draft for its Phase II on insurance adversely affect Prudentials profitability and financial accounting, which would introduce significant changes to the condition statutory reporting of insurance entities that prepare accounts Prudential is, and may be in the future, subject to legal actions, according to IFRS.
The IASB continues its deliberation on the disputes and regulatory investigations in the ordinary course of its exposure draft principles but it remains uncertain whether the insurance, investment management and other business operations.
proposals in the Exposure Draft will become the final IASB These legal actions, disputes and investigations may relate to standard and when changes might take effect.
aspects of Prudentials businesses and operations that are specific to Prudential, or that are common to companies that operate in Any changes or modification of IFRS accounting policies may Prudentials markets.
Legal actions and disputes may arise under require a change in the future results or a restatement of contracts, regulations including tax or from a course of conduct reported results.
taken by Prudential, and may be class actions.
Although Prudential European Embedded Value EEV basis results are published as believes that it has adequately provided in all material aspects for supplementary information by Prudential using principles issued by the costs of litigation and regulatory matters, no assurance can be the European CFO Chief Financial Officers Forum.
The EEV basis is provided that such provisions are sufficient.
Given the large or a value-based reporting method for Prudentials long-term business indeterminate amounts of damages sometimes sought, and the which is used by market analysts, and which underpins a significant inherent unpredictability of litigation and disputes, it is possible part of the key performance indicators used by Prudentials that an adverse outcome could, from time to time, have an adverse management for both internal and external reporting purposes.
effect on Prudentials results of operations or cash flows.
The resolution of several issues affecting the financial Prudentials businesses are conducted in highly services industry could have a negative impact on competitive environments with developing Prudentials reported results or on its relations with demographic trends and continued profitability current and potential customers depends on managements ability to respond to these Prudential is, and in the future may be, subject to legal and pressures and trends regulatory actions in the ordinary course of its business, both in The markets for financial services in the UK, US and Asia are highly the UK and internationally.
These actions could involve a review competitive, with several factors affecting Prudentials ability to of business sold in the past under acceptable market practices at sell its products and continued profitability, including price and the time, such as the requirement in the UK to provide redress to yields offered, financial strength and ratings, range of product certain past purchasers of pension and mortgage endowment lines and product quality, brand strength and name recognition, policies, changes to the tax regime affecting products and investment management performance, historical bonus levels, regulatory reviews on products sold and industry practices, developing demographic trends and customer appetite for including, in the latter case, businesses it has closed.
In some of its markets, Prudential faces competitors that are larger, have greater financial resources or a Regulators particularly, but not exclusively, in the US and the UK greater market share, offer a broader range of products or have are moving towards a regime based on principles-based regulation higher bonus rates or claims-paying ratios.
Further, heightened which brings an element of uncertainty.
These regulators are competition for talented and skilled employees and agents with increasingly interested in the approach that product providers use local experience, particularly in Asia, may limit Prudentials to select third party distributors and to monitor the appropriateness potential to grow its business as quickly as planned.
In some cases, product providers can be held responsible for the deficiencies of third-party distributors.
In Asia, the Groups principal regional competitors are international financial companies, including Allianz, AXA, ING, AIA and Manulife.
In a number of markets, local companies have a very significant market presence.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Additional information 469 Within the UK, Prudentials principal competitors in the life market Adverse experience in the operational risks inherent include many of the major retail financial services companies in Prudentials business could have a negative impact including, in particular, Aviva, Legal & General, Lloyds Banking on its results of operations Group and Standard Life.
Operational risks are present in all of Prudentials businesses, including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from Jacksons competitors in the US include major stock and mutual inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems insurance companies, mutual fund organisations, banks and other and human error or from external events.
Prudentials business is financial services companies such as AIG, AXA Financial Inc. dependent on processing a large number of complex transactions Hartford Life Inc. Prudential Financial, Lincoln National, MetLife across numerous and diverse products, and is subject to a number and TIAA-CREF.
of different legal and regulatory regimes.
In addition, Prudential Prudential believes competition will intensify across all regions outsources several operations, including a significant part of its UK in response to consumer demand, technological advances, the back office and customer-facing functions as well as a number of impact of consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors.
IT functions, resulting in reliance upon the operational processing Prudentials ability to generate an appropriate return depends performance of its outsourcing partners.
significantly upon its capacity to anticipate and respond Further, because of the long-term nature of much of the Groups appropriately to these competitive pressures.
business, accurate records have to be maintained for significant periods.
Prudentials systems and processes incorporate controls Downgrades in Prudentials financial strength and which are designed to manage and mitigate the operational risks credit ratings could significantly impact its competitive associated with its activities.
For example, any weakness in the position and hurt its relationships with creditors or administration systems or actuarial reserving processes could have trading counterparties an impact on its results of operations during the effective period.
Prudentials financial strength and credit ratings, which are used by Prudential has not experienced or identified any operational risks the market to measure its ability to meet policyholder obligations, in its systems or processes during 2011, which have subsequently are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of caused, or are expected to cause, a significant negative impact on Prudentials products, and as a result its competitiveness.
Downgrades in Prudentials ratings, as a result of, for example, decreased profitability, increased costs, increased indebtedness Adverse experience against the assumptions used in or other concerns, could have an adverse effect on its ability to pricing products and reporting business results could market products: retain current policyholders: and on the Groups significantly affect Prudentials results of operations financial flexibility.
In addition, the interest rates Prudential pays Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number of factors in on its borrowings are affected by its debt credit ratings, which determining the pricing of its products and setting reserves, and for are in place to measure the Groups ability to meet its contractual reporting its capital levels and the results of its long-term business obligations.
For example, the assumption that Prudential makes Prudentials long-term senior debt is rated as A2 by Moodys, about future expected levels of mortality is particularly relevant for A by Standard & Poors and A by Fitch.
These ratings have a its UK annuity business.
In exchange for a premium equal to the stable outlook.
capital value of their accumulated pension fund, pension annuity policyholders receive a guaranteed payment, usually monthly, for Prudentials short-term debt is rated as P-1 by Moodys, A-1 by as long as they are alive.
Prudential conducts rigorous research into Standard & Poors and F1 by Fitch.
longevity risk, using data from its substantial annuitant portfolio.
As The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds financial strength is part of its pension annuity pricing and reserving policy, Prudentials rated Aa2 by Moodys, AA by Standard & Poors and AA by Fitch.
UK business assumes that current rates of mortality continuously These ratings have a stable outlook.
improve over time at levels based on adjusted data from the Continuous Mortality Investigations CMI, as published by the Jacksons financial strength is rated AA by Standard & Poors and Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
If mortality improvement rates Fitch, A1 by Moodys, and A by AM Best.
These ratings have a significantly exceed the improvement assumed, Prudentials stable outlook.
results of operations could be adversely affected.
In addition, changes in methodologies and criteria used by rating agencies could result in downgrades that do not reflect changes in the general economic conditions, or Prudentials financial condition.
470 Additional information | Risk factors | continued Risk factors A further example is the assumption that Prudential makes about Prudential operates in a number of markets through future expected levels of the rates of early termination of products joint ventures and other arrangements with third parties by its customers persistency.
This is particularly relevant to its including in China and India, involving certain risks lines of business other than its UK annuity business.
Prudentials that Prudential does not face with respect to its persistency assumptions reflect recent past experience for each consolidated subsidiaries relevant line of business.
Any expected deterioration in future Prudential operates, and in certain markets is required by local persistency is also reflected in the assumption.
If actual levels of regulation to operate, through joint ventures including in China future persistency are significantly lower than assumed that is, and India.
For the Groups joint venture operations, management policy termination rates are significantly higher than assumed, control is exercised jointly with the venture participants.
The level the Groups results of operations could be adversely affected.
of control exercisable by the Group depends on the terms of the joint venture agreements, in particular, the allocation of control Another example is the impact of epidemics and other effects that among, and continued co-operation between, the joint venture cause a large number of deaths.
Prudential may also face financial or other exposure have occurred three times in the last century, but the likelihood, in the event that any of its joint venture partners fails to meet its timing, or the severity of future epidemics cannot be predicted.
obligations under the joint venture, or encounters financial The effectiveness of external parties, including governmental difficulty.
In addition, a significant proportion of the Groups and non-governmental organisations, in combating the spread product distribution is carried out through arrangements with and severity of any epidemics could have a material impact on third parties not controlled by Prudential and is dependent upon the Groups loss experience.
A temporary or permanent In common with other industry participants, the profitability of disruption to these distribution arrangements could adversely the Groups businesses depends on a mix of factors including affect the results of operations of Prudential.
mortality and morbidity trends, policy surrender rates, investment performance and impairments, unit cost of administration and new Prudentials Articles of Association contain an exclusive business acquisition expense.
jurisdiction provision Under Prudentials Articles of Association, certain legal proceedings As a holding company, Prudential is dependent upon its may only be brought in the courts of England and Wales.
This subsidiaries to cover operating expenses and dividend applies to legal proceedings by a shareholder in its capacity as such payments.
against Prudential and or its directors and or its professional service The Groups insurance and investment management operations providers.
It also applies to legal proceedings between Prudential are generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries.
and its directors and or Prudential and Prudentials professional service providers that arise in connection with legal proceedings As a holding company, Prudentials principal sources of funds between the shareholder and such professional service provider.
are remittances from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds, This provision could make it difficult for US and other non-UK the shareholder transfer from long-term funds and any amounts shareholders to enforce their shareholder rights.
that may be raised through the issuance of equity, debt and commercial paper.
Certain of the subsidiaries are restricted by Changes in tax legislation may result in adverse tax applicable insurance, foreign exchange and tax laws, rules and consequences regulations that can limit the payment of dividends, which in Tax rules, including those relating to the insurance industry, some circumstances could limit the ability to pay dividends to and their interpretation, may change, possibly with retrospective shareholders, or to make available funds held in certain effect, in any of the jurisdictions in which Prudential operates.
subsidiaries to cover operating expenses of other members Significant tax disputes with tax authorities, and any change in the of the Group.
tax status of any member of the Group or in taxation legislation or its scope or interpretation could affect Prudentials financial condition and results of operations.
