80 Business review | Risk and capital management Risk and capital management As a provider of financial services, including insurance, Liquidity: the objective is to ensure that the Group is able to the management of risk lies at the heart of our business.
generate sufficient cash resources to meet financial obligations As a result, effective risk management capabilities as they fall due in business as usual and stressed scenarios.
represent a key source of competitive advantage for Capital requirements: the limits aim to ensure that: our Group.
a the Group meets its internal economic capital requirements, The Groups risk framework includes our appetite for risk b the Group achieves its desired target rating to meet its exposures as well as our approach to risk management.
Under business objectives, and this approach, we continuously assess the Groups top risks c supervisory intervention is avoided.
and monitor our risk profile against approved limits.
Our main The two measures used are the EU Insurance Groups Directive strategies for managing and mitigating risk include asset liability management, using derivatives to hedge relevant IGD capital requirements and internal economic capital requirements.
In addition, capital requirements are monitored market risks, and implementing reinsurance and corporate insurance programmes.
Our risk appetite framework forms an integral part of our A.
Group risk appetite annual business planning cycle.
The Group Risk Committee Prudential defines and monitors aggregate risk limits based is responsible for reviewing the risks inherent in the Groups on financial and non-financial stresses for its earnings volatility, business plan and for providing the Board with input on the risk liquidity and capital requirements.
This review is supported by Earnings volatility: the objectives of the limits are to our Group Risk function, which uses submissions by business ensure that: units to calculate the Groups aggregated position allowing for diversification effects between business units relative to the a t he volatility of earnings is consistent with the expectations limits contained within the risk appetite statements.
of stakeholders, b t he Group has adequate earnings and cash flows to service debt, expected dividends and to withstand unexpected shocks, and c earnings and cash flows are managed properly across geographies and are consistent with funding strategies.
The two measures used to monitor the volatility of earnings are European Embedded Value EEV operating profit and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS operating profit, although EEV and IFRS total profits are also considered.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Business review 81 B.
Risk exposures The Group Risk Framework deploys a common risk language, allowing meaningful comparisons to be made between different business units.
Risks are broadly categorised as shown below: Category Risk type Definition Financial risks Market risk The risk of loss for our business, or of adverse change in the financial situation, resulting, directly or indirectly, from fluctuations in the level or volatility of market prices of assets and liabilities.
Credit risk The risk of loss for our business or of adverse change in the financial position, resulting from fluctuations in the credit standing of issuers of securities, counterparties and any debtors in the form of default or other significant credit event eg downgrade or spread widening.
Insurance risk The risk of loss for our business or of adverse change in the value of insurance liabilities, resulting from changes in the level, trend, or volatility of a number of insurance risk drivers.
This includes adverse mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency and expense experience.
Liquidity risk The risk of the Group being unable to generate sufficient cash resources or raise finance to meet financial obligations as they fall due in business as usual and stress scenarios.
Non-financial risks Operational risk The risk of loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, or from personnel and systems, or from external events.
Business Exposure to forces in the external environment that could environment risk significantly change the fundamentals that drive the businesss overall strategy.
Strategic risk Ineffective, inefficient or inadequate senior management processes for the development and implementation of business strategy in relation to the business environment and the Groups capabilities.
The key financial and non-financial risks and uncertainties faced death benefits GMDB on substantially all policies in this class, by the Group, that have been considered by the Group Risk guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits GMWB on a Committee during the year, and our approaches to managing significant proportion of the book, and guaranteed minimum them, are described below.
income benefits GMIB on only 5 per cent.
To protect the shareholders against the volatility introduced by these B.
1 Financial risks embedded options, we use both a comprehensive hedging a Market risk programme and reinsurance.
The GMIB is no longer offered, i Equity risk with existing coverage being reinsured.
In the UK business, most of our equity exposure is incurred The Jackson IFRS shareholders equity and US statutory capital in the with-profits fund, which includes a large inherited are sensitive to the effects of policyholder behaviour on the estate estimated at 6.1 billion as at 31 December 2011 valuation of GMWB guarantees, but to manageable levels.
2010: 6.8 billion, which can absorb market fluctuations and For example, at 31 December 2011, on two severe stress protect the funds solvency.
The inherited estate itself is partially test scenarios: protected against falls in equity markets through an active hedging policy.
A halving in lapses of significantly in the money policies would have given rise to indicative reductions of 200 million In Asia our shareholder exposure to equities is minimal and is in IFRS shareholders equity and 235 million on US statutory mainly attributed to revenue from unit-linked products.
From capital: or a capital perspective, we have a small exposure to falling equity markets from the with-profits businesses.
A 10 per cent increase in utilisation by all policyholders would have given rise to indicative reductions of 100 million on IFRS In the US, where we are a leading provider of variable annuities, shareholders equity and 240 million on US statutory capital.
there are well-understood risks associated with the guarantees embedded in our products.
We provide guaranteed minimum 82 Business review | Risk and capital management | continued Risk and capital management In our variable annuity sales activities, we focus on meeting the In the UK, the investment policy for the shareholder-backed needs of conservative and risk averse customers who are seeking annuity business is to match the annuity payments with the cash reliable income in retirement, and who display little tendency to flows from investments.
As a result, assets and liabilities are arbitrage their guarantees.
These customers generally select closely matched by duration.
The impact on profit of any residual conservative investment options.
We are able to meet the needs cash flow mismatching can be adversely affected by changes of these customers because of the strength of our operational in interest rates: therefore the mismatching position is regularly platform.
The guarantees written in the with-profits business also give rise to some interest rate discounting risk ie falling It is our philosophy not to compete on price: rather, we seek rates result in an increase in the cost of guarantees albeit these to sell at a price sufficient to fund the cost we incur to hedge impacts are in the first instance absorbed by the with-profits or reinsure our risks and to achieve an acceptable return for fund and not IFRS shareholders equity.
The exposure to interest rate risk arising from guarantees in We use a macro approach to hedging that covers the risks Asia is at modest levels: for some non-unit-linked investment inherent across the US business.
Within this macro approach we products it may not be possible to hold assets which will provide make use of the natural offsets that exist between the variable cash flows to match exactly those relating to policyholder annuity guarantees and the fixed index annuity book, and then liabilities.
This results in a mismatch due to the duration and use a combination of over-the-counter OTC options and uncertainty of the liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient exchange traded derivatives to hedge the remaining risk, assets of a suitable duration.
While this residual asset liability considering significant market shocks and limiting the amount mismatch risk can be managed, it cannot be eliminated.
of capital we are putting at risk.
Internal positions are generally netted before any external hedge positions are considered.
iii Foreign exchange risk The hedging programme also covers the fees on variable Prudential principally operates in the UK, the US, and in annuity guarantees.
13 countries and territories in Asia and the Middle East.
Jackson hedges the economics of its products rather than the The geographical diversity of our businesses means that we accounting result.
This focus means that we accept a degree of are inevitably subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
variability in our accounting results in order to ensure we achieve Prudentials international operations in the US and Asia, which the appropriate economic result.
Accordingly, while Jacksons represent a significant proportion of our operating profit and hedges are effective on an economic basis, due to different shareholders funds, generally write policies and invest in assets accounting treatment for the hedges and some of the underlying denominated in local currency.
Although this practice limits the hedged items on an IFRS basis, the reported income effect is effect of exchange rate fluctuations on local operating results, more variable.
it can lead to significant fluctuations in our consolidated financial statements when results are expressed in pounds sterling.
ii Interest rate risk We do not generally seek to hedge foreign currency revenues, Interest rate risk arises primarily from Prudentials investments as these are substantially retained locally to support the growth in long-term debt and fixed income securities.
Interest rate risk of the Groups business and meet local regulatory and market also exists in policies that carry investment guarantees on early requirements.
However, in cases where a surplus arising in surrender or at maturity, where claim values can become higher an overseas operation supports Group capital or shareholders than the value of backing assets as a result of rises or falls in interest, this exposure is hedged if it is economically optimal interest rates.
Currency borrowings, swaps and other derivatives In the US, there is interest rate risk across the portfolio.
The are used to manage exposures.
majority of Jacksons fixed annuity and life liabilities allow for an annual reset of the crediting rate, which provides for a greater b Credit risk level of discretion in determining the amount of interest rate risk In addition to business unit and Group-wide operational limits to assume.
The primary concerns with these liabilities relate to on credit risk, we monitor closely our counterparty exposures potential surrenders when rates increase and, in a low interest at Group level, highlighting those that are large or of concern.
environment, the minimum guarantees required by state law.
Where appropriate, we will reduce our exposure, purchase For variable annuities, interest rate changes will influence the credit protection or make use of collateral arrangements to level of reserves held for certain guaranteed benefits.
With its control our levels of credit risk.
large fixed annuity and fixed index annuity books, Jackson has natural offsets for its variable annuity interest-rate related risks.
Jackson manages interest rate exposure through a combination of interest rate swaps and interest rate options.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Business review 83 The Group held the following total investments at 31 December 2011.
2011 bn 2010 bn Unit-linked Participating and variable ShareholderTotal Total funds annuities backed Group Group Debt securities 57.2 8.9 58.4 124.5 116.4 Equity 26.0 59.9 1.4 87.3 86.6 Property investments 8.5 0.7 1.6 10.8 11.2 Mortgage loans 1.0 4.7 5.7 5.0 Other loans 1.7 2.3 4.0 4.3 Deposits 7.2 1.5 2.0 10.7 10.0 Other investments 4.5 0.1 3.0 7.6 5.8 Total 106.1 71.1 73.4 250.6 239.3 The table below presents the balances of investments related to shareholder-backed operations.
2011 bn Asia life UK life US life Other Total Total shareholder-backed investments 7.1 28.5 34.0 3.8 73.4 Shareholders are not directly exposed to value movements on either externally or internally, as investment grade compared to assets backing participating or unit-linked operations, with 95 per cent at 31 December 2010. sensitivity mainly related to shareholder-backed operations.
The below table presents the balances of debt securities at 31 December 2011. i Debt portfolio The investments held by the shareholder-backed operations are predominantly debt securities, of which 95 per cent are rated, 2011 bn 2010 bn Unit-linked Participating and variable ShareholderTotal Total funds annuities backed Group Group Insurance operations U 47.6 6.2 24.2 78.0 74.3 US 27.0 27.0 26.4 Asi 9.6 2.7 5.4 17.7 14.1 Asset management operations 1.8 1.8 1.6 Total debt securities 57.2 8.9 58.4 124.5 116.4 UK unit-linked funds where the shareholders risk is limited, with The UKs debt portfolio on an IFRS basis is 78.0 billion as the remaining 24.2 billion backing the shareholders annuity at 31 December 2011, including 47.6 billion within the UK business and other non-linked business of which 78 per cent is with-profits fund.
Shareholders risk exposure to the with-profits rated AAA to A, 20 per cent BBB and 2 per cent non-investment fund is limited as the solvency is protected by the large inherited grade.
The UK shareholder-backed portfolio did not experience estate.
Outside the with-profits fund there is 6.2 billion in any default losses in 2011. a K 84 Business review | Risk and capital management | continued Risk and capital management US The most significant area of exposure to credit risk for the shareholders is Jackson in the US.
At 31 December 2011 Jacksons fixed income debt securities portfolio consisted of: 2011 m 2010 m Summary Corporate and government security and commercial loans: Government 2,163 2,440 Publicly traded and SEC Rule 144A securities 16,281 14,747 Non-SEC Rule 144A securities 3,198 3,044 Total 21,642 20,231 Residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS 2,591 2,784 Commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS 2,169 2,375 Other debt securities 620 976 Total US debt securities 27,022 26,366 Of the 19.5 billion of corporate debt, 95 per cent is investment our balance sheet.
However, we would expect only a proportion grade.
Concentration risk within the corporate debt portfolio of these losses eventually to turn into defaults, and some of the is low, with the top ten holdings accounting for approximately impaired securities to recover in price over time.
4 per cent of the portfolio.
Our largest sector exposures in the Jacksons net unrealised gains from debt securities was investment grade corporate debt portfolio are Utilities and positive 2,057 million at 31 December 2011, compared Energy each at 15 per cent.
We actively manage the portfolio to positive 1,210 million at 31 December 2010.
The gross and will sell exposures as events dictate.
unrealised loss position was 246 million at 31 December 2011 Within the RMBS portfolio of 2.6 billion, the portion 31 December 2010: 370 million.
Gross unrealised losses on guaranteed by US government sponsored agencies is securities priced at less than 80 per cent of face value totalled 60 per cent.
Another 18 per cent of the portfolio is non-agency 158 million at 31 December 2011 compared to 224 million at prime and Alt-A investments with pre-2006 2007 vintages, 31 December 2010. where experience has been much more positive than later vintages.
Our exposure to the 2006 2007 vintages totals Asia 343 million of which 337 million is invested in the senior part Asias debt portfolio totalled 17.7 billion at 31 December 2011. of the capital structure.
The actual exposure to non-senior Of this, approximately 70 per cent was in unit-linked and 2006 2007 Prime and Alt-A RMBS is only 6 million.
The total with-profits funds with minimal shareholders risk.
The RMBS portfolio has an average fair value price of 92 cents on remaining 30 per cent is shareholder exposure and is invested the dollar.
predominantly 73 per cent in investment grade bonds.
For Asia, the portfolio has performed very well, and did not The CMBS portfolio of 2.2 billion is performing strongly, with experience any default losses in 2011.
35 per cent of the portfolio rated AAA and only 2 per cent rated below investment grade.
The entire portfolio has an average Asset management credit enhancement level of 30 per cent.
This level provides The debt portfolio of the Groups asset management operations significant protection, since it means the underlying collateral of 1.8 billion as at 31 December 2011 is principally related to has to incur a 30 per cent loss, net of recoveries, before our Prudential Capital operations.
Of this amount 1.5 billion were holding is at risk.
rated AAA to Aby S&P or Aaa by Moodys.
Jacksons debt securities experienced total credit-related losses in 2011 of 52 million 2010: 213 million.
This includes net ii Group shareholder sovereign debt exposure recoveries on sales of previously impaired bonds of 10 million Sovereign debt represented 16 per cent or 9.2 billion of the 2010: loss of 89 million and IFRS write-downs of 62 million debt portfolio backing shareholder business at 31 December 2011.
Of this amount of write-downs, 21 million 43 per cent of this was rated AAA and 94 per cent investment 2010: 71 million was in respect of RMBS securities.
Of the Groups holdings in Continental Europe of to the amounts for debt securities, there were 28 million 690 million, 87 per cent was AAA rated.
Prudentials direct 2010: 12 million of write-downs on Jacksons commercial exposure to the eurozone is small in the context of our overall mortgage loan portfolio.
In 2011 and 2010 Jackson did not have balance sheet.
Shareholder exposure to the Eurozone sovereigns any defaults in its debt securities portfolio.
of Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain PIIGS is 44 million.
The Group does not have any sovereign debt exposure to The impairment process reflects a rigorous review of every bond Greece, Portugal, Ireland or France.
and security in our portfolio.
Our accounting policy requires us to book full mark to market losses on impaired securities through Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Business review 85 The exposure of the Groups shareholder and with-profits funds to sovereign debt including credit default swaps that are referenced to sovereign debt at 31 December 2011 is as follows.
Shareholder With-profits sovereign sovereign debt debt m m Continental Europe Italy 43 52 Spain 1 33 44 85 Germany 598 602 Other Europe principally Isle of Man and Belgium 48 62 690 749 United Kingdom 3,254 2,801 United States 2,448 2,615 Other, predominantly Asia 2,850 332 Total 9,242 6,497 iii Exposure to bank debt securities Prudential actively mitigates the level of Group wide credit risk Prudential expects that any second order sovereign credit invested credit and counterparty through a comprehensive exposures would most likely be concentrated in the banking system of hard limits, collateralisation agreements and centrally sector.
The Groups bank exposure is a function of its core managed watch lists.
investment business, as well as of the hedging and other activity Of the 58.4 billion of debt securities backing shareholder undertaken to manage its various financial risks.
Prudential relies business excluding holdings attributable to external holders of on public information, such as the results of the July 2011 consolidated unit trusts, 4 per cent or 2.1 billion was in Tier 1 European Banking Authority EBA stress tests to identify banks and Tier 2 hybrid bank debt.
A further 2.2 billion was in the with large concentrations of indirect exposure.
Prudential has a range of controls and processes to manage In terms of shareholder exposures to the bank debt of PIIGS, credit exposure.
In addition to the control frameworks that cover we held 328 million at 31 December 2011.
This comprised shareholder and policyholder credit risk within each Business 107 million of covered bonds, 59 million senior debt, Unit, the Group Credit Risk Committee oversees shareholder 16 million Tier 1 debt and 146 million Tier 2 debt.
There credit risk across the Group.
The Committee receives was no direct exposure to Greek banks.
comprehensive management information, including details of counterparty and invested credit exposure including structured credit and loans, secured and unsecured cash balances, top 30 credit exposures, and an analysis of shareholder exposure by industry country and rating.
The Group Risk function also continually monitors the portfolio for emerging credit risks through various tools and processes.
86 Business review | Risk and capital management | continued Risk and capital management The Group held the following direct exposures to banks debt securities of shareholder-backed business at 31 December 2011: Bank debt securities shareholder-backed business Senior debt Subordinated debt Total Total senior subordinated Covered Senior debt Tier 2 Tier 1 debt Total m m m m m m m Portugal 24 24 24 Ireland 13 13 13 Italy 11 11 56 14 70 81 Greece Spain 107 11 118 90 2 92 210 107 59 166 146 16 162 328 Austria 9 9 9 Belgium France 2 34 36 78 35 113 149 Germany 28 28 1 1 29 Luxembourg Netherlands 7 7 81 64 145 152 United Kingdom 228 145 373 615 95 710 1,083 Total Europe 337 273 610 930 210 1,140 1,750 United States 1,362 1,362 352 2 354 1,716 Other, predominantly Asia 246 246 562 33 595 841 Total 337 1,881 2,218 1,844 245 2,089 4,307 In addition to the exposures held by the shareholder-backed business, the Group held the following banks securities at 31 December 2011 within its with-profits funds: Bank debt securities participating funds Senior debt Subordinated debt Total Total senior subordinated Covered Senior debt Tier 2 Tier 1 debt Total m m m m m m m Portugal 7 7 7 Ireland Italy 45 45 49 2 51 96 Greece 5 5 5 Spain 137 137 1 1 138 142 52 194 50 2 52 246 Austria Belgium France 80 80 47 17 64 144 Germany 7 7 7 Luxembourg 7 7 7 Netherlands 80 80 14 28 42 122 United Kingdom 319 385 704 772 74 846 1,550 Total Europe 461 611 1,072 883 121 1,004 2,076 United States 1,378 1,378 396 278 674 2,052 Other, predominantly Asia 1 384 385 341 20 361 746 Total 462 2,373 2,835 1,620 419 2,039 4,874 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Business review 87 iv Other possible impacts of a eurozone crisis In respect of operational risks, we have strong investment Other knock on impacts of a eurozone crisis may represent some operations, counterparty risk and change management risk to the Group, both in terms of financial market impact and capabilities and we are confident in our ability to manage the potential operational issues.
These third order exposures are transition to a new eurozone regime if events require us to do so.
intrinsically more difficult to quantify.
However, as well as the monitoring routines noted above, Prudential has also developed v Loans tools to identify the Groups exposure to counterparties at risk Of the total Group loans of 9.7 billion at 31 December 2011, including contingent credit exposures, and has in place the following are held by shareholder-backed operations.
Group-wide processes to facilitate the management of such risks should they materialise.
2011 bn 2010 bn Mortgage Other Mortgage Other loans loans Total loans loans Total i Asia insurance operations 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 ii US insurance operations 3.6 0.6 4.2 3.6 0.6 4.2 iii UK insurance operations 1.1 1.1 1.0 1.0 iv Asset management operations 1.3 1.3 1.4 1.4 Total loans held by shareholder-backed operations 4.7 2.3 7.0 4.6 2.5 7.1 Notes i The majority of Asia insurance operations loans are commercial loans held by the Malaysian operation that are rated investment grade by two local rating agencies.
ii All commercial mortgage loans held by US insurance operations are collateralised by properties.
The US commercial mortgage loan portfolio does not include any single-family residential mortgage loans and therefore is not exposed to the risk of defaults associated with residential sub-prime mortgage loans.
Jackson incurred impairments of 28 million on its commercial mortgage book 2010: 12 million.
Other loans represents policy loans.
iii The majority of mortgage loans held by UK insurance operations are mortgage loans collateralised by properties.
iv Relates to bridging loan finance managed by Prudential Capital.
vi Counterparty credit risk c Insurance risk The Group enters into a variety of exchange traded and The processes of determining the price of our products and over-the-counter derivative financial instruments, including reporting the results of our long-term business operations futures, options, forward currency contracts and swaps such as require us to make a number of assumptions.
In common interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, swaptions and credit with other industry players, the profitability of our businesses default swaps.
depends on a mix of factors including mortality and morbidity trends, persistency, investment performance, unit cost of All over-the-counter derivative transactions, with the exception administration and new business acquisition expenses.
of some Asian transactions, are conducted under standardised ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc We continue to conduct rigorous research into longevity master agreements and the Group has collateral agreements risk using data from our substantial annuity portfolio.
The between the individual Group entities and relevant assumptions that Prudential makes about future expected levels counterparties in place under each of these market of mortality are particularly relevant in its UK annuity business.
The attractiveness of reinsurance is regularly evaluated.
It is used as a risk management tool where it is appropriate and attractive The Groups exposure to derivative counterparty credit risk is to do so.
subject to the same framework of Group-wide operational limits and monitoring as our invested credit risk.
Where appropriate, Prudentials persistency assumptions reflect recent experience we will reduce our exposure, purchase credit protection or make for each relevant line of business, and any expectations of future use of additional collateral arrangements to control our levels of persistency.
Persistency risk is mitigated by appropriate training counterparty credit risk.
and sales processes and managed proactively post sale.
Where appropriate, allowance is also made for the relationship either assumed or historically observed between persistency and investment returns, and for the resulting additional risk.
88 Business review | Risk and capital management | continued Risk and capital management d Liquidity risk With regard to business environment risk, the Group has a wideThe parent company has significant internal sources of liquidity ranging programme of active and constructive engagement with which are sufficient to meet all of our expected requirements for governments, policymakers and regulators in our key markets the foreseeable future without having to make use of external and with relevant international institutions.
In aggregate the Group has 2.1 billion of undrawn undertaken both directly and indirectly via trade associations.
committed facilities, expiring between 2013 and 2017.
In The Group has procedures in place to monitor and track political addition, the Group has access to liquidity via the debt capital and regulatory developments.
Where appropriate, the Group markets.
For example, Prudential plc issued US$550 million provides submissions and technical input to officials and others, perpetual subordinated Tier 1 securities in January 2011. either via submissions to formal consultations or through Prudential also has in place an unlimited commercial paper interactions with officials.
programme and has maintained a consistent presence as an With regard to strategic risk, both business units and the issuer in this market for the last decade.
Liquidity uses and Group Head Office are required to adopt a forward-looking sources have been assessed at the Group and at a business unit approach to risk management by performing risk assessments level under base case and stressed assumptions.
The liquidity as part of the annual strategic planning process.
This supports resources available and the subsequent Liquidity Coverage the identification of potential threats and the initiatives needed Ratio LCR have been assessed to be sufficient under both to address them, as well as competitive opportunities.
impact on the underlying businesses and or Group-wide risk profile is also considered to ensure that strategic initiatives are B.
2 Non-financial risk within the Groups risk appetite.
Prudential is exposed to operational, business environment and strategic risk in the course of running its businesses.
Solvency II represents a regulatory risk due to the uncertainty of what the rules will be when finalised, their potential impacts, With regard to operational risk, the Group is dependent on and the timing of their introduction.
The risks are that the Group processing a large number of complex transactions across may not be able to respond sufficiently quickly to the strategic numerous diverse products, and is subject to a number of implication of the change given levels of uncertainty around the different legal and regulatory, including tax, regimes.
Prudential content and timing: operational risk in terms of the scale and also has a significant number of third-party relationships that are complexity of the delivery and uncertainty over timelines: and important to the distribution and processing of our products, the additional capital that the Group may be required to hold.
both as market counterparties and as business partners.
This Solvency II is covered in more detail in the Capital Management results in reliance upon the operational performance of these section below.
Prudentials systems and processes incorporate controls that are B.
3 Risk factors designed to manage and mitigate the operational risks associated Our disclosures covering risk factors can be found at the end of with its activities.
The Prudential Group Governance Manual was this document.
developed to make a key contribution to the sound system of internal control that the Group is expected to maintain under C. Capital management the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Hong Kong Code C. 1 Regulatory capital IGD on Corporate Governance Practices.
Group Head Office and Prudential is subject to the capital adequacy requirements of business units confirm that they have implemented the the European Union EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD as necessary controls to evidence compliance with the Manual.
implemented by the Financial Services Authority FSA in the UK.
The IGD capital adequacy requirements involve aggregating The Group has an operational risk management framework in surplus capital held in our regulated subsidiaries, from which place that facilitates both the qualitative and quantitative analysis Group borrowings, except those subordinated debt issues that of operational risk exposures.
The output of this framework, in qualify as capital, are deducted.
No credit for the benefit of particular management information on key operational risk and diversification is permitted under this approach.
control assessments, scenario analysis, internal incidents and external incidents, is reported by the business units and Our capital position remains strong.
We have continued to place presented to the Group Operational Risk Committee.
This emphasis on maintaining the Groups financial strength through information also supports business decision-making and optimising the balance between writing profitable new business, lessons-learned activities: the ongoing improvement of the conserving capital and generating cash.
We estimate that our control environment: and determination of the adequacy of IGD capital surplus is 4.0 billion at 31 December 2011 before Prudentials corporate insurance programme.
taking into account the 2011 final dividend, with available capital covering our capital requirements 2.75 times.
This compares to a capital surplus of 4.3 billion at the end of 2010 before taking into account the 2010 final dividend.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Business review 89 The movements during 2011 mainly comprise: We also use an economic capital assessment to monitor our capital requirements across the Group, allowing for realistic Net capital generation mainly through operating earnings diversification benefits and continue to maintain a strong in-force releases less investment in new business, net of tax position.
This assessment provides valuable insights into our of 1.5 billion: risk profile.
Offset by: C. 2 Solvency II Investment market related impacts of 0.6 billion: The European Union EU is developing a new solvency Final 2010 dividend of 0.4 billion and interim 2011 dividend framework for insurance companies, referred to as Solvency II.
of 0.2 billion: The Solvency II Directive, which sets out the new framework, was formally approved by the Economic and Financial Affairs External financing costs and other central costs, net of tax, Council in November 2009 and is anticipated to be transposed of 0.5 billion: and into local regulations and take effect for supervisors from 2013, Net impact of 0.1 billion arising from issuance of the with implementation currently anticipated from 2014.
The new US$550 million perpetual subordinated Tier 1 securities in approach is based on the concept of three pillars minimum January 2011 and repayment of the 500 million subordinated capital requirements, supervisory review of firms assessments notes in December 2011. of risk, and enhanced disclosure requirements.
We continue to have further options available to us to manage Specifically, Pillar 1 covers the quantitative requirements around available and required capital.
These could take the form of own funds, valuation rules for assets and liabilities and capital increasing available capital for example, through financial requirements.
Pillar 2 provides the qualitative requirements for reinsurance or reducing required capital for example, through risk management, governance and controls, including the the mix and level of new business and the use of other risk requirement for insurers to submit an Own Risk and Solvency mitigation measures such as hedging and reinsurance.
Assessment ORSA which will be used by the regulator as part of the supervisory review process.
Pillar 3 deals with In addition to our strong capital position, on a statutory Pillar 1 the enhanced requirements for supervisory reporting and basis, the total credit reserve for the UK shareholder annuity public disclosure.
funds also protects our capital position in excess of the IGD surplus.
This credit reserve as at 31 December 2011 was A key aspect of Solvency II is that the assessment of risks and 2.0 billion.
This credit risk allowance represents 33 per cent capital requirements are intended to be aligned more closely of the bond portfolio spread over swap rates, compared to with economic capital methodologies.
Companies may be 43 per cent as at 31 December 2010. allowed to make use of internal economic capital models if approved by the local regulator.
Stress testing The European Parliament is currently discussing the Omnibus II As at 31 December 2011, stress testing of our IGD capital Directive which, once approved, will amend certain aspects position to various events has the following results: of the Solvency II Directive, including the anticipated An instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets from implementation date as described above.
The Omnibus II 31 December 2011 levels would reduce the IGD surplus by Directive is expected to be finalised during 2012.
350 million: In addition the European Commission is continuing to develop, A 40 per cent fall in equity markets comprising an in consultation with stakeholders including industry, detailed instantaneous 20 per cent fall followed by a further 20 per cent rules that complement the high-level principles in the Solvency II fall over a four-week period would reduce the IGD surplus by Directive, referred to as implementing measures.
These are not 900 million: expected to be finalised until later in 2012.
Further guidance and technical standards are also currently being developed by the A 100 bps reduction subject to a floor of zero in interest rates European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority would reduce the IGD surplus by 650 million: and EIOPA.
These are expected to be subject to a formal Credit defaults of 10 times the expected level would reduce consultation and are unlikely to be finalised before early 2013.
We believe that the results of these stress tests, together with the Groups strong underlying earnings capacity, our established hedging programmes and our additional areas of financial flexibility, demonstrate that we are in a position to withstand significant deterioration in market conditions.
90 Business review | Risk and capital management | continued Risk and capital management There remains significant uncertainty regarding the outcome C. 3 Capital allocation from this process.
In particular, the Solvency II rules relating to Prudentials approach to capital allocation takes into account the determination of the liability discount rate and to the a range of factors, especially risk adjusted returns on capital, treatment of US business remain unclear and Prudentials capital the impact of alternative capital measurement bases accounting, position is sensitive to these outcomes.
With reference to the regulatory, economic and ratings agency assessments, tax liability discount rate, solutions to remove artificial volatility from efficiency, and wider strategic objectives.
the balance sheet have been suggested by policymakers as the We optimise capital allocation across the Group by using a regulations continue to evolve.
These solutions, along with consistent set of capital performance metrics across all business transitional arrangements for the treatment of the US business, units to ensure meaningful comparison.
Capital utilisation, return are continuing to be considered by the European Parliament as on capital and new business value creation are measured at a part of the process to reach agreement on the Omnibus II product level.
The use of these capital performance metrics is Directive.
There is a risk that the effect of the final measures embedded into our decision-making processes for product could be adverse for Prudential, including potentially that a design and product pricing.
significant increase in capital may be required to support its business and that Prudential may be placed at a competitive Our capital performance metrics are based on economic capital, disadvantage to other European and non-European financial which provides a view of our capital requirements across the services groups.
Prudential is actively participating in shaping Group, allowing for realistic diversification benefits.
Economic the outcome through our involvement in industry bodies and capital also provides valuable insights into our risk profile and is trade associations, including the Chief Risk Officer and Chief used both for risk measurement and capital management.
Financial Officer Forums, together with the Association of British Insurers ABI and Insurance Europe formerly known as the C. 4 Risk mitigation and hedging Comit Europen des Assurances.
We manage our actual risk profile against our tolerance of risk.
To do this, we maintain risk registers that include details of the Having assessed the requirements of Solvency II, an risks we have identified and of the controls and mitigating actions implementation programme was initiated with dedicated teams we employ in managing them.
Any mitigation strategies involving to manage the required work across the Group.
The activity of large transactions such as a material derivative transaction are the local Solvency II teams is being coordinated centrally to subject to review at Group level before implementation.
achieve consistency in the understanding and application of the requirements.
We are continuing our preparations to adopt the We use a range of risk management and mitigation strategies.
regime when it eventually arrives and are undertaking in parallel The most important of these include: adjusting asset portfolios an evaluation of the possible actions to mitigate its effects.
to reduce investment risks such as duration mismatches or Prudential regularly reviews its range of options to maximise the overweight counterparty exposures : using derivatives to hedge strategic flexibility of the Group.
This includes consideration of market risks: implementing reinsurance programmes to manage optimising the Groups domicile, including as a possible response insurance risk: implementing corporate insurance programmes to an adverse outcome on Solvency II.
to limit the impact of operational risks: and revising business plans where appropriate.
Over the coming months we will be progressing our implementation and remaining in regular contact with the FSA as we continue to engage in the pre-application stage of the approval process for the internal model.
