2011 Operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 19 Principal risks and uncertainties Capes performance and prospects may be affected by a reviewed on a regular basis and are recorded in an active number of risks and uncertainties that relate to our industry risks register.
We continue to develop our risk management and the environments in which we undertake our operations systems and processes to ensure that our responses remain around the world.
We are alive to the issue of risk, and we appropriate to the range of risks that we face.
have systems and procedures in place across the Group to identify, assess and mitigate major business risk.
No such review of risks and uncertainties can be exhaustive and risks might exist which have not been identified by the Each region and central function is required to undertake a Directors.
New risks might also emerge, and the likelihood formal review of risks which could impact its area of business.
of known risks occurring and the impact they might have Identified significant risks and agreed mitigation are formally upon the Group, may change from time to time.
Risk and potential impact Change Mitigation External Operating activities may be affected These external factors are normally likely to affect a specific location, customer by factors outside our control.
Capes business is diverse by geography, These include geo-political events, number of clients, range of services and exposure to industries or sectors.
government actions or inactions, This portfolio diversification reduces the impact of Capes overall exposure to climatic conditions, unusual or individual risks and uncertainties.
unexpected geological occurrences, environmental hazards, industrial Capes policy is to avoid a concentration of activity in markets regions which conditions, technical failures, labour it assesses as high risk.
disputes, delays in construction, availability of materials or parts and Risk is mitigated by a strong senior management presence in each region and shipping, import or customs delays.
particularly where risks are identified, regions operate in close communication with central management.
Changes in the political or security environment in existing and new Local legal counsel is regularly engaged to ensure compliance with local territories may result in Cape, or legislation and to advise managers on actual or potential changes in legal or its clients, losing commercial or regulatory framework.
legal protections, facing security threats or being less able to control We monitor carefully any changes in political regimes that might impact on our their operations.
We have appointed a Group Head of Security, who is responsible for security coordination in higher risk territories and we have expanded our use of specialist consultancies to advise us and when necessary, provide protection.
As detailed on page 33 in the Corporate governance report we have established policies and procedures to address these risks.
Risk and potential impact Change Mitigation Competition Losing certain key clients could Capes top 10 clients accounted for 35% of Group revenues in 2011 2010: 35%, have an adverse effect on Capes with the largest customer accounting for 9% of Group revenues 2010: 9%.
revenues, particularly where Cape has a broad customer base, with circa 110 clients each contributing more these clients have several than 1 million of annual revenue.
Cape seeks to maintain a stable and balanced contracts with Cape.
The majority of Capes clients are Cape has developed long-standing relationships with clients, based on service either in, or are dependent upon, the quality, reliability and safety.
These relationships are at a variety of levels from energy and natural resources sectors.
Strong relationships support revenue retention Capes earnings therefore depend on and growth through ongoing contract award and renewal.
stable long-term energy demand particularly for oil, gas and electricity.
In most existing markets Cape has a relatively small market share.
Cyclical downturns could lead Most contracts cover a multi-year engagement and are for work of a long-term to declines in demand for nature.
Cape, therefore, has limited exposure to fluctuations in the spot price of Capes services.
any one energy product, or its short-term demand.
Cape is firmly positioned in the downstream energy infrastructure, power generation and later cycle production markets.
These markets are less impacted by cyclical downturns than upstream, exploration segments.
Capes wide range of essential services ensures it can serve clients needs through the lifecycle of the production asset, whether related to installation, maintenance or decommissioning.
20 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk and potential impact Change Mitigation Operational Many client assets have associated Cape values its excellent reputation for safety and HSE-related matters around health and safety risks offshore the world.
Capes investment in systems and resources, with around 425 people platform, refineries, and power in full-time HSE roles across the Group, continues to deliver significant reductions stations.
Failure to maintain in accidents, working days lost and environmental incidents.
the highest Health, Safety and Environmental HSE standards Occupational health and safety performance continues to be in the upper on-site could result in injury to quartile of comparable companies, with a Lost Time Incident LTI frequency our employees or others involved rate of 0.025 per 100,000 hours worked for the Group as a whole.
Failure to deliver HSE excellence could result in Through both its training centres and on-site training courses, Cape invests a material loss of clients and or a considerable amount in improving staff skills.
This helps retain key staff damage to Capes reputation through regular progression, helps reduce skills shortage and improves and the environment.
The loss of key senior management Capes regionalised organisational structure provides considerable management or skilled employees, may adversely autonomy and opportunity for senior personnel to develop within the business.
Capes The Future Leaders Programme has been introduced for managers who are ability to successfully operate identified through a succession planning process, with the skills needed to and grow the business is largely rapidly progress in the organisation.
The Cape Management Training Scheme dependent on its ability to attract has been introduced to provide a regular pipeline of talent for key management and retain high-quality personnel.
Annual performance appraisals are conducted to An inability to attract and retain assess executives performance and to discuss career goals.
well-qualified and skilled personnel could materially adversely affect Senior executive remuneration is reviewed against market data provided Capes business, operating results by specialist remuneration consultants to ensure awards are competitive.
Long-term incentive plans are in place to encourage the retention of the key management group.
Risk and potential impact Change Mitigation Financial Failure to achieve satisfactory Cape carries out detailed assessments and reviews of existing and potential returns on acquisitions and other acquisition and other investments including external legal and financial diligence, investments.
controls leading to loss of assets, loss of financial data or loss of the integrity of data.
Other financial risks including foreign Cape has high quality and experienced finance, acquisitions, internal audit, exchange and interest rate exposure tax and treasury teams that operate at Group level and across the regions.
are described further in note 22 to the Group financial statements.
The eventual value of contracts Cape operates a stringent contract review process with clear authority limits may be lower than expected.
governing the acceptance of contracts.
Contract values are often significantly Many of Capes contracts are different from initial estimates or from prior year amounts.
However, Capes term maintenance contracts and commercial managers ensure that variations are agreed in advance and do not guarantee revenue levels.
changes in scope are captured as revenue.
Across many contracts individual increases and reductions tend to offset.
Lump sum contracts could expose Capes policy is to avoid large lump sum contracts, with the large majority Cape to potential cost overruns.
of its contracts being cost reimbursable or at scheduled rates.
