74 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Financial instruments Details of financial instruments are set out below.
Financial instruments by category Derivatives Other financial Loans and used liabilities at receivables for hedging amortised cost Total 31 December 2011 m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 225.6 225.6 Cash and cash equivalents 69.6 69.6 Cash IDC Scheme funds restricted 30.1 30.1 325.3 325.3 Liabilities as per balance sheet Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 124.9 124.9 Finance lease liabilities 3.9 3.9 Derivative financial instruments 2.2 2.2 Trade and other payables excluding statutory liabilities 100.8 100.8 2.2 229.6 231.8 Financial instruments by category Derivatives Other financial Loans and used liabilities at receivables for hedging amortised cost Total 31 December 2010 m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 163.2 163.2 Cash and cash equivalents 95.8 95.8 Cash IDC Scheme funds restricted 31.6 31.6 290.6 290.6 Liabilities as per balance sheet Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 138.4 138.4 Finance lease liabilities 10.3 10.3 Derivative financial instruments 4.1 4.1 Trade and other payables excluding statutory liabilities 83.0 83.0 4.1 231.7 235.8 Disclosures in respect of the Groups financial risks are set out below.
Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange, cash flow interest rate risk and fair value interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by the Group treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Group treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on sales, purchases, and translation of assets and liabilities that are in a currency other than the functional currency of its operating units.
The Group is also exposed to the translation of the functional currencies of its units to GB pound which is the reporting currency of the Group.
The Groups policy is to use forward contracts to manage the currency exposure on transactions significant to its operations although forward currency contracts are not entered into until a highly probable forecast transaction is in place.
Group management has completed a sensitivity analysis on the exposure of the Group to reasonable movements in the main functional currencies used by the subsidiaries and has concluded that the impact on profit and equity is minimal.
At 31 December 2011, if the pound had weakened by 10% against the Australian dollar AUD with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 0.2 million 2010: 0.1 million higher, mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains losses on translation of AUD-denominated trade receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and debt securities classified as available for sale.
At 31 December 2011, if the pound had weakened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 1.5 million 2010: 1.3 million higher, mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains losses on translation of US dollar-denominated trade receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, debt securities classified as available for sale and foreign exchange losses gains on translation of US dollar-denominated borrowings.
2011 operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 75 22.
Financial instruments continued ii Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from the possible changes in interest rates on borrowings drawn under the Groups syndicated debt facility.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Group reviews its interest rate exposure, taking into consideration refinancing, renewal of existing positions and alternative financing and hedging.
The Groups policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
The Groups cash and bank balances are at floating rates of interest.
The Group has entered into transactions to exchange, at specified intervals primarily quarterly, the difference between fixed contract rates and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
Management perform a sensitivity analysis on the impact of reasonable movements in interest rates on Group profit and equity and consider that once interest rate swaps in place are considered, the impact is limited.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and deposits with financial institutions.
The Groups exposure to credit risk see note 19 for additional information is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The Group has an established credit policy under which each new customer is analysed for creditworthiness before the Groups standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered.
The Groups review includes external ratings, and in some cases bank references.
The Groups most significant customer in 2011 accounted for 9% 2010: 9% of the Groups revenue.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due see note 23 for additional information.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group has estimated its anticipated contractual cash outflows including interest payable in respect of its bank borrowings and finance leases on an undiscounted basis.
The principal assumptions are based on conditions prevailing at the balance sheet date.
These cash flows can be analysed by maturity as follows: Financial instruments by category Between Between Within 1 and 2 and 1 year 2 years 5 years Total 31 December 2011 m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 7.0 10.3 127.9 145.2 Finance lease liabilities 3.2 1.1 0.2 4.5 Derivative financial instruments 1.0 1.2 2.2 Trade and other payables excluding statutory liabilities 100.8 100.8 111.0 12.4 129.3 252.7 Financial instruments by category Between Between Within 1 and 2 and 1 year 2 years 5 years Total 31 December 2010 m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 36.5 116.6 13.3 166.4 Finance lease liabilities 6.9 3.0 1.4 11.3 Derivative financial instruments 3.0 1.1 4.1 Trade and other payables excluding statutory liabilities 83.0 83.0 126.4 122.6 15.8 264.8 d Capital management The Groups policy is to maintain a healthy capital base to sustain future growth and maximise shareholder value.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group may adjust the amount of dividends payable to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group defines capital as equity 402.3 million 2010: 364.2 million and adjusted net debt this adjusted measure is defined in note 5.
The Group complied with covenants in place under the unsecured 220 million syndicated credit facility during the year and subsequent to year-end up to the date of signing of this report.
During 2011, the Groups capital management strategy, which was unchanged from 2010, included the objective to maintain an adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of up to one times.
76 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Financial instruments continued Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio.
2011 2010 m m Ratio of net debt to EBITDA 0.6 0.6 e Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities On inception derivatives are accounted and measured at fair value and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the income statement except where the derivative is a designated hedging instrument when it is recognised in equity.
The accounting treatment of derivatives classified as hedges depends on their designations, which occurs on the date that the derivative contract is committed to.
The Group designates derivatives as: a hedge of the income cost of a highly probable forecasted transaction or commitment cash flow hedge : a hedge of the net investment in a foreign entity net investment hedge : In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument and demonstrates the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, to show that the hedge will be effective on an ongoing basis.
Testing the effectiveness of the hedging instrument is performed semi-annually.
Gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity.
Where the forecast transaction results in a financial asset or liability, the gains or losses previously recognised in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the same period as the asset or liability affects income or expenditure.
Where the forecasted transaction or commitment results in a non-financial asset or a liability, then any gains or losses previously deferred in equity are included in the cost of the related asset or liability.
If the forecasted transaction or commitment results in future income or expenditure, gains or losses deferred in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period as the underlying income or expenditure.
For the portion of hedges deemed ineffective or transactions that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39, any change in assets or liabilities is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where a hedge no longer meets the effectiveness criteria, any gains or losses deferred in equity are only transferred to the income statement when the committed or forecasted transaction is recognised in the income statement.
However, where the Group applied cash flow hedge accounting for a forecasted or committed transaction that is no longer expected to occur, then the cumulative gain or loss that has been recorded in equity is transferred to the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign entities through currency borrowings that are regarded as highly effective, the gains or losses on the translation of the borrowings are recognised in equity.
If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity with any ineffective portion recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation gains and losses accumulated in equity are transferred to the income statement.
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans and other borrowings with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
In the case of the bank loans and other borrowings due in more than one year, the fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps cash flow hedges are calculated using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2011 were 28.8 million 2010: 78.4 million.
At 31 December 2011 the main floating rates were UK LIBOR, US LIBOR and Australian inter bank rate.
Interest rate swaps were in place which swapped floating LIBOR amounts for fixed rates.
UK LIBOR was swapped for a fixed rate of 5.15% on 22.5 million of the GB pound debt and 6.29% on 6.3 million of the GB pound debt.
2011 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 2.2 4.1 Total 2.2 4.1 There was no ineffectiveness to be recorded from net investment in foreign entity hedges.
