34 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance report continued Based on their review the Directors have concluded that the Internal audit the internal audit team is responsible for Groups overall system of internal control has been effective reviewing and testing key business processes and throughout the period and up to the date of approval of the controls, including following up the implementation of Annual Report and Accounts.
management plans and actions and reporting any overdue actions to the Audit Committee.
The Director of Internal The key features of Capes system of internal control include: Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Internal Audit function operates a risk-based audit 1.
Strategic and business planning the Group produces and approach.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness agrees objectives and budgets each year, against which of Internal Audit activities including the scope of work, the performance of the business is regularly monitored.
authority and resources of the internal audit function.
The internal audit team also provides objective assurance 2.
Investment appraisal major contracts and capital on risk and controls to senior management, the Audit purchases are reviewed in advance by senior management Committee and the Board.
and, when appropriate, approved by the Board.
Key controls Regional Financial Controllers certify 3.
Financial monitoring profitability, cash flow and capital monthly that within their business, defined key financial expenditure are closely monitored and key financial controls and other established procedures are operating information is reported to the Board on a monthly basis, effectively.
including explanations of variances between actual and budgeted performance.
A nnual Certification Process at the end of each financial year a detailed questionnaire is circulated to the Groups 4.
Systems of control procedures and delegated authorities Business Units relating inter alia to the conduct of the there are clearly defined approval limits for key business business and regulatory compliance.
The questionnaire is decisions acquisitions, disposals, contract approvals, approved and signed off by the Operational and Financial large transactions, capital purchases and operating heads of each Business Unit.
Whistleblowing a confidential whistleblowing procedure In addition, the integrity of the financial reporting and is in operation which allows employees to raise concerns consolidation processes and the completeness and accuracy about possible improprieties in operational or financial of financial information are subject to review by Executive conduct.
Management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
Capes approach to internal controls and risk management is Risk management process supported by an oversight structure, which includes both the The Group in the course of its business can be subject to Audit Committee and the Board.
strategic, financial and compliance risks.
The management of these risks is vested in the Board, with the Audit Committee Bribery Act 2010 having delegated responsibility for reviewing the adequacy of The Group has established an Anti-Bribery Policy which the risk management system.
applies to all Cape entities worldwide, and to all Directors, employees, workers, agents or any other persons acting for, or The principal tools used to assess and manage risk are: on behalf of, Cape.
The Company will seek to ensure that third parties such as joint venture partners, agents and consultants Risk registers every 6 months a formal reappraisal also commit to the principles and relevant practices referred to of business risk takes place in both the regions and the in the Policy.
centre of operations to identify, evaluate and record significant business risks faced by the Group.
Each risk in The Policy includes a clear statement on Capes anti-bribery the registers is rated in terms of probability of occurrence measures and its anti-corruption culture, and contains and potential impact on the business.
Where possible, practical procedures to be followed by all employees, and also management identifies mitigating controls, their likely provides for due diligence of business partners.
Training and effectiveness and risk ownership.
Material changes to the monitoring have been extended across the business.
risk registers are reported to the Audit Committee and the Board on a regular basis.
Risk appraisal when major business decisions are taken the related risks are assessed in advance.
When risks change or materialise, senior management and the Board are alerted to ensure that the Companys response is both prompt and appropriate.
