Risk management report Rathbones has a clear risk management framework, Risk appetite the key objective of which is to identify and manage risk Rathbones risk appetite is defined as the level of risk it is within a Board-approved risk appetite.
The Board believes prepared to accept, within defined tolerance levels, in the that the most effective way of achieving this is by embedding pursuit of its strategic objectives.
The Board recognises that risk management throughout the organisation.
We achieve taking risks is a normal part of running a business, and that this by ensuring that all identified risks are owned by specific the business will necessarily bear losses from financial and committees who have responsibility for risk identification operational and IT risks which may manifest themselves either and risk management.
These committees in turn report as reductions in income or directly or indirectly as operating to the risk management committee, which takes a more or opportunity costs.
The Board is committed to mitigating holistic view of risk, identifying trends and correlations and such losses as much as possible, but would be prepared providing guidance to other committees and to the Board.
to accept loss of up to 10 million in any five year period This approach allows for risk decisions to be taken at before it materially changes the current business model.
the most appropriate level and also be subject to robust review and challenge.
Risk register Ian Buckley is the executive director with oversight responsibility for risk management.
The risk management A risk register is maintained which is considered the committee comprises all members of the group executive principal tool for monitoring risks.
During 2011, for committee, together with the group heads of personnel, reporting purposes, we completed an exercise to classify compliance and internal audit.
During 2011, two each major financial and non-financial risk facing the Group non-executive directors, Oliver Corbett and Kathryn as a financial, business or operational and IT risk.
These Matthews, became members of the committee and on risks are assessed by management as having a potential 1 March 2012 Kathryn Matthews will become chairman material impact on the Company.
The 13 major risks are of the committee.
listed below in alphabetical order, grouped within the wider risk categories, together with details of the key mitigators.
The responsibilities of the risk management These are not exhaustive listings.
committee include: advising the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite Risk scoring and risk strategy, taking into account the current and prospective macroeconomic and financial environment: During 2011 changes were made to the risk scoring methodology adopted by Rathbones, as approved by the risk overseeing the current risk exposures of the Group: management committee.
Each risk is now assessed using a reviewing the risk assessment processes: 1 4 scoring system: previously a 1 5 approach had been utilised.
The rationale for this reduction is to remove the supporting the Boards assessment of any proposed tendency, inadvertent or otherwise, to default to the median.
strategic business change: and Each risk is rated by assessing the probability of the risk assessing reports on any material breaches of risk limits occurring and its impact if it does occur.
The inherent risk and the adequacy of proposed management action.
is then reduced given an assessment of the internal controls The full remit of the committee is detailed within its terms environment or by insurance to give a residual risk score.
of reference, which is subject to annual review and approval by the Board.
The risk management committee meets on a quarterly basis.
The risk management framework is broadly unchanged from 2010.
Probability Score Impact Score High 80% chance of risk being 4 Significant to severe 4 realised in a 5 year period Over 10.0 million Medium 60% chance of risk being 3 Moderate to significant 3 realised in a 5 year period Between 2.5 and 10.0 million Low 40% chance of risk being 2 Low to moderate 2 realised in a 5 year period Between 1.0 and 2.5 million Very low 20% chance of risk being 1 Insignificant 1 realised in a 5 year period Less than 1.0 million Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 23 Risk management report continued Risk scoring continued High 4 High level Medium 3 risks Medium level risks Low 2 Low level risks Very low 1 0 0 1 2 3 4 Very low Low Medium High Impact of risk Financial risks Risk Definition Key mitigators Credit Credit risk is the risk of a market Robust counterparty limits.
counterparty defaulting on monies deposited Active monitoring of exposure.
with it, or a counterparty failing to fulfil their contractual obligations.
Liquidity Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group Annual Individual Liquidity Adequacy will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations Assessment including stress testing.
associated with financial liabilities that Daily reporting to senior management.
are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
Market Market risk includes interest rate risk, foreign Documented policies and procedures.
exchange risk and price risk.
Market risk is the Daily monitoring.
risk that the Companys earnings or capital will be adversely affected by changes in the level Robust application of policy and or volatility of interest rates, foreign currency investment limits.
exchange rates or market prices.
Further detailed discussion of the Groups exposures to financial risks is included in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
24 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 Probability of occurrence Risk management report continued Business risks Risk Definition Key mitigators Competition Competition risk covers material loss of Business clients, and a reduced ability to grow the Regular reviews of pricing structure.
business, as well as key staff loss.
Key staff Continued investment in marketing, the loss is the risk of losing either a member investment process and service standards.
of the group executive committee, a key investment professional or a senior manager.
Staff This could have a negative effect on either Competitive remuneration packages.
the growth of the business or the retention Investment in staff training and development.
Contractual clauses with restrictive covenants.
Legal and compliance Legal and compliance risk includes the risk Retained specialist legal advisers.
of potential loss arising from litigation, as a Compliance department.
result of a breach of legislative requirements, such as Companies Act requirements, data Data protection policy.
protection, employment law or health and Documented policies, procedures safety regulations.
Regulatory Regulatory risk is the risk that a change in Comprehensive compliance monitoring.
regulation will materially affect the market in Awareness of regulatory developments.
which Rathbones operates and increase the risk of non-compliance.
Active involvement with representative industry bodies.
Close contact with the regulators.
Reputational Reputational risk covers the risk that Strong compliance culture.
negative publicity will lead to a loss of income Treating customers fairly governance.
It also includes investment performance risk, which is the risk Monitoring of media coverage.
that portfolios and or funds fail to achieve Proactive communications with performance benchmarks, leading to client shareholders investor relations.
Reputational damage is more likely to arise following the materialisation Investment process.
of another risk factor rather than as a Investment management performance standalone risk.
Investment in staff training and development.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 25 Risk management report continued Operational and IT risks Risk Definition Key mitigators Business continuity Business continuity risk is the risk of an Documented disaster recovery and event arising which could have a material crisis incident management plans.
impact on the operations of the business.
This includes the inability to recover IT systems or the restricted or denied access Continuous monitoring of IT systems to office premises.
Data integrity Data integrity risk includes the risks associated System access controls.
with breaches of client confidentiality, as Policy and procedures.
well as potential failures with the maintenance, accuracy and consistency of stored data.
Outsourcing Outsourcing risk is the risk of failure in Active relationship management, including respect of the provision of services by a third regular service review meetings.
Any significant disruption to services, Service level agreements and monitoring or deterioration in the performance of a key of key performance indicators.
supplier, could have a negative impact on the ability of Rathbones to deliver services to our clients.
Processing Processing risk includes the potential risk of Dealing limits and supporting system controls.
loss of client or company assets through Continued investment in automated processes.
inadequate or failed internal processes and systems or fraud.
Annual controls assessment including an ISAE3402 report.
Project management Project management and control risks cover Documented IT strategy.
and control those areas of uncertainty which can arise and Two-stage assessment, challenge and have a negative impact on the performance approval of project plans.
or delivery of a project either in terms of duration, cost or in meeting requirements.
Evolutionary system changes, with close user involvement.
Settlement Settlement risk is the risk that a counterparty Daily monitoring of settlement performance.
will fail to deliver the terms of a contract at the Delivery versus payment approach time of settlement.
26 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 Our responsibility 28 Corporate responsibility report Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 27
