Risk factors Set out below is a summary of certain risks which could adversely affect The actual or perceived failure or worsening credit of the Groups the Group: it should be read in conjunction with the Risk and balance counterparties or borrowers and depressed asset valuations sheet management section of the Business review pages 100 to 249. resulting from poor market conditions have adversely affected and This summary should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive could continue to adversely affect the Group.
statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
A fuller description of The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is these and other risk factors is included on pages 451 to 464. determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, The Groups businesses, earnings and financial condition have been judgements and estimates that may change over time or may and will continue to be affected by geopolitical conditions, the global ultimately not turn out to be accurate.
economy, the instability in the global financial markets and The Groups insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks increased competition.
Together with a perceived increased risk of involving claims on insured events.
default on the sovereign debt of certain European countries and unprecedented stresses on the financial system within the eurozone, The Groups business performance, financial condition and capital these factors have resulted in significant changes in market and liquidity ratios could be adversely affected if its capital is not conditions including interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit managed effectively or as a result of changes to capital adequacy spreads, and other market factors and consequent changes in asset and liquidity requirements, including those arising out of Basel III valuations.
implementation globally or by European or UK authorities, or if the Group is unable to issue Contingent B Shares to HM Treasury under The Groups ability to meet its obligations including its funding certain circumstances.
commitments, depends on the Groups ability to access sources of liquidity and funding.
The inability to access liquidity and funding due The Group could fail to attract or retain senior management, which to market conditions or otherwise could adversely affect the Groups may include members of the Group Board, or other key employees, financial condition.
Furthermore, the Groups borrowing costs and its and it may suffer if it does not maintain good employee relations.
access to the debt capital markets and other sources of liquidity Any significant developments in regulatory or tax legislation could depend significantly on its and the UK Governments credit ratings.
have an effect on how the Group conducts its business and on its The Independent Commission on Banking has published its final results of operations and financial condition, and the recoverability of report on competition and possible structural reforms in the UK certain deferred tax assets recognised by the Group is subject to banking industry.
The Government has indicated that it supports and uncertainty.
intends to implement the recommendations substantially as The Group is subject to substantial regulation and oversight, and proposed which could have a material adverse effect on the Group.
any significant regulatory or legal developments could have an The Groups ability to implement its Strategic Plan depends on the adverse effect on how the Group conducts its business and on its success of its efforts to refocus on its core strengths and its balance results of operations and financial condition.
In addition, the Group sheet reduction programme.
As part of the Groups Strategic Plan is, and may be, subject to litigation and regulatory investigations that and implementation of the State Aid restructuring plan agreed with may impact its business, results of operations and financial condition.
the European Commission and HM Treasury, the Group is Operational and reputational risks are inherent in the Groups undertaking an extensive restructuring which may adversely affect operations.
the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition and give rise to increased operational risk and may impair the The Group may be required to make contributions to its pension Groups ability to raise new Tier 1 capital due to restrictions on its schemes and government compensation schemes, either of which ability to make discretionary dividend or coupon payments on certain may have an adverse impact on the Groups results of operations, securities.
cash flow and financial condition.
The occurrence of a delay in the implementation of or any failure to As a result of the UK Governments majority shareholding in the implement the approved proposed transfers of a substantial part of Group it can, and in the future may decide to, exercise a significant the business activities of RBS N. V. to the Royal Bank may have a degree of influence over the Group including on dividend policy, material adverse effect on the Group.
modifying or cancelling contracts or limiting the Groups operations.
The offer or sale by the UK Government of all or a portion of its The Group or any of its UK bank subsidiaries may face the risk of shareholding in the company could affect the market price of the full nationalisation or other resolution procedures and various equity shares and other securities and acquisitions of ordinary actions could be taken by or on behalf of the UK Government, shares by the UK Government including through conversions of including actions in relation to any securities issued, new or existing other securities or further purchases of shares may result in the contractual arrangements and transfers of part or all of the Groups delisting of the Group from the Official List.
