Risk factors above, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, Set out below are certain risk factors which could adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and prospects and could have a Group's future results and cause them to be materially different from negative impact on the value of any securities issued by the Group.
The Group's results could also be affected by competition and other factors.
The factors discussed in this report should In Europe, countries such as Ireland, Italy, Greece, Portugal and Spain not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all have been particularly affected by the recent financial and economic potential risks and uncertainties.
The perceived risk of default on the sovereign debt of those countries intensified in the latter part of 2011 particularly in relation to The Groups businesses and performance can be negatively affected by Greece and has continued into 2012.
This raised concerns about the actual or perceived global economic and financial market conditions and contagion effect such a default would have on other EU economies as by other geopolitical risks well as the ongoing viability of the euro currency and the EMU.
Yields on The Groups businesses and performance are affected by local and the sovereign debt of most EU member states have recently been volatile global economic conditions and perceptions of those conditions and and trended upward.
The EU, the European Central Bank and the future economic prospects.
The outlook for the global economy over the International Monetary Fund have prepared rescue packages for some of near to medium-term remains challenging and many forecasts predict at the affected countries and a number of European states, including best only stagnant or modest levels of gross domestic product GDP Ireland, Italy and Spain, are taking actions to stabilise their economies growth across a number of the Groups key markets over that period.
In and reduce their debt burdens.
The EU has also taken policy initiatives the UK, latest estimates suggest the economy grew by only 1% in 2011, intended to address systemic stresses in the eurozone.
Despite these while the current consensus of forecasts predicts GDP growth of just actions, the long-term ratings of a majority of eurozone countries have 0.5% in 2012.
GDP in the European Monetary Union EMU in 2011 was recently been downgraded and further downgrades are possible.
estimated to have grown by 1.6% in 2011 although this was mainly Furthermore, the effectiveness of these actions is not assured and the boosted by Germany, the EMUs largest economy, which grew by 3%.
possibility remains that the euro could be abandoned as a currency by While the German economy has proven to be relatively robust, austerity countries that have already adopted its use, or in an extreme scenario, measures in many EMU economies, initiated in response to increased abandonment of the euro could result in the dissolution of the EMU.
This sovereign debt risk, have resulted in weak economic and GDP growth.
would lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Economic growth in the EMU is predicted to fall in 2012 by 0.3% source: EMU member states.
Consensus Economics Inc, Eurostat, ONS.
Despite significant interventions by governments and other non-governmental bodies during The effects on the European and global economies of the potential and since the financial crisis in 2008 2009, capital and credit markets dissolution of the EMU, exit of one or more EU member states from the around the world continue to be volatile and be subject to intermittent and EMU and the redenomination of financial instruments from the euro to a prolonged disruptions.
In particular, increasingly during the second half of different currency, are impossible to predict fully.
However, if any such 2011, a heightened risk of sovereign default relating to certain EU events were to occur they would likely: member states has had a negative impact on capital and credit markets.
Such challenging economic and market conditions have exerted result in significant market dislocation: downward pressure on asset prices and on credit availability and upward pressure on funding costs, and continue to impact asset recovery rates heighten counterparty risk: and the credit quality of the Groups businesses, customers and counterparties, including sovereigns.
In particular, the Group has affect adversely the management of market risk and in particular significant exposure to customers and counterparties within the EU asset and liability management due, in part, to redenomination of including the UK and Ireland, which includes sovereign debt exposures financial assets and liabilities: and that have been, and may in the future be, affected by restructuring of their terms, principal, interest and maturity.
These exposures have resulted in have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition, the Group making significant provisions and recognising significant writeresults of operations and prospects.
downs in prior periods, which may also occur in future periods.
These conditions, alone or in combination with regulatory changes or actions of By virtue of the Groups global presence, the Group is also exposed to market participants, may also cause the Group to experience reduced risks arising out of geopolitical events, such as the existence of trade activity levels, additional write-downs and impairment charges and lower barriers, the implementation of exchange controls and other measures profitability, and may restrict the ability of the Group to access funding taken by sovereign governments that can hinder economic or financial and liquidity.
In particular, should the scope and severity of the adverse activity levels.
Furthermore, unfavourable political, military or diplomatic economic conditions currently experienced by some EU member states events, armed conflict, pandemics and terrorist acts and threats, and the and elsewhere worsen, the risks faced by the Group would be response to them by governments could also adversely affect levels of exacerbated.
Developments relating to the current economic conditions economic activity and have an adverse effect upon the Groups business, and unfavourable financial environment, including those discussed financial condition and results of operations.
451 RBS Group 2011 Additional information continued Risk factors continued In the context of its liquidity management efforts, the Group has sought to The Groups ability to meet its obligations including its funding increase the average maturity of its wholesale funding, which has had the commitments depends on the Groups ability to access sources of effect of increasing the Groups overall cost of funding.
In addition, the liquidity and funding Group expects to proportionately increase its reliance on longer-term Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its obligations, secured funding, such as covered bonds.
including funding commitments, as they fall due.
This risk is inherent in banking operations and can be heightened by a number of factors, Like many banking groups, the Group relies increasingly on customer including an over reliance on a particular source of wholesale funding deposits to meet a considerable portion of its funding and it is actively including, for example, short-term and overnight funding, changes in seeking to increase the proportion of its funding represented by customer credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as market dislocation and deposits.
However, such deposits are subject to fluctuation due to certain major disasters.
Credit markets worldwide have experienced severe factors outside the Groups control, such as a loss of confidence, reductions in liquidity and term-funding during prolonged periods in recent increasing competitive pressures for retail customer deposits or the years.
In particular, funding in the interbank markets, a traditional source encouraged or mandated repatriation of deposits by foreign wholesale or of unsecured short-term funding, has been severely disrupted.
Although central bank depositors, which could result in a significant outflow of credit markets generally improved during the first half of 2011, wholesale deposits within a short period of time.
There is currently heavy funding markets have continued to suffer, particularly for European banks competition among UK banks for retail customer deposits, which has as the sovereign debt crisis worsened during the second half of 2011.
As increased the cost of procuring new deposits and impacted the Groups a result, a number of banks were reliant on central banks as their ability to grow its deposit base and such competition is expected to principal source of liquidity and central banks increased their support continue.
An inability to grow, or any material decrease in, the Groups provisions to banks with the European Central Bank providing significant deposits could, particularly if accompanied by one of the other factors liquidity in the last few months of 2011 including long-term refinancing described above, have a materially adverse impact on the Groups ability operations facilities offering loans with a term of up to three years and to satisfy its liquidity needs.
broader access to US dollar funding.
Although these efforts appear to be having a positive impact, global credit markets remain disrupted.
The The occurrence of any of the risks described above could have a material market perception of bank credit risk has changed significantly recently adverse impact on the Groups financial conditions and results of and banks that are deemed by the market to be riskier have had to issue operations and or result in a loss of value in its securities.
debt at a premium to the equivalent cost of debt for other banks that are perceived by the market as being less risky.
Any uncertainty regarding The Independent Commission on Banking has published its final report the perception of credit risk across financial institutions may lead to on competition and possible structural reforms in the UK banking industry.
further reductions in levels of interbank lending and associated term The UK Government has indicated that it supports and intends to maturities and may restrict the Groups access to traditional sources of implement the recommendations substantially as proposed, which could liquidity.
have a material adverse effect on the Group The Independent Commission on Banking ICB was appointed by the The Groups liquidity management focuses, among other things, on UK Government in June 2010 to review possible structural measures to maintaining a diverse and appropriate funding strategy for its assets in reform the UK banking system in order to promote, amongst other things, line with the Groups wider strategic plan.
At certain times during periods stability and competition.
The ICB published its final report to the Cabinet of liquidity stress, the Group has been required to rely on shorter-term Committee on Banking Reform on 12 September 2011, which set out the and overnight funding with a consequent reduction in overall liquidity, and ICBs views on possible reforms to improve stability and competition in to increase its recourse to liquidity schemes provided by central banks.
The final report made a number of recommendations, Such schemes require the pledging of assets as collateral, the eligibility including in relation to i the implementation of a ring-fence of retail and valuation of which is determined by the applicable central bank.
banking operations, ii increased loss absorbency including bail-in i. e. Changes to these valuations or eligibility criteria can negatively impact the ability to write-down debt or convert it into an issuers ordinary shares the available assets and reduce available liquidity access particularly in certain circumstances and iii promotion of competition.
On 19 during periods of stress when such lines may be needed most.
Further December 2011 the UK Government published its response to the final tightening of credit markets could have a materially adverse impact on report and indicated its support and intention to implement the the Group.
There is also a risk that corporate and financial institution recommendations set out in the final report substantially as proposed.
counterparties may seek to reduce their credit exposures to banks and The UK Government indicated that it will work towards putting in place other financial institutions, which may cause funding from these sources the necessary legislation by May 2015, requiring compliance as soon as to no longer be available.
There is also likely to be increased competition practicable thereafter and a final deadline for full implementation of 2019. for funding due to the significant levels of refinancing expected to be The Group will continue to participate in the debate and to consult with required by financial institutions during 2012, which may also reduce the the UK Government on the implementation of the recommendations set level of funding available from these sources.
Under such circumstances, out in the final report and in the UK Governments response, the effects the Group may need to seek funds from alternative sources potentially at of which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups structure, higher costs than has previously been the case or may be required to results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
consider disposals of other assets not previously identified for disposal to reduce its funding commitments.
452 RBS Group 2011 The Groups ability to implement its strategic plan depends on the The planned reorganisation, exit and downsizing of business activities success of the Groups refocus on its core strengths and its balance announced in January 2012 will be time intensive and costly, the extent sheet reduction programme to which is not fully ascertainable.
The process of implementing these As a result of the global economic and financial crisis that began in 2008 changes may result in further disruption to the Group and the businesses and the changed global economic outlook, the Group is engaged in a it is trying to exit or downsize.
financial and core business restructuring which is focused on achieving appropriate risk-adjusted returns under these changed circumstances, The occurrence of any of the risks described above could negatively reducing reliance on wholesale funding and lowering exposure to capitalaffect the Groups ability to implement its strategic plan and could have a intensive businesses.
A key part of this restructuring is the programme material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, announced in February 2009 to run-down and sell the Groups non-core financial condition, capital ratios and liquidity and could result in a loss of assets and businesses and the continued review of the Groups portfolio value in its securities.
to identify further disposals of certain non-core assets and businesses.
Assets identified for this purpose and allocated to the Groups Non-Core The occurrence of a delay in the implementation of or any failure to division totalled 258 billion, excluding derivatives, at 31 December 2008. implement the approved proposed transfers of a substantial part of the At 31 December 2011, this total had reduced to 93.7 billion 31 business activities of RBS N. V. to the Royal Bank may have a material December 2010 - 137.9 billion, excluding derivatives, as further adverse effect on the Group progress was made in business disposals and portfolio sales during the As part of the restructuring of its businesses, operations and assets, on course of 2011.
This balance sheet reduction programme continues 19 April 2011, the Group announced the proposed transfers of a alongside the disposals under the State Aid restructuring plan approved substantial part of the business activities of RBS N. V. to the Royal Bank.
As part of its core business restructuring, Subject to, among other matters, regulatory and other approvals, it is in January 2012 the Group announced changes to its wholesale banking expected that the proposed transfers will be implemented on a phased operations, including the reorganisation of its wholesale businesses and basis over a period ending 31 December 2013.
A large part of the the exit and downsizing of selected existing activities including cash proposed transfers is expected to have taken place by the end of 2012. equities, corporate banking, equity capital markets, and mergers and On 17 October 2011, the Group completed the transfer of a substantial acquisitions.
part of the UK activities of RBS N. V. to the Royal Bank pursuant to Part VII of FSMA.
Because the ability to dispose of assets and the price achieved for such disposals will be dependent on prevailing economic and market The process for implementing the proposed transfers is complex and any conditions, which remain challenging, there is no assurance that the failure to satisfy any conditions or complete any preliminary steps to each Group will be able to sell or run-down as applicable those remaining proposed transfer may cause a delay in its completion or result in its businesses it is seeking to exit either on favourable economic terms to non-completion.
If any of the proposed transfers are delayed or are not the Group or at all.
In addition, material tax liabilities could arise on the completed for any reason, such as a failure to secure required regulatory disposal of assets.
Furthermore, there is no assurance that any approvals, it is possible that the relevant regulatory authorities could conditions precedent agreed will be satisfied, or consents and approvals impose sanctions which could adversely impact the minimum regulatory required will be obtained in a timely manner, or at all.
There is requirements for capital and liquidity of RBS N. V. and the Royal Bank.
In consequently a risk that the Group may fail to complete such disposals by addition, the FSA may impose additional capital and liquidity any agreed longstop date.
requirements in relation to the Royal Bank to the extent that such a delay in implementation or non-completion of any of the proposed transfers The Group may be liable for any deterioration in businesses being sold has consequential financial implications for the Royal Bank for example between the announcement of the disposal and its completion, which increased intra-group large exposures.
A delay in implementation of or period may be lengthy and may span many months.
In addition, the any failure to implement any of the proposed transfers may therefore Group may be exposed to certain risks until completion, including risks adversely impact RBS N. V. s and the Royal Banks capital and liquidity arising out of ongoing liabilities and obligations, breaches of covenants, resources and requirements, with consequential adverse impacts on their representations and warranties, indemnity claims, transitional services funding resources and requirements.
arrangements and redundancy or other transaction related costs.
The occurrence of a delay in the implementation of or any failure to implement any of the proposed transfers may therefore have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, financial condition, and could result in a loss of value in its securities.
453 RBS Group 2011 Additional information continued Risk factors continued plan will be or has been at a level the Group considers adequate or which The Group is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the it could obtain in circumstances in which the Group was not required to State Aid restructuring plan and is prohibited from making discretionary sell such assets in order to implement the State Aid restructuring plan or dividend or coupon payments on existing hybrid capital instruments if such sale were not subject to the restrictions contained in the terms including preference shares and B Shares which may impair the thereof.
Further, if the Group fails to complete any of the required Groups ability to raise new Tier 1 capital disposals within the agreed timeframes for such disposals, under the The Group was required to obtain State Aid approval for the aid given to terms of the State Aid approval, a divestiture trustee may be empowered the Group by HM Treasury as part of the placing and open offer to conduct the disposals, with the mandate to complete the disposal at no undertaken by the Group in December 2008, the issuance to HM minimum price.
Treasury of 25.5 billion of B shares in the capital of the Group which are, subject to certain terms and conditions, convertible into ordinary shares in Furthermore, if the Group is unable to comply with the terms of the State the share capital of the Group and a contingent commitment by HM Aid approval, it could constitute a misuse of aid.
In circumstances where Treasury to subscribe for up to an additional 8 billion of B Shares if the European Commission doubts that the Group is complying with the certain conditions are met and the Groups participation in the Asset terms of the State Aid approval, it may open a formal investigation.
At the Protection Scheme APS.
In that context, as part of the terms of the conclusion of any such investigation, if the European Commission State Aid approval, the Group, together with HM Treasury, agreed the decided that there had been misuse of aid, it could issue a decision terms of a restructuring plan.
requiring HM Treasury to recover the misused aid, which could have a material adverse impact on the Group.
As part of the State Aid restructuring plan, there is a prohibition on the making of discretionary dividend including on preference shares and B In implementing the State Aid restructuring plan, the Group has lost, and shares or coupon payments on existing hybrid capital instruments for a will continue to lose, existing customers, deposits and other assets both two year period which ends on 30 April 2012.
These restrictions prevent directly through the sale and potentially through the impact on the rest of the Group, the Royal Bank and other Group companies other than the Groups business arising from implementing the State Aid companies in the RBS Holdings N. V. group which was renamed from restructuring plan and the potential for realising additional associated ABN AMRO Holding N. V. on 1 April 2010, which are subject to different revenues and margins that it otherwise might have achieved in the restrictions from paying discretionary dividends on their preference absence of such disposals.
Further, the loss of such revenues and shares and discretionary coupons on other Tier 1 securities, and the related income may extend the time period over which the Group may Group from paying dividends on its ordinary shares, for the same pay any amounts owed to HM Treasury under the APS or otherwise.
The duration, and it may impair the Groups ability to raise new capital through implementation of the State Aid restructuring plan may also result in the issuance of ordinary shares and other securities issued by the Group.
disruption to the retained business and give rise to significant strain on management, employee, operational and financial resources, impacting The Group is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the customers and employees and giving rise to separation costs which could State Aid restructuring plan, including required asset disposals.
particular, the Group agreed to undertake a series of measures to be implemented over a four year period from December 2009, including the The implementation of the State Aid restructuring plan may result in the disposal of all or a controlling portion of RBS Insurance with disposal of emergence of one or more new viable competitors or a material its entire interest in RBS Insurance required by 31 December 2014, strengthening of one or more of the Groups existing competitors in the Global Merchant Services GMS, its interest in RBS Sempra Groups markets.
The effect of this on the Groups future competitive Commodities LLP, and the Royal Bank branch-based business in position, revenues and margins is uncertain and there could be an England and Wales and the NatWest branches in Scotland, along with adverse effect on the Groups operations and financial condition and its the direct and other small and medium-size enterprise SME customers business generally.
and certain mid-corporate customers across the UK.
While the disposal of GMS is completed and the disposal of RBS Sempra Commodities is The occurrence of any of the risks described above could have a material largely completed, the sale processes in respect of the Royal Bank and adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, financial NatWest branch-based business and RBS Insurance continue to condition, capital position and competitive position.
There is no assurance that the price that the Group receives or has received for any assets sold pursuant to the State Aid restructuring 454 RBS Group 2011 The Group and its UK bank subsidiaries may face the risk of full any loss actually incurred.
HM Treasury is also empowered by order to nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act amend the law including with retrospective effect for the purpose of 2009 which may result in various actions being taken in relation to any enabling the powers under the special resolution regime to be used securities effectively.
In general, there is considerable uncertainty about the scope Under the Banking Act 2009, substantial powers have been granted to of the powers afforded to the Authorities under the Banking Act and how HM Treasury, the Bank of England and the FSA together, the the Authorities may choose to exercise them.
However, potential impacts Authorities as part of a special resolution regime.
These powers enable may include full nationalisation of the Group, the total loss of value of the Authorities to deal with and stabilise UK incorporated institutions with securities and the inability of the Group to perform its obligations under its permission to accept deposits pursuant to Part IV of the FSMA that are securities.
failing, or are likely to fail, to satisfy the threshold conditions within the meaning of section 41 of the FSMA, which are the conditions that a The financial performance of the Group has been, and continues to be, relevant entity must satisfy in order to obtain its authorisation to perform materially affected by deteriorations in borrower and counterparty credit regulated activities.
The special resolution regime consists of three quality and further deteriorations could arise due to prevailing economic stabilisation options: i transfer of all or part of the business of the and market conditions and legal and regulatory developments relevant entity and or the securities of the relevant entity to a private The Group has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, sector purchaser: ii transfer of all or part of the business of the relevant and risks arising from actual or perceived changes in credit quality and entity to a bridge bank wholly-owned by the Bank of England: and iii the recoverability of monies due from borrowers and counterparties are temporary public ownership nationalisation of the relevant entity.
HM inherent in a wide range of the Groups businesses.
In particular, the Treasury may also take a holding company of the relevant entity into Group has significant exposure to certain individual counterparties in temporary public ownership where certain conditions are met.
The weakened business sectors and geographic markets and also has Banking Act also provides for two new insolvency and administration concentrated country exposure in the UK, the US and across the rest of procedures for relevant entities.
Certain ancillary powers include the Europe particularly Ireland and within certain business sectors, namely power to modify including imposing additional obligations and cancel personal finance, financial institutions and commercial real estate.
For a certain contractual arrangements in certain circumstances.
discussion of the Groups exposure to country risk see pages 208 to 228.
Furthermore, the Group expects its exposure to the UK to increase If HM Treasury decides to take the Group into temporary public proportionately as its business becomes more concentrated in the UK, ownership pursuant to the powers granted under the Banking Act, it may with exposures generally being reduced in other parts of its business as it take various actions in relation to any securities without the consent of implements its strategy, including the reduction of, and exit from, certain holders of the securities.
These could include: i transferring the businesses in its GBM business.
securities free from any trust, liability or other encumbrance and free from any contractual, legislative or other restrictions on transfer: ii The Group may continue to see adverse changes in the credit quality of extinguishing any rights to acquire securities: iii delisting the securities: its borrowers and counterparties, for example as a result of their inability iv converting the securities into another form or class: or v disapplying to refinance their debts, with increasing delinquencies, defaults and any termination or acceleration rights or events of default under the terms insolvencies across a range of sectors and in a number of geographic of the securities which would be triggered by the transfer or certain markets.
Since the credit quality of the Groups borrowers and related events.
counterparties is impacted by prevailing economic and market conditions and by the legal and regulatory landscape in their respective markets, a Where HM Treasury makes a share transfer order in respect of securities significant deterioration in economic and market conditions or changes to issued by a holding company of a relevant entity, HM Treasury may make legal or regulatory landscapes could worsen borrower and counterparty an order providing for the property, rights or liabilities of the holding credit quality and also impact the Groups ability to enforce contractual company or of any relevant entity in the holding company group to be security rights.
In addition, the Groups credit risk is exacerbated when transferred and where such property is held on trust, removing or altering the collateral it holds cannot be realised or is liquidated at prices not the terms of such trust.
sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure that is due to the Group, which is most likely to occur during periods of Although the Banking Act includes provisions related to compensation in illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such as those experienced in respect of transfer instruments and orders made under it including recent years.
Any such losses could have an adverse effect on the securities that are transferred with respect to a relevant entity there can Groups results of operations and financial condition or result in a loss of be no assurance that compensation would be assessed to be payable or value in its securities.
that any compensation would be recovered promptly and or would equal 455 RBS Group 2011 Additional information continued Risk factors continued dislocated markets, hedging and other risk management strategies may Financial services institutions that deal with each other are inter-related not be as effective as they are in normal market conditions due in part to as a result of trading, investment, clearing, counterparty and other the decreasing credit quality of hedge counterparties.
Within the financial services industry, the default of any one events have resulted in the Group recording large write-downs on its institution could lead to defaults by other institutions.
Concerns about, or credit market exposures in recent years.
Any deterioration in economic a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems and and financial market conditions could lead to further impairment charges losses or defaults by other institutions, as the commercial and financial and write-downs.
Moreover, market volatility and illiquidity and the soundness of many financial institutions may be closely related as a assumptions, judgements and estimates in relation to such matters that result of this credit, trading, clearing and other relationships.
Even the may change over time and may ultimately not turn out to be accurate perceived lack of creditworthiness of, or questions about, a counterparty make it difficult to value certain of the Groups exposures.
Valuations in may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses for, or defaults by, future periods, reflecting, among other things, then prevailing market the Group.
This systemic risk may adversely affect financial conditions and changes in the credit ratings of certain of the Groups intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, assets, may result in significant changes in the fair values of the Groups securities firms and exchanges with which the Group interacts on a daily exposures, even in respect of exposures, such as credit market basis, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups exposures, for which the Group has previously recorded write-downs.
In access to liquidity or could result in losses which could have a material addition, the value ultimately realised by the Group may be materially adverse effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations different from the current or estimated fair value.
Any of these factors and prospects or result in a loss of value in its securities.
could require the Group to recognise further significant write-downs in addition to those already recorded or realised or realise increased In the US during recent years, there has been disruption in the ability of impairment charges, which may have a material adverse effect on its certain financial institutions to complete foreclosure proceedings in a financial condition, results of operations and capital ratios or result in a timely manner or at all, including as a result of interventions by certain loss of value of its securities.
This disruption has lengthened the time to complete foreclosures, increased the backlog of repossessed properties The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that the Group has and, in certain cases, has resulted in the invalidation of purported purchased depends on the value of the underlying assets and the foreclosures.
In addition, a number of other financial institutions have financial condition of the insurers and counterparties experienced increased repurchase demands in respect of US mortgage The Group has credit exposure arising from over-the-counter derivative loans or other related securities originated and sold.
However, the Group contracts, mainly credit default swaps CDSs, and other credit has not experienced a significant volume of repurchase demands in derivatives, such as the APS, each of which are carried at fair value.
The respect of similar loans or related securities it originated or sold and has fair value of these CDSs, as well as the Groups exposure to the risk of not ceased any of its US foreclosure activities.
default by the underlying counterparties, depends on the valuation and the perceived credit risk of the instrument against which protection has The trends and risks affecting borrower and counterparty credit quality been bought.
Market counterparties have been adversely affected by have caused, and in the future may cause, the Group to experience their exposure to residential mortgage linked and corporate credit further and accelerated impairment charges, increased repurchase products, whether synthetic or otherwise, and their actual and perceived demands, higher costs, additional write-downs and losses for the Group creditworthiness may deteriorate rapidly.
If the financial condition of these and an inability to engage in routine funding transactions, and may result counterparties or their actual or perceived creditworthiness deteriorates, in a loss of value of its securities.
the Group may record further credit valuation adjustments on the credit protection bought from these counterparties under the CDSs.
The Group The Groups earnings and financial condition have been, and its future also recognises any fluctuations in the fair value of other credit earnings and financial condition may continue to be, materially affected derivatives, such as the APS.
If market conditions improve and credit by depressed asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions spreads for assets covered by the APS narrow, the value of the Financial markets continue to be subject to significant stress conditions, protection decreases and a loss is recognised.
If credit spreads widen, where steep falls in perceived or actual asset values have been the protection is more valuable, giving rise to a gain.
Any such accompanied by a severe reduction in market liquidity, as exemplified by adjustments or fair value changes may have a material adverse impact losses arising out of asset-backed collateralised debt obligations, on the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
residential mortgage-backed securities and the leveraged loan market.
In 456 RBS Group 2011 Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, bond, lost due to the downgrade, which may include the loss of customer equity and commodity prices, basis, volatility and correlation risks and deposits, and may also limit the Groups access to capital and money other market factors have significantly affected and will continue to affect markets and trigger additional collateral requirements in derivatives the Groups business and results of operations contracts and other secured funding arrangements.
At 31 December Some of the most significant market risks the Group faces are interest 2011, a one notch downgrade in the Groups credit rating would have rate, foreign exchange, credit spread, bond, equity and commodity prices required the Group to post an estimated additional 12.5 billion of and basis, volatility and correlation risks.
Changes in interest rate levels collateral without taking account of mitigating action by management.
or extended periods of low interest rates, yield curves and spreads may Furthermore, given the extent of the UK Government ownership of the affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and borrowing Group, any downgrade in the UK Governments credit ratings could costs, the effect of which may be heightened during periods of liquidity materially adversely affect the credit ratings of Group companies and stress.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-US dollar may have the effects noted above.
Credit ratings of the Group, the Royal and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets, liabilities, Bank, RBS N. V. Ulster Bank Limited and Citizens Financial Group Inc. income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and the are also important to the Group when competing in certain markets, such reported earnings of the Groups non-UK subsidiaries and may affect the as over-the-counter derivatives.
As a result, any further reductions in the Groups reported consolidated financial condition or its income from Groups long-term or short-term credit ratings or those of its principal foreign exchange dealing.
For accounting purposes, the Group values subsidiaries could adversely affect the Groups access to liquidity and its some of its issued debt, such as debt securities, at the current market competitive position, increase its funding costs and have a material price.
Factors affecting the current market price for such debt, such as adverse impact on the Groups earnings, cash flow and financial the credit spreads of the Group, may result in a change to the fair value condition or result in a loss of value of its securities.
of such debt, which is recognised in the income statement as a profit or loss.
The Groups business performance could be adversely affected if its capital is not managed effectively or as a result of changes to capital The performance of financial markets affects bond, equity and commodity adequacy and liquidity requirements prices, which has caused, and may in the future cause, changes in the Effective management of the Groups capital is critical to its ability to value of the Groups investment and trading portfolios.
As part of its operate its businesses, and to pursue its strategy of returning to ongoing derivatives operations, the Group also faces significant basis, standalone strength.
The Group is required by regulators in the UK, the volatility and correlation risks, the occurrence of which are also impacted US and other jurisdictions in which it undertakes regulated activities to by the factors noted above.
While the Group has implemented risk maintain adequate capital resources.
The maintenance of adequate management methods to mitigate and control these and other market capital is also necessary for the Groups financial flexibility in the face of risks to which it is exposed, it is difficult, particularly in the current continuing turbulence and uncertainty in the global economy and environment, to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market specifically in its core UK, US and European markets.
Accordingly, the conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on purpose of the issuance of the 25.5 billion of B shares and the grant of the Groups financial performance and business operations.
the Contingent Subscription in 2009 and the previous placing and open offers completed in 2008 and 2009 was to allow the Group to strengthen The Groups borrowing costs, its access to the debt capital markets and its capital position.
its liquidity depend significantly on its and the UK Governments credit ratings The package of reforms to the regulatory capital framework published by The credit ratings of the Group, the Royal Bank and other Group the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in December 2010 and members have been subject to change and may change in the future, January 2011 includes materially increasing the minimum common equity which could impact their cost of, access to and sources of financing and requirement and the total Tier 1 capital requirement.
A number of UK and other European financial institutions, will be required to maintain, in the form of common equity after the including the Group, the Royal Bank and other Group members, were application of deductions, a capital conservation buffer to withstand downgraded during the course of 2011 in connection with a review of future periods of stress, bringing the total common equity requirements to systemic support assumptions incorporated into bank ratings and the 7%.
If there is excess credit growth in any given country resulting in a likelihood, in the case of UK banks, that the UK Government is more system-wide build-up of risk, a countercyclical buffer within a range of 0- likely in the future to make greater use of its resolution tools to allow 2.5% of common equity is to be applied as an extension of the burden sharing with bondholders, and in connection with a general review conservation buffer.
In addition, a leverage ratio will be introduced, of rating agencies methodologies.
Rating agencies continue to evaluate together with a liquidity coverage ratio and a net stable funding ratio.
the rating methodologies applicable to UK and European financial Further measures may include bail-in debt which could be introduced by institutions and any change in such rating agencies methodologies could statute, possibly impacting existing as well as future issues of debt and materially adversely affect the credit ratings of Group companies.
Any exposing them to the risk of conversion into equity and or write-down of further reductions in the long-term or short-term credit ratings of the principal amount.
Such measures would be in addition to proposals for Group or one of its principal subsidiaries particularly the Royal Bank the write-off of Tier 1 and Tier 2 debt and its possible conversion into would increase its borrowing costs, require the Group to replace funding ordinary shares if a bank becomes non-viable.
457 RBS Group 2011 Additional information continued Risk factors continued To the extent the Group has estimated the indicative impact that Basel III In November 2011, the Basel Committee proposed that global reforms may have on its risk-weighted assets and capital ratios, such systemically important banks be subject to an additional common equity estimates are preliminary and subject to uncertainties and may change.
Tier 1 capital requirement ranging from 1-2.5%, depending on a banks In particular, the estimates assume mitigating actions will be taken by the systemic importance.
To provide a disincentive for banks facing the Group such as deleveraging of legacy positions and securitisations, highest charge to increase materially their global systemic importance in including non-core, as well as other actions being taken to fide-risk market the future, an additional 1% surcharge would be applied in such and counterparty exposures, which may not occur as anticipated, in a circumstances.
On 4 November 2011 the Financial Stability Board published its policy The Basel Committee changes and other future changes to capital framework for addressing the systemic risks associated with global adequacy and liquidity requirements in the UK and in other jurisdictions in systemically important financial institutions GSIFI.
In this paper the which the Group operates, including any application of increasingly Group was identified as a GSIFI.
As a result the Group will be required to stringent stress case scenarios by the regulators in the UK, the US and meet resolution planning requirements by the end of 2012 as well as other jurisdictions in which the Group undertakes regulated activities, have additional loss absorption capacity of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets may require the Group to raise additional Tier 1 including Core Tier 1 which will need to be met with common equity.
In addition, GSIFIs are to and Tier 2 capital by way of further issuances of securities, and will result be subjected to more intensive and effective supervision.
The additional in existing Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities issued by the Group ceasing to capital requirements are to be applied to GSIFIs identified in 2014 the count towards the Groups regulatory capital, either at the same level as Financial Stability Board will update its list every three years and phased present or at all.
The requirement to raise additional Core Tier 1 capital in beginning in 2016. could have a number of negative consequences for the Group and its shareholders, including impairing the Groups ability to pay dividends on The implementation of the Basel III reforms will begin on 1 January 2013: or make other distributions in respect of ordinary shares and diluting the however, the requirements are subject to a series of transitional ownership of existing shareholders of the Group.
If the Group is unable to arrangements and will be phased in over a period of time, to be fully raise the requisite Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, it may be required to further effective by 2019. reduce the amount of its risk-weighted assets and engage in the disposal of core and other non-core businesses, which may not occur on a timely The Basel III rules have not yet been approved by the EU and their basis or achieve prices which would otherwise be attractive to the Group.
incorporation into European and national law has, accordingly, not yet In addition, pursuant to the State Aid approval, should the Groups Core taken place.
On 20 July 2011, the European Commission published a Tier 1 capital ratio decline to below 5% at any time before 31 December legislative package of proposals known as CRD IV to implement the 2014, or should the Group fall short of its funded balance sheet target changes through the replacement of the existing Capital Requirements level after adjustments for 31 December 2013 by 30 billion or more, Directive with a new Directive and Regulation.
As with Basel III, the the Group will be required to reduce its risk-weighted assets by a further proposals contemplate the entry into force of the new legislation from 1 60 billion in excess of its plan through further disposals of identifiable January 2013, with full implementation by 1 January 2019: however the businesses and their associated assets.
proposals allow the UK to implement the stricter definition and or level of capital more quickly than is envisaged under Basel III.
Pursuant to the acquisition and contingent capital agreement entered into between the Royal Bank and HM Treasury on 29 November 2009, the The ICB recommendations and the UK Governments response Group will also be subject to restrictions on payments on its hybrid capital supporting such recommendations includes proposals to increase capital instruments should its Core Tier 1 ratio fall below 6% or if it would fall and loss absorbency to levels that exceed the proposals under Basel below 6% as a result of such payment.
At 31 December 2011, the III CRD IV.
These requirements, as well as the other recommendations of Groups Tier 1 and Core Tier 1 capital ratios were 13.0% and 10.6%, the ICB, are expected to be phased in between 2015 and 2019.
As the respectively, calculated in accordance with FSA requirements.
Any implementation of the ICB recommendations will be the subject of change that limits the Groups ability to manage effectively its balance legislation not yet adopted, the Group cannot predict the impact such sheet and capital resources going forward including, for example, rules will have on the Groups overall capital requirements or how they reductions in profits and retained earnings as a result of write-downs or will affect the Groups compliance with capital and loss absorbency otherwise, increases in risk-weighted assets, delays in the disposal of requirements of Basel III CRD IV.
certain assets or the inability to syndicate loans as a result of market conditions, a growth in unfunded pension exposures or otherwise or to access funding sources, could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and regulatory capital position or result in a loss of value of its securities.
458 RBS Group 2011 The Group is and may be subject to litigation and regulatory The Group operates in markets that are highly competitive and its investigations that may have a material impact on its business business and results of operations may be adversely affected The Groups operations are diverse and complex and it operates in legal The competitive landscape for banks and other financial institutions in the and regulatory environments that expose it to potentially significant UK, the US and throughout the rest of Europe is subject to rapid change litigation, regulatory investigation and other regulatory risk.
As a result, and recent regulatory and legal changes are likely to result in new market the Group is, and may in the future be, involved in various disputes, legal participants and changed competitive dynamics in certain key areas, proceedings and regulatory investigations in the UK, the EU, the US and such as in retail banking in the UK.
The competitive landscape in the UK other jurisdictions, including class action litigation, LIBOR related litigation will be particularly influenced by the recommendations on competition and investigations and anti-money laundering, sanctions and compliance included in the ICBs final report, and the UK Governments related investigations.
The Group may also incur the risk of civil suits, implementation of the recommendations, as discussed above.
In order to criminal liability or regulatory actions as a result of its disclosure compete effectively, certain financial institutions may seek to consolidate obligations to HM Treasury under the APS.
In addition, the Group, like their businesses or assets with other parties.
This consolidation, in many other financial institutions, has come under greater regulatory combination with the introduction of new entrants into the markets in scrutiny in recent years and expects that environment to continue for the which the Group operates, is likely to increase competitive pressures on foreseeable future, particularly as it relates to compliance with new and the Group.
existing corporate governance, employee compensation, conduct of business, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws and regulations, In addition, certain competitors may have access to lower cost funding as well as the provisions of applicable sanctions programmes.
Disputes, and or be able to attract deposits on more favourable terms than the legal proceedings and regulatory investigations are subject to many Group and may have stronger and more efficient operations.
uncertainties, and their outcomes are often difficult to predict, particularly Furthermore, the Groups competitors may be better able to attract and in the early stages of a case or investigation.
Adverse regulatory action or retain clients and key employees, which may have a negative impact on adverse judgments in litigation could result in restrictions or limitations on the Groups relative performance and future prospects.
In addition, future the Groups operations or have a significant effect on the Groups disposals and restructurings by the Group and the compensation reputation or results of operations or result in a loss of value of its structure and restrictions imposed on the Group may also have an impact securities.
on its ability to compete effectively.
These and other changes to the competitive landscape could adversely affect the Groups business, The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is margins, profitability, financial condition and prospects or result in a loss determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, of value of its securities.
judgements and estimates that may change over time or may ultimately not turn out to be accurate The Group could fail to attract or retain senior management, which may Under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the Group include members of the Board, or other key employees, and it may suffer recognises at fair value: i financial instruments classified as held-forif it does not maintain good employee relations trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss: ii financial The Groups ability to implement its strategy and its future success assets classified as available-for-sale: and iii derivatives.
Generally, to depends on its ability to attract, retain and remunerate highly skilled and establish the fair value of these instruments, the Group relies on quoted qualified personnel, including its senior management, which include market prices or, where the market for a financial instrument is not directors and other key employees, competitively with its peers.
This sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilise observable market cannot be guaranteed, particularly in light of heightened regulatory data.
In certain circumstances, the data for individual financial oversight of banks and heightened scrutiny of, and in some cases instruments or classes of financial instruments utilised by such valuation restrictions placed upon, management and employee compensation models may not be available or may become unavailable due to arrangements, in particular those in receipt of Government support such prevailing market conditions.
In such circumstances, the Groups internal as the Group.
valuation models require the Group to make assumptions, judgements and estimates to establish fair value, which are complex and often relate In addition to the effects of such measures on the Groups ability to retain to matters that are inherently uncertain.
These assumptions, judgements senior management and other key employees, the marketplace for skilled and estimates will need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends personnel is becoming more competitive, which means the cost of hiring, and market conditions.
The resulting change in the fair values of the training and retaining skilled personnel may continue to increase.
The financial instruments has had and could continue to have a material failure to attract or retain a sufficient number of appropriately skilled adverse effect on the Groups earnings and financial condition or result in personnel could place the Group at a significant competitive a loss of value of its securities.
disadvantage and prevent the Group from successfully implementing its strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and results of operations or result in a loss of value of its securities.
459 RBS Group 2011 Additional information continued Risk factors continued Areas in which, and examples of where, governmental policies, In addition, certain of the Groups employees in the UK, continental regulatory changes and increased public and regulatory scrutiny could Europe and other jurisdictions in which the Group operates are have an adverse impact on the Group include those set out above as well represented by employee representative bodies, including trade unions.
as the following: Engagement with its employees and such bodies is important to the Group and a breakdown of these relationships could adversely affect the the transition in the UK of regulatory and supervisory powers from Groups business, reputation and results.
As the Group implements cost the FSA to the new Financial Conduct Authority for conduct of saving initiatives and disposes of, or runs-down, certain assets or business supervision and the Prudential Regulatory Authority for businesses including as part of its restructuring plans, it faces increased capital and liquidity supervision in 2013: risk in this regard and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to maintain good relations with its employees or employee the monetary, fiscal, interest rate and other policies of central banks representative bodies in respect of all matters.
As a result, the Group and other governmental or regulatory bodies: may experience strikes or other industrial action from time to time, which could have an adverse effect on its business and results of operations requirements to separate retail banking from investment banking, and could cause damage to its reputation.
and restrictions on proprietary trading and similar activities within a commercial bank and or a group which contains a commercial bank: Each of the Groups businesses is subject to substantial regulation and oversight.
Significant regulatory developments, including changes in tax the design and potential implementation of government mandated law, could have an adverse effect on how the Group conducts its resolution or insolvency regimes: business and on its results of operations and financial condition The Group is subject to extensive financial services laws, regulations, the imposition of government imposed requirements with respect to corporate governance requirements, administrative actions and policies lending to the UK SME market and larger commercial and corporate in each jurisdiction in which it operates.
All of these are subject to entities and residential mortgage lending: change, particularly in the current regulatory and market environment, where there have been unprecedented levels of government intervention requirements to operate in a way that prioritises objectives other including nationalisations and injections of government capital, changes than shareholder value creation: to the regulations governing financial institutions and reviews of the industry, in the UK, the US and many European countries.
In recent changes to financial reporting standards including accounting years, there has also been increasing focus in the UK, US and other standards, corporate governance requirements, corporate jurisdictions in which the Group operates on compliance with anti-bribery, structures and conduct of business rules: anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and other similar sanctions regimes.
the imposition of restrictions on the Groups ability to compensate its senior management and other employees: As a result of the environment in which the Group operates, increasing regulatory focus in certain areas and ongoing and possible future regulations relating to, and enforcement of, anti-bribery, anti-money changes in the financial services regulatory landscape including laundering, anti-terrorism or other similar sanctions regimes: requirements imposed by virtue of the Groups participation in government or regulator-led initiatives, the Group is facing greater rules relating to foreign ownership, expropriation, nationalisation and regulation and scrutiny in the UK, the US and other countries in which it confiscation of assets: operates.
other requirements or policies affecting the Groups profitability, Although it is difficult to predict with certainty the effect that recent such as the imposition of onerous compliance obligations, further regulatory developments and heightened levels of public and regulatory restrictions on business growth or pricing: scrutiny will have on the Group, the enactment of legislation and regulations in the UK, the other parts of Europe in which the Group the introduction of, and changes to, taxes, levies or fees applicable operates and the US such as the bank levy in the UK or the Dodd-Frank to the Groups operations such as the imposition of financial Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the US is likely to activities taxes and changes in tax rates that reduce the value of result in increased capital and liquidity requirements and changes in deferred tax assets : and regulatory requirements relating to the calculation of capital and liquidity metrics or other prudential rules relating to capital adequacy frameworks, the regulation or endorsement of credit ratings used in the EU and may result in an increased number of regulatory investigations and whether issued by agencies in EU member states or in other actions.
Any of these developments could have an adverse impact on countries, such as the US.
how the Group conducts its business, applicable authorisations and licences, the products and services it offers, its reputation, the value of its assets, its funding costs and its results of operations and financial condition or result in a loss of value in its securities.
460 RBS Group 2011 The Groups results could be adversely affected in the event of goodwill schemes and such deficits and contributions could be significant and impairment have an adverse impact on the Groups results of operations or financial The Group capitalises goodwill, which is calculated as the excess of the condition or result in a loss of value in its securities.
The most recent cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, funding valuation at 31 March 2010 was agreed during 2011.
It showed liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Acquired goodwill is the value of liabilities exceeded the value of assets by 3.5 billion at 31 recognised initially at cost and subsequently at cost less any March 2010, a ratio of assets to liabilities of 84%.
As required by IFRS, the Group tests goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently when events or In order to eliminate this deficit, the Group will pay additional circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
An impairment test contributions each year over the period 2011 until 2018.
These involves comparing the recoverable amount the higher of the value in contributions started at 375 million per annum in 2011, will increase to use and fair value less cost to sell of an individual cash generating unit 400 million per annum in 2013 and from 2016 onwards be further with its carrying value.
At 31 December 2011, the Group carried goodwill increased in line with price inflation.
These contributions are in addition to of 12.4 billion on its balance sheet.
The value in use and fair value of the the regular contributions of around 300 million for future accrual of Groups cash generating units are affected by market conditions and the benefits.
performance of the economies in which the Group operates.
Where the Group is required to recognise a goodwill impairment, it is recorded in the Operational risks are inherent in the Groups businesses Groups income statement, although it has no effect on the Groups The Groups operations are dependent on the ability to process a very regulatory capital position.
Any significant write-down of goodwill could large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while complying have a material adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and with applicable laws and regulations where it does business.
The Group the value of its securities.
has complex and geographically diverse operations and operational risk and losses can result from internal and external fraud, errors by The Group may be required to make further contributions to its pension employees or third parties, failure to document transactions properly or to schemes if the value of pension fund assets is not sufficient to cover obtain proper authorisation, failure to comply with applicable regulatory potential obligations requirements and conduct of business rules including those arising out The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for of anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism legislation, as past and a number of current employees.
Pensions risk is the risk that the well as the provisions of applicable sanctions programmes, equipment assets of the Groups various defined benefit pension schemes which are failures, business continuity and data security system failures, natural long-term in nature do not fully match the timing and amount of the disasters or the inadequacy or failure of systems and controls, including schemes liabilities, as a result of which the Group is required or chooses those of the Groups suppliers or counterparties.
Although the Group has to make additional contributions to the schemes.
Pension scheme implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions, and substantial liabilities vary with changes to long-term interest rates, inflation, resources are devoted to developing efficient procedures, to identify and pensionable salaries and the longevity of scheme members as well as rectify weaknesses in existing procedures and to train staff, it is not changes in applicable legislation.
The schemes assets comprise possible to be certain that such actions have been or will be effective in investment portfolios that are held to meet projected liabilities to the controlling each of the operational risks faced by the Group.
Risk arises from the schemes because the value of weakness in these systems or controls, or any breaches or alleged these asset portfolios, returns from them and any additional future breaches of such laws or regulations, could result in increased regulatory contributions to the schemes, may be less than expected and because supervision, enforcement actions and other disciplinary action, and have there may be greater than expected increases in the estimated value of an adverse impact on the Groups business, applicable authorisations the schemes liabilities.
In these circumstances, the Group could be and licences, reputation, results of operations and the price of its obliged, or may choose, to make additional contributions to the schemes, securities.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this risk factor, it should and during recent periods, the Group has voluntarily made such not be taken as implying that the Group will be unable to comply with its contributions to the schemes.
Given the recent economic and financial obligations as a company with securities admitted to the Official List of market difficulties and the prospect that they may continue over the near the UK Listing Authority the Official List nor that it, or its relevant and medium term, the Group may experience increasing pension deficits subsidiaries, will be unable to comply with its or their obligations as or be required or elect to make further contributions to its pension supervised firms regulated by the FSA.
461 RBS Group 2011 Additional information continued Risk factors continued mortality, changes in the legal and compensatory landscape and other HM Treasury or UK Financial Investments Limited UKFI on its behalf causes outside the Groups control.
These trends could affect the may be able to exercise a significant degree of influence over the Group profitability of current and future insurance products and services.
The and any proposed offer or sale of its interests may affect the price of Group reinsures some of the risks it has assumed and is accordingly securities issued by the Group exposed to the risk of loss should its reinsurers become unable or The UK Government, through HM Treasury, currently holds 66.9% of the unwilling to pay claims made by the Group against them.
issued ordinary share capital of the Group.
On 22 December 2009, the Group issued 25.5 billion of B Shares to the UK Government.
The B The Groups operations have inherent reputational risk Shares are convertible, at the option of the holder at any time, into Reputational risk, meaning the risk to earnings and capital from negative ordinary shares.
The UK Government has agreed that it shall not public opinion, is inherent in the Groups business.
Negative public exercise the rights of conversion in respect of the B Shares if and to the opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the extent that following any such conversion it would hold more than 75% of Group conducts its business activities, from the Groups financial the total issued shares in the Group.
Any breach of this agreement could performance, from the level of direct and indirect government support or result in the delisting of the Group from the Official List and potentially from actual or perceived practices in the banking and financial industry.
other exchanges where its securities are currently listed and traded.
HM Negative public opinion may adversely affect the Groups ability to keep Treasury or the UKFI on its behalf may sell all or a part of the ordinary and attract customers and, in particular, corporate and retail depositors.
shares that it owns at any time.
Any offers or sale of a substantial number The Group cannot ensure that it will be successful in avoiding damage to of ordinary shares or securities convertible or exchangeable into ordinary its business from reputational risk.
shares by or on behalf of HM Treasury, or an expectation that it may undertake such an offer or sale, could negatively affect prevailing market In the UK and in other jurisdictions, the Group is responsible for prices for the securities.
contributing to compensation schemes in respect of banks and other authorised financial services firms that are unable to meet their In addition, UKFI manages HM Treasurys shareholder relationship with obligations to customers the Group and, although HM Treasury has indicated that it intends to In the UK, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS was respect the commercial decisions of the Group and that the Group will established under the FSMA and is the UKs statutory fund of last resort continue to have its own independent board of directors and for customers of authorised financial services firms.
The FSCS can pay management team determining its own strategy, should its current compensation to customers if a firm is unable or likely to be unable, to intentions change, HM Treasurys position as a majority shareholder and pay claims against it and may be required to make payments either in UKFIs position as manager of this shareholding means that HM connection with the exercise of a stabilisation power or in exercise of the Treasury or UKFI may be able to exercise a significant degree of bank insolvency procedures under the Banking Act.
The FSCS is funded influence over, among other things, the election of directors and the by levies on firms authorised by the FSA, including the Group.
In the appointment of senior management.
In addition, as the provider of the event that the FSCS raises funds from the authorised firms, raises those APS, HM Treasury has a range of rights that other shareholders do not funds more frequently or significantly increases the levies to be paid by have.
These include rights under the terms of the APS over the Groups such firms, the associated costs to the Group may have an adverse remuneration policy and practice.
The manner in which HM Treasury or impact on its results of operations and financial condition.
At 31 UKFI exercises HM Treasurys rights as majority shareholder or in which December 2011, the Group had accrued 157 million for its share of HM Treasury exercises its rights under the APS could give rise to conflict FSCS levies for the 2011 2012 and 2012 2013 FSCS years.
between the interests of HM Treasury and the interests of other shareholders.
The Board has a duty to promote the success of the Group In addition, to the extent that other jurisdictions where the Group operates for the benefit of its members as a whole.
have introduced or plan to introduce similar compensation, contributory or reimbursement schemes such as in the US with the Federal Deposit The Groups insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks involving Insurance Corporation, the Group may make further provisions and may claims incur additional costs and liabilities, which may have an adverse impact Future claims in the Groups insurance business may be higher than on its financial condition and results of operations or result in a loss of expected as a result of changing trends in claims experience resulting value in its securities.
from catastrophic weather conditions, demographic developments, changes in the nature and seriousness of claims made, changes in 462 RBS Group 2011 The recoverability and regulatory capital treatment of certain deferred tax The Groups choice of assets or exposures to be covered by the APS assets recognised by the Group depends on the Groups ability to was based on certain predictions and assumptions at the time of its generate sufficient future taxable profits and there being no adverse accession to the APS.
There is therefore, a risk that the Covered Assets changes to tax legislation, regulatory requirements or accounting will not be those with the greatest future losses or with the greatest need standards for protection and the Groups financial condition, income from operations In accordance with IFRS, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets and the value of any securities may still suffer due to further impairments on losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to the extent that and credit write-downs.
Notwithstanding the Groups participation in the it is probable that they will be recovered.
The deferred tax assets are APS, the Group remains exposed to a substantial first loss amount of 60 quantified on the basis of current tax legislation and accounting standards billion net of recoveries in respect of the Covered Assets and for 10% of and are subject to change in respect of the future rates of tax or the rules Covered Assets losses after the first loss amount.
There is therefore, no for computing taxable profits and allowable losses.
Failure to generate assurance that the Groups participation in the APS will achieve the sufficient future taxable profits or changes in tax legislation or accounting Groups goals of improving and maintaining the Groups capital ratios in standards may reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised the event of further losses.
Moreover, the Group continues to carry the deferred tax assets.
In April 2011, the UK Government commenced a risk of losses, impairments and write-downs with respect to assets not staged reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax from 28% to 23% over covered by the APS.
Such a change in the applicable tax rate will reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised deferred tax assets.
The APS is a unique form of credit protection over a complex range of There is currently no restriction in respect of deferred tax assets diversified assets and exposures in a number of jurisdictions.
Due to the recognised by the Group for regulatory purposes.
Changes in regulatory complexity, scale and unique nature of the APS and the uncertainty capital rules may restrict the amount of deferred tax assets that can be resulting from the recent economic recession, there may be unforeseen recognised and such changes could lead to a reduction in the Groups issues and risks that are relevant in the context of the Groups Core Tier 1 capital ratio.
In particular, on 16 December 2010, the Basel participation in the APS and in the impact of the APS on the Groups Committee published the Basel III rules setting out certain changes to business, operations and financial condition.
Such risks may have a capital requirements which include provisions limiting the ability of certain material adverse effect on the Group.
The Group may also be subject to deferred tax assets to be recognised when calculating the common equity further tax liabilities in the UK and overseas in connection with the APS component of Tier 1 capital.
CRD IV which will implement Basel III in the and the associated intra-group arrangements which would not otherwise EU includes similar limitations.
The implementation of the Basel III have arisen.
restrictions on recognition of deferred tax assets within the common equity component of Tier 1 are subject to a phased-in deduction starting As a result of the significant volume, variety and complexity of assets and on 1 January 2014, to be fully effective by 1 January 2018. exposures and the resulting complexity and extensive governance, asset management, disclosure and information requirements of the APS The Groups participation in the APS is costly and may not produce the documents, there is a risk that the Group may have included assets or benefits expected and the occurrence of associated risks may have a exposures within the Covered Assets which are, or may later become material adverse impact on the Groups business, capital position, including by reason of failure to comply with the requirements of the APS financial condition and results of operations or resulting from the disposal of an asset or exposure, ineligible for On 22 December 2009, the Group acceded to the APS with HM Treasury protection under the APS or for which the protection is limited, which acting on behalf of the UK Government.
Under the APS, the Group would reduce the anticipated benefits to the Group of the APS.
Further, purchased credit protection over a portfolio of specified assets and there is no ability to nominate additional or alternative assets or exposures of the Royal Bank and certain members of the Group exposures in place of any which may turn out not to be covered under the Covered Assets from HM Treasury in return for an annual fee.
In addition, HM Treasury may, following consultation with the losses on assets covered by the APS exceed 60 billion net of Group, modify or replace certain of the UK APS terms and conditions the recoveries, HM Treasury will bear 90% of further losses.
The costs of Scheme Conditions in such a manner as it considers necessary acting participating in the APS include, among others, a fee of 700 million per reasonably in certain circumstances.
Such modifications or annum, payable in advance to HM Treasury for each of the first three replacements may be retrospective and may have a material adverse years of the APS and 500 million per annum thereafter until the earlier effect on the expected benefits of the APS and, therefore, the Groups of i the date of termination of the APS and ii 31 December 2099.
In financial condition and results of operations.
order to terminate the Groups participation in the APS, the Group must have FSA approval and must pay an exit fee.
Lastly, the APS is treated as a credit derivative accounted for at fair value, which exhibits counter-cyclical behaviour.
As a result, improving Ultimately, there is a risk that the amounts received under the APS may market conditions result in a charge to the income statement, and vice be less than the costs of participation.
In addition, the aggregate effect of versa.
Therefore, changes in the fair value of the APS can have a the joining, establishment, operational and exit costs and fees and significant adverse impact on the Groups results of operations.
expenses of, and associated with, the APS may significantly reduce or even eliminate the aggregate benefit of the APS to the Group.
463 RBS Group 2011 Additional information continued Risk factors continued Any changes to the expected regulatory capital treatment of the APS, the The extensive governance, asset management and information B Shares or the Contingent B Shares may have a material adverse requirements under the Scheme Conditions may have an adverse impact impact on the Group on the Group and the expected benefits of the APS One of the key objectives of the APS and the issuance of 25.5 billion of There are extensive governance, asset management and information B Shares and, if required, the 8 billion Contingent B Shares was to requirements under the Scheme Conditions in relation to the Covered improve capital ratios at a consolidated level for the Group and at an Assets, other assets and the operations of the Group and HM Treasury individual level for certain relevant Group members.
In that context, the also has the right to require the appointment of one or more step-in Group has entered and may in the future enter into further back-to-back managers to exercise certain step-in rights in certain circumstances.
The arrangements with Group members holding assets or exposures to be step-in rights are extensive and include certain oversight, investigation, covered by the APS in order to ensure the capital ratios of these entities approval and other rights, the right to require the modification or are also improved by virtue of the APS.
However, there is a risk that the replacement of any of the systems, controls, processes and practices of regulatory capital treatment applied by relevant regulators may differ from the Group and extensive rights in relation to the direct management and that assumed by the Group in respect of the APS including any  of the Covered Assets.
back arrangements, the treatment of the B Share issuance and the 8 billion Contingent B Shares if required.
If HM Treasury seeks to exercise its right to appoint one or more step-in managers in relation to the management and administration of Covered If participation in the APS and the issuance of 25.5 billion of B Shares Assets held by RBS Holdings N. V. or its wholly-owned subsidiaries, RBS and, if required, the 8 billion Contingent B Shares are not sufficient to Holdings N. V. will, in certain circumstances, need to seek consent from maintain the Groups capital ratios as expected, this could cause the the Dutch Central Bank to allow it to comply with such step-in.
If this Groups business, results of operations and financial condition to suffer, consent is not obtained by the date on which the step-in rights must be its credit ratings to drop, its ability to lend and access to funding to be effective, and other options to effect compliance are not possible, those further limited and its cost of funding to increase, and may result in assets would need to be withdrawn by the Group from the APS where intervention by the Authorities, which could include full nationalisation or possible.
If the Group cannot withdraw such Covered Assets from the other resolution procedures under the Banking Act as described above.
APS, it would be likely to lose protection in respect of these assets under The occurrence of any or all of such events may cause the price of its the APS and or may be liable under its indemnity to HM Treasury.
Additionally pursuant to the accession agreement between HM Treasury If the Group is unable to issue the Contingent B Shares to HM Treasury, and the Group relating to the accession to the APS, HM Treasury has the it may have a material adverse impact on the Groups capital position, right to require the Royal Bank to appoint one or more Special Advisers liquidity, operating results and future prospects SOC Special Advisers to exercise oversight functions over certain In the event that the Groups Core Tier 1 capital ratio declines to below 5 assets in the APS.
On 18 June 2010, the Asset Protection Agency per cent.
HM Treasury is committed to subscribe for up to an additional required that the Royal Bank appoint SOC Special Advisers in relation to 8 billion of Contingent B Shares if certain conditions are met.
If such certain assets and business areas in order to provide additional support conditions are not met and are not waived by HM Treasury, and the to the Senior Oversight Committee of the Royal Bank.
There have been Group is unable to issue the Contingent B Shares, the Group will be four such appointments to date granting certain oversight rights in relation required to find alternative methods for achieving the requisite capital to certain specified assets and the work of each of the SOC Special ratios.
There can be no assurance that any of these alternative methods Advisers is now substantially completed.
will be available or would be successful in increasing the Groups capital ratios to the desired or requisite levels.
If the Group is unable to issue the The obligations of the Group and the rights of HM Treasury may, Contingent B Shares, the Groups capital position, liquidity, operating individually or in the aggregate, impact the way the Group runs its results and future prospects will suffer, its credit ratings may drop, its business and may serve to limit the Groups operations with the result ability to lend and access funding will be further limited and its cost of that the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition funding may increase.
The occurrence of any or all of such events may will suffer.
In addition, the markets reaction to such controls and cause the price of its securities to decline.
limitations may have an adverse impact on the price of its securities.
