Our business and our strategy Our approach to risk management An integral role for Risk Management We set risk appetite at Group level.
It expresses Key developments in 2011 Risk Management is essential to making RBS the maximum level of risk that we will accept In 2011, we strengthened our approach to risk safer and more sustainable.
A stronger culture as we deliver our business objectives.
We management amidst a challenging external of risk management and control provides the cascade this to each of our divisions through environment.
Areas of progress included: foundation for this.
Each division: redefining the responsibilities of key risk Financial strength and resilience are at the has its own risk appetite statement, based on committees to meet our future needs: heart of our Strategic Plan.
The plan targets a its own business plans but also aligned with refining our understanding of the risks we credit rating in line with those of our strongest those of the Group: and face and their scale: peers, without government support.
sets clear guidance on acceptable limits for reducing our exposures in line with our all material types of risk, again aligned with objective of being safe and sustainable: In 2009, the Group Board set four strategic risk Group targets.
enhancing our Group Policy Framework and objectives aligned to the Strategic Plan.
These continuing assurance: are to: By setting a clear risk appetite and embedding improving the quality of our data, including a strong risk culture throughout our businesses, forward-looking measures: and maintain capital adequacy: we can identify, measure and control risk improving our stress-testing capabilities and deliver stable earnings growth: exposures, and respond effectively to shocks.
embedding them across the Bank.
ensure stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity: and In the table on the following page, we maintain stakeholder confidence.
summarise the risks we face.
We provide a more detailed discussion of developments These strategic risk objectives link the Groups in 2011 in the Risk and balance sheet business strategy to the way we set risk management section.
appetite and manage risk in our business.
This is how we bring the Strategic Plan to life in our management of risk.
Key risk Key Day-to-day Strategic appetite frameworks risk risk objectives measures and limits management RBS Group 2011 1 Our business and our strategy Our approach to risk management continued The main risk types facing the Group, which are covered by the risk appetite framework, are shown below Risk type Definition Features The risk that the Group has insufficient capital or is Potential to disrupt the business model and stop Capital, liquidity normal functions of the Group.
unable to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due.
and funding risk Potential to cause the Group to fail to meet the supervisory requirements of regulators.
Significantly driven by credit risk losses.
The risk that the Group will incur losses due to the Loss characteristics vary materially across portfolios.
Credit risk failure of a customer to meet its obligation to settle including counterparty risk Significant link between losses and the macroeconomic outstanding amounts.
Can include concentration risk the risk of loss due to the concentration of credit risk to a specific product asset class, sector or counterparty.
The risk of material losses arising from significant Can arise from sovereign events, economic events, Country risk political events, natural disasters or conflicts.
Potential to affect parts of the Groups credit portfolio that are directly or indirectly linked to the country in question.
The risk arising from changes in interest rates, exchange Frequent small losses which are material in aggregate.
Market risk rates, credit spreads, equity prices and risk related Infrequent large material losses due to stress events.
factors such as market volatilities.
The risk of financial loss through fluctuations in the Frequent small losses which are material in aggregate.
Insurance risk timing, frequency and or severity of insured events, Infrequent large material losses due to stress events.
relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed Frequent small losses.
Operational risk processes or systems, from inappropriate human actions, Infrequent material losses.
The risk arising from non-compliance with national and Adverse impacts on strategy, capital, business models Compliance risk and operational effectiveness.
international laws, rules and regulations.
Financial cost of adapting to changes in laws, rules and regulations or of penalties for non-compliance.
The risk of brand damage arising from financial and nonPotential to put the entire business at risk.
Otherwise, Reputational risk could lead to negative publicity, loss of revenue, costly financial events due to failure to meet stakeholders litigation or a decline in the customer base.
expectations of the Groups performance and behaviour.
Can arise from actions taken by the Group or a failure to take action.
The risk of lower-than-expected revenues and or higherInfluenced by many factors such as pricing, sales Business risk volume, input costs, regulations and market and than-expected operating costs.
The risk that the Group will have to make additional Funding position can be volatile due to the uncertainty Pension risk of future investment returns and the projected value of contributions to its defined benefit pension schemes.
