FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES Introduction The development of previously settled claims, where payments One of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to protect to date are extrapolated for each prior year themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance companies accept Estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders and seek to add value average cost through the aggregation and management of these risks.
Notified claims development, where notified claims to date for each year are extrapolated based upon observed development The uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reflected in the of earlier years financial statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the Expected loss ratios.
financial statements principally arises in respect of the insurance contract liabilities of the company.
In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the BornhuetterFerguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
The insurance contract liabilities of an insurance company include the The Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of business.
provision for unearned premiums and unexpired risks and the provision In selecting its best estimate, the Group considers the appropriateness for losses and loss adjustment expenses.
Unearned premiums and of the methods and bases to the individual circumstances of the unexpired risks represent the amount of income set aside by the provision class and underwriting year.
The process is designed to company to cover the cost of claims that may arise during the select the most appropriate best estimate.
unexpired period of risk of insurance policies in force at the end of the reporting period.
Outstanding claims represent the companys estimate Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally of the cost of settlement of claims that have occurred by the end of the assessed separately, being measured either at the face value of the loss reporting period but have not yet been finally settled.
adjusters estimates or projected separately in order to allow for the future development of large claims.
In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards the Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the end of the A separate estimate is made of the amounts that will be recoverable reporting period but remain unsettled.
This includes claims that may from reinsurers based upon the gross provisions and having due have occurred but have not yet been notified to the company and regard to collectability.
those that are not yet apparent to the insured.
The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are subject As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs to close scrutiny both within the Groups business units and at Group to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine the Corporate Centre.
In addition, for major classes where the risks and appropriate provisions.
uncertainties inherent in the provisions are greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are undertaken by advisers who are able to draw upon Estimation techniques their specialist expertise and a broader knowledge of current industry Claims and unexpired risks provisions are determined based upon trends in claims development.
As an example, the Groups exposure previous claims experience, knowledge of events and the terms to asbestos and environmental pollution is examined on this basis.
and conditions of the relevant policies and on interpretation of The results of these reviews are considered when establishing the circumstances.
Particularly relevant is experience with similar cases appropriate levels of provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses and historical claims payment trends.
The approach also includes the and unexpired periods of risk.
consideration of the development of loss payment trends, the potential longer term significance of large events, the levels of unpaid claims, It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the legislative changes, judicial decisions and economic, political and determination of insurance contract liabilities involve obtaining regulatory conditions.
corroborative evidence from as wide a range of sources as possible and combining these to form the overall estimate.
This technique means Where possible, the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the that the estimate is inevitably deterministic rather than stochastic.
This assists in giving greater understanding of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The Groups The pension assets and pension and post retirement liabilities are estimates of losses and loss expenses are reached after a review calculated in accordance with International Accounting Standard 19 of several commonly accepted actuarial projection methodologies IAS19.
The assets, liabilities and income statement charge, calculated and a number of different bases to determine these provisions.
in accordance with IAS 19, are sensitive to the assumptions made from These include methods based upon the following: time to time, including inflation, interest rate, investment return and mortality.
IAS 19 compares, at a given date, the current market value of a pension funds assets with its long term liabilities, which are calculated Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 89 ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED using a discount rate in line with yields on AA rated bonds of suitable The sections below identify a number of specific risks relating to duration and currency.
As such, the financial position of a pension fund asbestos and environmental claims.
There may be other classes of risk on this basis is highly sensitive to changes in bond rates and will also be which could develop in the future and that could have a material impact impacted by changes in equity markets.
on the Groups financial position.
Uncertainties and contingencies The Group evaluates the concentration of exposures to individual The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be characterised and cumulative insurance risk and establishes its reinsurance policy under a number of specific headings, such as: to reduce such exposure to levels acceptable to the Group.
Uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would Asbestos and environmental claims give rise to a policyholder suffering an insured loss The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims Uncertainty as to the extent of policy coverage and limits applicable for asbestos and environmental pollution is subject to a range of Uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by a uncertainties that is generally greater than those encountered for other policyholder as a result of the event occurring classes of insurance business.
As a result it is not possible to determine Uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder the future development of asbestos and environmental claims with the for a loss suffered.
same degree of reliability as with other types of claims, particularly in periods when theories of law are in flux.
Consequently, traditional The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to the techniques for estimating provisions for losses and loss adjustment characteristics of the insured risks and the cost of a claim will be expenses cannot wholly be relied upon and the Group employs determined by the actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
specialised techniques to determine provisions using the extensive knowledge of both internal asbestos and environmental pollution There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of experts and external legal and professional advisors.
the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
Following the identification and notification of an insured loss, there may Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: still be uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing of the settlement of the claim.
There are many factors that will determine the level of The long delay in reporting claims from the date of exposure uncertainty such as inflation, inconsistent judicial interpretations and for example, cases of mesothelioma can have a latent period court judgments that broaden policy coverage beyond the intent of the of up to 40 years.
This makes estimating the ultimate number original insurance, legislative changes and claims handling procedures.
of claims the Group will receive particularly difficult Issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible The establishment of insurance contract liabilities is an inherently parties and insurers uncertain process and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual Emerging court decisions and the possibility of retrospective cost of settlement of outstanding claims and unexpired risks can vary legislative changes increasing or decreasing insurer liability substantially from the initial estimates, particularly for the Groups long The tendency for social trends and factors to influence court awards tail lines of business.
The Group seeks to provide appropriate levels of Developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses and provision for reinsurance for claims of this nature unexpired risks taking the known facts and experience into account.
For US liabilities from the Groups London market business, developments in the tactics of US plaintiff lawyers and court The Group has exposures to risks in each class of business within each decisions and awards.
operating segment that may develop and that could have a material impact upon the Groups financial position.
The geographic and Potential change in discount rate for lump sum damages awards insurance risk diversity within the Groups portfolio of issued insurance Legislative changes may affect the Groups liability in respect of policies mean it is not possible to predict whether material unsettled claims in the use of predetermined factors used by courts development will occur and, if it does occur, the location and the timing to calculate compensation claims.
For example, in the UK, standard of such an occurrence.
The estimation of insurance contract liabilities formulae are used as an actuarial measure by the courts to assess lump involves the use of judgments and assumptions that are specific to the sum damages awards for future losses typically loss of earnings arising insurance risks within each territory and the particular type of insurance from personal injuries and fatal accidents.
The calibration of these risk covered.
The diversity of the insurance risks results in it not being standard formulae can be updated by the UK Government and the possible to identify individual judgments and assumptions that are more Lord Chancellor may review the methodology to be applied in likely than others to have a material impact on the future development determining the discount rate to calculate the appropriate settlements, of the insurance contract liabilities.
or the discount rate itself, in due course.
A reduction in the prescribed discount rate would increase the value of future claims settlements.
90 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Acquisitions and disposals Reinsurance The Group makes acquisitions and disposals of businesses as part of its The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contracts with its normal operations.
All acquisitions are made after due diligence, which reinsurers and the possibility of default by its reinsurers.
The Group is will include, amongst other matters, assessment of the adequacy also exposed to the credit risk assumed in fronting arrangements and of claims reserves, assessment of the recoverability of reinsurance to potential reinsurance capacity constraints.
In selecting the reinsurers balances, inquiries with regard to outstanding litigation and inquiries with whom the Group conducts business its strategy is to seek of local regulators and taxation authorities.
Consideration is also given reinsurers with the best combination of financial strength, price and to potential costs, risks and issues in relation to the integration of any capacity.
The Group Corporate Centre publishes internally a list of proposed acquisitions with existing RSA operations.
The Group will authorised reinsurers who pass the Groups selection process and seek to receive the benefit of appropriate contractual representations which its operations may use for new transactions.
and warranties in connection with any acquisition and, where necessary, additional indemnifications in relation to specific risks although there The Group monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including can be no guarantee that these processes and any such protection will those to whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the be adequate in all circumstances.
The Group may also provide relevant financial position for non recoverability due to reinsurer default by representations, warranties and indemnities to counterparties on any requiring operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having disposal.
While such representations, warranties and indemnities are regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List is essential components of many contractual relationships, they do not the list of companies whom the directors believe will not be able to represent the underlying purpose for the transaction.
pay amounts due to the Group in full.
These clauses are customary in such contracts and may from time Investment risk to time lead to the Group receiving claims from counterparties.
The Group is exposed to market risk and credit risk on its invested assets.
Market risk includes the risk of potential losses from adverse Contracts with third parties movements in market rates and prices including interest rates, equity The Group enters into joint ventures, outsourcing contracts and prices, property prices and foreign exchange rates.
The Groups distribution arrangements with third parties in the normal course of its exposure to market risks is controlled by the setting of investment limits business and is reliant upon those third parties being willing and able to in line with the Groups risk appetite.
From time to time the Group also perform their obligations in accordance with the terms and conditions makes use of derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to of the contracts.
adverse fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and equity markets.
The Group has strict controls over the use of derivative instruments.
Litigation, disputes and investigations The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, is subject Credit risk includes the non performance of contractual payment to litigation, mediation and arbitration, and regulatory, governmental and obligations on invested assets and adverse changes in the credit other sectoral inquiries and investigations in the normal course of its worthiness of invested assets including exposures to issuers or business.
In addition, the Group is exposed to the risk of litigation in counterparties for bonds, equities, deposits and derivatives.
Limits connection with its former ownership of the US operation.
The directors are set at both a portfolio and counterparty level based on likelihood do not believe that any current mediation, arbitration, regulatory, of default to manage the Groups overall credit profile and specific governmental or sectoral inquiries and investigations and pending or concentrations within risk appetite.
The Groups insurance investment threatened litigation or dispute will have a material adverse effect on the portfolios are concentrated in listed securities with very low levels Groups financial position, although there can be no assurance that losses of exposure to assets without quoted market prices.
The Group uses or financial penalties resulting from any current mediation, arbitration, model based analysis to verify asset values when market values are regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries and investigations and not readily available.
pending or threatened litigation or dispute will not materially affect the Groups financial position or cashflows for any period.
The current economic crisis adds further uncertainty and volatility to underlying levels of market and credit risk in the Eurozone.
The Group has, however, very limited direct exposure via its investment portfolio to the Eurozone and to the peripheral Eurozone countries in particular.
As with all other invested assets, limits are set in line with the Groups risk appetite.
The Group continues to monitor the situation closely and take action to manage its exposure as required.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 91 ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED Rating environment The ability of the Group to write certain types of insurance business is dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit ratings from the rating agencies.
The Group has the objective of maintaining single A ratings.
At the present time the ratings are A positive outlook 1 from S&P, A stable outlook from AM Best and A2 stable outlook from Moodys.
A worsening in the ratings could have an adverse impact on the ability of the Group to write certain types of general insurance business.
In assessing credit risk in relation to reinsurance and investments, the Group takes into account a variety of factors, including credit rating.
If any such rating changes, or is otherwise reassessed, this has potential implications for the related exposures.
Foreign exchange risk The Group publishes consolidated financial statements in Pounds Sterling.
Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to translate other currencies, particularly other European currencies and the Canadian Dollar, into Pounds Sterling will impact the reported consolidated financial position, results of operations and cashflows from period to period.
These fluctuations in exchange rates will also impact the Pound Sterling value of, and the return on, the Groups investments.
Income and expenses for each income statement item are translated at average exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities, as reported in the statement of financial position, are translated at closing exchange rates at the end of the reporting period.
Regulatory environment The legal, regulatory and accounting environment is subject to significant change in many of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, including developments in response to changes in the economic and political environment and the recent financial crisis.
The Group continues to monitor the developments and react accordingly.
The new solvency framework for insurers being developed by the EU, referred to as Solvency II, is intended in the medium term to achieve greater harmonisation of approach across EU member states to assessing capital resources and requirements.
There will be continued uncertainty until all the rules are finalised and the Group is actively participating in shaping the outcome through its involvement with European and UK regulators and industry bodies.
The Group is actively progressing its implementation plans and the Directors are confident that the Group will continue to meet all future regulatory capital requirements.
On 28 February 2012, after the signing of these financial statements, S&P upgraded the Groups rating to A stable outlook.
92 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
