Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 25 Key risks and mitigations This section provides a summary of our control of risk.
The Chief Financial Officeris supported by the Group It sets out how we manage the risks in our business Head of Risk and chairs the Group Risk Committee, and how we have developed risk management during which includes, as well as the control functions, senior 2011, including a summary of the work of the Group representatives from each business segment and Risk Committee.
It then provides a summary of the division, including the Chief Investment Officer, Chief key continuing risks, how we mitigate them and our Operating Officer and the Group Head of Private assessment of their potential impact on our business Banking.
As the principal management committee for in the context of the current economic and geopolitical the monitoring and reporting of risks and controls, the environment.
Finally, it provides an overview of the Group Risk Committee reviews and monitors the impact and indicative timescales of emerging risks.
adequacy andeffectiveness of the Groups risk management framework, including relevant policies Managing risk and limits.
It also reviews trends and exceptions in the It is the responsibility of all employees to maintain the most significant risk exposures.
control culture of Schroders and, consequently, we embed riskmanagement within thebusiness.
Three lines of defence The first line of defence against unexpected outcomes The Board retains accountability for risk management.
lies with line managers, whether they are in Investment, It regularly considers the most significant risks facing Distribution, Private Banking or Infrastructure.
the Group and uses quantitative exposure measures, Members of the Group Management Committee have such as stress tests, where appropriate.
The nonrisk management responsibility within their respective executive oversight of the risk management process business areas.
The senior management team takes lies with the Audit and Risk Committee.
the lead rolewith respect to appropriate controls The Chief Executive and Group Management across the business to maintain the quality standards Committee review the key corporate risks facing expected byclientsand regulators.
Individual risks are managed in different Line management is supplemented by oversight ways depending on the nature of the risks andtheir functions that provide a second line of defence.
potential impacts so as to mitigate adverse consequences.
We group the risks we face into Group Internal Audit provides retrospective market, investment performance and liquidity risks: independent assurance over the operation of controls credit risks: operational risks: and emerging risks.
and is the third line ofdefence against unexpected Wecontinually upgrade our risk control processes outcomes.
The internalaudit programme includes andtechnological support tools to increase their reviews of theriskmanagement process and advice effectiveness.
and recommendations to improve the control environment.
The Chief Executive has delegated the executive oversight of risk to the Chief Financial Officer.
The ChiefFinancial Officer has responsibility for the riskandcontrol framework of the Group and the independent monitoring and reporting of risks and controls.
Three lines of defence 3rd Line: Independent assurance Group Risk Audit Committee and Risk Committee 2nd Line: Oversight functions 1st Line: Business operations Controls Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs025-032.
indd 25 13 03 2012 00:32 26 Key risks and mitigations continued 2011 developments We devoted resources to the management of risks During the year, we worked to increase awareness associated with Eurozone instability and the weak ofindividuals responsibility for the control of risk.
For economic environment, establishing a team to example, we prepared a bespoke film for the 2011 monitor, pre-empt and react to developments.
global management meeting focusing on external Its work continues.
We drew not only on internal We have increased the sophistication of statistical views but included perspectives from other leading modelling of risk outcomes which has resulted in financial institutions and regulators.
improved quantification of Pillar 2 regulatory capital.
We have also worked to increase the sophistication The Financial review in this Annual Report covers ofour risk controls.
There have been three notable this in more detail.
automations: the installation of a global treasury We have extended the Group Risk Committees system: the development of transparent look-through attendees to include all members of the Group reporting of Group capital holdings providing detailed Management Committee on a quarterly basis.
analyses of combined exposures: and a consolidated daily report of counterparty exposures.
Key risks The Group Risk Committees work in 2011 The following tables summarise key business included emerging risk identification: complex risks.
The list is not exhaustive but aims to provide product development reviews: preparations for the information on the risks that are currently considered implementation of the UK Bribery Act: the approval of to be most relevant to our business.
client take-on procedures: preparations for regulatory developments such as Dodd-Frank, FATCA, UCITS IV and RDR: the Japanese earthquake business continuity plan: and policy reviews such asbrand protection, information assurance, procurement and corporate residence.
During the year, we worked to increase awareness of individuals responsibility for the control of risk.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs025-032.
indd 26 13 03 2012 00:32 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 27 Market, investment performance and liquidity risks We face risks from movements in the financial markets in which we operate, arising from holding investments as both principal and agent.
We have principal exposure in the life company in Asset Management where we hold investments in funds: in our Private Banking business, where we hold bank paper and government securities: and through the Groups investment capital, where we hold bank paper, government and corporate bonds, equities, funds of hedge funds, property and private equity.
There is agency exposure in Asset Management and Private Banking in respect of the assets we manage on behalf of our clients.
Description of key risk How we manage risk Market risk Market risk arises from market Our geographically diversified, broad product range enables movements, which can cause a fall ustoprovide clients with solutions tailored to a variety of market inthevalue of principal investments conditions and serves to diversify individual market dependencies.
andadecline in thevalue of assets Group management regularly reviews all holdings within Group undermanagement.
All principal investments are managed within approved limits.
The Groups seed capital investments may be hedged inrespect of market risk and currency risk.
These decisions are takenbythe Group Capital Committee, chaired by the Chief FinancialOfficer.
Shareholders funds, net fee income Income and expenses are, where possible, matched in the and expenses of the Groups overseas currency of individual subsidiaries.
We also use forward foreign subsidiaries are denominated in local exchange contracts to mitigate transactional and investment currencies and are therefore subject exposure to currency movements.
In Private Banking, market to exchange raterisk.
riskis monitored and managed at alocal level and by the Private Banking Risk Committee.
Investment performance risk The management of investment risk is The Schroder Investment Risk Framework provides review and a core skill ofthe Group.
This is the challenge of investment risks across each of the asset classes risk that portfolios willnot meet their managed by the Group.
A team reporting directly to the Group investment objectives.
Thiscan HeadofRisk provides further independent oversight and adversely affect levels of net challenge tothis process.
We adhere to a clearly defined investment process which seeks tomeet investment targets within stated risk parameters.
Individual portfolio performance, valuations and risk profiles are monitored by fund managers and management on a regular basis, allowing issues to be identified and mitigated.
Recognising that not all products will outperform all the time, we offer a diversified product set which reduces the concentration of risk on the performance of any one fund or asset class.
Investment performance is monitored as part of our investment performance risk management process.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 28 Key risks and mitigations continued Market, investment performance and liquidity risks continued Description of key risk How we manage this risk Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash To mitigate this risk within client portfolios, we seek to match, flows cannot be generated to meet where possible, the liquidity of aportfolios underlying investments with its anticipated liquidity requirements.
We actively monitor redemptions or other obligations as they arise.
Liquidity issues can arise markets for indicators of declines in liquidity.
We also review products and portfolios toidentify capacity constraints.
as a result of market conditions or through inherently illiquid Each of our regulated subsidiaries and the Group asawhole meet investments.
In addition, we maintain sufficient liquidity in our assets for our anticipated needs, taking account of the risks we face.
We monitor Private Banking liquidity against the regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions concerned.
In the UK, this includes the maintenance of an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment that monitors liquidity against a range of stress scenarios.
Credit risk We face risks from the default of counterparties to our principal financial transactions.
Our clients also face counterparty risk in relation to the financial transactions in their portfolios and funds.
Private Banking additionally faces principal credit risk on its lending activities.
Description of key risk How we manage risk Credit risk We face credit risk as a result of In order to manage this risk we actively monitor counterparty creditworthiness with limits expressed in terms of value and term counterparty exposure.
The Group sets overall limits in respect of both principal and agency counterparty risk.
Where possible, we seek to diversify our exposure across .
All counterparties are reviewed on a regular basis and limits are amended following changes to their financial metrics.
We actively monitor market data and rating agency outputs in assessing counterparties.
Collateral is taken in some cases.
We also face credit risk through In Private Banking, we mitigate credit risk where possible through lending byPrivate Banking.
collateralisation in the form of cash, portfolio investments or property.
Credit risk is monitored and managed against the performance of thecollateral.
We review products and portfolios toidentify capacity constraints.
indd 28 13 03 2012 00:32 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 29 Operational risk Operational risk arises in our investment management activities, distribution channels, product development and the operation of our infrastructure and as a consequence of our diversified business model.
Local management isresponsible for operational risk controls.
Description of key risk How we manage this risk Operational risk Operational risk could arise from All new business processes are subject to review in order the failure of significant business toidentify asuitable suite of operational controls to mitigate processes undertaken by Schroders.
We have a number of outsourced Prior to entering outsourcing arrangements, the Group supplier relationships that are an undertakes due diligence and prior to engagements, maintains important part of our business model, a programme of assessment against agreed servicelevels.
particularly in respect of fund administration services.
Distribution risk Distribution risk arises from The broad range of distribution channels mitigates against a key relationship management and dependency on any sales channel.
concentration across different No single client accounts for more than one per cent.
of total distribution channels and products.
We access clients through three channels: institutional clients, often advised by consultants: retail clients, intermediated through banks, brokers and independent advisers: and private clients.
indd 29 13 03 2012 00:32 30 Key risks and mitigations continued Operational risk continued Description of key risk How we manage risk Product risk Product risk arises from complexity We have a dedicated product development team and a product and the development of new products approval and review procedure.
to meet changes in client demand.
Product risk can also arise from We actively monitor potential capacity constraints and may mitigate capacity constraints where the size them by closing products to new investment in certain of assets under management in a circumstances.
particular asset class makes it more difficult to trade efficiently inthe market.
Technology risk We rely on technology and qualified Our technology is partly outsourced and our platform utilises professionals to maintain our wellestablished, tested technology from outsource partners infrastructure.
assessed to befinancially stable and able to provide the required levelof service.
Outsource partners are an important part of our business model and we work with them to maintain the quality and continuity of service.
Due diligence is undertaken before entering into new arrangements and performance is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Continuity and business resumption planning is in place across thebusiness.
People risk Our business depends on people.
We recruit and develop specialist skills as the range of our product We ensure weemploy people offerings deepens and our investment and distribution strategies with skill sets appropriate to our develop into new areas.
To mitigate people risks, we have competitive remuneration plans, with appropriate deferred benefits, targeted at key employees.
We also operate from many international centres, which reduces reliance on single pools of talent and individual country stability.
Clear objectives are set for employees and we measure success inthe annual review process.
This allows us to identify employee development initiatives which can be motivational and increase the retention of talented people.
We expect our employees to behave We actively promote ethical standards and train our employees with integrity, which is a core value.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 31 Operational risk continued Description of key risk How we manage risk Geographical diversity risk Our business is broadly diversified We employ local people with local expertise and also move by region which, whilst mitigating employees internationally around the Group.
aggregate risk, introduces local risks The Group Risk Committee receives reports from line as a result of local laws, regulations, management regarding matters giving cause for concern business customs and traditions.
andrecommendations for appropriate remedial action.
We keep our employees up to date on international regulation relevant to them, particularly extra-territorial legislation which typically emanates from the UK, Europe and the US.
An independent team, reporting to the Group Head of Risk, isresponsible for assessing the impact of material issues and implementing appropriate and timely risk mitigation.
Legal risk The risk that Schroders or We rely on our employees, with support from our legal team, to counterparties fail tomeet their consider carefully the obligations weassume and our compliance legalobligations and the risk of with them.
Semi-annual confirmations are obtained from representatives around the Group that any dispute or potential claim has been brought promptly to the attention of the General Counsel.
Regulatory and compliance risk The risk of loss arising from failure We maintain compliance arrangements across our global offices, to meet regulatory requirements in through which our Compliance function supports business those jurisdictions in which the management in meeting its obligations.
Our platform utilises wellestablished, tested technology.
indd 31 13 03 2012 00:32 32 Key risks and mitigations continued Current assessment of key continuing risks The key continuing risks outlined above have been assessed in the light of the current economic and geopolitical environment as summarised in the diagram below.
The horizontal axis considers if the probability of each key risk is heightened due to current market conditions.
The vertical axis considers whether the potential cost of the key risk has increased due to current market conditions.
The Group undertakes additional work to address those risks that it considers to be potentially heightened and or more costly.
People risk: Employment practices and workplace safety 4 7 11 13 2.
Geographical diversity: Disasters and public safety 3.
Operational risk: Clients, products 6 3 and business practices 6.
Operational risk: Technology and infrastructure failures 8.
O perational risk: Execution, 1 2 delivery and process management 9.
Counterparty credit risk 9 10 10. Credit lending risk 11.
Market risk Risk stable Heightened risk Emerging risks Emerging risks are those with uncertain impact, probability and timeframe that could cause risk to the Group.
These are the hardest to define and change regularly.
We analyse each risk and, if needed, develop and apply mitigation and management plans.
The external emerging risks and key regulatory changes that are currently our focus of attention are set out below.
The diagram indicates our assessment of the likelihood, timeframe and impact on our business.
The estimated impact and likelihood may change as circumstances change and mitigation plans are developed.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme review 10 6 3 15 7.
Capital controls in the Eurozone 9.
MiFID II PRIPs UCITS V impact 13 5 12 13.
Dodd-Frank, EMIR OTC market 14 13 14 reform 15.
Terrorism Within 12 months Time Uncertain Regulatory political High impact Market Counterparty third party Other Medium impact Low impact Client competitor Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs025-032.
indd 32 13 03 2012 00:32 Certain Likelihood Uncertain Cost stable Cost increased
