Risk and Risk Management Introduction The mechanisms for identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring risks are an integral part of the management processes of the Group.
Understanding the risks we face, and managing them appropriately, enables effective decisionmaking, contributes to our competitive advantage, helps us to achieve our business objectives and protects the interests of our various stakeholders.
In the following sections, we outline the framework for the management of risk in the Group.
We provide detail on the main strategic risks facing the business and associated management activity, followed by individual sections on: Market Risk on page 32 Credit Risk on page 34 Liquidity Risk on page 35 Insurance Risk on page 35 Operational Risk on page 36 The sections marked with an asterisk are subjected to audit by  LLP.
Risk Appetite Statement The Board is ultimately responsible for setting the framework within which risk is managed at St. Jamess Place SJP.
At the centre of this framework is our Risk Appetite Statement.
In our Risk Appetite Statement, the Board clearly sets out our risk boundaries a specification of the types of risks the Group is willing to take and to what extent.
The Statement is regularly reviewed and updated by the Board to ensure that it remains current and continues to take account of the implications of any significant emerging or topical risk.
Some examples of activities that our Risk Appetite Statement currently explicitly prohibits are: Providing guarantees on investment returns, or options for unit-linked funds Manufacturing any general insurance or lending products, or assuming insurance or credit risk arising from them, other than PI insurance manufacture through a captive arrangement The sale of with-profits business Risk Policies In support of our Risk Appetite Statement, we have a number of formal Risk Policies which clearly establish our objectives, principles and high level management activity in relation to each of the main areas of risk that the Group faces.
When analysing risk, we use these categories to help improve understanding of our exposure.
During 2011 we have continued to run scenario and reverse stress test analysis within the Group to inform our risk appetite and risk limits.
28 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review The Risk Committee and Group Risk Function Overseeing our risk management framework is the Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee is made up of Non-executive Board members responsible for ensuring that a culture of effective risk identification and management is fostered across the Group.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing and assessing corporate, emerging and topical risks.
Further information setting out the activities of the Risk Committee is set out on pages 63 and 64.
The Risk Committee is supported by a central Group Risk function, whose primary role is to ensure that an appropriate risk management framework is in place, that it is fit for purpose and is working as intended.
The Group Risk function is responsible for the ongoing development and co-ordination of risk management within SJP such as preparing for the implementation of Solvency II, developments to the FSAs corporate governance requirements, and consolidation, reporting and, where appropriate, escalation of risk related management information.
The Risk Committee is also supported in its oversight of risk by the Audit Committee which periodically reviews the Risk Schedules and the SJP UK Individual Capital Assessment.
This support helps to ensure that there is sufficient independent challenge in relation to the identification, measurement and management of our risks.
Risk Management Framework The risk management framework enables the continual identification and assessment of risks that may impact on the successful delivery of our Group business objectives.
Changing business conditions and the decisions taken by the Board in running business operations may alter the status of risks identified and also assist in the identification of new risks.
The risk assessment process supports this ongoing identification and assessment of risk.
Corporate Risk Schedules and quarterly Key Risk Indicator reports are produced to facilitate the monitoring of risks by the Risk Committee and Board.
The Risk Management and Finance functions also monitor risk capital on a regular basis and report on financial risk through the Individual Capital Assessment process and stress, reverse stress and scenario testing processes.
An annual risk management review is conducted by the Risk Management Function which provides an overview of group risk experience during the year and an opinion on the continued appropriateness of the risk management framework.
This report is submitted to the Risk Committee for review and any changes required are approved on behalf of the Board.
This continual process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by Risk Committee on behalf of the Board and accords with the Guidance for Directors on the UK Corporate Governance Code.
29 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk and Risk Management continued Principal Risks and Uncertainties At the time of preparing this report, there are a number of principal risks and uncertainties that are inherent within both the Groups business model and the market in which we operate.
These principal risks and uncertainties, and the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate them, are as follows: Risk Description Management Distribution The Groups distribution We employ a number of specialist managers specifically to manage the capability strength may be eroded due recruitment and retention of high quality Partners.
Formal retention to an inability to recruit and strategies are in place to ensure that, wherever possible, we retain good retain Partners of the quality and experienced Partners.
All recruitment and retention appropriate quality.
We have also re-started the SJP Academy, overseen by a dedicated senior management team, to broaden our recruitment streams.
Advice Advice given by an individual Advice guidelines are agreed by technical specialists and reviewed by Partner or authorised by the Group management.
These guidelines are supported by Training and Group is deemed unsuitable Accreditation arrangements that have been established, with close leading to redress, costs and compliance monitoring to ensure advice guidelines are followed.
potential reputational Appropriate incentives exist to promote Partner compliance, whilst damage.
those failing to do so are subject to censure and other sanctions.
The Group also has adequate professional indemnity cover in place.
Investment Our approach to investment We actively manage and monitor the performance of our investment Management management may fail to managers through the Investment Committee and a firm of Approach deliver expected returns to professional external advisers Stamford Associates.
Our fund range clients of the Group.
was broadened further during 2011 to help better mitigate sales, persistency and market risks by increasing diversification.
Outsourcing The Groups dependence on We maintain close working relationships with our outsourced business outsourcing may come under partners and should have sufficient warning of any material changes threat should any of its key that may significantly impact upon our business model.
All investment management or relationships are governed by formal agreements with adequate notice administration business periods and full exit management plans.
Strong alternative providers partners decide to exit the exist in the market.
Business continuity arrangements have been market, significantly revise developed and scenario analysis carried out.
30 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Risk Description Management Competitor A major and successful new We closely monitor competitor activity and the market place, for signs activity entrant to the adviser-based of any potential new entrants or threats, for example, RDR causing wealth management market crowding of the high net worth market place as firms concentrate on has an impact on the success more profitable income streams.
As noted above, we also have a proven of SJPs business.
track record in Partner acquisition and retention, which we believe would make it difficult for a new entrant to challenge SJPs position.
Established SJP Partners have significant equity stakes in their practices and these are structured to aid retention.
Regulatory, Changes in the wider Governance structure, management committees and active legislative regulatory environment, management of the FSA relationship provides intelligence and tools to and tax supervisory approach or mitigate the impact of operating in a highly regulated sector.
environment legislative and tax Membership of appropriate trade bodies also provides intelligence on environments could have an the nature and possible effect of proposed changes.
The Group has also adverse impact on the engaged the services of public relations and communications Groups business.
consultants Cicero, Tulchan and Broadgate Mainland.
Retail Changes arising from the The Group is ahead of target on plans to move the Partnership towards Distribution Retail Distribution Review, achieving Diploma status by the December 2012 deadline.
Good Review particularly in relation to progress is also being made on implementing our approach to the new professionalism and adviser adviser charging regime, and we have been actively engaged with the charging, adversely impact FSA throughout 2011.
A further risk for advice providers is that clients the Group.
will be able to switch-off payment for ongoing advice.
This will have little direct impact on the business, although it could affect our Partners.
However, the strength of client relationships, on which our business is built, will mitigate this effect.
Lloyds Banking The uncertainty surrounding The LBGs CEO strategic review findings were reported to the market Group LBG continued Lloyds Banking on 30 June 2011 and we still do not expect an imminent change in the Group ownership in terms of LBG holding or relationship.
Good communication is maintained with business strategy and the LBG Board.
rationalisation within the combined group has the potential for substantial impact upon SJPs business.
Eurozone The impact of one or more In relation to any shareholder asset exposure, our internal Treasury failure Euro area countries function constantly monitors the credit ratings of our significant defaulting or being forced to counterparties and assets, and our exposure to sovereign debt.
exit is uncertain and could However, the risk can extend more widely and the Group has engaged adversely impact the Group.
in a process of identification, analysis and management of the heightened Eurozone risk.
In practice we do not believe we are directly exposed to a material extent, as we do not actively pursue credit risk.
31 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk and Risk Management continued Other Key Risks and Uncertainties In addition to the principal risks and uncertainties mentioned above there are other key risks and uncertainties that are inherent within the business and markets in which we operate.
At the time of preparing this report the other key risks and uncertainties facing the business, and the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate these risks, are as detailed below under the relevant risk categories.
Strategic Risk Risk Description Management Culture Developments in the We have a range of strategic mechanisms in place including, for industry, or in the scale of example, regular surveys and consultation groups, which enable us to SJPs business, have an monitor the sentiment of our staff and Partners, identify any adverse or adverse effect on SJPs potential adverse impacts upon our culture and allow us to take culture and, ultimately, the appropriate action.
continuing success of the business.
Economic A major and prolonged We closely monitor the achievement of our business plan, the environment economic downturn and or performance of the markets and consumer confidence through the use stock market crash leads to a of daily Management Information circulated to senior management.
failure to meet targets and to This helps to identify early signals of a market decline, so that we can a significant undermanage expenses and strategy appropriately, as developed in our performance of our business scenario planning.
We currently monitor the potential crystallisation plan.
of operational, market and credit risks resulting from a prolonged collapse in consumer confidence or economic and financial problems in the Eurozone to ensure our exposure is minimised.
Market Risk Market risk is the impact a fall in the value of equity or other asset markets may have on the business.
The Group adopts a risk averse approach to market risk, with a stated solvency policy of not actively pursuing or accepting market risk except where necessary to support other objectives.
The Group seeks to manage market risk by undertaking unit linked business, whereby the client bears the market risk in the search for investment return.
This strategy mitigates any risk to the Group associated with being unable to meet clients liabilities.
However, a reduction in the market value of the unit linked funds would affect the annual management charges paid to the Group, since these charges are based on the market value of funds under management.
An associated reduction in investment returns could also result in the deferral of tax relief on UK life business expenses.
Indirectly, a reduction in market levels could also be associated with a reduction in the volume of new business sales.
The Group accepts the risk associated with variations in the level of future profits arising from market risk.
32 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Management of Market Risk The table below summarises the main market risks that the business is exposed to and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Risk Description Management Client liabilities As a result of a reduction in This risk is substantially mitigated by the Groups strategic focus on equity values, the Group may unit-linked business, by not providing guarantees to clients on policy be unable to meet client values and by the matching of assets and liabilities.
Tax In adverse market conditions, The tax position is monitored closely, in particular the size and sources when the Group is realising of relevant income streams.
investment losses rather than gains, the working of the I-E tax regime can lead to short-term capital inefficiencies, including the deferral of cash benefit of tax relief on expenses.
Retention Loss of future profit due to Retention is closely monitored and unexpected experience is more clients than anticipated investigated.
Retention has remained consistently high throughout the withdrawing their funds, period, despite the challenging economic environment and volatility, particularly as a result of poor and, at the time of writing this report, remains at its long-term level of performance in the financial 95%.
New business Poor performance in the The benefit of longer-term equity investment in a range of riskier financial markets in absolute financial assets is fundamental to the business model.
Advice and terms, and relative to marketing remain valid even when market values fall: however, greater inflation, leads to existing attention is required to support and give confidence to existing and and future clients rejecting future clients in such circumstances, and this is taken account of by the investment in longer-term Group in its activities.
33 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk and Risk Management continued Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of loss due to a debtors non-payment of a loan or other line of credit.
Credit risk also arises from holdings of cash and cash equivalents, deposits and formal loans with banks and financial institutions.
The Group has adopted a risk averse approach to such risk and has a stated policy of not actively pursuing or accepting credit risk except when necessary to support other objectives.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is mitigated by a number of policies including the SJP Group Credit Policy and SJP Group Reinsurance Policy.
Management of Credit Risk The table below summarises the main credit risks to which the business is exposed and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Detail of exposure is included in the Financial Commentary.
Risk Description Management Shareholders Loss of assets Shareholder funds are invested in AAA rated unitised money market assets funds and deposits with approved banks.
The Group has no direct exposure to holdings of sovereign debt of Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece or Spain.
Maximum counterparty limits are set for each company within the Group and aggregate limits are also set at a Grouplevel.
Investment Loss of value of assets These liabilities are matched by fixed interest securities with minimum matching of AAA credit ratings: maximum counterparty limits for such holdings non-linked are again set for each company within the Group and at an aggregate liabilities Group level.
Reinsurance Failure of counterparty or It is necessary for the credit ratings of potential reinsurers to meet or counterparty unable to meet exceed minimum specified levels.
Consideration is also given to size, liabilities risk concentrations exposures and ownership in the selection of reinsurers.
The Group also seeks to diversify its reinsurance credit risk through the use of a spread of reinsurers.
Partner loans Inability of Partners to repay Loans and advances are managed in line with the Groups secured and advances loans or advances from SJP lending policy.
All loans are secured on the future renewals income stream expected from a Partners portfolio and loan advances vary in relation to the projected future income of the relevant Partner.
Outstanding balances are regularly reviewed, assessed on a conservative basis and support is provided to help Partners manage their business appropriately.
Appropriate provision is made where there is objective evidence of impairment.
34 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, either does not have available sufficient financial resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure such resources only at excessive cost.
The Group is averse to liquidity risk and seeks to minimise this risk by not actively pursuing it except where necessary to support other objectives.
The Group is subject to minimal liquidity risk since, in relation to shareholder assets, it maintains a good level of highly rated liquid assets to meet its liabilities, and does not rely on recourse to the market.
Additional detail is provided on these assets in the Financial Commentary.
Policyholder liabilities are also typically invested in liquid assets.
However, where a fund is exposed to liquidity risk, the fund management will include processes for managing loss of liquidity, including the possibility of deferral of dealing.
Currency Risk The Group is not subject to any significant currency risk since all material shareholder financial assets and financial liabilities are denominated in sterling.
Insurance Risk The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts under which the Group agrees to compensate the client or other beneficiary if a specified future event the insured event occurs.
The Group insures mortality and morbidity risks but has no longevity risk as we have never written any annuity business.
The Group has a medium appetite for insurance risk, only actively pursuing it where financially beneficial, or in support of strategic objectives.
We seek to manage insurance risk through the use of reassurance, reviewable contract terms, regular pricing reviews and underwriting controls.
The terms and conditions of the insurance contracts offered by the Group and the operation of our reassurance programme determine the level of risk accepted by the Group.
The general terms and conditions of the main insurance contracts and the main insurance risks are set out in the table below.
The Group has no with-profit contracts.
Category Essential Terms Risks Generated Client Guarantee Unit linked reviewable Deductions from units pay Expense No significant guarantees assurances for benefits.
Deductions are reviewable at any time.
Conventional reviewable Regular premiums pay for Mortality, morbidity, Premium level guaranteed assurances benefits.
Premium level is expense between reviews reviewable every fifth policy anniversary.
Conventional guaranteed Premium level fixed Mortality, expense Premium and benefit level assurances throughout life.
guaranteed 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk and Risk Management continued Management of Insurance Related Risk The table below summarises the main insurance risks to which the Groups insurance business is exposed and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Risk Description Management Underwriting Failure to price appropriately The Group ceased writing new protection business in April 2011. for a risk, or the impact of Experience is monitored regularly.
For most business the premium or anti-selection.
deduction rates can be re-set.
Epidemic An unusually large number of Protection is provided through reassurance.
disaster claims arising from a single incident or event.
Expense Administration costs exceed Administration is outsourced and a tariff of costs is agreed.
contract is monitored regularly to rationalise costs incurred.
Internal overhead expenses are monitored and closely managed.
Retention has remained consistently high throughout the withdrawing their funds.
period, despite the challenging economic environment and volatility, and, at the time of writing this report, remains at its long-term level of 95%.
Operational Risk Operational risk is the risk arising from inadequately controlled internal processes or systems, human error and from external events.
This includes all risks that we are exposed to, other than the prudential risks described above, including in particular retail conduct risks arising from the regulatory environment within which the Group operates.
The Group has a medium appetite for operational risk, only accepting it where necessary to support other objectives, and seeks to manage it through outsourcing and close management of the Partnership.
Operational risks that could affect SJP include: Regulation, information technology, financial crime which includes the new offences introduced by the Bribery Act, business protection, human resources, outsourcing, purchasing, communications and legal contracts and obligations Brand value degradation Product development process failure Advice, sales management and distribution Financial processes including financial reporting and taxation External events and developments affecting the Groups markets and operations Each division of the Group is responsible for identifying, managing and reporting its operational risks as part of the quarterly risk reporting process.
There is an Operational Risk Policy which expresses the Groups appetite for this risk category and provides the business with guidance on how to manage this type of risk.
Each risk is assessed by considering its potential impact and the probability of its occurrence.
Impact assessments are made against financial and non-financial metrics.
This is consistent with the assessment of all other types of risk as described in the SJP Risk Management Framework document.
Management of Operational Risk In addition to the operational risks identified in the principal risks and uncertainties disclosed at the start of this section of the report and accounts, there is one further key operational risk to which the business is exposed.
The table below summarises this risk and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate it.
Risk Description Management Regulatory That the Group could face a We seek to maintain open and mutually beneficial relationships with censure fine or regulatory censure our regulators.
We have a range of compliance monitoring activities should it fail to comply with designed to ensure we remain compliant with all applicable applicable regulations.
36 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
