SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 27 As at 31 December 2011, the Company was party to the following agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid: a the multicurrency revolving facility agreement made between the Company, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Unicredit Bank AG, London Branch dated 10 March 2006.
Under this agreement, the Company would be required to promptly notify Lloyds TSB Bank plc, in its capacity as agent for the banks, of any change of control.
Such notication would open a negotiation period of 60 days to determine whether the lenders shall continue to make the facility available and whether any amendment is required.
Failing agreement, any lender may require repayment of the amount outstanding to it under the facility and cancel its commitment.
b the note purchase agreements dated 18 July 2008 and 2 August 2007.
Under these agreements, the Company would be required to promptly notify all noteholders of thechange of control, offering to prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of notes held by each noteholder, with interest to the date of prepayment.
Each noteholder has30 days to accept or reject the prepayment offer.
If no response is received by anoteholder, the offer shall be deemed to have been rejected.
c the trust deed dated 5 June 2008 between the Company and HSBC Corporate Trustee Company UK Limited as trustee constituting the 120.0 million 8.25 per cent converted bonds issued by the Company with a maturity of 2016.
Under this agreement, the Company shall give notice to the trustee and bond holders within 14calendar days of any change of control.
Within 60 calendar days of the giving ofsuch notice, each bondholder may give notice of their intention to exercise their conversion rights at a decreased conversion price or require the Company to redeem their bonds with interest to the date xed for redemption.
d the operating agreement dated 21 March 2005 with Permira.
This agreement allows Permira to terminate the agreement in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Risks and risk management The Board has prepared a matrix of key risks that have been identied which affect its business and has adopted a robust framework of internal control which is designed to monitor those risks and to provide a system to enable the Directors to mitigate these risksas far as possible.
Further details of the Directors system of internal control and its monitoring system, is set out in the corporate governance statement.
In addition, the Board considers risk as part of the business of each board meeting.
The principal risks have been identied as those most likely to occur and have a material impact on the Company.
These principal risks are considered to be as follows: Current market and economic uncertainty The continuing current market, political and economic uncertainty has the potential toimpactthe Company.
In particular, the impact of such uncertainty on portfolio companies andthe Companys subsidiaries will affect the returns earned by the Company andthetrading price and value of its Ordinary Shares.
The Company is generally a passive investor in private equity funds and has no ability to affect change inportfolio companies.
The Company mitigates this risk by continually discussing the performance of portfolio companies with Permira to verify that the companies are reacting to such uncertainty, in addition to ongoing monitoring of market, political andeconomic developments.
This risk was assessed as stable in early 2011, but has sincebeen considered as increasing.
Business review SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 28 Business review continued Borrowing and funding risk There is a risk that the Company may not be able to pay its unfunded commitments.
At31 December 2011, the Group had uncalled commitments of 170.2 million 2010:209.8million, compared to Shareholders funds of 1,038.7 million 2010:945.7 million, including cash balances of 121.0 million 2010: 17.1 million.
Inaddition, the Company has the ability to draw a further 250.0 million 302.5 million from its loan facility.
During the year, the Company agreed with its bankers to amend itsfacility agreement.
The total facility available is 250 million.
Of this, 150 million is available until 17 January 2013 and100 million is available until 31 December 2015.
At31 December 2011, the Company had 162.0million of unsecured Senior Notes inissue, after repurchasing 18%of the Senior Notes during the year.
The Senior Notes are repayable between 2013 and2015.
In addition the Company has 90.9 million of subordinated convertible loan notes inissue, repayable in2016.
The revolving credit facility and the Senior Notes each contain financial covenants.
Theconsequences for the Company of breaching such covenants would be serious.
Thelenders under the revolving credit facility would no longer be required to advance amounts available under the revolving credit facility and amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility and the Senior Notes may become immediately due and payable by the Company.
In such circumstances, the Company may become obliged to sell its assets on unfavourable terms to repay its debts, thereby reducing the returns which shareholders may otherwise have earned.
Any such default may also trigger a crossdefault under other existing nancing arrangements.
The Groups revolving credit facility and the Senior Notes may mature before the investments in underlying portfolio companies are realised.
In that case, the Group willbe required to seek a renancing.
There can be no assurance that the Group will beable to obtain new finance on competitive terms or at all and therefore it may suffer aloss asaresult of having to dispose of investments at a price which does not reect thefull value of the asset which may be achieved upon its maturity.
A failure to obtain new finance could result in a member of the Group defaulting on its obligations which could have a material adverse effect on the Group.
Part of the revolving credit facility iscurrently available until January 2013 with the balance available until December 2015.
The convertible loan notes mature in 2016 and the Senior Notes are due in 2013, 2014 and 2015.
Any reduction in the net asset value attributable to shareholders and the share price will be amplied by balance sheet gearing.
The Board considers cash ow forecasts at each Board meeting and expects to meet a substantial portion of its uncalled commitments, as well as commitments to future funds, from distributions received from its investments and from borrowings available to the Group.
The Directors keep the Groups gearing under review and impose restrictions on borrowings to mitigate this risk.
The Company is in ongoing contact with its lenders and it may seek to renegotiate with lenders, dispose of assets or raise capital to mitigate this risk.
This risk has been assessed as decreasing due to the reduction in the amount of debt on the balance sheet.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 29 Concentration risk The Directors believe that the diversied nature of the underlying investments in the Groups private equity fund portfolio reduces the risks normally associated with making investments in the buy-out and development capital markets.
However, it should be noted that, in accordance with its stated investment objective, the Group currently focuses its investments principally in private equity funds that are managed or advised byPermira.
The performance of the Group will therefore be largely dependent on the performance of the Permira funds in which we invest.
This risk has been assessed as stable.
The performance of Permira funds depends to a significant extent upon the skills and experience of Permira and its personnel.
The continued service of these individuals is not guaranteed and there can be no assurance that key individuals can be replaced with equally skilled and experienced professionals by Permira.
Therefore, the departure of one or several key investment professionals or partners at Permira may have an adverse effect on the performance of the Company and the value and trading price of the Ordinary Shares.
The Companys largest underlying company holdings represent 95% of the gross privateequity portfolio.
All 15 companies are held through funds managed or advised byPermira.
In December 2011, the Company announced a proposed amendment to its Investment Objective to achieve wider asset diversity and better exibility in the management of theCompanys cash ows, by evolving from a concentrated, single manager investor toone that is more diversied, and will look to build on our Permira portfolio through commitments to a limited number of other leading private equity funds.
In time, the Company may also make co-investments alongside funds.
Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk directly since the majority of its assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currency and their sterling value can be signicantly affected by movements in foreign exchange rates.
Currency risk is monitored on a regular basis bythe Board.
The Group may from time to time hedge against foreign currency movements affecting the value of its balance sheet.
Contractual arrangements As disclosed above, the effect of the operating agreement with Permira is to increase the Groups reliance on Permira.
Any deterioration in the relationship with Permira might impact the Company by reducing the level of contact between the Group and Permira.
This risk is mitigated by ongoing communication and regular meetings by different members of Group staff.
Further information on the Groups risks is included in note 30 of the accounts on pages91 to 101.
The above risks should therefore be considered in conjunction with theadditional disclosures contained in note 30. Business review
