Overview Overview Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Financial Statements Financial statements Business r Business review eview Gover Governance finance 11 Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has a policy of continuous identification and review of key business risks and oversees the development of processes to ensure that these risks are managed appropriately.
In the day to day operation of our businesses and the development of the Group, in both existing and new markets, we face risks and uncertainties, some of which are unique to the sector in which we operate.
The risk factors addressed below are those which we believe could adversely affect us, potentially impacting the operations, revenue, profit, cash flow or assets of the Group.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to us, or which we currently believe are immaterial, may also have an adverse affect on the Group.
We use our risk management process to identify, monitor, evaluate and escalate such issues as they emerge, enabling the Board to take appropriate action wherever possible in order to control them.
Economic and market conditions Entering new markets The economy is a major influence on consumer spending with Expansion into additional European countries provides the trends in housing transactions, consumer confidence, mortgage opportunity for substantial long term growth and economic returns approvals, consumer debt levels and interest rates impacting for shareholders.
This represents a good opportunity for the Group consumer demand for discretionary spending on the home.
but exposes it to new cultural and regulatory risks.
Failure to identify, Uncertainty surrounding current economic conditions presents a conduct appropriate due diligence and appropriately integrate difficult trading outlook across our sector.
We remain committed acquisitions, particularly in new geographical markets, could have to the measures implemented to date, to ensure the Group is an adverse impact on the Group.
The Group only enters new appropriately managed in this environment.
markets where the Board believes the potential long term growth and returns outweigh the risks.
Business strategy development and implementation Cost inflation If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not The location of the principal carpet manufacturers in Europe means implement its strategies effectively the business may suffer.
The the Group is exposed to fluctuations in the value of the Euro.
The Board needs to understand and properly manage strategic risk in Group seeks to mitigate this risk by putting in place appropriate order to deliver long term growth for the benefit of all Carpetrights arrangements with manufacturers and proactively managing its shareholders.
The Board holds an annual strategy review day and selling prices to maintain margins.
monitors agreed actions throughout the year.
There are a number of significant cost pressures affecting all retailers.
Many of these costs are growing by more than the rate Employee risk of inflation, putting continued pressure on operating margins.
Carpetrights businesses depend on a high level of input from The strategy of introducing space for beds concessions, moving all levels of staff.
The employee risks are split between: to smaller stores and driving benefits from our supply chain and Management Risk The Group relies on key personnel including IT investments helps mitigate some of the risk.
the Executive Directors, Senior Managers and Store Managers.
Procedures are in place to identify and retain key personnel and Supply chain and business continuity the Board regularly reviews succession planning for senior roles.
Carpetrights revenues and cash flows are dependent on the continued operation of its cutting and distribution facilities.
Customer Service Risk Carpetrights customers expect and Business continuity plans have been documented and receive a high level of customer service.
The Group employs arrangements made to mitigate significant risks arising.
3,266 staff, mostly based in stores, and recommends the services of over 2,000 independent carpet fitters.
The Group continues to ensure that all staff are properly recruited, trained and rewarded so that high levels of customer service are maintained.
