THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued The total dividend in respect of the year is, therefore, Share Buy-back Activity 2.15p per Sigma share.
During the year to 31 March 2011, the Company did not repurchase any Sigma shares.
Since 1 April 2011, and up Capital Return to the date of this document, the Company repurchased 2011 2010 Change 200,000 Sigma shares.
NAV per Sigma share 111.94p 98.12p 14.1% Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk Sigma share price 83.45p 70.50p 18.4% By its nature as an investment trust, the portfolios of both Rises in property equity prices resulted in an increase in share classes are exposed to market price risk, foreign shareholders funds of 14.1% per Sigma share.
Over the currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Companys policies same period the price only element of the benchmark for managing these risks are outlined in note 11 to increased by 13.1%.
Further information on the management of risk and internal controls is contained in Details of the investments held in the Sigma portfolio are the Corporate Governance Report on pages 55 to 60. shown in the Managers Report on pages 36 to 41.
Management Arrangements and Fees Performance Measurement Throughout the period investment management services The directors consider performance measured against the have been provided by Thames River Capital LLP Thames benchmark to be the key performance indicator for the River or the Manager, accounting, custodial and share class.
administrative services by BNP Paribas Securities Services, and company secretarial services by Capita Company The benchmark, provided by FTSE, is FTSE EPRA NAREIT Secretarial Services.
Small Cap Europe Index in Sterling.
This is the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Europe Index in Sterling adjusted to exclude The significant terms of the investment management those stocks with a market cap exceeding a defined level or agreement with Thames River are as follows: Cap.
The Cap is redefined each year by reference to the Notice Period overall capital movement of the Small Cap Index over the The investment management agreements IMAs preceeding Financial Year.
For the year to 31 March 2011 provide for termination of the agreements by either the Cap was 1.0bn.
For the year to 31 March 2012, the party without compensation on the provision of not Cap is 1.126bn.
less than 12 months written notice.
The constituents are reviewed annually.
In order to avoid Management Fees volatility, at the annual review, only companies with a Ordinary share class Sterling equivalent market capitalisation of 20% or more in The fee for the Ordinary share class for the period under excess of the revised Cap will leave the benchmark.
review was a fixed fee of 2.78m plus an ad valorem Existing EPRA Developed Europe constituents join only if fee of 0.20% pa based on the net asset value their Sterling equivalent market capitalisation is 20% or determined in accordance with the Association of more less than the revised Cap.
During the year, any Investment Companies AIC method of valuation of company joining the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Europe Index will the Ordinary share class on the last day of March, June, also join the small cap index if the Sterling equivalent of September and December, payable quarterly in their market capitalisation is less than the defined Cap at advance.
The fee arrangements were reviewed at the end of On a total return basis the Sigma share class returned the financial year, and for the year to March 2012 the 16.5% against a Benchmark total return of 16.9%.
fixed fee element will remain at 2.78m.
The fee arrangements will be reviewed once again at the end The performance for the financial year just ended and the of the financial year.
outlook for the forthcoming financial year are covered in detail in the Chairmans Statement, Market Background Sigma share class and Outlook and Sigma Share Class Managers Report on The fee for the Sigma share class for the period pages 6 to 14 and 30 to 35. under review was a fixed fee of 0.68m plus an ad 50 TR Property Investment Trust
