OTC MARKET REGULATION RISK MANAGEMENT Progress continues to be made in the process of agreeing and Risk management governance introducing reforms designed to strengthen the financial system Introduction and to improve the operation of the financial markets.
Risk management is embedded throughout the business, with the overall risk appetite and risk management strategy being approved In the United States, the CFTC and SEC continue to make progress by the Board, and then propagated down throughout the business in the drafting of the detailed rules and regulations to implement as appropriate.
The principal elements of the Groups risk the principles of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer management governance are set out below.
Protection Act governing the regulation and operation of OTC derivatives markets, and most of the final rules relating to Swap The systems of internal control operated by the Group are designed Execution Facilities SEF are expected to be issued by the middle to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve of 2012.
Implementation of these regulatory reforms including the business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not mandatory clearing requirement for swaps and the requirement absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
that such instruments are traded through a SEF is therefore likely to be phased in during the second half of the year.
The Board The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite, In October 2011 the European Commission tabled proposals to ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk management revise the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID.
framework, and for monitoring the ongoing process for identifying, These proposals, which consist of a regulation MiFIR and a evaluating, managing and reporting the signi cant risks faced by directive MiFID II complement and build on the proposals tabled the Group.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that the Group in September 2010 on the regulation of OTC markets commonly maintains suf cient capital and liquidity resources, both to meet known as the European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR.
its regulatory capital and liquidity requirements and to support its These various proposals are aimed at making financial markets in growth and strategic objectives.
Europe more ef cient, resilient and transparent.
They contain provisions, amongst others, on mandatory clearing requirements The Board is responsible for approving the Group Risk Assessment for OTC derivatives, trade reporting, permissible trade execution Framework, which the Group uses to identify and assess the risks venues for financial instruments including the proposed new to which the Group is exposed, and the Group Risk Management category of an Organised Trading Facility, and governance and Principles and Policies document which sets outs the principles and conduct of business requirements for all trading venues.
The policies adopted by the Board to manage the risks identi ed.
The proposals are at various stages of the legislative process.
EMIR is Board is also responsible for approving the Groups ICAAP in which expected to be nalised during the first half of the year, with the Group documents its assessment of the adequacy of its capital subsequent implementation measures due before the end of 2012, and liquidity resources, in accordance with FSA requirements.
in line with the G20 timetable.
MiFIR and MiFID II have passed to the European Parliament and the Council for negotiation and Group Treasury and Risk Committee adoption, and the detailed technical rules are being developed by The Group Treasury and Risk Committee monitors the Groups risk the European Securities and Markets Authority.
It is envisaged that exposure against the agreed risk appetite.
The members of the MiFIR and MiFID II will come into force during 2015.
Group Treasury and Risk Committee are the Chief Executive, who acts as chairman, the Finance Director and the Group Treasurer and As we have previously commented, we agree with the objectives Head of Group Risk Control.
The minutes of the Group Treasury and and support the direction of these reforms.
We believe that their Risk Committee are circulated to the Board.
introduction will be positive for our business as the proposals formalise the role of the intermediary in the OTC markets.
Executive management Risk management and the operation of the internal control systems within the Group are primarily the responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management.
These individuals are permitted commercial independence and exibility within parameters agreed by the Board to ensure that risks are clearly owned and managed on a day to day basis and that systems of control operate effectively.
Under the overall supervision of the Board and the Chief Executive, the management team continues to implement their business development plans and monitor operational projects.
The executive directors monitor activities on a daily basis and ensure that appropriate controls are exercised over the Groups operations.
The Board considers the monthly management accounts, budgets and plans and discusses any issues arising.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 15 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Business Review continued Group Risk Control Internal audit work during 2011 covered the full audit universe The Group Risk Control function is responsible for developing within the Group at different levels of intensity based upon the policies and monitoring mechanisms which ensure that the Group internal audit plan agreed with the Audit Committee in December operates in accordance with the risk appetite set by the Board and 2010.
The plan was developed re ecting the results of a risk for maintaining the Group Risk Management Principles and Policies assessment exercise.
The Group Risk Control function also provides daily and monthly reports to senior management which are reviewed by the The findings of all internal audits undertaken are reported to the Group Treasury and Risk Committee.
The Group Treasurer and Head Audit Committee, and actions taken by management in response of Risk Control reports to the Finance Director, and has direct access to the findings are tracked and reported to the Audit Committee.
to, and dialogue with, the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee approved the internal audit plan for 2012 at its December 2011 meeting.
Compliance The Groups lead regulator is the FSA.
The Groups broking Risk Management Principles and Policies subsidiaries are categorised as either Limited Activity Firms for Risk appetite subsidiaries that undertake any Matched Principal or exchange Risk appetite is fide ned as the level of risk the Group is prepared to traded give-up business or Limited Licence Firms for subsidiaries accept.
The Groups risk appetite is set by the Board as part of its that undertake only Name Give-Up business.
determination of the business strategy.
The Groups Compliance departments monitor compliance with The Board has set a low risk appetite, in accordance with which the various regulatory requirements to which the Group is subject, the Group does not actively seek risk in order to generate a return including those imposed by the UK regulatory regime and also but is willing to accept a limited amount of risk as a consequence those imposed by the regulatory framework of the other of its broking activities, principally counterparty credit risk and jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The compliance of cers operational risk.
This is re ected in the business model adopted by are in regular contact with the Executive Directors and compliance the Group whereby it acts only as an intermediary in the financial reports are made to the Board on a regular basis.
markets and does not trade for its own account.
Credit risk management Risk Assessment Framework The Groups Credit departments are responsible for monitoring The Group identi es and assesses risk through the Groups Risk the creditworthiness of the Groups counterparties and for the Assessment Framework, which is approved by the Board.
proactive monitoring of counterparty credit exposure against pre-determined limits set by the relevant regional Credit The Risk Assessment Framework identi es risks within eight risk Committee, as well as for providing senior management and the categories: Market Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Strategic other control functions with timely and accurate reporting of the and Business Risk, Governance Risk, Regulatory, Legal and Human Groups credit exposure.
Resources Risk, Reputational Risk and Financial Risk.
The risks within each area are analysed, mitigating factors assessed, and relevant Finance controls identi ed.
The risks are then graded for their expected The Groups regional Finance departments are responsible for severity and probability, and assigned a risk rating.
Action is taken implementing and monitoring the relevant financial controls, and by the Board to manage the key risks, as appropriate, to safeguard for providing management with timely and accurate reporting of the Group and the interests of its shareholders.
financial performance against budget and other measures.
The Risk Assessment Framework is regularly updated and is Internal Audit reviewed at least twice each year by the Board, with particular  were appointed to act as the Groups focus on high priority risks.
The Risk Assessment Framework is internal auditor in December 2007, following an extensive review used to identify the risks to be considered in the Groups ICAAP of internal audit arrangements by the Audit Committee.
and to determine the scope of the internal audit plan, as well as determining the frequency and content of the ongoing risk The objectives of Internal Audit are to assess the effectiveness of reporting provided by the Group Risk Control function.
the Groups risk management, internal controls and governance process: whether operational and financial controls are appropriate Group Risk Management Principles and Policies and consistently applied: the effectiveness of internal controls for The Group Risk Management Principles and Policies document sets the safeguarding of assets: the reliability and integrity of out the principles and policies adopted by the Board to manage the management information: and the adequacy of processes to various risks to which the Group is exposed, as identi ed in the Risk ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Assessment Framework, and allocates the responsibility for implementing each policy to designated members of senior management.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 16 ICAAP 2. Credit Risk The Board is responsible for approving the Groups ICAAP, as The Credit Risk faced by the Group consists of counterparty credit required by the FSA.
The Group is required to ensure that it risk as opposed to issuer risk, and principally arises from maintains overall financial resources, including both capital the following: resources and liquidity resources, which are adequate, both as to amount and quality, to ensure that there is no signi cant risk pre-settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: that its liabilities cannot be met as they fall due.
settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: The ICAAP formally documents the assessment as to whether the Groups capital and liquidity resources are suf cient to cover cash deposits held at banks and money market the risks identi ed in the Risk Assessment Framework, and instruments: and incorporates the results of the liquidity and capital resources stress tests undertaken in accordance with FSA requirements.
The ICAAP documentation is regularly updated and formally approved by the Board at least annually.
In addition to counterparty risk, the Group is also exposed to concentration risk in the level of exposure to counterparties, Risk reporting representing the aggregate of the exposures arising from Name The embedded risk management processes ensure that the Give-Up brokerage receivables, unsettled Matched Principal Group Treasury and Risk Committee, Executive Directors and transactions and cash on deposit.
senior management receive appropriate information and exception reports to comply with the Groups Risk Management Principles Pre-settlement risk arises in the Matched Principal broking and Policies, and to identify any new risks or exposures that may business in which Group subsidiaries interpose themselves as arise.
These include reports detailing the current status of existing principal to two or more contracting parties to a Matched controls, audits, loss events, and any required action plans to Principal transaction and as a result the Group is at risk of loss remedy any identi ed shortcomings in the control environment.
should one of the parties to a transaction default on its obligations prior to settlement date.
In the event of default, the Group would Risk pro le have to replace the defaulted contract in the market.
This is a The Groups Risk Assessment Framework categorises the risks contingent risk in that the Group will only suffer loss if the market facing the Group into eight categories: Market Risk, Credit Risk, price of the securities has moved adversely to the original Operational Risk, Strategic and Business Risk, Governance Risk, trade price.
Regulatory, Legal and HR Risk, Reputational Risk and Financial Risk.
Counterparty exposures are kept under constant review and the All risk management sections are unaudited except those relating Group takes steps to reduce counterparty risk where market to Market Risk, Credit Risk and Financial Risk, which form part of the conditions require.
Particular attention is paid to more illiquid Groups IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
markets where the price movement is more volatile, such as broking in GDR, ADR and emerging markets instruments.
Market Risk Market risk is the vulnerability of the Group to movements in the The Group is also exposed to short term pre-settlement risk where value of financial instruments.
The Group does not take trading it acts as an executing broker on an exchange, during the period risk and does not hold proprietary trading positions.
Consequently, between the execution of the trade and the client claiming the the Group is exposed to Market Risk only in relation to incidental trade.
This exposure is minimal as under the terms of the give-up positions in financial instruments arising as a result of the Groups agreements the Group has in place with its clients, trades must be failure to match clients orders precisely.
Such positions are valued claimed by the end of trade day.
Once the trade has been claimed, and measured from trade date on a daily mark-to-market basis.
the Groups only exposure to the client is for the invoiced receivables.
The Groups Risk Management Principles and Policies reduce the likelihood of such trade mismatches and, in the event that they Settlement risk is the risk that on settlement date a counterparty arise, the Groups policy is to close out such balances immediately.
defaults on its contractual obligation to make payment for a All Market Risk arising across the Group is identi ed and monitored securities transaction after the corresponding value has been paid on a daily basis.
Unlike pre-settlement risk, the exposure here is to the full principal value of the transaction.
In practice the Group is not exposed to this risk as settlement is almost invariably effected on a Delivery versus Payment basis.
Free of payment deliveries where an immediate exposure arises due to the Groups settling its side of the transaction without simultaneous receipt of the countervalue occur very infrequently and only under the application of stringent controls.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 17 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Business Review continued Cash deposits The Group is exposed to counterparty Credit Risk in 4.
Strategic and Business Risk respect of cash deposits held with financial institutions.
The vast The Group operates in an environment characterised by intense majority of the Groups cash deposits are held with highly rated competition, rapid technological change and a continually evolving clearing banks and settlement organisations as set out in the regulatory framework.
Failure to adapt to changing market Credit Risk analysis in Note 27 to the Accounts.
dynamics, customer requirements or the way OTC markets and their participants are regulated constitutes a signi cant long term As with trading counterparties, cash deposit counterparty risk.
The Group has identi ed three principal categories of Strategic exposures and limits are kept under review and steps are taken to and Business Risk: reduce counterparty risk where market conditions require.
direct regulatory risk: Name Give-Up brokerage receivables The majority of transactions brokered by the Group are on a Name Give-Up basis, commercial risk: and where the Group acts as agent in arranging the trade and is not a counterparty to the transaction.
Whilst the Group does not suffer technology risk.
any exposure in relation to the underlying instrument brokered given that the Group is not a principal to the trade, it is exposed Direct regulatory risk This is the risk of new regulations, such as to the risk that the client fails to pay the brokerage it is charged.
those currently being drafted in the EU and US in respect of OTC Receivables arising from Name Give-Up brokerage are closely derivative market reforms, imposing a fundamental change to the monitored by senior management.
structure or activity of financial markets, resulting in a reduced role for IDBs.
Concentration risk The possibility of concentration risk exists in the level of exposure to counterparties.
The Group controls its In order to mitigate this risk, the Group maintains active dialogues credit exposure to counterparties and groups of counterparties with regulators and other competent authorities responsible for through the application of a system of counterparty credit limits the drafting and implementation of relevant regulatory reforms, based on the mark-to-market exposure for Matched Principal intended to ensure that any changes to the regulation and trades, outstanding brokerage receivables for Name Give-Up operation of OTC markets achieve their stated objectives and avoid trades, and amount on deposit for cash deposit exposure.
Operational Risk Commercial risk The Group is exposed to the risk of a Operational Risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or fundamental change to the commercial environment, whether failed internal processes, people activities, systems or external market driven or due to the impact on clients of changes to the events.
Operational Risk covers a wide and diverse range of risk regulatory environment.
types, and the overall objective of the Groups approach to Operational Risk management is not to attempt to avoid all Speci c issues could include a potential reduction in trading potential risks, but to proactively identify and assess risks and volumes resulting from regulatory reforms, such as the proposed risk situations in order to manage them in an ef cient and restriction on proprietary trading to be imposed on certain informed manner.
Examples of Operational Risk include: financial institutions under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act through the so called Volcker Rule or IT systems failures, breakdown in security or loss of data the increased capital requirements to be imposed under the Basel integrity: III Accord.
Alternatively, a signi cant deterioration in the economic conditions of a country or region, such as that currently faced in the failure or disruption of a critical business process, through Eurozone, could also lead to a reduction in trading activity and internal or external error or event: consequential reduction in the Groups revenue.
failure or withdrawal of settlement and clearing systems, The Groups strategies for managing and mitigating its commercial errors in instructions: risk include geographic and product diversi cation.
events preventing access to premises, telecommunications Technology risk This is the risk that the Group is unable to failures or loss of power supply which interrupt business respond to market demand for electronic broking solutions and activities: and loses market share as a result.
The Group seeks to address this risk through continued development and enhancement of its electronic broker errors.
broking capability, to ensure that it can offer a competitive solution for all major asset classes.
Operational Risk is managed through a combination of effective, relevant and proportionate controls.
Governance Risk responsibility within the Group places the emphasis for the Governance Risk is the risk of loss or damage to the business arising management of operational risks on the senior management as a result of a failure of management structures or processes.
This of each business unit.
includes failure to adhere to applicable corporate governance requirements such as those imposed by the UK Corporate Governance Code, a failure to ensure adequate succession to key management positions, or the inappropriate use of authority and in uence by current or former senior members of staff.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 18 The risk of accounting error or fraud is mitigated by the strong and has paid cash in settlement of the same but is unable to control environment which exists within the Group, in particular effect onward delivery of the security to the buying counterparty.
the involvement of the Audit Committee, the Internal Audit function and the Group Treasury and Risk Committee.
Succession Such settlement fails give rise to a funding requirement, namely planning within the Group is overseen by the Board.
the cost of funding the security which we have failed to deliver until such time as the delivery leg is nally settled and we have 6.
Regulatory, Legal and Human Resource Risk received the associated cash.
This risk concerns the potential loss of value due to regulatory enforcement action such as for breaches of conduct of business The Group has addressed this funding risk by arranging overdraft requirements or market abuse provisions : the possible costs and facilities to cover any failed to deliver trades, either with the penalties associated with litigation: and the possibility of a failure relevant settlement agent depository or with a clearing bank.
to retain and motivate key members of staff.
The Group also faces Under such arrangements, the facility provider will fund the value the risk that changes in applicable laws and regulations could have of any failed to deliver trades until delivery of the security is a serious adverse impact on the business.
Certain facility providers require collateral such as a cash deposit or parent company guarantee to protect them from any The Groups lead regulator is the FSA, but the Group is also subject adverse mark-to-market movement, and some also charge a to the requirements imposed by the regulatory framework of the funding fee for providing the facility.
other jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Groups compliance of cers monitor compliance with applicable In the event of a liquidity issue arising, the rm has recourse to regulations and report regularly to the Board.
The Groups Legal existing global cash resources, after which it could draw down on a department oversees contracts entered into by Group companies, 115m committed revolving credit line as additional contingency and manages litigation which arises from time to time.
This facility remained undrawn throughout 2011. bonuses and other bene ts are designed to be competitive and the Groups HR function monitors staff turnover on an ongoing basis.
Further details of the Groups borrowings and cash are provided in Notes 23, 27 and 33.
Reputational Risk Reputational Risk is the risk that the Groups ability to do business Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its might be damaged as a result of its reputation being tarnished.
cash deposits and on its borrowings under bank facilities.
The Clients rely on the Groups integrity and probity.
The Group has Eurobond debt pays xed sterling interest.
Cash deposits are policies and procedures in place to manage this risk to the extent typically held at maturities of less than three months, and the possible, which include conduct of business rules, procedures for sterling interest rate exposure is partially hedged by rolling sterling employee hiring and the taking on of new business.
term loans under the bank facility for similar short term periods.
Financial Risk The Groups Treasury and Risk Committee periodically considers the The nature and scope of the Groups operations mean that it is Groups exposure to interest rate volatility.
exposed to a number of financial risks, principally liquidity risk including the risk of being required to fund margin calls and failed Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in interest rates is settlements, interest rate risk, currency risk, taxation risks, and set out in Note 27. pension obligation risk.
Currency risk The Group trades in a number of currencies around Liquidity risk The Group seeks to ensure that it has access to an the world, but reports its results in sterling.
The Group therefore appropriate level of cash, other forms of marketable securities or has translation exposure to foreign currency exchange rate funding to enable it to finance its ongoing operations on cost movements in these currencies, principally the US dollar and the effective terms.
Cash and cash equivalent balances are held with Euro, and transaction exposure within individual operations which the primary objective of capital security and availability, with a undertake transactions in one currency and report in another.
The secondary objective of generating returns.
Funding requirements Group continues to monitor its currency exposure, particularly in are monitored by the Group Risk and Treasury Committee.
relation to current developments within the Eurozone.
The Group is exposed to potential margin calls from clearing Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in foreign houses and correspondent clearers, both in the UK and US.
currency exchange rates is set out in Note 27.
Following a major project to mitigate its exposure to margin calls completed in 2009, the Group has not been subjected to any Taxation risk is the risk of financial loss or misstatement as a result signi cant margin call requirements.
However, the Group remains of non-compliance with regulations relating to direct, indirect or alert to the risk of large margin calls in the future.
The Group employs experienced quali ed staff undertaking a detailed assessment of the potential margin call in key jurisdictions to manage this risk and in addition uses exposure for all new business activity which will be cleared through professional advisers, as appropriate.
a clearing house, such as that undertaken for the Groups new LME business which commenced in January 2011.
Pension obligation risk is the risk that the Group is required, in the short and medium term, to fund a fide cit in any of the Groups As a normal part of its operations, the Group faces liquidity risk fide ned bene t pension schemes.
through the risk of being required to fund transactions that fail to settle on the due date.
From a risk perspective, the most problematic scenario concerns fail to deliver transactions, where the business has received a security from the selling counterparty Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 19 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review
