36 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES UNDERSTANDING AND MANAGING OUR RISKS The assessment and treatment of risks informed decisions over controls maturity: Nick Luff to delivering Centricas objectives are key endorsing an updated business risk policy Group Finance Direct to or r disciplines that are practised throughout and standards, and increasing our focus the organisation in our day-to-day on tracking mitigating actions.
In In addition, we recently made changes addition, a formal risk management Given the signi cant to our governance for 2012, meaning that structure exists to challenge risk, to ensure the Group Risk Management Committee opportunities and challenges the visibility of signi cant risks and to help GRMC is now chaired by the Group Chief we face in our markets, it is identify any emerging risks facing our Executive and membership re ects that of business.
The formal governance structure important that our risk and the Executive Committee.
We expect these is described in more detail in pages 49 and control processes continue changes to streamline our governance 50 of our Corporate Governance Report.
process while ensuring that the Executive to evolve to ensure that risks During 2011, we reviewed our processes Committee continues to provide focused are identi ed and assessed in toensure they remain appropriate and debate and challenge to the Groups a timely manner and that the reinforce the linkage between risk and current and emerging risks.
Key improvements include: controls designed to manage While not intended to be exhaustive, reporting internal audit activity against risk them are operating effectively.
the following pages provide a summary themes designed to identify gaps or of the Groups key risks.
common issues across our businesses: updating our risk-assessment matrices: introducing new controls guidance to provide greater differentiation and more Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 Business Review STRATEGIC GROWTH customer demand and low wholesale has also reiterated its support for new What is the risk?
prices pose risks to our key strategic nuclear.
We are actively engaged with As highlighted earlier in the Business objective to grow our integrated North the UK Government on nuclear policy, Review, the Group continues to pursue American business.
A failure to deliver attend NNB meetings and have a series arange of investment options across material growth in North America could of project governance meetings in place theenergy chain in different geographies erode investor con dence and have a with EDF.
to both deepen our customer relationships signi cant impact on the Groups revenues and secure the Groups future energy Our downstream business continues and pro ts.
However, we face an to progress through the integration increasingly uncertain environment How do we manage it?
of acquired businesses and the shaped by a number of key challenges.
The Group continues to invest in establishment of strategic partnerships These include the sovereign debt crisis, projects with a strong strategic t and in respect of emerging technologies.
UK political and regulatory pressures, where returns are commensurate with We continue to seek and execute stretching carbon targets and North Sea the risk being taken.
opportunities for growth designed to scal changes, as well as changes in the As detailed earlier in the Business Review, achieve a leading position in North level of support for renewable energy that we continue to make good progress on America for energy and related service makes future investment less certain.
our capital investment programme through provision.
The Clockwork integration has In addition, the Fukushima nuclear acombination of upstream gas and oil been completed and the acquisition of incident triggered further design reviews acquisitions in both the North Sea and Home Warranty of America HWA and licensing requirements in the UK, North America, organic investment in our positions us as the first home services causing delays to a decision on nuclear existing business and the establishment provider in the US to be able to offer the new build NNB investment.
The final oflong-term supply arrangements for both dual capability of home energy services investment decision is targeted for the gas and lique ed natural gas LNG.
We and protection plan products, adopting end of 2012, although there remains have also formed a new strategic alliance the market-leading model developed by much to be achieved before the decision with Qatar Petroleum International QPI to British Gas in the UK.
Our acquisitions of can be taken.
Should the business case consider opportunities for energy-related Gateway Energy Services, First Choice not support NNB investment, this would investments.
These are important steps Power and Vectren Retail continue to risk a loss of up to 200 million in to securing vital energy supplies for build on our successful strategy of pre-development costs invested and our customers.
acquiring smaller suppliers and the write-off of any value attributed increasing our market share in In respect of power, we continue to invest tonew-build within the goodwill on deregulated markets.
in expanding the scale of our offshore wind our balancesheet.
operations and we retain further investment The US and Canadian economies also options in respect of biomass, new build remain fragile, with recovery expected CCGT and nuclear.
The UK Government to be slow and prolonged.
Uncertain COMMODITY PRICES xed-price products, which are fully value if commodity prices fall signi cantly What is the risk?
hedged at the start of the contract.
from levels foreseen at the time of asset The UK now imports almost 50% of acquisition, leading to lower pro ts and These products are competitive when its gas from overseas, which makes us lower than expected returns.
prices increase but when prices fall we can vulnerable to price movements around experience customer losses and could be the world.
In 2011, higher consumption How do we manage it?
exposed to surplus commodity positions.
We manage these risks through an active in Asia, the impact of unrest in the Middle hedging programme controlled through East and North Africa, and increased gas Signi cant longer-term price increases or robust governance frameworks.
These demand as a result of the Japanese decreases may require us to change the were reviewed in 2011 to ensure they earthquake, combined to increase price at which we sell to our customers remained appropriate for the scale and wholesale costs.
A signi cant proportion on variable tariffs.
Where we do pass nature of our hedging operations.
of the Groups pro tability depends on increased commodity prices on to our Strategic investment decisions are also our ability to manage our exposure to customers, or do not pass on lower made within a capital allocation framework wholesale commodity prices.
We must commodity prices, customers may switch designed to ensure that proposals are continually assess the risk of procuring to our competitors, which could have an rigorously evaluated prior to acquisition impact on our business.
these commodities at xed prices to and that they meet Board-approved meet uncertain levels of demand that In addition, investment decisions key to financial criteria over the life of the project.
are subject to both seasonal variance our strategic growth plans, particularly in The long-term gas supply relationships as well as macro-economic factors.
respect of upstream assets such as gas with Statoil and Qatargas, the acquisition elds or power stations, are based on There is a risk that surplus commodity of increased stakes in the Statfjord evaluations underpinned by forecasts of positions cannot be sold to the wholesale elds and the securing of new licences longer-term commodity price development.
markets pro tably and that any commodity for exploration blocks on the Dutch These re ect prevailing market prices and shortages cannot be covered at a cost continental shelf in the Southern North are supplemented by assessments of Sea are examples of how we continue lower than the end sales price.
The todevelop our asset portfolio.
particular, we offer a number of Group could suffer signi cant loss of 38 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED BRAND AND REPUTATION as well as that of the wider energy industry, vulnerable customers receive the What is the risk?
As highlighted in the Corporate is essential to the future success of our 120 Warm Home Discount.
Failure to restore consumer Responsibility report on page 29, our We continue to work with our customers ambition is to be the most trusted energy con dence could further damage our to help them manage their energy usage brand, lead to customer losses and impact company.
However, 2011 saw a continued through improved awareness and a erosion of consumer trust in allenergy the Groups revenues.
A failure to maintain range of energy ef ciency measures.
In our reputation with key stakeholders could suppliers, including British Gas, driven addition we maintain a regular dialogue mainly by increasing energy prices and also lead to further intervention by the UK through both our British Gas Customer Government or the Regulator in the a perceived lack of fairness in pricing Panel and the CR Advisory Group.
structures at a time of deteriorating Groups businesses.
The Group also has a programme economic conditions.
This has How do we manage it?
of relationship management with contributed to an increased level of As discussed earlier in the Business Government, Ofgem, and other key debate as to whether consumers are Review we have taken a number of steps stakeholders as well as relevant receiving a fair deal and an increased designed to rebuild trust in the energy North American state and federal focus on the contributions UK households industry.
In November we announced a regulators.
We also manage the risk will have to make through energy bills simpli cation of tariff structures and of non-compliance on matters that to pay for Government social and launched the honest conversation about could lead to prosecutions, fines environmental levies and initiatives to the future of energy in Britain.
We have and reputational damage.
In addition, fund the replacement of old and highwritten to each of our customers to assist in 2011 we undertook a review of our carbon energy infrastructure.
This debate them in checking whether they are on the reputation management risks and in has also served to highlight the level of right tariff and have provided a breakdown 2012 have established a Reputation confusion on this subject amongst both on the bill of the actual costs of providing Management Group which will report customers and other stakeholders.
the energy our customers consume.
We formally on a quarterly basis to the have also made sure that our most The Group recognises that rebuilding Executive Committee.
con dence in our brand and reputation, REGULATION AND LEGISLATION downstream business in the UK and, In North America, every jurisdiction differs: What is the risk?
potentially, to the pace of smart meter the regulatory and legal framework is We are facing an unprecedented level roll-out as well as reducing choice for primarily set on a provincial or state level, of scrutiny of our businesses by all ourcustomers.
This could impact the appears to be the most stable and positive Groups future investment decisions Domestic energy suppliers are set targets environment, while continuing to promote and its ability to meet its long-term by the Government to reduce carbon a liberal electricity market.
emissions, through fide ned programmes market continues to be a tough regulatory ofwork.
If the business is unable to meet Following the financial crisis, the G20 environment.
targets, fines can be levied.
In addition, the commitment led to a wave of financial Government has announced its intention regulation in the US and Europe.
to legally mandate the replacement of all We are actively engaging with not possible to understand the precise meters with smart meters.
Depending on impact of this until the fide nitions and stakeholders, including government and the deadline and the order of replacement, regulators in the UK, the US and Canada details are established, should the new contractual payments may have to be regulations be agreed.
so we can help shape these proposals made to meterowners.
and manage the risks they present to There are continuing regulatory risks our business.
The Centrica Policy Group In the 2011 March Budget, the UK around retail sector competitiveness continued to meet on a regular basis Government announced an increase in as higher wholesale commodity prices during 2011, attended by the Board and supplementary corporation tax SCT on feed through to customer bills.
In the Executive to discuss and agree GroupUK oil and gas production from 20% to meantime, a decrease in customer wide positions on each issue.
This change not only impacts the disposable income continues to be felt.
Groups revenues, but also undermines In 2011, we completed a Group-wide In recent months, in the UK, Ofgem has stability and investor con dence.
stepped up its focus on enforcement anti-bribery and corruption programme designed to ensure compliance with the activity and the proposals resulting from The UK Government is also introducing the recently published Retail Market UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign reforms into the electricity market to and Corrupt Practices Act FCPA.
Review RMR, if not modi ed, will encourage investment in low carbon introduce signi cant further risk to our generation and secure affordable supplies.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 Business Review COMPETITION data will not simply be used for billing, but We continue to lead the industry in What is the risk?
also to provide the customer with advice, delivering energy ef ciency and need We continue to face intense competition new products and new services.
Together, toensure stakeholder effort is focused risks in the retail energy supply markets these factors compromise customer ondriving these growth areas through inboth the UK and North America.
growth when compared to our projections.
amarket design which delivers the Priceand product-led switching in our As a result of competitor activities, the transition to smart energy and promotes residential businesses has been driven Group could lose market share, which investment in energy ef ciency solutions bystrong competition from both existing could affect pro tability and our ability in homes and businesses.
In 2011, we competitors and new entrants in to meet growth aspirations.
launched Nectar and Sainsburys Energy, residential services businesses.
along with four other af nity deals.
In addition, we are seeing a general British Gas website was voted the best We regularly review our operations to trend towards new business areas such by uSwitch, the comparison and ensure they are organised as effectively as home energy management.
New switching service, and we have doubled and ef ciently as possible.
Together with technology allows non-energy, webthe number of self-service transactions robust management of our cost base, this based rms to access customer energy via the web.
supports our retail business in offering our consumption data, with or without the customers competitive prices and products.
This new ORGANISATIONAL CHANGE What is the risk?
and processes, to the development and How do we manage it?
It is important that as our business grows, management of upstream assets.
Change activity is managed through structures are regularly reviewed to ensure acombination of project programme The Group also needs to maintain good that activities are organised in the most boards and regular review at both a relations with trade unions, primarily in effective and ef cient way.
In this way we business unit and executive level.
The theoperational workforce in the Centrica ensure that our cost base is as low as current level of restructuring activity also Energy upstream division and the possible so we can offer our customers requires us to have in place extensive engineers in British Gas.
There is a risk competitive prices and products.
employee communication and support that industrial relations with the GMB and mechanisms, as well as regular or UNISON fail or become ineffective as a The successful delivery of any resultant consultation with trade unions and result of a breakdown in negotiations over business change is key to our future employee representatives.
employment terms or as a response to a success.
This includes both cultural and wider climate of union unrest in the UK.
behavioural change as well as delivery of We continue to invest in the development ambitious technical-change programmes.
of all our employees, including technical Failure to maintain good relations with and behavioural as well as leadership skills.
We recognise that attracting and retaining the unions could compromise achievement We engage with union representatives both senior management and skilled and of the Groups strategy and could have a on restructuring and issues that might motivated personnel is a critical factor in material adverse effect on our business, impact employees terms and conditions, the successful execution of the Groups results of operations and overall and provide a range of communication strategy, from the provision of enhanced financial condition.
channels for ouremployees to discuss customer service, through new systems any concerns.
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT operations and damage to our reputation.
We remain committed to understanding, What is the risk?
In turn, resultant legal action could have an managing and reducing the The Group faces four principal categories indirect financial impact.
environmental and ecological impacts of Health, Safety and Environment HSE of our activities through innovation, risks associated with our operations, Actual incidents, precautionary closures technology and cultural change.
namely: of plant or a suspension of activities on HSE grounds may lead to loss of In 2011, there were additional training a major incident at a high-hazard production or service and impact our and behavioural programmes, as well facility resulting in multiple fatalities pro ts.
The operations of the Group have as a new audit programme in which and injuries: many inherent hazards, particularly related we partner with third-party consultants a major incident which results in to the exploration and production of gas, to assess compliance and provide signi cant environmental damage: power generation and offshore activities.
assurance to the Board and Audit an incident which results in a fatality Committees.
These risks are tracked by or major injury to a member of the How do we manage it?
control effectiveness assessments and public: and, Oversight of our HSE risks is provided by performance metrics.
an incident that causes a signi cant the Centrica Board and Executive who number of employee injuries or an continue to consider safety a top priority.
More details on our HSE reporting and employee fatality.
We provide regular training to all our activities can be found in the Corporate employees and colleagues, including those Responsibility section of the report on Any of these types of incidents could in our customer-facing businesses and pages 34 to 35. result in widespread distress and harm, those working to ensure the safe operation as well as signi cant disruption to of our assets.
40 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED INFORMATION SECURITY, INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND ASSETS Any of these risks could materialise Business continuity plans are in What is the risk?
due to inadequate or inconsistent place to help recover from signi cant Effective and secure information implementation of IS security controls outages or interruptions.
To improve systems IS are essential for the ef cient and affect our reputation with current ef ciency, we continue to invest in our management and accurate billing of our and potential customers.
They could systems, supported by strong project customers, effective power generation, cause a breach in regulations which management to minimise the associated and successful energy trading and results in legal action against the Group, implementation risk.
The con dentiality, and outages and interruptions which integrity and availability of our information In 2011, it became apparent that the could affect our ability to conduct systems could be affected by factors threat of cyber attacks against the day-to-day operations and cause us that include: energy industry had increased to a financial loss.
accidental or deliberate exposure of level previously only experienced by customer and employee personal data: How do we manage it?
financial institutions and government accidental or deliberate changes to Controls are in place to manage these departments.
We are working closely financial and other data that we are risks, including network segregation, with the UK Government on the reliant on to support our business: monitoring, access restrictions on exchange of information and threat lack of availability of systems due to storage systems, regular third-party intelligence between the energy sector inadequate infrastructure and datasecurity reviews and vulnerability and government agencies.
We are also recovery processes: and, assessments of infrastructure and working with National Grid to establish an external online attack resulting in an applications.
In addition, there is a an information-sharing node for the inability to undertake normal business dedicated Group IS risk team tasked energy sector.
activities and the loss or exposure of with monitoring and reviewing personal data, intellectual property or adherence to the IS risk policy other con dential information, or the across theGroup.
SUPPLY CHAIN on these third-parties for certain What is the risk?
We own a variety of gas and power aspects of our operations, we cannot We continue to invest in a range of assets in the UK and North America guarantee the security of these supply options to ensure a exible and reliable and also have partner-operated assets chains.
Any failure of our outsourcing supply, including the potential development overseas.
This portfolio continues to partners to deliver the appropriate level of additional storage facilities.
grow as we invest capital to secure of service tothe Group could have a All new outsourcing and offshoring energy supplies for our customers.
There detrimental impact on our costs, our initiatives have robust project governance is a risk of terrorist activity, including threats reputation orour levels of customer and are challenged and reviewed by to the energy sector which may include service, and could consequently affect senior management in business sabotage of power stations, gas the Groups revenues and pro ts.
We regularly platforms or pipelines, which could in Group is also exposed to the review country risk and have business turn affect security of supply or cause performance of existing ageing nuclear contingency plans in place in the event a break in supply to our customers.
power plants: this includes potential of terrorist activity or adverse social Any failure to supply customers could losses of production as a consequence political events in our offshore locations.
impact negatively on our reputation, the of emergent technical issues, results of operations and our overall In addition, we have developed a Group component failure, outage over-runs or nancialcondition.
approach to managing key-supplier risk other operational considerations.
In and, in light of the continuing global addition, stations mayclose earlier than We have also outsourced several economic conditions, have performed a expected due totechnical problems.
activities, including IS services, and risk-based review of the financial health Operational problems with the existing back of ce andprocessing functions ofour key outsourcing partners.
eet of nuclear power stations may that support our businesses in the UK result in reduced dividends from the and North America.
Some of the Groups The operational performance of our joint venture with EDF Energy and outsourcing contracts are in offshore nuclear assets is closely monitored imbalance charges for the Group.
locations such as India, South Africa, and controlled to ensure we continue to get value for our investment.
