Corporate Governance Risk The CEO and the CFO undertake quarterly business reviews QBRs In this section we describe our key risk with each SET function, where the key risks are reviewed.
Business management and assurance mechanisms and managers within each SET function are required to provide quarterly the principal risks and uncertainties which we updates on their key risks, which are then consolidated to create a list of key risks for that SET function to review at QBRs.
The key risks for consider to be material to our business as they each SET function are then aggregated into a Group risk register.
may have a significant effect on our financial The purpose of the risk review is to identify and measure risks, and condition, results of operations and or reputation.
to define and review risk management and mitigation plans.
Risk management standards, guidelines and supporting tools are in place Specific risks and uncertainties are also to support the managers in this process.
discussed in the Business Review from page 29, where relevant.
We develop business resilience plans to provide for situations where specific risks have the potential to severely impact our business.
Global business resilience plans covering crisis management, Managing risk business continuity and emergency responses are in place.
These As an innovation-driven, global, prescription-based biopharmaceutical plans are supported by the provision of training and crisis simulation business, we face a diverse range of risks and uncertainties that may activities for business managers.
Our approach to risk management is designed to encourage clear decision making as to which risks we One of our strategic priorities is to ensure that a culture of ethics take and how these are managed, based on an understanding of the and integrity is embedded in all our business practices.
Our Code potential strategic, commercial, financial, compliance, legal and of Conduct the Code and our Global Policies and Standards set reputational implications of these risks.
mandatory minimum standards of responsible behaviour for all employees.
In addition, all employees receive annual training on We work continuously to ensure that we have effective risk the requirements of the Code, as well as more specific targeted management processes in place to support the delivery of our training on particular policies and standards if required for their role.
strategic objectives, the material needs of our stakeholders and our Employees are encouraged to raise questions on the practical core values.
We monitor our business activities and external and application of these standards and to report suspected breaches internal environments for new, emerging and changing risks to ensure and incidents of non-compliance through the reporting channels that these are managed appropriately as they arise.
The Board believes that the processes and accountabilities which are For information about how we identify and manage the risks in place described below provide it with adequate information on the associated with responsible business, see Accountabilities and key risks and uncertainties we face.
Further information about these responsibilities in the Responsible Business section on page 48. risks and uncertainties is set out in the Principal risks and uncertainties section from page 130.
Key responsibilities Management of risk Embedded in business processes Day-to-day risk management is delegated from the Board to the We strive to ensure that sound risk management is embedded within CEO and through the SET to line managers.
SET management areas our strategy, planning, budgeting and performance management are accountable for establishing an appropriate line management-led processes.
The Board has defined the Groups risk appetite expressing process and for providing the resources for supporting effective the acceptable levels of risk for the Group using three key dimensions.
These are i earnings and cash flow, ii return on investment, and iii potential impact on our reputation.
This definition provides a clear Line and project managers have primary responsibility, within the statement by the Board of its position on risk which enables the context of their functional area, for identifying and managing risk as Group, in both quantitative and qualitative terms, to judge the level well as for putting in place appropriate controls and procedures to of risk it is prepared to take so as to achieve its overall objectives.
Annually, the Group develops a long-term business plan to support Oversight and monitoring the delivery of its strategy which the Board reviews and confirms that it The SET is responsible for overseeing and monitoring the conforms to its risk appetite.
Line management are accountable for effectiveness of the risk management processes implemented by identifying and managing risks, and for delivering business objectives management.
Our Global Compliance and Group Internal Audit in accordance with the Groups risk appetite.
Each area for which a GIA business functions support the SET by advising on policy SET member is responsible a SET function is required to provide a and standard setting, monitoring and auditing, communication and comprehensive assessment of its risks as part of the annual business training, as well as reporting on the adequacy of line management planning process.
Identified risks are mapped to AstraZenecas risk processes as they apply to managing our risk.
taxonomy, providing a structured disaggregation of the various potential risks facing the Group.
Our compliance organisation is comprised of the Global Compliance function together with a wide range of specialist compliance functions.
Further information about Global Compliance and the Code can be found in the Global Compliance section on page 43.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Risk 129 Risk Management reporting and assurance conduct, results or outcome of internal audits and other compliance We provide regular quarterly risk reports to the SET and to the Board.
For further information on the Audit Committee, see the Audit Among other things, these summarise our current assessment of the Committee section from page 107. principal risks facing the Group, including environmental, social and governance risks, senior management accountability and our GIA is an independent assurance and advisory function that reports expected plans in order to address these risks, to the extent possible.
to, and is accountable to, the Audit Committee.
GIAs budget, resources and programme of audits are approved by the Audit The Audit Committee is comprised of five Non-Executive Directors Committee annually and the findings from its audit work are reported and is accountable, among other things, for assessing the adequacy to, and discussed at, each Audit Committee meeting.
A core part of and effectiveness of the risk management systems and processes the audit work carried out by GIA includes assessing how we are implemented by management.
The Audit Committee receives regular managing risk and reviewing the effectiveness of selected aspects reports from our external auditor and the following business functions: of our risk control framework, including the effectiveness of other assurance and compliance functions within the business.
GIA independent assurance reports on the Groups risk management and control framework.
Principal risks and uncertainties Global Compliance compliance programme reports on key The pharmaceutical sector is inherently risky and a variety of risks and compliance risks, updates on key compliance initiatives, uncertainties may affect our business.
Below we describe the principal performance against the Global Compliance scorecard, compliance risks and uncertainties which we consider to be material to our incidents and investigations including calls made by employees to business in that they may have a significant effect on our financial the AZethics and our biologics capabilities help-lines.
condition, results of operations and or reputation.
Financial Control and Compliance Group reports on SarbanesOxley Act compliance and the financial control framework.
These risks are not listed in any particular order of priority.
Other risks, Management the Group level risk summary from the annual unknown or not currently considered material, could have a similar business planning process and QBRs and reports on the effect.
We believe that the forward-looking statements about performance management and monitoring processes.
AstraZeneca in this Annual Report, identified by words such as anticipates, believes, expects and intends, are based on The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board following reasonable assumptions.
However, forward-looking statements each Audit Committee meeting on the overall framework of risk involve inherent risks and uncertainties such as those summarised management and internal controls and is responsible for promptly below.
They relate to events that may occur in the future, that may be bringing to the Boards attention any significant concerns about the influenced by factors beyond our control and that may have actual outcomes materially different from our expectations.
Product pipeline risks Failure to meet development targets Impact The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a complex, risky and lengthy A succession of negative drug project results and process involving significant financial, R&D and other resources, which may fail at any stage of a failure to reduce development timelines effectively the process due to a number of factors.
These include: failure to obtain the required regulatory or produce new products that achieve commercial or marketing approvals for the product candidate or its manufacturing facilities: unfavourable success could adversely affect the reputation clinical efficacy data: safety concerns: failure of R&D to develop new product candidates: and of our R&D capabilities and is likely to materially failure to demonstrate adequate cost effective benefits to regulators and the emergence of adversely affect our financial condition and results competing products.
Production and release schedules for biologics may be more significantly impacted by regulatory processes than other products.
This is due to more complex and stringent regulation on the manufacturing of biologics and their supply chain.
Difficulties of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals Impact for new products We are subject to strict controls on the commercialisation processes for our pharmaceutical The predictability of the outcome and timing of review processes remains challenging, particularly products, including in their development, manufacture, distribution and marketing.
The requirements to obtain regulatory approval based on a products safety, efficacy and quality in the US, due to competing regulatory priorities and a continuing sentiment of risk aversion on the part of before it can be marketed for an indication in a particular country, as well as to maintain and comply with licences and other regulations relating to its manufacture and marketing, are regulatory reviewers and management.
The submission of an application to regulatory authorities which vary, Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals could with different requirements, in each region or country may or may not lead to the grant of impact the timing of a new product launch.
Regulators can refuse to grant approval or may require additional data addition, the drive for public transparency of the before approval is given, even though the medicine may already be launched in other countries.
review processes through the more extensive The approval of a product is required by the relevant regulatory authority in each country, use of public advisory committees increases the although a single pan-EU MAA can be obtained through a centralised procedure.
For example, in the In recent years, companies sponsoring new drug applications and regulatory authorities have US, the approval date for Brilinta was delayed in been under increased public pressure to apply more conservative benefit risk criteria.
In some December 2010 by the issuance of a Complete instances, regulatory authorities require a company to develop plans to ensure safe use of a Response Letter by the FDA requesting further data marketed product before a pharmaceutical product is approved, or after approval, if a new and and analysis, which led to the product ultimately significant safety issue is established.
In addition, third party interpretation of publicly available receiving US approval in the third quarter of 2011. data on our marketed products has the potential to influence the approval status or labelling of a currently approved and marketed product.
130 Risk AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Product pipeline risks continued Failure to obtain and enforce effective IP protection Impact Our ability to obtain and enforce patents and other IP rights in relation to our products is an Limitations on the availability of patent protection or important element of our ability to protect our investment in R&D and create long-term value for the use of compulsory licensing in certain countries the business.
A number of the countries in which we operate are still developing their IP laws or in which we operate could have a material adverse may even be limiting the applicability of these laws to pharmaceutical inventions.
Adverse effect on the pricing and sales of our products and, political perspectives on the desirability of strong IP protection for pharmaceuticals in certain consequently, could materially adversely affect our emerging and even developed markets may limit the scope for us to obtain effective IP revenues from those products.
More information protection for our products.
As a result, certain countries may seek to limit or deny effective IP about protecting our IP is contained in the Intellectual protection for pharmaceuticals.
Information about the risk of patent litigation and the early loss of IP rights is contained in the Expiry or loss of, or limitations on, IP rights section on page 132.
Delay to new product launches Impact Significant delays to anticipated launch dates of Our continued success depends on the development and successful launch of innovative new drugs.
The anticipated launch dates of major new products have a significant impact on a new products could have a material adverse effect number of areas of our business, including investment in large clinical studies, the manufacture on our financial condition and results of operations.
of pre-launch product stocks, investment in marketing materials pre-launch, sales force training For example, for the launch of products that are and the timing of anticipated future revenue streams from new product sales.
These launch seasonal in nature, delays in regulatory approvals dates are primarily driven by the development programmes that we run and the demands of or manufacturing difficulties may delay launch to the the regulatory authorities in the approvals process, as well as pricing negotiations.
Delays to next season which, in turn, may significantly reduce anticipated launch dates can result from a number of factors including adverse findings in the return on costs incurred in preparing for the preclinical or clinical studies, regulatory demands, competitor activity and technology transfer.
In addition, a delay in the launch may lead to increased costs if, for example, marketing and sales efforts need to be rescheduled or protracted for longer than expected.
Strategic alliances and acquisitions may be unsuccessful Impact We seek technology licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations to expand our product If we fail to complete these types of collaborative portfolio and geographical presence as part of our business strategy.
projects in a timely manner, on a cost effective basis, or at all, this may limit our ability to access Such licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations are key, enabling us to grow and a greater portfolio of products, IP, technology and strengthen the business.
The success of such arrangements is largely dependent on the shared expertise.
technology and other IP we acquire and the resources, efforts and skills of our partners.
Also, under many of our strategic alliances, we make milestone payments well in advance of the Additionally, disputes or difficulties in our relationship commercialisation of the products, with no assurance that we will recoup these payments.
with our collaborators or partners may arise, often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest Furthermore, we experience strong competition from other pharmaceutical companies in between parties, which may erode or eliminate the respect of licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations, and therefore may be benefits of these alliances.
unsuccessful in establishing some of our intended projects.
The incurrence of significant debt or liabilities as a We may also seek to acquire complementary businesses as part of our business strategy.
result of integration of an acquired business could The integration of an acquired business could involve incurring significant debt and unknown cause deterioration in our credit rating and result in or contingent liabilities, as well as having a negative effect on our reported results of operations increased borrowing costs and interest expense.
from acquisition related charges, amortisation of expenses related to intangibles and charges for the implementation of long-term assets.
We may also experience difficulties in integrating Further, if, following an acquisition, liabilities are geographically separated organisations, systems and facilities, and personnel with different uncovered in the acquired business, the Group may organisational cultures.
suffer losses and may not have remedies against the seller or third parties.
The integration process may also result in business disruption, diversion of management resources, the loss of key employees, and other issues such as a failure to integrate IT and other systems.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Risk 131 Risk Commercialisation and business execution risks Challenges to achieving commercial success of new products Impact The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical product involves substantial investment in If a new product does not succeed as anticipated sales and marketing activities, launch stocks and other items.
The commercial success of our or its rate of sales growth is slower than anticipated, new medicines is of particular importance to us in order to replace lost sales following patent there is a risk that we are unable to fully recoup the expiry.
We may ultimately be unable to achieve commercial success for any number of reasons.
costs incurred in launching it, which could materially These include difficulties in manufacturing sufficient quantities of the product candidate for adversely affect our financial condition and results development or commercialisation in a timely manner, erosion of IP rights including infringement ofoperations.
by third parties and failure to show a differentiated product profile.
As a result, we cannot be certain that compounds currently under development will achieve success, and our ability to accurately assess, prior to launch, the eventual efficacy or safety of a new product once in broader clinical use can only be based on data available at that time, which is inherently limited due to relatively short periods of product testing and small clinical study patient samples.
Additionally, the commercialisation of biologics is often more complex than for traditional Due to the complexity of the commercialisation process for biologics, the methods of distributing pharmaceutical products, primarily due to differences in the mode of administration, technical aspects of the product and rapidly changing distribution and reimbursement environments.
and marketing biologics could materially adversely impact our revenues from the sales of products such as Synagis and FluMist Fluenz.
Illegal trade in our products Impact Illegal trade covers the theft, illegal diversion and counterfeiting of our products.
Illegal trade Public loss of confidence in the integrity of in pharmaceutical products is estimated to exceed $75 billion per year and is generally pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting considered by the industry, NGOs and governmental authorities to be increasing.
We suffer could materially adversely affect our reputation and a commensurate financial exposure to illegal trade, but in many cases, due to the nature of financial performance.
In addition, undue or our portfolio, this exposure has a greater impact on public health.
Regulators and the public misplaced concern about the issue may induce expect us to secure the integrity of our supply chain and to actively cooperate in the reduction some patients to stop taking their medicines, with of illegal trade in genuine AstraZeneca products, whether illegally diverted or stolen, and in consequential risks to their health.
There is also a counterfeited products.
direct financial loss where counterfeit medicines replace sales of genuine products and where genuine products are recalled following discovery of counterfeit, stolen and or illegally traded products in an effort to regain control of the integrity of the supply chain.
In many countries, particularly developing markets, a robust programme to tackle illegal trade is seen as part of the licence to operate.
Developing our business in Emerging Markets Impact The development of our business in Emerging Markets is a critical factor in determining our The failure to exploit potential opportunities future ability to sustain or increase our global product revenues.
This poses various challenges appropriately in Emerging Markets may materially including: more volatile economic conditions: competition from companies with existing market adversely affect our reputation, financial condition presence: the need to identify correctly and to leverage appropriate opportunities for sales and and results of operations.
marketing: poor IP protection: inadequate protection against crime including counterfeiting, corruption and fraud : the need to impose developed market compliance standards: inadvertent breaches of local and international law: not being able to recruit appropriately skilled and experienced personnel: identification of the most effective sales channels and route to market: and interventions by national governments or regulators restricting access to market and or introducing adverse price controls.
Expiry or loss of, or limitations on, IP rights Impact Pharmaceutical products are only protected from being copied during the limited period of Products under patent protection or within the period of Regulatory Data Protection typically protection under patent rights and or related IP rights such as Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan Drug status.
Expiry or loss of these rights typically leads to the immediate launch of generate significantly higher revenues than those not protected by such rights.
Our revenues, financial generic copies of the product in the country where the rights have expired or been lost.
See the Intellectual Property section from page 34 which contains a table of certain patent expiry condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected upon expiry or early loss of our dates for our key marketedproducts.
IP rights, due to generic entrants into the market Additionally, the expiry or loss of patents covering other innovator companies products may for the applicable product.
Additionally, the loss also lead to increased competition for our own, still-patented, products in the same product of patent rights covering major products of other class due to the availability of generic products in that product class.
pharmaceutical companies, such as Lipitor in November, may adversely affect the growth of our still-patented products in the same product class ie Crestor in that market.
132 Risk AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Commercialisation and business execution risks continued Pressures resulting from generic competition Impact Our products compete not only with other products approved for the same condition, marketed If challenges to our patents by generic drug by research-based pharmaceutical companies but also with generic drugs marketed by generic manufacturers succeed and generic products are pharmaceutical manufacturers.
These competitors may invest more of their resources into the launched, or generic products are launched at risk marketing of their products than we do depending on the relative priority of these competitor on the expectation that challenges to our IP will be products within their companys portfolio.
Generic versions of products are often sold at lower successful, this may materially adversely affect our prices than branded products as the manufacturer does not have to recoup the significant cost financial condition and results of operations.
In 2011, of R&D investment and market development.
All our patented products, including Nexium, US sales for Seroquel XR, Nexium and Crestor Crestor and Seroquel are subject to price pressures as a result of competition from generic were $779 million, $2,397 million, and $3,074 million copies of these products and from generic forms of other drugs in the same product class.
Furthermore, if limitations on the availability, scope or enforceability of patent As well as facing generic competition upon expiry or loss of IP rights, we also face the risk that protection are implemented in jurisdictions in generic drug manufacturers seek to market generic versions of our products prior to expiries which we operate, generic manufacturers in these of our patents and or the Regulatory Exclusivity periods.
For example, we are currently facing countries may be increasingly able to introduce challenges in the US from numerous generic drug manufacturers regarding our patents for competing products to the market earlier than they Seroquel XR, Nexium and Crestor, three of our best selling products.
Generic manufacturers would have been able to, had more robust patent may also take advantage of the failure of certain countries to properly enforce Regulatory Data or Regulatory Data Protection been available.
Protection and may launch generics during this protected period.
This is a particular risk in some Emerging Markets where appropriate patent protection may be difficult to obtain or enforce.
Effects of patent litigation in respect of IP rights Impact Any of the IP rights protecting our products may be asserted or challenged in IP litigation If we are not successful in maintaining exclusive initiated against or by alleged infringers.
Such IP rights may be affected by validity challenges rights to market one or more of our major products, in patent offices.
Regardless, we expect our most valuable products to receive the greater particularly in the US where we achieve our highest number of challenges.
Despite our efforts to establish and defend robust patent protection revenue, our revenue and margins could be for our products, we may not succeed in protecting our patents from such litigation or materially adversely affected.
Managing or litigating infringement disputes over We also bear the risk that we may be found to infringe patents owned or licensed exclusively so-called freedom to operate can be costly.
We by third parties, including research-based and generic pharmaceutical companies and may be subject to injunctions against our products individuals.
Infringement accusations may implicate, for example, our manufacturing processes, or processes and be liable for damages or royalties.
product intermediates or use of research tools.
Details of significant infringement claims against We may need to obtain costly licences.
These risks us by third parties enforcing IP rights can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from may be greater in respect of biologics and vaccines, page 181. where patent infringement claims may relate to research tools, methods and biological materials.
While we seek to manage such risks by, for example, acquiring licences, foregoing certain activities or uses, or modifying processes to avoid infringement claims and permit commercialisation of our products, such steps entail significant cost and there is no guarantee that they will be successful.
Price controls and reductions Impact Most of our key markets have experienced the implementation of various cost control or Due to these pressures on the pricing of our reimbursement mechanisms in respect of pharmaceutical products.
For example, in the US, products, there can be no certainty that we will realised prices are being depressed through cost-control tools such as restricted lists and be able to charge prices for a product that, in a formularies, which employ generic first strategies and require physicians to obtain prior particular country or in the aggregate, enable us approval for the use of a branded medicine where a generic version exists.
These mechanisms to earn an adequate return on our product put pressure on manufacturers to reduce prices and to limit access to branded products.
These pressures, including the of these mechanisms shift a greater proportion of the cost of medicines to the individual via increasingly restrictive reimbursement policies to out-of-pocket payments at the pharmacy counter.
The patient out-of-pocket spend is generally which we are subject and the potential adoption of in the form of a co-payment or, in some cases, a co-insurance, which is designed, principally, new legislation expanding the scope of permitted to encourage patients to use generic medicines.
commercial importation of medicines into the US, could materially adversely affect our financial Concurrently, many markets are adopting the use of Health Technology Assessment HTA condition and results of operations.
to provide a rigorous evaluation of the clinical efficacy of a product, at or post launch.
HTA evaluations are also increasingly being used to assess the clinical as well as the cost We expect that these pressures on pricing will effectiveness of products in a particular health system.
This comes as payers and policy makers continue, and there can be no assurance that they attempt to drive increased efficiencies in the use and choice of pharmaceutical products.
A summary of the principal aspects of price regulation and how price pressures are affecting our business in our most important markets is set out in the Geographical Review from page 77 and these economic pressures are also further discussed below in the following risk factor.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Risk 133 Risk Commercialisation and business execution risks continued Economic, regulatory and political pressures Impact We face continued economic, regulatory and political pressures to limit or reduce the cost It is not possible to accurately estimate the financial of ourproducts.
impact of the potential consequences resulting from the Affordable Care Act or related legislative In 2010, the US passed the Affordable Care Act, a comprehensive health reform package changes when taken together with the number of with provisions taking effect between 2010 and 2014.
The law expands insurance coverage, other market and industry related factors that can establishes new national entities focused on health system reforms and calls on the also result in similar impacts.
While the overall pharmaceutical industry and other healthcare industries to offset spending increases through reduction in our profit before tax for the year due to pay-fors.
In terms of specific provisions impacting our industry, the law mandates higher higher minimum Medicaid rebates on prescription rebates and discounts on branded drugs for certain Medicare and Medicaid patients as well drugs, discounts on branded pharmaceutical sales as an industry-wide excise tax.
The law also includes several health system delivery reforms to Medicare Part D beneficiaries and an industrythat will be implemented over the next three years, including the establishment of a new wide excise fee was $750 million, this reflects only comparative effectiveness research organisation, the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research the limited number of known, quantifiable and Institute and an Independent Payment Advisory Board with broad authority to propose to isolatable effects of these legislative developments.
Other potential indirect or associated consequences The health reform legislation expands the patient population eligible for Medicaid and provides of these legislative developments, which continue to new insurance coverage for individuals through state-operated health insurance exchanges.
evolve and which cannot be estimated could have Large employers have typically offered generous health insurance benefits, but many are similar impacts.
These include broader changes in struggling with increasing health insurance premiums and may therefore opt to shift employee access to, or eligibility for, coverage under Medicare, coverage into the health insurance exchanges, which will be operational by 2014.
The Medicaid or similar governmental programmes, such pharmaceutical industry could be adversely impacted by such shifts if the health insurance as the recent proposals to limit Medicare benefits, exchanges do not offer a prescription drug benefit that is as robust as benefits historically which could indirectly impact our pricing or sales provided by large employers.
of prescription products within the private sector.
In the EU, efforts by the European Commission to reduce inconsistencies and to improve These continued disparities in pricing systems standards in the disparate national regulatory systems have met with little immediate success.
could lead to marked price differentials between The industry continues to be exposed in Europe to a range of disparate pricing systems, ad hoc markets, which increase the pricing pressure cost-containment measures and reference pricing mechanisms, which impact prices.
The importation of pharmaceutical products from countries where Further information regarding these pressures is contained in the Regulatory requirements and prices are low due to government price controls or Pricing pressure sections from page 17. other market dynamics, to countries where prices for those products are higher, is already prevalent and may increase.
In particular, as discussed in the Pricing pressure section on page 18, Germany, Spain, Portugal and Greece have all introduced a number of short-term measures to lower healthcare spending, including price cuts or increased mandatory rebates, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
134 Risk AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Commercialisation and business execution risks continued Biosimilars Impact Various regulatory authorities are implementing or considering abbreviated approval processes While it is uncertain when any such abbreviated for biosimilars similar versions of existing biologics, also referred to as similar biological approval processes may be fully adopted, medicinal products, follow-on biologics and follow-on protein products that would compete particularly for more complex protein molecules with patented biologics.
such as MAbs, any such processes could materially adversely affect the future commercial prospects For example, in 2010, the US enacted the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act within for patented biologics, such as the ones that the Affordable Care Act, which contains general directives for biosimilar applications.
sought stakeholder input on specific issues and challenges in implementing an abbreviated biosimilar approval pathway and further guidance is expected to be issued in the first quarter of 2012.
In addition, the FDA and the industry have reached agreement on biosimilar user fees.
In Europe, the EMA published a draft guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing MAbs.
This draft guideline will likely be finalised in 2012 and is expected to include more clarification around the definition of biosimilars.
Increasing implementation and enforcement of more stringent anti-bribery Impact and anti-corruption legislation There is an increasing focus globally on the implementation and enforcement of anti-bribery and We devote significant resources to the considerable anti-corruption legislation.
For example, the UK Bribery Act came into force in July.
This act has challenge of compliance with this legislation, extensive extra-territorial application, implements significant changes to existing UK anti-bribery including in emerging and developing markets, at legislation and broadens the scope of statutory offences and the potential applicable penalties, considerable cost.
Investigations from governmental including, organisational liability for any bribe paid by persons or entities associated with an agencies require additional resources.
Despite organisation where the organisation failed to have adequate preventative procedures in place taking significant measures to prevent breaches at the time of the offence.
There is also an increase in the maximum applicable penalties for of applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws bribery, including up to 10 years imprisonment and unlimited fines.
There have also been by our personnel, breaches may result in the increased enforcement efforts in the UK by the Serious Fraud Office and, in the US, there has imposition of significant penalties, such as fines, been significant enforcement activity in respect of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by the SEC the requirement to comply with monitoring or and US Department of Justice against US companies and non-US companies listed in the US.
self-reporting obligations or debarment or exclusion from government sales or reimbursement We are the subject of current anti-corruption investigations and there can be no assurance programmes, any of which could materially that we will not, from time to time, continue to be subject to informal inquiries and formal adversely affect our financial condition and results investigations from governmental agencies.
In the context of our business, governmental of operations and reputation.
officials interact with us in a variety of roles that are important to our operations, such as in the capacity of a regulator, partner or healthcare payer, reimburser or prescriber, among others.
Any expected gains from productivity initiatives are uncertain Impact We continue to implement various productivity initiatives and restructuring programmes with the If inappropriately managed, the expected value of aim of enhancing the long-term efficiency of the business.
However, anticipated cost savings these initiatives could be lost through low employee and other benefits from these programmes are based on estimates and the actual savings may engagement and reduced productivity, increased vary significantly.
In particular, these cost reduction measures are based on current conditions absence and attrition levels, and industrial action.
and do not take into account any future changes to the pharmaceutical industry or our Our failure to successfully implement these planned operations, including new business developments, wage or price increases.
cost reduction measures, either through the successful conclusion of employee relations processes including consultation, engagement, talent management, recruitment and retention, or the possibility that these efforts do not generate the level of cost savings we anticipate, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
Failure of information technology Impact We are dependent on effective IT systems.
These systems support key business functions such Any significant disruption of these IT systems or as our R&D, manufacturing and sales capabilities, and are an important means of internal and failure to integrate new and existing IT systems could external communication.
materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Failure of outsourcing Impact We have outsourced a number of business critical operations to third party providers.
Failure of the outsource provider to deliver timely This includes certain R&D processes, IS IT systems, human resources, finance and services and to the required level of quality could accounting services.
materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and adversely impact our In 2011, we terminated our existing outsource relationship for IT infrastructure services and ability to meet business targets and maintain a good transitioned to a new multi-sourced operating model.
This includes bringing critical strategic reputation within the industry and with stakeholders.
and control activities back into AstraZeneca.
It may also result in non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
A failure to successfully manage and effect the transfer of the provision of the IT infrastructure services in-house and to the new outsourcing providers could create disruption which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Risk 135 Risk Supply chain and delivery risks Manufacturing biologics Impact Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is complex and may require the use of Slight deviations in any part of the manufacturing innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms and facilities specifically designed and process may result in lot failure, product recalls or validated for this purpose, with sophisticated quality assurance and control procedures.
spoilage, for example due to contamination.
Reliance on third parties for goods Impact Third party supply failure could materially adversely We increasingly rely on third parties for the timely supply of goods, such as specified raw materials for example, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in some of our medicines, affect our financial condition and results of equipment, formulated drugs and packaging, all of which are key to our operations.
This may lead to significant delays and or difficulties in obtaining goods and services on Unexpected events and or events beyond our control could result in the failure of the supply commercially acceptable terms.
For example, suppliers of key goods we rely on may cease to trade.
In addition, we may have limited supply of biological materials, such as cells, animal products or by-products.
Loss of access to sufficient sources of such Furthermore, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions could result in restricted access materials may interrupt or prevent our research to, use or transport of, such materials.
activities as planned and or increase our costs.
Further information is contained in the Managing sourcing risk section on page 39.
Legal, regulatory and compliance risks Adverse outcome of litigation and or governmental investigations Impact We may be subject to legal proceedings and governmental investigations.
Litigation, particularly Investigations or legal proceedings, regardless of in the US, is inherently unpredictable and unexpectedly high awards for damages can result their outcome, could be costly, divert management from an adverse verdict.
In many cases, plaintiffs may claim compensatory, punitive and attention, or damage our reputation and demand for statutory damages in extremely high amounts.
In particular, the marketing, promotional, clinical our products.
Unfavourable resolution of current and and pricing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which similar future proceedings against us could subject manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, are subject to extensive us to criminal liability, fines, penalties or other regulation, litigation and governmental investigation.
Many companies, including AstraZeneca, monetary or non-monetary remedies: require us to have been subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal and state make significant provisions in our accounts relating governmental authorities and private payers and consumers which have resulted in substantial to legal proceedings: and could materially adversely expense and other significant consequences.
Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page affect our financial condition and results of 181 describes the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved.
Substantial product liability claims Impact Pharmaceutical companies have, historically, been subject to large product liability damages Substantial product liability claims that result in claims, settlements and awards for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products.
court decisions against us or in the settlement of Adverse publicity relating to the safety of a product or of other competing products may proceedings could materially adversely affect our increase the risk of product liability claims.
financial condition and results of operations, particularly where such circumstances are not covered by insurance.
Further details of our Seroquel product liability litigation are set out in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 181.
Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations Impact Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may result in civil and or This could materially adversely affect the conduct of criminal legal proceedings being filed against us, or in us becoming subject to regulatory our business.
Regulatory authorities have wide-ranging administrative powers to deal with any For example, once a product has been approved failure to comply with continuing regulatory oversight and this could affect us, whether such for marketing by regulatory authorities, it is subject failure is our own or that of our third party contractors.
to continuing control and regulation, such as the manner of its manufacture, distribution, marketing and safety surveillance.
In addition, any amendments that are made to the manufacturing, distribution, marketing and safety surveillance processes of our products may require additional regulatory approvals, which could result in significant additional costs and or disruption to these processes.
Such amendments may be imposed on us as a result of the continuing inspections to which we are subject or may be made at our discretion.
It is possible, for example, that regulatory issues concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice or safety monitoring regulations for pharmaceutical products often referred to as pharmacovigilance could arise and lead to loss of product licences, product recalls and seizures, interruption of production leading to product shortages and delays in new product approvals pending resolution of the issues.
136 Risk AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Legal, regulatory and compliance risks continued Environmental occupational health and safety liabilities Impact We have environmental and or occupational health and safety related liabilities at some currently While we carefully manage these liabilities, if a or formerly owned, leased and third party sites, the most significant of which are detailed in significant non-compliance issue, environmental, Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 181. occupational health or safety incident for which we are responsible were to arise, this could result in us being liable to pay compensation, fines or remediation costs.
In some circumstances, such liability could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, our financial provisions for any obligations that we may have relating to environmental or occupational health and safety liabilities may be insufficient if the assumptions underlying the provisions, including our assumptions regarding the portion of waste at a site for which we are responsible, prove incorrect or if we are held responsible for additional contamination or occupational health and safety related claims.
Economic and financial risks Adverse impact of a sustained economic downturn Impact A variety of significant risks may arise from a sustained global economic downturn.
Additional While we have adopted cash management and pressure from governments and other healthcare payers on medicine prices and volumes of treasury policies to manage this risk see Financial sales in response to recessionary pressures on budgets may cause a slowdown or a decline risk management policies section on page 93, we in growth in some markets.
In some cases, those governments most severely impacted by the cannot be certain that these will be completely economic downturn may seek alternative ways to settle their debts through, for example, the effective in particular in the event of a global liquidity issuance of government bonds which might trade at a discount to the value of the debt.
In addition, open positions where we are addition, our customers may cease to trade, which may result in losses from writing off debts.
owed money and deposits with financial institutions cannot be guaranteed to be recoverable.
We are highly dependent on being able to access a sustainable flow of liquid funds due to the Additionally, if we need access to external sources high fixed costs of operating our business and the long and uncertain development cycles of of financing to sustain and or grow our business, our products.
In a sustained economic downturn, financial institutions with whom we deal may such as the debt or equity capital financial markets, cease to trade and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to access monies owed to this may not be available on commercially us without a protracted, expensive and uncertain process, if at all.
acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of a severe Our cash investments are managed centrally and more than 95% of deposits are invested and or sustained economic downturn.
This may, directly in short-term, liquid US dollar funds and US Treasury Bills.
Therefore, our major credit for instance, be the case in the event of any default exposure is US sovereign default risk.
by the Group on its debt obligations, which may materially adversely affect our ability to secure debt funding in the future or generally on our financial condition.
Further information on debt-funding arrangements is contained in the Financial risk management policies section on page 93.
Impact of fluctuations in exchange rates Impact As a global business, currency fluctuations can significantly affect our results of operations, Movements in the exchange rates used to translate which are reported in US dollars.
Approximately 40% of our global 2011 sales were in the US, foreign currencies into US dollars may materially which is expected to remain our largest single market for the foreseeable future.
Sales in other adversely affect our financial condition and results of countries are predominantly in currencies other than the US dollar, including the euro, Japanese operations.
Additionally, some of our subsidiaries yen, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar.
We have a growing exposure to emerging market import and export goods and services in currencies currencies, where some have exchange controls in place, but for others the exchange rates are other than their own functional currency and so the also linked to the US dollar.
Major components of our cost base are located in the UK and results of such subsidiaries could be affected by Sweden, where an aggregate of approximately 26.7% of our employees are based.
currency fluctuations arising between the transaction dates and the settlement dates for these transactions.
See Note 23 to the Financial Statements from page 171.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Risk 137 Risk Economic and financial risks continued Limited third party insurance coverage Impact Recent insurance loss experience in our industry, including product liability exposures, has If such denial of coverage is ultimately upheld, this increased the cost of, and narrowed the coverage afforded by, pharmaceutical companies could result in material additional charges to our product liability insurance.
To contain insurance costs in recent years, we have continued to earnings.
An example of a dispute with insurers adjust our coverage profile, accepting a greater degree of uninsured exposure.
The Group has relating to the availability of insurance coverage and not held product liability insurance since February 2006.
In addition, where claims are made in relation to which costs incurred by the Group may under insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage on various grounds.
not ultimately be recovered through such coverage is included in Note 25 to the Financial Statements in the Seroquel product liability section on page 187.
Taxation Impact The integrated nature of our worldwide operations can produce conflicting claims from revenue The resolution of these disputes can result in a authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual territories.
reallocation of profits between jurisdictions and an increase or decrease in related tax costs, and has the potential to affect our cash flows and EPS.
Claims, regardless of their merits or their outcome, are costly, divert management attention and may adversely affect our reputation.
The majority of the jurisdictions in which we operate have double tax treaties with other foreign If any of these double tax treaties should be jurisdictions, which enable us to ensure that our revenues and capital gains do not incur a withdrawn or amended, especially in a territory double tax charge.
where a member of the Group is involved in a taxation dispute with a tax authority in relation to cross-border transactions, such withdrawal or amendment could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as could a negative outcome of a tax dispute or a failure by the tax authorities to agree through competent authority proceedings.
See the Financial risk management policies section on page 93 for tax risk management policies and Note 25 to the Financial Statements on page 189 for details of current tax disputes.
Pensions Impact Our pension obligations are backed by assets invested across the broad investment market.
Sustained falls in these asset values will put a strain Our most significant obligations relate to the UK pension fund.
on funding which may result in requirements for additional cash, restricting cash available for strategic business growth.
Similarly, if the liabilities rise as a result of a sustained low interest rate environment, there will be a strain on funding from the business.
The likely increase in the IAS 19 accounting deficit generated by any of these factors may cause the ratings agencies to review our credit rating, with the potential to negatively affect our ability to raise debt.
See Note 18 to the Financial Statements from page 165 for further details of the Groups pension obligations.
138 Risk AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
