Business review: BP in more depth Business review Capital markets are subject to volatility amid concerns over the European Risk factors sovereign debt crisis and the slow-down of the global economy.
If there are extended periods of constraints in these markets, or if we are unable We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below.
The potential to access the markets, including due to our financial position or market impact of their occurrence could be for our business, financial condition sentiment as to our prospects, at a time when cash ows from our and results of operations to suffer including through the failure to achieve business operations may be under pressure, our ability to maintain our our current strategic priorities see 10-point plan pages 38-39 and the long-term investment programme may be impacted with a consequent trading price and liquidity of our securities to decline.
effect on our growth rate, and may impact shareholder returns, including Our system of risk management identies and provides the dividends and share buybacks, or share price.
Decreases in the funded response to risks of group signicance through the establishment of levels of our pension plans may also increase our pension funding standards and other controls.
Any failure of this system could lead to the requirements.
occurrence, or re-occurrence, of any of the risks described below and a consequent material adverse effect on BPs business, financial position, Strategic risks results of operations, competitive position, cash ows, prospects, liquidity, Access and renewal BPs future hydrocarbon production depends shareholder returns and or implementation of its strategic agenda.
on our ability to renew and reposition our portfolio.
Increasing The risks are categorized against the following areas: strategic: competition for access to investment opportunities, the effects compliance and control: and safety and operational.
In addition, we have of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill on our reputation and cash ows, also set out two further risks for your attention those resulting from the and more stringent regulation could result in decreased access to 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill the Incident and those related to the general opportunities globally.
Successful execution of our group strategy depends on implementing activities to renew and reposition our portfolio.
The challenges to renewal The Gulf of Mexico oil spill has had and could continue to have a of our upstream portfolio are growing due to increasing competition for material adverse impact on BP.
access to opportunities globally among both national and international oil There is significant uncertainty in the extent and timing of costs and companies, and heightened political and economic risks in certain countries liabilities relating to the Incident, the impact of the Incident on our where significant hydrocarbon basins are located.
Lack of material reputation and the resulting possible impact on our licence to operate positions in new markets could impact our future hydrocarbon production.
including our ability to access new opportunities.
There is also significant Moreover, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill has damaged BPs reputation, uncertainty regarding potential changes in applicable regulations and which may have a long-term impact on the groups ability to access new the operating environment that may result from the Incident.
These opportunities, both in the US and elsewhere.
Adverse public, political increase the risks to which the group is exposed and may cause our costs and industry sentiment towards BP, and towards oil and gas drilling to increase.
These uncertainties are likely to continue for a significant activities generally, could damage or impair our existing commercial period.
Thus, the Incident has had, and could continue to have, a material relationships with counterparties, partners and host governments and adverse impact on the groups business, competitive position, financial could impair our access to new investment opportunities, exploration performance, cash ows, prospects, liquidity, shareholder returns and or properties, operatorships or other essential commercial arrangements implementation of its strategic agenda, particularly in the US.
with potential partners and host governments, particularly in the US.
In We recognized a pre-tax charge of $40.9 billion in 2010 and a pre-tax addition, responding to the Incident has placed, and will continue to place, credit of $3.7 billion in 2011 as a result of the Incident.
The total amounts a significant burden on our cash ow over the next several years, which that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all obligations relating to the could also impede our ability to invest in new opportunities and deliver Incident are subject to significant uncertainty and the ultimate exposure and long-term growth.
cost to BP will be dependent on many factors.
Furthermore, the amount More stringent regulation of the oil and gas industry generally, and of claims that become payable by BP, the amount of fines ultimately of BPs activities specically, arising from the Incident, could increase this levied on BP including any potential determination of BPs negligence risk.
or gross negligence, the outcome of litigation, the amount and timing of payments under any settlements, and any costs arising from any longerPrices and markets BPs financial performance is subject to term environmental consequences of the oil spill, will also impact upon the the uctuating prices of crude oil and gas as well as the volatile ultimate cost for BP.
Although the provision recognized is the current best prices of rened products and the profitability of our rening and estimate of expenditures required to settle certain present obligations at the petrochemicals operations.
end of the reporting period, there are future expenditures for which it is not Oil, gas and product prices are subject to international supply and possible to measure the obligation reliably.
The risks associated with the demand.
Political developments and the outcome of meetings of OPEC Incident could also heighten the impact of the other risks to which the group can particularly affect world supply and oil prices.
Previous oil price is exposed as further described below.
increases have resulted in increased scal take, cost ination and more onerous terms for access to resources.
As a result, increased oil prices The general macroeconomic outlook can affect BPs results given the may not improve margin performance.
In addition to the adverse effect nature of our business.
on revenues, margins and profitability from any fall in oil and natural In the continuing uncertain financial and economic environment, certain gas prices, a prolonged period of low prices or other indicators would risks may gain more prominence either individually or when taken together.
lead to further reviews for impairment of the groups oil and natural gas Oil and gas prices can be very volatile, with average prices and margins properties.
Such reviews would reect managements view of long-term inuenced by changes in supply and demand.
This is likely to exacerbate oil and natural gas prices and could result in a charge for impairment competition in all businesses, which may impact costs and margins.
that could have a significant effect on the groups results of operations At the same time, governments are facing greater pressure on public in the period in which it occurs.
Rapid material or sustained change in nances, which may increase their motivation to intervene in the scal oil, gas and product prices can impact the validity of the assumptions on and regulatory frameworks of the oil and gas industry, including the risk of which strategic decisions are based and, as a result, the ensuing actions increased taxation, nationalization and expropriation.
The global financial derived from those decisions may no longer be appropriate.
A prolonged and economic situation may have a negative impact on third parties with period of low oil prices may impact our ability to maintain our long-term whom we do, or may do, business.
In particular, ongoing instability in or a investment programme with a consequent effect on our growth rate and collapse of the eurozone could trigger a new wave of financial crises and may impact shareholder returns, including dividends and share buybacks, push the world back into recession, leading to lower demand and lower oil or share price.
Periods of global recession could impact the demand for our and gas prices.
Any of these factors may affect our results of operations, products, the prices at which they can be sold and affect the viability of the financial condition, business prospects and liquidity and may result in a markets in which we operate.
decline in the trading price and liquidity of our securities.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 59
