Business review: Group overview Our risk management system Our enhanced risk management system focuses on three levels of activity: t Fi first, the system helps facilitate day-to-day risk management in the groups operations and functions, with the approach varying according to the types of risk we face.
Risks are to be identied and managed, and actions to improve the management of risk are to be put in place where necessary.
Our aim is to address each different type of risk as well as we can promoting safe, compliant and reliable operations.
t Second, f or our businesses and functions, risks arising are to be collated periodically, risk management activities are to be assessed, and any necessary further improvements or actions are to be planned.
The system is designed to facilitate this by incorporating a standardized form that we call the risk management report RMR for businesses and functions to report consistently the risks they face for management consideration, challenge, resource allocation and intervention.
Left Operations at BPs t T hird, the system facilitates executive and board oversight and governance over Shah Deniz platform, Azerbaijan.
Located the management of significant risks.
It requires executive team level involvement offshore, 40 miles in the nalization of risk management activities and improvement plans for south east of Baku, Shah Deniz is thought the groups most significant individual risks.
Using the consistent bottom-up to hold 1 trillion cubic risk identication and assessment process, coupled with top-down executive metres of gas.
overview, the system requires that the most significant risks requiring oversight Right BPs state-of-theare identied.
Oversight of the management of these risks is to be provided art Houston monitoring through regular review by the board or one of its committees.
centre provides realtime communications between rigs in the Drawing on this input, our enhanced risk management system assists us in our: Gulf of Mexico and experts based onshore.
t Unde rstanding of the risk environment for input into our strategy.
t Unde rstanding of which risk types we operate with, given our strategy.
t Ide ntication and assessment of actual specic risks and the potential exposure they may represent.
t Deci sion-making on how best to deal with those risks to manage our overall potential exposure.
t Act ive management of identied risks.
t R eporting to management and the board about how those risks are managed, and monitoring of our potential exposure.
t O btaining of assurance over the effectiveness of the management of those risks.
t I nterventions for improvements in the management of those risks where necessary.
t C onsideration of the effect of the external environment and our business activities on the principal activities of our risk management system.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 43
