Our management of risk Putting safety and risk management at the heart of the company is the foundation for building trust and creating value.
In 2011 we began a process to review, refresh and enhance our management of risk.
The role of the board The board is responsible for the direction and oversight of BP as set out in its governance principles, which include that it will satisfy itself that the material risks to BP are identied and understood and that systems of risk management, compliance and control are in place to mitigate such risks.
The board, through its governance principles, requires the group chief executive to operate with a comprehensive system of controls and internal audit to identify and manage the risks that are material to BP.
See Risk management: from operations to the board on page 122.
Our system of internal control The system of internal control comprises the holistic set of management systems, organizational structures, processes, standards and behaviours that are employed to conduct the business of BP.
The system is designed to meet the expectations of internal control of the Corporate Governance Code in the UK and of COSO Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in the US.
Key elements of the system include: the control environment: the management of risk and operational performance: and the management of people and individual performance.
As such, BPs risk management system is an integral part of our system of internal control, and is designed to be a simple, consistent and clear framework for managing and reporting all risk from the groups operations to the board.
Review of risk management In 2011, we initiated a review of our risk management system.
The review considered the groups existing risk management system, along with good practices in risk management from outside the company, with a view to identifying what might be done to enhance the clarity, simplicity and consistency of our risk management system.
Using the findings of this review, we have begun implementing enhancements to the way we manage and report risks.
This has involved the development of common language, concepts and templates for consistent reporting on risks and risk management: designing enhancements to board and executive processes: and greater alignment of risk management activities and business processes.
These improvements build from our existing management systems, standards and practices and we will continue to embed these in 2012.
See the information on Safety and operational risk on page 65 for examples of enhancements to the S&OR function and management of safety and operational risks.
42 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
