Corporate governance Corporate governance Committees role Risk management and internal The committee is comprised of the chairman and all the non-executive directors.
control review The main tasks of the committee are: t &WBMVBUJOH UIF QFSGPSNBODF BOE FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG UIF HSPVQ DIJFG In discharging its responsibility for the companys risk management and executive.
internal control systems under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the t 3FWJFXJOH UIF TUSVDUVSF BOE FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG UIF CVTJOFTT PSHBOJzation board, through its governance principles, requires the group chief executive of BP.
to operate with a comprehensive system of controls and internal audit t 3FWJFXJOH UIF TZTUFNT GPS TFOJPS FYFDVUJWF EFWFMPQNFOU BOE to identify and manage the risks that are material to BP.
The governance determining the succession plan for the group chief executive, executive principles are reviewed periodically by the board and are consistent with directors and other senior members of executive management.
the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code including principle t %FUFSNJOJOH BOZ PUIFS NBUUFS XIJDI JT BQQSPQSJBUF UP CF DPOTJEFSFE CZ C. 2 risk management and internal control.
all of the non-executive directors.
The board has an established process by which the effectiveness t 0QJOJOH PO BOZ NBUUFS SFGFSSFE UP JU CZ UIF DIBJSNBO PG BOZ DPNNJUUFF of the system of internal control which includes the risk management comprised solely of non-executive directors.
system is reviewed as required by provision C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This process enables the board and its committees Committee activities to consider the system of internal control being operated for managing The committee held private discussions between the non-executive significant risks, including strategic, safety and operational and compliance directors during the year on key issues for the group, including its strategic and control risks, throughout the year.
Material joint ventures and direction, activities in Russia and risk management.
associates have not been dealt with as part of the group in this process.
The chairmans committee worked closely with the nomination As part of this process, the board and the audit, Gulf of Mexico committee in matters around executive and non-executive succession, and safety, ethics and environment assurance committees requested, in particular the succession of the chief financial officer CFO and in received and reviewed reports from executive management, including redening the roles of the CFO and executive director for corporate management of the business segments, divisions and functions, at their business activities.
It was agreed that outgoing CFO Byron Grote would regular meetings.
stay on the board as an executive director with responsibility for BPs In considering the systems, the board noted that such systems are corporate business activities, including its integrated supply and trading designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve operations, Alternative Energy, shipping, technology and remediation business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, activities.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The committee evaluated the performance of the group chief During the year, the board, through its committees, regularly executive at the half year and the full year.
It reviewed succession planning reviewed with executive management processes whereby risks are within the group and discussed the structure of the senior executive team.
These processes were in place for the The outcomes of the main board evaluation were discussed within year under review, remain current at the date of this report and accord the chairmans committee.
The committee also reviewed the skills of the with the guidance on the UK Corporate Governance Code provided by the board and discussed what would be needed to meet the challenges of the Financial Reporting Council.
In December 2011, the board considered the companys strategy.
Issues of governance around committees and their groups significant risks within the context of the annual plan presented by composition were examined.
Led by the senior independent director, the the group chief executive.
committee evaluated the performance of the chairman as part of BPs A joint meeting of the audit and safety, ethics and environment annual evaluation programme for the board and its directors.
assurance committees in February 2012 reviewed a report from Facilitated by the senior independent director, the committee met the general auditor as part of the boards annual review of the risk to discuss an approach to the chairman by the Volvo Group to become management and internal control systems.
The report described the annual their part-time, non-executive chairman.
The discussion was held without summary of internal audits consideration of elements of BPs system of the presence of the chairman and considered the time commitment of this internal control over significant risks arising in the categories of strategic, additional role, given that Carl-Henric Svanberg would be stepping down safety and operational and compliance and control and considered the from his existing non-executive directorship at Ericsson before taking on control environment for the group.
The report also highlighted the results the potential position at Volvo.
The committee concluded it was supportive of audit work conducted during the year and the remedial actions taken by of the chairman taking on this additional role.
management in response to significant failings and weaknesses identied.
During the year, these committees engaged with management, the general auditor and other monitoring and assurance providers such as the group ethics and compliance officer, head of safety and operational risk and the external auditor on a regular basis to monitor the management of risks.
significant incidents that occurred and managements response to them were considered by the appropriate committee and reported to the board.
Subject to determining any additional appropriate actions arising from items still in process, the board is satisfied that, where significant failings or weaknesses in internal controls were identied during the year, appropriate remedial actions were taken or are being taken.
In the boards view, the information it received was sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the companys system of internal control in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors Turnbull.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 133
