Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 27 Principal risks and uncertainties As described on page 51 and 52, the Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and its risk management systems.
The Board has constituted a Risk Management Committee, which meets quarterly, to review the key risks associated with the achievement of the annual budget and the five year plan for each business: the top five health and safety risks identi ed at each site: and the risk control procedures implemented.
The Committee reports biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board and, through this process, the Board has identi ed the following principal risks currently facing the Group.
The mitigating actions taken by the Group management to address these risks are also set out below.
The Group mitigates its risk exposure through an insurance programme that covers property and liability risks, where it is appropriate and cost effective to do so.
Risk Mitigation actions Health and safety risks Health and safety is included on the agenda at every Board meeting and is discussed at the The nature of those Group operations monthly Group Executive Committee meeting.
The Board believes that responsibility for which utilise energetic materials is the delivery of world class safety standards is an integral part of operational management such that the Board considers health accountability, and managers are therefore expected to embrace a positive safety culture and safety to be a key area of focus in and to demonstrate leadership and commitment in the workplace.
All employees are managing risk.
encouraged to report potential hazards, and to raise any health and safety concerns through the appropriate channels.
Our stated aim is to achieve zero injuries and to reduce health and safety risks, where they cannot be eliminated altogether, to a level which is as low as reasonably practicable.
All businesses are expected to proactively manage their own risks but in addition, the top five site risks at each business and their associated mitigation programmes are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Group Executive Committee and quarterly by the Risk Management Committee.
Technology and automation roadmaps support the Groups strategy for risk reduction through increased automation and remote operations, and this strategy is re ected in the Groups five year plan.
Further details on the Groups approach to health and safety are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review.
Possible defence budget cuts In recognition of the issues affecting our traditional NATO markets, we are focusing We recognise that with large budget our growth strategy on non-NATO markets, where defence expenditure is forecast to fide cits and the prevailing economic grow strongly over the next five to ten years.
We are making good progress on the conditions, there will be continued establishment of a joint venture in India, and we are also in discussions with potential downward pressure on many countries joint venture partners in Saudi Arabia and Brazil.
budgets and consequently defence We also continually assess whether our planned organic growth strategies and product expenditure could be severely impacted.
developments align with government priorities for future funding.
Most of our product In particular, the Group has signi cant development programmes take between six and twelve months to complete, and we exposure to the US defence market, believe that this gives the Board the agility to quickly re-deploy engineering staff to where there is currently considerable product areas where funding is more secure.
uncertainty in relation to the defence We continue to closely monitor the position in all the key markets in which we operate.
Timing of orders As referred to above, we are focusing on expanding our business in non-NATO markets, The Group has a strong order book.
where defence expenditure is forecast to increase, and the composition of our current In general, the majority of the Groups order book re ects a higher level of orders from non-NATO customers.
contracts are of a relatively short duration Maximising order intake remains a key objective for our businesses, and we continue and, with the exception of framework to address this through the strengthening of our sales and marketing resources, both contracts with key customers, do not within individual businesses and at a divisional level.
The development of world class manufacturing facilities, with the ability to transfer This means that an unmitigated delay in manufacturing across sites and with an ef cient enterprise resource planning system, the receipt of key orders could affect the also provides us with the exibility to change our manufacturing schedules, if anticipated Groups earnings, and achievement of its orders are delayed and need to be replaced at short notice, and to satisfy our customers growth targets, in any given financial year.
We have already experienced delays in the placement of orders by our traditional We continue to pursue long term, multi-year contracts with our major customers NATO customers, due to budgetary wherever possible.
constraints, and this is likely to continue in the short to medium term.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 28 Business overview Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation actions Political risks Our businesses strive to maintain relationships at all levels within the political structure It is recognised that political unrest of certain key countries, in order to ensure that we are aware of and can counter and changes in the political structure proposed changes if and when they occur.
in certain non-NATO countries to which We do not believe that the Groups Countermeasures business will be signi cantly we currently sell could impact on their impacted by a change in current military operations, as our products will still be required future defence expenditure strategy to provide defensive protection during continuing peacekeeping activities.
Growth in the and our ability to export products to Countermeasures division will be delivered as our proprietary products are tted to a these countries, thereby reducing our range of new platforms in Europe and the US.
The Groups Counter-IED, Pyrotechnics and Munitions businesses are less dependent It is also recognised that the nature of the on active military operations, particularly as our electronics activities expand and current military operations around the our product portfolio continues to grow in areas such as IED-detection, space, safety world may change over the next three to systems, training, munitions components and naval ammunition.
Introduction of new Progress on all of the signi cant capital investment projects is being closely monitored manufacturing facilities by the Group Executive Committee and the Board.
We are currently investing signi cant A Senior Project Director has been appointed to oversee the design and construction capital expenditure in the establishment activities for the new countermeasures facilities in the UK and Australia, and dedicated of new manufacturing facilities in the UK, project managers have been appointed to oversee the other major programmes in the the US, Italy and Australia.
We need to US and continental Europe.
ensure that these facilities are completed The new countermeasures facilities have taken slightly longer to complete than within budget and on time, in order to originally expected, principally due to the signi cant challenges associated with the new maximise our manufacturing capacity for automated processes which are being installed, but both the UK and Australian facilities our future growth expectations.
should now be commissioned during 2012.
Introduction of new products We continue to strengthen our engineering resources to ensure that we have the right The Groups approach to innovation and people in place to deliver the product development activities in support of our five continued emphasis on research and year plan.
development activity ensure that we are In the UK, we have a five year research partnership with Cran eld University, looking continually adding new products to the at new technologies and products for future development.
We also have smaller range.
We need to ensure that this new partnerships with a number of US universities, including the Georgia Technology & product development is completed in a Research Institute, University of Massachusetts, Penn.
State University, Duke University, timely manner to a standard which allows University of Florida, University of Louisville, Missouri University, South Dakota School us to undertake volume manufacturing, of Mines, and the New Jersey Institute of Technology.
and to produce products against high We continue to build new manufacturing facilities to accommodate the production reliability and safety criteria to meet our of new products, and to increase capacity on our existing production lines.
This necessitates careful management of contractors where construction work is being undertaken: suppliers where new components have to be quali ed for use in our products: and employees where training in new skills is required.
We continue to introduce Six Sigma techniques as appropriate within the organisation to improve our manufacturing capabilities.
This investment in new facilities will continue over the course of our five year plan.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 29 Risk Mitigation actions Competitive risks The nature of the threat from missiles and other weapons is continually changing, Defence is a global industry, which particularly as new platforms are introduced in different countries, and countermeasure is constantly challenged to counter solutions need to develop on an ongoing basis to meet the enhanced requirements.
The Groups The number of countermeasures manufacturers is currently small, however, as strategy is to focus on targeted niche technologies change, existing manufacturers are able to compete for new products markets in energetic materials and and new businesses can also enter into the market.
The Group is currently the world protective systems, where the nature leader in the supply and manufacture of expendable countermeasures, with a number of the products and the requisite of proprietary products.
We intend to maintain this position through our continued production and quali cation processes investment in research and development, and world class manufacturing facilities.
provide signi cant barriers to new The competitive threats to our Pyrotechnics and Munitions businesses are generally entrants.
However, as threats evolve, new lower, as the markets are fragmented and our competitors are generally companies with businesses offering new solutions may national market positions and limited product ranges.
Our Counter-IED businesses need enter the market.
to continually develop next generation systems in order to address emerging threats, and this provides an opportunity for new competitors to emerge.
However, the detection systems produced by NIITEK in particular are extensively used in-theatre, and this provides a good platform from which to capture the future market.
Our core strategy is to grow our business by taking market share and we are, therefore, strongly focused on our research and development activities to ensure we have next generation products available at the right time.
We also invest substantial funds to enhance our manufacturing capabilities, in order to maintain our leading position in our niche technologies and markets.
Management resource The Group Executive Committee reviews the strengths and weaknesses of the The Group requires competent management team at each business twice a year, and the Board undertakes an annual management if it is to achieve its growth review of future requirements and succession planning as part of the strategic planning expectations, successfully integrate its process.
We continue to strengthen the management organisation across the Group, and acquired businesses and meet its order a number of additional senior appointments have been made during the year.
The Board has identi ed, We undertake a speci c detailed review of our future sales and marketing and in particular, that the Group needs to engineering resource requirements each year, and we are actively recruiting in each of strengthen its sales and marketing these areas.
During the year, we also undertook a review of the future requirements for resources, in order to maximise order our finance and IT functions, and we have implemented a new long term IT strategy that intake as explained above, and its will respond to the future expansion of the Group.
engineering resources, in order to undertake the product development activities needed to support the Groups five year plan.
Compliance and corruption risks The Group has a central legal and compliance function which assists and monitors all The Group operates in over eighty Group businesses, assisted by dedicated internal legal resource in the US.
The Groups countries worldwide, and is subject to internal audit activities also incorporate a review of legal risks.
the laws and regulations of each of these The Group has a Global Code of Business Principles, which stipulates the standard countries.
The Group must ensure that of acceptable business conduct required from all of our employees and third parties all of its businesses, its employees and acting on our behalf.
The Group has also adopted a Bribery Act Compliance Manual, third parties acting on its behalf comply incorporating all of our anti-bribery policies and procedures.
with their legal obligations, and do not A signi cant proportion of the Groups management have received training in relation to expose the Group to financial penalties ethics and anti-corruption.
Financial risks Details of the financial risks to which the Group is potentially exposed are set out in Note 25 of the financial statements.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
