8231 2 Report 2011 71 to 106 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:48 Page 102 PRINCIPAL RISKS APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT On the face of it, the risks facing the Group are straightforward property and finance.
These two risks are influenced more than anything else by the economy: which is itself affected by a series of local and worldwide events that vary from day-to-day, such as the current unrest in the Middle East.
So while we recognise and consider all these factors in estimating the importance of each of our risks, we identify the principal risks we recognise and manage and which we list in the following schedules at the level below the overall property and finance level at the varying individual categories we think about when managing our business.
Many of them interlink and, like a number of other businesses, we find it helpful to classify them under the general captions of Performance, Operational and Legal and other.
While we do identify new risks and re-evaluate The risk matrix is underpinned by a series Our approach seeks to understand, limit and old risks, most do not change from year-to-year.
of risk tolerances or indicators that have been manage adverse impacts arising from external What does change is the importance, emphasis developed during the year.
A number of key and internal events whatever their cause.
It is and attention we give to them.
For example, criteria have been identified and measured and inherent in the nature of risk that risk brings the risks we consider have increased the most the answers matched against a range that result reward, and there are risks that we will choose, this year are those relating to development, in each of the key criteria being calibrated into with our expertise, to accept.
Taking risk is due to the increased size of our development green, amber or red indicators to highlight and essential to enhancing profits: the key is to take programme.
While we remain confident inform the Directors when deciding how to risks that we are best placed to take, such as of the future success of that programme, the categorise risks in order of importance and to those relating to property performance, and development risk and office occupier market help highlight whether risks are increasing or to seek to minimise the effect of any risks that risk have increased in importance as a result.
Risks are scored and ranked based are not under our day-to-day control.
on the likelihood of occurrence and potential A significant number of Senior Executives, impact on the Group.
There are many risks that we consider and together with the Executive and Non-executive monitor.
Some, such as environmental risk, Directors, have given their thoughts and input Risk management, however, is not a twice a are important to us and fully debated when into both identifying and managing the risks year exercise but is integral to the way we run scoring and ranking the risks that we face, but faced during the year.
Their views have fed our business from setting strategy, through are not included as a principal risk because they into the revision of our risk matrix which is to formulation of objectives, consideration are both well managed and unlikely to result considered and further refined at meetings of of transactions, day-to-day decision making in a significant impact on the Group.
We have the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and performance of core business procedures.
not identified any high category risks, but those and the Board at least twice yearly.
The adequacy British Lands small Head Office team and that are of greater concern are shown in the of risk mitigating strategies and controls are relatively flat management structure allows tables that follow.
This helps to assist the Executive Directors to have close involvement in defining the risk profile of the business and in the operational matters of the Group, ensures that the implications are understood.
and identify and respond to risks promptly.
102 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 2 Report 2011 71 to 106 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:48 Page 103 PRINCIPAL OPERATIONAL RISKS RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT AREAS KEY MITIGANTS STRATEGY Net asset value.
Failure to execute appropriate property investment and development strategies.
Total property return income and capital.
Investment Committee reviews all opportunities against pre-determined criteria.
Monitoring of macroeconomic and property market trends.
Close supply chain relationships facilitate Development and construction risk including assessment and monitoring.
contractor solvency and availability, and Cost overruns.
planning risk including poor engagement Major or leading contractors engaged only.
Programme delays leading to potential with local communities.
Failure to secure Assessment of contractor prior to planning permission.
appointment, including a financial covenant review before the contract is agreed.
COST OF FINANCE Increased cost of borrowing Interest hedging policy.
Adverse interest rate movements increase and hedging.
INVESTOR DEMAND Net asset value.
Decrease in demand by investors for real estate.
Eventual pressure on banking covenants.
OFFICE OCCUPIER MARKET Rental income and cash flow.
Long upward only lease profiles.
Weakened occupier demand for office developments, oversupply, and potential Reduced strength of occupier covenant and High occupancy and low near-term expiries.
vacancies due to financial market increased arrears bad debts.
Quality assets easier to re-let.
rationalisation and economic uncertainty Cost of occupier incentives for new lettings.
Focus on developing good quality well located or London losing appeal as place Empty unit void costs.
RETAIL OCCUPIER MARKET Rental income and cash flow.
Reduced retail occupier demand for space, increased supply, occupier defaults.
Long leases and strong financial covenants.
Prime portfolio easier to re-let.
Close occupier relationships assist in understanding changing requirements.
Retail occupiers at risk monitored regularly.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 103 8231 2 Report 2011 71 to 106 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:48 Page 104 PRINCIPAL RISKS continued PRINCIPAL OPERATIONAL RISKS RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT AREAS KEY MITIGANTS FINANCING AVAILABILITY Unable to fund property investments Spread of sources and maturities of facilities.
Shortage of financing or refinancing or development programme.
Sufficient lines maintained for spending Increased cost of finance including commitments with significant committed undrawn bank facilities.
Continuing and extensive capital market and bank relationship management.
CREDIT RISK Loss of deposits.
Summary of exposures by bank and credit Financial counterparty credit risk.
Favourable British Land positions are forcibly closed.
Spread of sources and maturity of facilities.
Cash placed across a range of deposit accounts.
Credit worthiness of derivative counterparties Incremental changes in financing rate.
PRINCIPAL LEGAL AND OTHER RISKS RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT AREAS KEY MITIGANTS PEOPLE Key staff departures or change.
Employment packages in line with FTSE 100 companies.
Loss of management direction, poor or delayed decision making.
Simple, consistent and known procedures allow operations to continue.
Succession planning regularly evaluated with non-reliance on single individuals.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Criminal prosecution of responsible executives.
Occupational or construction health and safety breach.
Site risk assessments and audit visits.
104 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 S K S I S R K S I R L L A A 8231 2 Report 2011 71 to 106 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:49 Page 105 Office Occupier Market Investor Retail Occupier Demand Market Strategy Financing Development Availability Health People and Safety Credit Political Risk Cost of Finance The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 105 N R N E T R X E E T N I 8231 2 Report 2011 71 to 106 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:49 Page 106
