Strategy Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Risk management Financial risks That the Group becomes unable to meet its financial obligations or finance the business appropriately.
Risk and effect Controls and mitigation Action A substantial decline in property values The Groups secured borrowings contain The Group issued 175m of unsecured or a material loss of rental income could financial covenants based on specific convertible bonds during 2011. result in a breach of the Groups financial security and not corporate ratios such as The Group tested its compliance with covenants.
This may accelerate the overall balance sheet gearing.
Treasury its financial covenants regularly and repayment of the Groups borrowings or control schedules are updated weekly operated comfortably within these limits result in their cancellation.
whilst the rolling forecasts enable any throughout 2011.
Property values could potential problems to be identified at decline by 50% at the balance sheet an early stage and corrective action to date before there would be a breach of be taken.
The Group has considerable headroom At the year end the Group owned under its financial covenants, operates 589m of uncharged properties.
at a modest level of gearing and has a substantial amount of uncharged property that could be used in such circumstances.
The Groups cost of borrowing is The Groups five-year strategic review The Groups financing comes from a increased due to an inability to raise and rolling forecasts enable any financing number of different sources providers finance from its preferred sources.
requirement to be identified at an early and has a varied maturity profile.
This allows the preferred source proportion of the Groups borrowings of finance to be identified and evaluated provided by bank loans has fallen from and, to a degree, raised when market 80% to 59% over the year.
The weighted average duration of the Groups debt is 4.4 years.
At the year end the Group had 469m of unutilised committed bank facilities.
Financing costs are higher due to The Group uses interest rate derivatives The Group has terminated two interest increases in interest rates.
to top up the amount of fixed rate rate swaps which were at historic rates debt to a level commensurate with the and initiated new instruments which have perceived risk to the Group.
enabled the Group to lock in the lower rates that are available.
98% of borrowings were fixed or hedged at the year end.
26 Strategy Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Operational risks The Group suffers either a loss or adverse consequences due to processes being inadequate or not operating correctly.
Risk and effect Controls and mitigation Action The Groups development projects do Standardised appraisals including The Group is advised by top planning not produce the anticipated financial contingencies are prepared for all consultants and has considerable inreturn due to delays in the planning investments and sensitivity analysis is house planning expertise.
process, increased construction costs or undertaken to ensure that an adequate Executive Directors represent the Group adverse letting conditions.
return is made in all circumstances on a number of local bodies which considered likely to occur.
ensures that it remains aware of The scale of the Groups development local issues.
programme is managed to reflect The procurement process used by the anticipated market conditions.
Group includes the use of top firms of Regular cost reports are presented to the quantity surveyors and is designed to Board which monitor progress of actual minimise uncertainty regarding costs.
This allows Development costs are benchmarked potential adverse variances to be identified to ensure that the Group obtains and addressed at an early stage.
Post-completion reviews are carried The Groups style of accommodation out for all developments to ensure that remains in demand as evidenced by improvements to the Groups procedures the 100 lettings achieved in both 2010 are identified and implemented.
The Group has secured pre-lets for approximately 50% of the space in its current development programme which significantly fide-risks these projects.
The Group suffers a loss of rental income All prospective tenants are considered by The Group has a diversified tenant base.
and increased vacant property costs due the Groups credit committee and security The credit committee meets each week to tenants vacating or becoming bankrupt.
is taken where appropriate either in the and considered 117 potential tenants In particular, in the current adverse form of parent company guarantees during the year.
The committee also economic conditions, there is increased or rent deposits.
The Groups property monitors the content of a schedule of the stress on consumer spending which managers maintain regular contact with tenants that the property managers are could lead to higher business failures.
tenants and work closely with any that are monitoring and the actions being taken.
In total the Group holds rental deposits amounting to 11.3m.
On average, the Group has collected 98% of the rents due within 14 days of the due date.
The Group is unable to successfully The remuneration packages of all The Group has recruited eight new implement its strategy due to a failure employees are benchmarked regularly.
members of staff during the year to recruit and retain key staff with including key appointments in IT Six-monthly appraisals identify training appropriate skills.
requirements which are fulfilled over the The Groups cost base is increased or next year.
Staff turnover during 2011 was low at 6%.
its reputation damaged through a breach The new Risk Committee will report to A Health and Safety report is presented of any of the legislation that forms the the Board concerning the Groups at all executive and main Board meetings.
regulatory framework within which the regulatory risk.
The Group pays considerable attention The Group employs a Health and to sustainability issues and produces a Safety Manager.
A sustainability committee chaired by Paul Williams and advised by external consultants addresses risk in this area.
