43 Annual review Financials Governance Risk management The successful management of risk is essential to enable the Group to deliver on itsstrategic priorities.
Whilst the ultimate responsibility for risk management rests with the Board, the foundation of effective day-to-day management of risk is in the way we do business and the culture of our team.
Our flat organisational structure, with close involvement of senior management in all significant decisions combined with our cautious and analytical approach, is designed to align the Groups interests with those ofshareholders.
Board oversight Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Operational Committees Executive Committee weekly Investment Leasing co-ordination Financial management weekly weekly weekly Asset management Environmental policy Corporate responsibility weekly bi-monthly monthly Policies for highlighting and controlling risk Investment return Regular review Development appraisal benchmarks of business plans parameters Debt leverage, covenant Occupancy Leasing objectives and tenant compliance and liquidity limits targets covenant testing Procedures and internal controls High level risk Extensive documentation to Defined performance indicators assessment framework support decisions with sensitivity analysis Strict approval Formal policies and procedures External review of requirements consistently applied key controls People and culture Focused market expertise Integrity in business conduct Conservative attitude to capital deployment Open communication Interests aligned with shareholders Analytical rigour Transparent disclosure Qualified and experienced with stakeholders personnel with specific roles Business risk 44 Great Portland Estates | Annual Report 2011 Risk management The Group views effective risk management as integral to the delivery of superior returns to shareholders.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the processes through which the Company aims tomanage those risks are: Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary From last year Market risk Central London real estate market Research into the economy and the investment and The central London real estate market underperforms other UK property occupational markets is evaluated as part of the Groups has considerably out performed the sectors leading to poor relative annual strategy process covering the key areas of investment, wider UK Market during the year ended financial results development and asset management and updated regularly 31 March 2011, demonstrated by throughout the year.
IPDs central TPR exceeding IPDs universe by 6.7 percentage points and the outlook continues to be favourable.
Our market pages 20 to 23 v Economic recovery falters resulting Regular economic updates received and scenario planning Whilst the economic environment appears in worse than expected for different economic cycles.
to have stabilised and take up has performance of the business given increased markedly on last year, there 46% of income from committed developments secured.
decline in economic output remains the continued downward pressure from the Eurozone Sovereign debt crisis and the impact of the Governments austerity measures have yet to be seen.
Our market pages 20 to 23 v Investment Not sufficiently capitalising on The Group has dedicated resources whose remit is to With independent forecasts indicating market investment opportunities constantly research each of the sub-markets within central that capital values are expected to rise through difficulty in sourcing London seeking the right balance of investment and over the near to medium term, limited investment opportunities at development opportunities suitable for current and anticipated disposals were made during the year.
attractive prices, poor investment market conditions.
The Group has committed in excess of decisions and mistimed recycling Detailed due diligence is undertaken on all acquisitions prior 370 million since its Rights Issue in of capital to purchase to ensure appropriate returns.
May 2009 equating to nearly a quarter of the portfolio at 31 March 2011. Business plans are produced on an individual asset basis to ensure the appropriate choice of those buildings with limited With the market having risen from the relative potential performance.
low of 2009, the risk of missing compelling acquisitions has lessened.
Our market pages 20 to 23 v Case studies pages 8 to 11 v Asset management Failure to maximise income from The Groups in-house asset management and leasing teams The Group continues to maintain a low investment properties through poor proactively manage tenants to ensure changing needs are void rate which was 2.7% at 31 March management of voids, mispricing, met with a focus on retaining income in light of vacant 2011.
Tenant delinquencies were less low tenant retention, sub-optimal possession requirements for refurbishments than 1% of the rent roll for the year to rent reviews, tenant failures and and developments.
31 March 2011. inappropriate refurbishments The Group continues to actively manage the portfolio to maximise occupancy and drive rental growth.
Asset management pages 26 and 27 v Case study pages 12 and 13 v Development Poor development returns relating to: See market risk above.
With forecasted supply of central London office space expected to be incorrect reading of the Prior to committing to a development the Group conducts a scarce in the near to medium term, property cycle: detailed Financial and Operational appraisal process which the Group has embarked on a evaluates the expected returns from a development in light of inappropriate location: near-term development programme likely risks.
During the course of a development, the actual costs failure to gain viable to capitalise on the expected resulting and estimated returns are regularly monitored to signpost prompt planning consents: rental growth.
decisions on project management, leasing and ownership.
level of development undertaken The Groups exposure to development 46% of income from committed developments secured.
as a percentage of the portfolio: risk has increased accordingly.
Due diligence is undertaken of the financial stability of level of speculative development: Development pages 28 and 29 v demolition and main contractors prior to awarding of contracts.
contractor availability Case study pages 14 and 15 v Working with agents, potential occupiers needs and aspirations and insolvency risk: are identified during the planning application and design stages.
quality of the completed All our major developments are subject to BREEAM ratings buildings: and with a target to achieve a rating of Very Good on major poor development management refurbishments and Excellent on new build properties.
45 Annual review Financials Governance Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary From last year Financial risks Limited availability of further Cash flow and funding needs are regularly monitored to Since 31 March 2010, the Group has capital constrains the growth ensure sufficient undrawn facilities are in place.
refinanced all of its 2012 debt of the business maturities.
Funding maturities are managed across the short, medium and long term.
Pro forma undrawn cash and committed credit facilities are The Groups funding measures are diversified across a range 518 million.
Strict counterparty limits are operated on deposits.
Our financial position pages 32 to 35 v Note 16 forming part of the Group financial statements pages74 to 77 k Adverse interest rate movements Formal policy to manage interest rate exposure by having a With the strength of economic recovery reduce profitability high proportion of debt with fixed or capped interest rates still uncertain, the timing of interest rate through derivatives.
Our financial position pages 32 to 35 v Note 16 forming part of the Group financial statements pages74 to 77 k Inappropriate capital structure Regular review of current and forecast debt levels.
The Groups existing capital structure results in suboptimal NAV is well placed to take advantage of per share growth opportunities as they arise and to deliver our near-term development programme.
Our financial position pages 32 to 35 v People Correct level, mix and retention of Regular review is undertaken of the Groups resource With increased levels of activity, people to execute our Business requirements.
the Group has strengthened and Plan.
Strategic priorities not broadened its team and the process The Company has a remuneration system that is strongly achieved because of inability to to appoint a new Finance Director linked to performance and a formal appraisal system to attract, develop, motivate and retain is ongoing.
provide regular assessment of individual performance and talented employees identification of training needs.
At the 2010 AGM, shareholders approved a new Long Term Incentive Plan.
Our people pages 38 to 42 v Remuneration report pages 102 to 112 k Regulatory Adverse regulatory risk including Senior Group representatives spend considerable time, using During the year new Building tax, planning, environmental experienced advisers as appropriate, to ensure compliance Regulations came into effect requiring legislation and EU directives with current and potential future regulations.
further reductions on carbon emissions increases cost base and whilst the risk to the Group from Lobbying property industry matters is undertaken by active reduces flexibility increasing regulation having participation of the Executive Directors through relevant unforeseen consequences and industry bodies.
the impact of certain EU directives including the AIFM directive continues to be uncertain.
Property industry representation page47k Corporate responsibility targets pages 48 to51 k Health and safety incidents The Company has dedicated Health & Safety personnel to The Group had no reportable accidents oversee the Groups management systems which include during the year, however, as a result of Loss of or injury to employees, regular risk assessments and annual audits to proactively our near-term development programme contractors or tenants and address key Health & Safety areas including employee, we have increased exposure to health resultant reputational damage contractor and tenant safety.
and safety incidents on our development sites.
On developments, the Group operates a pre-qualification process to ensure selection of competent consultants Corporate responsibility targets and contractors.
