PRINCIPAL RISKS EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF RISK AND OPPORTUNITY IS ESSENTIAL TO THE DELIVERY OF THE GROUPS FINANCIAL AND NON FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES The Board has ultimate accountability for overseeing execution of the risk identified promptly, managed for risk management systems and management framework throughout appropriately and that actions are controls, with the Audit Committee the Group.
The process for monitoring undertaken in line with Group objectives.
having delegated responsibility and controlling risk, illustrated below, formonitoring and reviewing the emphasises continuous evaluation and The principal risks and actions taken effectiveness of the system.
More monitoring by Divisional Presidents, tomitigate them are shown in the details are set out on page 42. together with their respective tableon the opposite page.
The risks management teams, including business arenot intended to be set out in any Cobhams Risk Committee, which is unit management.
The risk framework particular order.
anexecutive committee, is responsible isstructured to ensure that risks are How we monitor and control risk BOARD REVIEW Reporting Monitoring RISK COMMITEE REVIEW Reporting Monitoring GROUP EXECUTIVE REVIEW of mitigation plans, performance, risk, impacts financial and non financial, emerging themes Reporting Monitoring FUNCTIONAL HEAD REVIEW ASSURANCE REVIEWS of mitigation plans, risk and emerging themes Reporting Monitoring SELF ASSESSMENT Corporate Division Strategic Business Unit risk identification, analysis, evaluation and mitigation planning as part of the strategy process OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK Organisation Delegated authorities Culture, values and appraisal system Training and development Mandated policies and processes Performance measurement Business overview 28 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Principal risks Risk Description Context Impact Sensitivity Mitigation Comment Inability The success of the Groups Without the appropriate In order to attract and retain the appropriate skills, the toattract investment in technology and quality and quantity of skills Grouphas rigorous talent management plans and an effective andretain the ability to build and maintain throughout the organisation appraisal system.
It provides competitive compensation staffwith scale positions in our chosen it would be increasingly packages that incentivise desired behaviours see page 45. appropriate markets are dependent on our difficult to execute the A dedicated careers website and team are focused on levels of skills ability to attract and retain the strategy and grow.
recruiting people in the UK and USA.
and talent appropriate talent and skills.
The Group ensures work for employees is challenging andrewarding and is increasing participation in Group-wide, coordinated development and training programmes seepage56.
The Group is pursuing a zero harm Safety, Health andEnvironment S H E she strategy see page 30.
| | Contract risk The Group designs and A failure to anticipate and To mitigate contract risk, a thorough review of terms and and execution assembles products and resolve technical problems, conditions prior to signing ensures contract provisions are engages in services that are estimate and control costs fully understood and risks fairly allocated between parties.
often custom built, utilising andoffset inflationary Execution risk is mitigated through rigorous application of the complex technologies, under pressures can result in Groups Life Cycle Management process to all bids, contracts fixed price contracts.
This gives schedule and costoverruns.
and development projects, with independent assessment rise to specific risks, including Also, failure tomitigate risk by andmeaningful metrics applied through project reviews, cost overruns, foreign exchange underestimating the contract design reviews and phase reviews.
may mean potential exposure The Group also continually reviews and manages including to penalties, claims hedging inflation and exchange rate risks see page 95. andwarranties.
Deterioration The Groups revenue is derived A change in global growth The Group mitigates this risk through targeted PV investment inthe macro from global commercial, rates or changes in on products and services that are priorities for our customers economic defence and security markets.
government spending see page 7. environment The level and type of spending priorities, which could lead to Market developments, order intake trends and order book adversely isdependent on a complex changes in market growth and cover are reviewed monthly to enable action to be taken, impacting our mixof macroeconomic, fiscal programme terminations or including cost control measures.
core markets and strategic defence and delays, or a fundamental shift The successful completion of the Excellence in Delivery security imperatives.
in how customers procure programme, which will enable Cobham to optimise its market products or services, could positions, will give a standardised operating framework, and have a material adverse effect transform operating performance.
on the Groups future results.
The Group is increasing the level of business in higher growth geographic markets such as India, Brazil, parts of the Middle East and Asia see page 9.
The Group is looking for opportunities to grow its commercial business to provide an appropriate balance between the Groups defence security and commercial end markets.
Failure The Group must comply with Sanctions for failure by the Cobham continues to enhance compliance processes across tocomply numerous domestic and Group, or its sales agents, the Group.
These include numerous policies and procedures withlaws, international laws, regulations orothers acting on its behalf which are regularly reviewed, including procedures related to regulations and and restrictions.
Cobham to comply with these laws, the use of sales and marketing representatives, anti-bribery restrictions operates in a highly regulated regulations and restrictions and corruption, gifts and hospitality, whistle blowing and environment and is subject could include fines, penalties, investigation of ethics and compliance concerns.
tothe laws, regulations suspension or debarment Mandatory training is undertaken on a variety of compliance andrestrictions of many ofthe Group from future related subjects including US Government contracting, and jurisdictions, including those government contracts for a anti-bribery and corruption.
ofthe US, the UK and other period of time.
Such sanctions Cobham has reviewed and strengthened procedures in the countries.
Among other things, could have an impact on the light of the Bribery Act 2010 and is currently pursuing a zero these include import and Groups financial position and harm strategy for S H E see page 30.
contracting rules and antibribery provisions, as well as applicable S|H|E legislation.
Business overview Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29
