Report of the Directors Our principal risks and how we manage them Chart 27 Lease maturities expiries and break clauses Our Board monitors a range of financial and non-financial risks which affect the business, and these are covered in the tables which follow.
% of portfolio rental income As property is a capital intensive business, we place a strong emphasis on the management of financial risks.
In light of the 7.0 6.9 6.3 relationship between risk and return, we set out below an overview 4.5 of our management of financial risks in the context of our investment 3.4 2.4 return objectives and also our approach to capital allocation.
The Groups primary financial metric is total return.
Holding 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 For shareholders, total return consists of a combination of share price over Year to 31 March movement and dividend payments.
On a portfolio of properties, total return consists of movements in asset valuations together with the Retail Portfolio excluding proposed developments London Portfolio excluding proposed developments income yield from receipt of rents.
Although our focus is on total return, London expiries on proposed developments we recognise that, with property, income is an important component of total return and that, for our shareholders, the dividend is likewise an important part of Total Shareholder Return.
assumptions on leasing, the targeted rental income from the unlet When making capital allocation decisions whether to buy, sell element of our development programme should not exceed the or develop a property, we do so on the basis of prospective ungeared Groups retained earnings.
The purpose of this is to safeguard against total returns, adjusted for risk, relative to our weighted average cost unlet development projects resulting in the Group having an uncovered of capital WACC and also relative to alternative investment dividend.
We also control the proportion of our capital deployed in opportunities.
Our capital allocation decisions on properties are made development: the proportion of our capital in development will on the basis of ungeared total returns because we manage gearing levels generally not exceed 20% of our total capital upon completion of centrally at the Group balance sheet level.
those schemes save that, where a material part of the development Evidence shows that in the property sector, asset selection programme is pre-let, this proportion can rise to 25%.
In addition, decisions are more important than sector allocation in terms of we monitor the level of committed future capital expenditure on generating outperformance, and we would expect to focus our capital our development programme relative to the level of our undrawn allocation decisions more around the choice between development and debt facilities.
investment than around sector allocation.
However, if there is a material In terms of risks relating to our debt facilities, we ensure that difference in the prospective returns between sectors, this will be we have: a spread of maturity dates for debt facilities: a mix of xed and reected in our capital allocation.
exible or repayable debt to ensure that we can manage liquidity around Our capital management decisions are concerned not only asset purchases and sales: and a high proportion of our debt at xed with prospective returns, but also with risk both at the asset level and interest rates or else hedged in order to manage our exposure to interest at Group level.
The assessment and management of risk is a dynamic rate volatility.
In addition, we monitor compliance and headroom process but, from a financial perspective, we believe there are four key around covenants in our debt facilities, the provisions of which are areas of risk: our balance sheet gearing levels: the amount of property covered in more detail in the section of the Financial Review on development we undertake: the terms and mix of our debt facilities: and nancing strategy on p36.
the composition of our property portfolio.
Our experience is that the Risks potentially arising from the composition of our property first two of these risks, gearing levels and the amount of development, portfolio are managed through monitoring: asset concentration our tend to be the principal sources of volatility of returns, and hence risk, largest asset is only 6.2% of the total portfolio : tenant concentration for a property company.
We describe below how we manage these key our largest tenant, the Government, represents only 7.8% of rents : the financial risks.
spread of lease expiry dates we have an average unexpired lease term Gearing magnies the effect of movements in income on of 8.9 years with a maximum of 8.6% of gross rental income expiring corporate earnings and the effect of movements in property values on or subject to break clause in any single year : and also the proportion of shareholders net assets NAV.
So, we assess balance sheet gearing levels our portfolio represented by pre-development properties.
In addition, in terms of both Interest Cover Ratios ICR and LTV ratios.
The UK we review the liquidity of assets in our portfolio and, in this respect, we property sector tends to focus particularly on LTV ratios, and we seek generally favour full control and ownership of assets.
Currently, 13.0% to manage the business within an inner gearing range of 35% to 45% of our assets are held in joint ventures.
LTV, which we would expect to apply in normal market conditions.
Our Board regularly reviews the appropriate risk appetite for At certain stages of the cycle, we would be prepared to allow our LTV the business through the cycle and uses its discretion as to when to ratios to move to an outer range of 25% to 55% LTV.
To put these increase or reduce risk exposure.
We have recently demonstrated this gures in the context of balance sheet gearing ratios calculated by with our decision to gain early mover advantage through restarting reference to debt to equity, 35% to 45% LTV is approximately a large development programme in 2010 11 for delivery in 2012 14. equivalent to 54% to 82% gearing on the basis of debt to equity.
Risk is not perceived by our Board to be negative as a matter of course: The amount of property development we undertake is the we are alive to the fact that taking on risk can be a source of financial second key financial risk area.
Property development has the potential outperformance at the appropriate stage in the cycle.
to deliver new buildings at attractive rental income yields and also to generate valuation surpluses materially ahead of general market movements.
However, property development can also be associated with higher volatility of valuation movements and income shortfalls if projects do not let up to plan.
We therefore manage our risk exposure The tables overleaf show the principal risks to development through both income and capital risk control measures.
and uncertainties facing the business and the The income-related risk measure is that, adopting conservative processes by which we aim to manage them.
Land Securities Annual Report 2011 41 Our principal risks and how we manage them Financial Further Change from Risk and impact Mitigation commentary 2009 10 Liability structure Liability structure is unable to adapt to changing Asset and Liability Committee meets three times a year to monitor both sides Financial review asset strategy or property values resulting in reduced of the balance sheet and recommend strategy: p3437 financial and operational exibility, missed business Liquidity and gearing kept under regular review: opportunities and higher finance costs.
Assess balance sheet gearing levels in terms of both interest cover ratios ICR and loan-to-value ratios LTV : Seek to manage the business within an inner gearing range of 35% to 45% LTV in normal market conditions: Assets available within the Security Group to sell provide security for raising new debt.
Limited debt market capacity and or liability A mix of xed term and repayable debt to ensure that we can manage liquidity structure impacts ability to meet existing debt around asset purchases and sales: maturities and fund forward cash requirements.
Long-term facilities in place with a spread of maturity dates: On-going monitoring and management of the forecast cash position: Commitments are not taken on if funding is not available: Monitor compliance and headroom around covenants in our debt facilities: Our principal debt funding structure benets from financial default only being triggered at 1.0 times ICR currently 2.22 times or 100% LTV currently 40.1% : At less than 1.45 times ICR or greater than 65% LTV, a persuasive covenant regime applies which is designed to preserve cash for the potential protection of lenders and encourage the business to reduce debt.
Movements in interest rates adversely affect High proportion of our debt at xed interest rates or else hedged in order Group profits.
to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility.
Property investment Further Change from Risk and impact Mitigation commentary 2009 10 Composition of our property portfolio Business Asset concentration and lot size impacts on liquidity Monitor asset concentration our largest asset is only 6.2% of the total portfolio : review and relative property performance.
Average investment property lot size of 66.4m: p3959 Biannual portfolio liquidity review: Generally favour full control and ownership of assets we have only 13.0% of assets in joint ventures.
Asset mix creates excessive volatility in income and Large multi-asset portfolio: valuation movements.
Secure income ows under UK lease structure: Monitor the spread of lease expiry dates we have an average unexpired lease term of 8.9 years with a maximum of 8.6% of gross rental income expiring or subject to break clauses in any single year : Monitor the proportion of our portfolio represented by pre-development properties.
Customers Change in trends causes shifts in customer demand Bespoke research commissioned on the impact of structural change in the Business review for properties with impact on new lettings, Retail sector, the results of which are factored into our Retail business plans: p3959 renewal of existing leases and reduced rental Research into Londons continuing status as a global financial centre: growth.
Also risk of tenant insolvencies.
Active development programme to maintain a modern portfolio well suited to occupier requirements: Strong relationships with occupiers: Variety of asset types and geographic spread: Diversied tenant base, with monitoring of tenant concentration our largest tenant, the Government, represents only 7.8% of rents : Of our income 62% is derived from tenants who make less than a 1% contribution to rent roll: Target for maximum % of leases subject to expiry in any one year: Experienced and skilled in-house leasing teams: Large portfolio allows portfolio leasing deals to reduce voids further.
42 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Our principal risks and how we manage them Property investment Further Change from Risk and impact Mitigation commentary 2009 10 Environment Properties do not comply with Government Dedicated specialist environment personnel: Corporate Responsibility requirements and customer expectations on Established policy and procedures including ISO 14001 certied p6267 carbon reduction leading to an increased cost environmental system: base and an inability to attract or retain tenants.
Active environmental programme addressing key areas of impact energy and waste : Active involvement in legislative working parties.
Health and safety A failure to manage the safety of our employees, Annual cycle of health and safety audits: Corporate Responsibility contractors, tenants and visitors to our properties Quarterly Board reporting: p6267 could lead to criminal civil proceedings and Dedicated specialist personnel: resultant reputational damage.
Development Further Change from Risk and impact Mitigation commentary 2009 10 Planning constraints and localism Business significant cuts in the planning departments within Close working relationships with key local, metropolitan and review local authorities could lead to delays to the granting Government planning authorities: p3959 of planning permissions.
The Governments localism bill could increase the Active membership in industry lobby groups: propensity within London for local residents to hinder Active community engagement: development proposals.
Outside London, it may Use of professional planning advisers.
lead to an easing of planning constraints as local authorities seek to take advantage of the potential to retain increased non-domestic rate income, therefore it could see an increase in competitor schemes in close proximity to our existing sites.
Development pipeline Business Size of the speculative development pipeline and Adopting conservative assumptions on leasing, the targeted rental income review a failure to manage development activity in line from the unlet element of our development programme should not exceed p3959 with market cycle could result in a major impact the Groups retained earnings: on resources, in particular funding, income and Proportion of capital employed in development programme based on total potentially dividend cover.
If development projects costs to completion will generally not exceed 20% of our total capital employed, are not let up to plan there could be higher volatility save that where a material part of the development programme is pre-let, this of valuation movements and income shortfalls.
proportion can rise to 25%: Monitor the level of committed future capital expenditure on our development programme relative to the level of our undrawn debt facilities: Risk analysis of speculative development pipeline on capital and income basis: Strategy of exing size of development programme according to the outlook for the market cycle: In-house property market research capability: Skilled in-house development teams.
People Further Change from Risk and impact Mitigation commentary 2009 10 People skills Failure to have the right people and skills in the Succession planning and skill gaps reviewed by Nominations Committee: Corporate Responsibility business to execute business objectives.
Implementation of talent management processes: p6267 Remuneration review undertaken by the Board: Monitoring of employee engagement through an annual survey: Internal communication programme: Appropriate mix of insourcing and outsourcing.
