London & Stamford Property Plc Report and Accounts 2011 13 Risk management Our people London & Stamfords strategy continues to be to provide a Our people are key to the delivery of our strategy.
premium dividend yield by focusing on investing inwell located, The former partners of LSI Management LLP, who became well let assets with high net initial yield.
thesenior internalised management of London & Stamford Our target dividend yield will only be achieved when we have fully on1October 2010 are all subject to a lock-in through to invested our cash and we continue to pursue opportunities, 30September 2013.
They are all material shareholders and butwe will not overpay for assets.
We feel it is better to buy well, theirinterests are fully aligned with the shareholders.
when we see real opportunity.
They are all members of the Companys Investment Committee Our key investment criteria continues to be the delivery of high which meets monthly and is responsible for identifying new equity yield, which is dictated by the spread between the initial investment opportunities and for reviewing existing assets.
property yield and the cost of money.
We will continue to seek In particular, Jeremy Bishop, Stewart Little and Mike Tyler and and obtain prudent levels of keenly priced bank debt.
As a fully their team have key responsibility for performing due diligence, distributing REIT, we will maintain a progressive dividendpolicy.
conducting negotiations in relation to those investment As a property investment company, we will focus on increasing opportunities and for ongoing investment work.
our net asset value per share, through enhancement of the All other staff who were not partners in LSI Management LLP valueof the real estate assets and positive income growth driven havebeen awarded shares under the Staff Incentive Plan by active asset management initiatives.
The principal risks and uncertainties in meeting these key The management structure is flat and roles and responsibilities objectives are: are clear.
Staff are well incentivised through their salary and bonus arrangements to perform fully in the delivery of the Delivery of Groups investment objectives Companys objectives.
General economic conditions, the level and volatility of interest rates, potentially rising inflation and the lack of cost effective funding may mitigate against the achievement of investment performance.
Through fixed interest rates or other hedging mechanisms, the Group ensures that its exposure to interest ratevolatility is well managed.
No current debt facilities are due for refinancing until August 2014 at the earliest.
Jeremy Bishop Stewart Little The Group will only enter into investment transactions where thespread between the cost of debt and the initial property yield produces sufficient equity return.
Enhanced property valuations Property valuations are snapshots in time and there can be nocertainty that property valuations will be realised.
However, our focus on secure income from well located assets with increasing weighted average lease lengths provides robust Mike Tyler support to property valuations.
Added value property management initiatives General economic uncertainty adversely impacts the property market and in particular raises the level of occupational risk.
Wecontinue to manage carefully our exposure to the risk of weakening credit worthiness in our tenant portfolio and undertake forensic due diligence on tenant covenants on acquisition.
Occupational weakness mitigates against tenant enhancements being a mechanism for driving rents upwards.
Key performance indicators The main measure of the effectiveness of the Groups performance is the increasing dividend yield driven by high yielding, well located assets, with strong tenant covenants.
To this end, we have a very high occupancy rate and the management of occupational risk is a key deliverable.
Long unexpired lease terms which lengthen as a consequence of added value asset management initiatives are a good indication of performance.
As a result of a disciplined approach to investment, we have ensured that we have not overpaid for assets.
Financial statements Governance Operating and financial review Overview
