30 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk management approach Aegis recognises the importance of effective risk management processes and systems.
The Board is Continued ultimately responsible for risk management and determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take in achieving its focus on risk strategic objectives.
It delegates operational risk management to its Risk Committees, which report into the Group Audit Committee.
management There are currently two Risk Committees, the Aegis Media Risk Committee, chaired by the Group CEO, which focuses primarily on strategic and trading risks, and the Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Group CFO, which focuses on corporate and group function risks.
The work of the Risk Committees is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee.
We also aim to make risk management a key part of every managers role across our business.
During 2011, Aegis revised the group risk management framework to increase focus on major risks that could threaten the whole business.
The evaluation methodology i. e. how we assess the size of the risk, comprising probability of happening and the size of the impact if it did occur has been modified to reflect this.
Our risk management strategy supports the strategic objectives of Aegis Group plc, which are: Increasing our exposure to faster-growing regions Growing our digital profile and capability Broadening our service offering across all of our clients Growing our international client and new business profile Our risk management Strengthening our leading position in the top 20 markets, strategy supports the in particular China and the US.
strategic objectives of This strategy aims to deliver continued growth whilst managing Aegis Group plc strategic risk by diversifying client base, country and media.
To back this, the group maintains a strong, flexible balance sheet and ensures we remain comfortably within our financial covenants.
A summary of our principal risks is as follows: 31 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 1.
Managing competitive risk Risk description Risk description We might lose key clients and fail to win new ones.
The agency sector is highly competitive.
Potential risk impact Potential risk impact Lost profit Lost profit Subsequent loss of key managers.
Subsequent loss of key managers.
Risk management strategy Risk management strategy Ensuring we remain a highly competitive organisation to help Attracting and retaining high quality people who can deliver us win new clients and continue to provide a high quality high quality service to clients.
Aegis Medias global network service to our existing clients.
brands operate through one P&L and one operating model per country with a full range of integrated, and specialist, Risk mitigation actions services, providing competitive differentiation.
We have dedicated client relationship teams in place, as Risk mitigation actions well as global client management teams established in regional offices We put major focus on maintaining and building long term client relationships, investing in major clients We develop multiple services, with an emphasis on innovation for our clients.
We seek to maintain a cost base at least as efficient as any of our competitors 2.
Managing counterparty risk We place emphasis on innovation.
Ensuring strong talent management Counterparty risks include the loss of income from clients who have cash flow or insolvency problems and potential Risk description media buying liabilities in markets where we act as principal.
Loss of key employees and failure to attract high quality people.
Potential risk impact Potential risk impact Lost profit and bad debt.
Risk management strategy Risk management strategy Maintaining and developing robust financial and operating Talent management is a key priority to ensure we have a systems to ensure we minimise any potential loss of income strong pipeline of people to develop as our future leaders.
We also aim to ensure we are well placed to continue to Risk mitigation actions attract high quality people.
Due diligence, including credit risk is undertaken for all new Risk mitigation actions clients and written contracts must be in place before starting We made significant investment in 2011 and intend to continue any significant work to invest in 2012 to make Aegis an attractive place to work Group policy requires credit limits to be imposed for all new We make developing our future leaders by career planning commercial clients and training a priority.
In particular our Route 500 is a We are enhancing our existing global credit insurance policy.
BUSINESS REVIEW 32 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued 5.
Managing the targeting and pursuit of acquisition opportunities Risk description Risk description Weak economies can lead clients to cut back on media Acquisitions need to be value creating and support the investment and squeeze margins.
Potential risk impact Potential risk impact Lost profit.
Lost profit Risk management strategy Management distraction.
Aegis is a diversified business with a strategy to grow our Risk management strategy exposure to areas that are less likely to be affected by macroTargeting acquisitions which are aligned with the Groups economic challenges, including faster-growing geographic strategy and culture, as well as ensuring they meet specific regions and digital.
Risk mitigation actions Risk mitigation actions Diversify our business into faster-growing product areas We maintain a pipeline of potential targets across a diverse and markets range of geographies and product offerings Regular monthly detailed reporting by business units All acquisitions require approval by an internal acquisitions to senior management ensures that senior executives committee chaired by the Group CEO.
Larger acquisitions understand local performance have to be agreed by the Group Board There are regular reforecasts of financial performance We aim to limit the initial consideration and pay the presented to the Board consideration over time through earn-out payment structures Were sales to slow, controls over costs and working capital There is a Group M&A team in place to support local would be tightened further to mitigate the loss of profit.
management in sourcing and acquiring targets 6.
Maintaining a sound financial position Acquisitions need to promise to deliver a rate of return of at least 30% above our weighted average cost of capital and Risk description need to achieve earnings enhancement in the first full year Insufficient liquidity and funding requirements to support the of ownership.
Groups liabilities and manage the growth of the business.
Ensuring acquisitions are fully integrated Potential risk impact Lack of funds for current operations and future growth.
Risk description Unsuccessful integration of acquired companies.
Risk management strategy Maintaining sufficient funding, with secure access to Potential risk impact banking facilities, to meet our liabilities and to fund the Lost profit growth of the business.
From a cost perspective, ensuring Management distraction.
a cost management culture is integrated throughout the organisation.
Risk management strategy Risk mitigation actions Post acquisition integration plans in place for all newly acquired entities to ensure they are properly integrated into We have cash pooling arrangements in place for larger the Group.
businesses with relationship banks Risk mitigation actions We maintain daily cash reporting for all operations We track and report on the integration process tracked at We have minimum headroom limits and monitor three months and one year, providing additional assistance these regularly to those entities requiring more support We maintain regular communication with relationship banks We aim to re-brand acquired businesses in the first full year and noteholders.
33 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9.
Managing the security of data 11.
Managing corporate responsibility risks Risk description Risk description Unauthorised access to or inappropriate use of client, The Group is unable to respond to the changing employee or other confidential data.
regulatory environment around environmental and community responsibility, unable to meet its clients Potential risk impact and employees sustainability requirements or unable Lost profit to fulfil stakeholder expectations.
Potential risk impact Risk management strategy Lost profit, clients and potential reputational damage.
Ensuring robust IT and financial reporting systems are Risk management strategy in place, in line with best practice data security and Integrating Corporate Responsibility considerations in Group compliance regulations, and based on strict internal policies and procedures and developing ambitious targets and policies and procedures.
programmes to turn Corporate Responsibility risks into opportunities.
Risk mitigation actions External access to information is protected by the IT security Risk mitigation actions framework which is regularly assessed through vulnerability Appointment of a central Corporate Responsibility department.
testing and IT security audits Development of a network of Corporate Responsibility We insist on confidentiality clauses in employee and champions in each market to ensure local compliance supplier contracts through standardised reporting, to develop local action plans to achieve our targets, and to raise awareness We are currently obtaining further validation of the quality amongst our stakeholders.
of our information security by undertaking ISO27001 certification for our key businesses.
Ensuring legal and regulatory compliance Risk description The Group may be unprepared for legislative and regulatory changes.
Potential risk impact Lost profit Loss of license to operate and or market Damage to management reputation and credibility.
Risk management strategy Ensuring compliance with a range of legal and contractual requirements around the world.
Risk mitigation actions Group Legal team continually monitors changes in regulation with a view to changing group policies and communicating the changes before they come into force.
This team includes a specialist compliance lawyer Online compliance training packages have been developed to supplement face-to-face training We have established a regulatory intranet which is utilised as a tracking tool for new and updated regulation and an internal newsletter which updates employees on developments in the area of compliance.
