Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20 Risk management Protecting our business Risk management framework Board of Directors Strategic objectives Audit Committee Group Risk Committee CEO, CFO, MD UK Sales, MD UK Operations, Group Risk Manager, Group IS Director, CEO Germany, Strategic Risk Director General France External advice Log SRL Business Risk Internal Audit CC Business Leaders Assessment BRA Strategic objectives Accelerating Reducing cost the growth of through increased our contractual effi ciency and services industrialisation business of our service operations Our offerings may transpire to be There may be an absence of appropriate Principal risks uncompetitive within the market or an investment into automated tools and other unforeseen technology shift occurs where effi ciency measures, which effectively fails the market develops appetite for different to reduce the need for manual intervention equipment and solutions to those offered.
activity and thus could impact upon our competitive position or a suitable return We potentially do not dedicate correct on these investments is not achieved.
levels of resource to satisfy our customers varying needs for innovation.
Our growth aspirations are impacted by the economic climate and with a certain level of uncertainty about a full return to economic stability in the short term: there is the potential for reduced capital expenditure from customers.
We formally review all lost bids and most The industrialisation and investment Principal mitigations won bids to ensure that we keep abreast review board convenes monthly and of customer expectation from their IT monitors the return on investment as well services and solutions provider.
We as the planned KPI improvements and formally review our internal service considers future investments and providers against price points and improvements taking account of feedback benchmarked service quality standards.
from multiple sources within the business.
We launched a Customer Value Scorecard to identify our larger customers innovation needs and we are currently implementing the continual improvement framework to detect where innovation needs are arising.
We operate within different economies that are affected differently at different times.
We also believe that our offerings are targeted specifi cally towards being benefi cial to our customers who are looking to reduce costs.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 The ongoing identifi cation and monitoring of risks are undertaken control measures being monitored and assurance that the by our Group Risk Committee GRC, the members of which assessment of risk remains active, at a senior level.
The Group include: the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Internal Auditor additionally reports on fi findings, following internal Managing Director UK Sales, Managing Director UK Operations, audits of areas impacted by risks captured on the risk logs.
Company Secretary and Group Risk Manager, Chief Executive of Assessing risk is not only about what is foreseeable.
An exercise Germany, Director General of France and the Group Internal was undertaken this year by the Committee to consider the Auditor.
unthinkable risks, or black swans and to contemplate their The GRC is responsible for compiling the Strategic Risk Log impact on business objectives and how best to mitigate.
The SRL annually, a top down list of unwanted situations which disaster recovery plans have undergone review following this could prevent the strategic objectives, as established by the study, as further opportunity of minimising post-disaster Board, from reaching the desired outcome.
These risks also chaos have, in certain instances, been identifi ed.
include the possibility for failure in maximising upside potential.
The Committee this year benchmarked the SRL against an The SRL is compiled by the Committee with facilitated guidance external Global Risk Management Survey and of the top 10 from an external risk consultancy, every two years, as well as external fi findings, the SRL had captured eight, which provides the bottom up Business Risk Assessment BRA, as delivered some comfort that our identifi cation process is aligned to that by all the business leaders across the Group.
being undertaken in other organisations.
Those generic risks Ownership for the top 20 strategic risks is allocated across more widely identifi ed and also listed on our SRL include: the GRC and monitored at quarterly scheduled meetings.
The business continuity risks associated with IT operational failures: agenda of items considered at a GRC meeting also includes: our obligations under regulatory and compliance legislation: data Health and Safety, Insurance and Liabilities, Business Continuity protection exposures: and the consequences of expanding the and IT Disaster Recovery, Corporate Sustainable Development delivery of our offerings to our customers, globally.
Certain risks and Internal Audit reports.
The Group Internal Auditor aims to on the SRL have been identifi ed as posing potential threat to provide the Group Audit Committee with feedback on the risk our strategic objectives and some of these are detailed below.
Maximising the Growing our Ensuring the return on working profi t margin successful capital and freeing through increased implementation working capital services and of the Group-wide where not high-end supply ERP system optimally used chain sales Following signifi cant progress over the Resource demands could arise when With a project of this scale there is the years in reducing working capital through transitioning multiple new service potential that during early transition the disposal of the distribution business, business opportunities at or around the operational issues could occur which as well as other working capital same time.
impact on customer service levels and optimisation initiatives, a material increase ultimately, overall fi financial performance Our sales teams could lose focus on our in working capital demand could harm of the Company.
defi ned propositions and target market further progress in this regard.
resulting in the over promising on the After the ERP system is fully embedded scope of services offered to new there is the potential that the full return on customers or making non-standard this investment is not realised.
offerings during the life of a contract.
This could result in margin erosion, customer dissatisfaction or delays in the initial phases of the contract.
Our vendor partners compete in the high-end sales environment and approach our customers directly.
There is continued focus on working We have an established transition and The transition of the various systems capital controls in each country at all transformational activity programme with have been phased over a period of circa levels, supplemented by rigorous target access to additional resources as three years, with the other countries based incentivisation system.
In future, necessary utilising our Master Vendor providing back-up support to the the ERP system will facilitate a common relationship which caters for bridging any transitioning country.
Lessons learnt from approach to working capital management, capability and capacity concerns that 2011 transitions in Germany and the UK across the Group, through best practice may arise.
will be deployed in future countries.
and other working capital control Governance boards and a tool, through Return on investment plans have been adoption.
which all relevant parties have to engage, developed and will be built into the aim to prevent any non-standard offerings.
internal governance structure at all All change management will be reviewed relevant levels, and targets have already by a governance board and if material, the been included in senior management same approval process as for new pay plans.
Senior management work very closely with our leading partners and customers in order to continually promote and protect the value we bring to the customer.
Computacenters customers demand optimisation of their IT infrastructures and to this end, vendor independent solutions are imperative.
Financial statements Governance Business Business re revie view w Ov Over ervie view w
