SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 principal risks and uncertainties Operational and financial risks facing Risk and impact the business are monitored through a process of regular assessment by the Property valuations executive team and reported and discussed at meetings of the Audit The valuation of all property assets includes assumptions regarding income Committee and the Board.
expectations and yields that investors would expect to achieve on those assets over time.
Many external economic and market factors, such as interest rate expectations, The problems associated with rising debt bond yields, the availability and cost of finance and the relative attraction of levels in Western economies are creating property against other asset classes, could lead to a reappraisal of the assumptions great uncertainty in equity and debt used to arrive at current valuations.
In adverse conditions this reappraisal can lead markets across the world.
The short and to a reduction in property values and a loss in net asset value, amplified by the long term ramifications of measures that effect of gearing.
Such reduction in property values and loss of net asset value could may be necessary to restore economic result in the Group being unable to meet the asset-related covenants contained in stability are at present unclear but may its Debenture and bank loan arrangements.
result in a sustained contraction of credit available for businesses generally.
As described opposite, such conditions could have an impact on the valuation of our Location of property assets assets and the prosperity of our locations.
The Groups property assets are concentrated in the centre of the West End of Following the completion of the St Martins London.
The prosperity of the West End economy, and therefore the Groups retail Courtyard project in the Longmartin joint and restaurant occupiers, which account for over 70% of our rental income, is venture, the Groups exposure to risks heavily dependent on large numbers of visitors.
associated with the speculative nature of its routine schemes is no longer considered Events which discourage visitors, such as threats to security or public safety due to to be material in relation to our income terrorism, health concerns such as an influenza pandemic, or disruption to the and resources.
public transport network on which the area depends, could reduce visitor numbers.
Over time, if a fall in visitors was both sustained and significant, this could lead to a Our principal risks relate to the valuation reduction in occupier demand and the rental potential and value of the Groups risk inherent in property investment, the property assets.
concentrated location of the Groups portfolio and certain aspects of its strategy.
All of the Groups properties are located within the jurisdictions of Westminster City Council and the London Borough of Camden.
Changes to their policies, particularly those relating to planning and licensing, could have a significant impact on the Groups ability to maximise the long term potential of its assets.
Tenant risk As a result of adverse conditions in the wider economy, a restriction of the availability of credit for consumers and businesses could lead to lower levels of consumer spending, a higher level of business failures and difficulties for new ventures in raising start-up capital.
This could adversely affect the financial viability of the Groups tenants, potentially leading to higher levels of vacancies and declines in rental values.
Environmental legislation Legislation which is intended to bring about improvements to the environmental standards of buildings may impose obligations on owners of older buildings which conflict with the existing legal requirements governing Conservation Areas and listed buildings.
The future use of older buildings may be restricted if they become subject to standards of environmental performance which cannot be met.
34 34 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 principal risks and uncertainties Mitigation The Group has chosen to invest in property assets in a particular location and with uses which have historically demonstrated a much lower degree of valuation volatility than the wider market.
As part of its regular internal reporting, the Group reviews quarterly forecasts of compliance with value-related banking covenants and the extent to which values could fall before any covenant was reached.
A commentary on the Groups financial position, including matters relating to its bank financing arrangements, is contained in this Business Review under the heading Finance on pages 25 to 28.
In our experience, the wide diversity of visitors to the West End means that overall visitor numbers and spending are less influenced by UK economic conditions than in other domestic retail and leisure locations.
Such events, which are faced by all high profile locations such as London, are often beyond the Groups control, and are an inherent risk in the Groups  investment strategy.
However, the Group has an active policy of working with many local bodies and statutory authorities to maximise the safety of visitors to the West End and its villages.
The Group has in place insurance which would meet the cost of physical destruction of its property assets resulting from a terrorist event, and would also reimburse the Group for up to four years loss of income.
The Group works closely with both local authorities to ensure that its properties are operated in a manner which complies with the authorities local policies and statutes.
The Group makes representations to the authorities regarding proposed policy changes so that its views and practical experiences are considered in framing public policy.
The wholly owned portfolio has over 800 commercial tenants, so that the risks associated with the default of individual tenants are well spread.
The 100 largest tenants by current gross income in the wholly owned portfolio provide approximately 52% of total commercial income.
No single tenant currently pays a rent in excess of 1.2 million per annum and the average rent paid by our ten largest tenants is 0.9 million per annum.
The Group reviews the creditworthiness of prospective new commercial tenants.
Where appropriate new tenants are required to provide a cash deposit as security against default on their rent commitment.
At 30 September 2011, such deposits amounted to 10.4 million 2010: 9.1 million.
Our buildings, which on average are 150 years old, are situated in historic areas of Londons West End.
All of our villages are within Conservation Areas and many of our properties are listed as being of special architectural interest.
We work with English Heritage and local authorities to improve the environmental performance of our buildings within the constraints imposed by current Conservation Area and listed buildings legislation.
We are also assisting with studies to identify new approaches to improving the environmental impact of older buildings and to develop performance standards which are appropriate to their special status.
35 35 kiehLS PuMA ScReen fAce iTS SoMeThinG heLLS oPeRA TAVeRn fAR eAST LAuRA Lee diShooM G-STAR RAw MiRAndA AdoLfo doMinGuez LAcoSTe L!five SPice BAzAAR cASS ART LeS deux SALonS hoSS inTRoPiA cAMeLLiAS woRLd TeAS hAozhAn BiLLS kiTchen iTALiA ReLAx henRi-LLoyd iRReGuLAR choice cARnABy BuRGeR co ifuku SLow food The doVeR BookShoP cAMPeR PLAyLounGe Jim Parker Ben SheRMAn cAneLA ABSoLuTe VinTAGe AinT noThin BuT... 36 36
