Summary of key risks and mitigation to Audit Committee and Board Monitoring and reporting by line management Mitigating Actions Risk Management Process 1 2 3 4 5 Risk management process 6 Afrens approach to business risk management has continued 7 8 to evolve during 2011 in response to changes in the business 9 and operating environment.
10 11 12 13 14 Risk overview Process for ongoing Risk Management 15 The key objectives of early identification of 16 risks, effective implementation of mitigation Corporate risk 17 measures and active monitoring and review Corporate Review risks register 18 are central to our risk management process.
to delivery strategy 19 Covers key business functions 20 This has been achieved through close and 21 continuing co-operation between the Risk Strategy cascaded 22 Management and the other business to projects assets 23 functions, inparticular the operations team.
24 Ongoing monitoring of our business risks will 25 ensure that shareholder returns are maximised Country risk registers 26 from our diverse and dynamic portfolio.
Review risks Business unit plans Nigeria 27 to delivery Cte dIvoire 28 Our risk management process continues Iraq East Africa 29 toberefined as we implement it across the 30 business.
The key steps in the process are Strategy cascaded 31 illustrated below and this approach has been to business units 32 used at a corporate level and has been Project and asset risk 33 cascaded down to our Nigerian operations registers operated 34 and to several projects.
Ebok 35 Project and asset Review risks Okoro 36 Risks are identified and assessed in the to delivery CI 11 CI 01 plans operated Barda Rash 37 context of our business plans and the risk 38 registers that are generated are monitored 39 and actioned by functional and line 40 managers.
The Audit and Risk Committee Key activities during 2011 Our acquisition programme saw the mid-year 41 ofthe Board are then regularly appraised 2011 saw a major focus on managing the risks addition of assets in Kurdistan.
As a new 42 ofprogress on implementing the risk associated with Ebok drilling and development country entry this acquisition poses different, 43 management system and the steps that activities.
The installation, commissioning and if similar risks to those faced in our core 44 havebeen taken to mitigate the significant early production ramp-up from the central African operations and as such, was subject to 45 businessrisks.
Ebok facilities and West Fault Block development wide reaching risk assessment.
The proposed 46 were all subject to the risk review process and development project for the Barda Rash field 47 followed up by rigorous monitoring of actions has been through a detailed risk review 48 to ensure that targets were met.
focusing on the well workover programme 49 and plans for early production facilities.
50 The management of security risks has also Therisk mitigation measures will be 51 been under the spotlight and a structured incorporated into the overall project plan and 52 process has been implemented for carrying actions will be tracked through the regular 53 out security risk assessments.
This process project review meetings.
54 necessarily involves wide participation 55 from partners, contractors and external Progress on implementing the Afren Business 56 stakeholders in order to provide a baseline Risk Management System was reviewed 57 for managing security risks for our operations.
regularly throughout 2011 with the Audit 58 The process has been used to validate the andRisk Committee.
The Committee were 59 security arrangements for our offshore updated on the output from specific risk 60 operations in Nigeria and the upcoming assessments and the mitigation measures 61 exploration activities in East Africa.
62 63 64 65 66 67 68 L L 69 20 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 KPIs and Risk Management For more on impact vs. likelihood See page 22 What are our key risks?
High Environmental Field safety incidents delivery Security incidents Unfulfilled PSC work obligations Host Geo-political community risk action Bribery and corruption Loss of key Oil price employees volatility Management of growth Taxation and other legislation changes Exploration failure Treasury management Low Medium High Low Low Likelihood of occurrence High 2012 Outlook This will ensure alignment between business The East Africa Exploration portfolio is also an plans, budgets andemployee objectives and will area where we have been reviewing the risks cascade theaccountability for risk management associated with exploration activities both down toindividuals.
on-and offshore ahead of commencing operations.
The detailed planning for the Afren is operating in a fast moving and dynamic seismic and drilling activities targeted for environment with geo-political and operational 2012has taken account of the identified risks that require constant monitoring and risksand will help ensure a successful response.
It is essential that the approach to risk explorationcampaign.
management mirrors this reality and is flexible and responsive to the business needs.
At the The major goal for 2012 is to further strengthen end of the day this requires a collaborative the linkage between our corporate strategic approach with all ourkey stakeholders in order objectives and the risk management programme.
to effectively manage and mitigate the risks.
Afren plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Magnitude of impact
