Principal Risks and Uncertainties 1 2 3 4 5 Principal risks and uncertainties 6 We have identified the following principal risks 7 8 anduncertainties in relation to the Groups financial 9 andoperational performance in 2011.
10 11 12 13 14 Key risk Description andimpact How do we manage it KPI Performance metric Strategic priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment 15 OPERATIONAL RISK 16 Field delivery risk applies to all phases of the E&P cycle from seismic All operations are subject to risk reviews to identify as early Capital expenditure Chief Operating Officer Operations Review Field delivery risk 17 acquisition through to production operations.
At each phase the aspossible potential risks todelivery.
Operating costperbarrel 18 mitigating measures will be different, however failure to control risks Our engineers analyse results from appraisal and development wells will manifest itself asproject delays, cost overruns, high production and determine theappropriate course of action in terms of drilling 19 costs, early field decommissioning and ultimately lower than programme and facility design.
All projects are closely monitored to ensure the project delivers 21 against plan and toenable actions to be taken to maintain progress.
22 Project finances are monitored against budget to minimise overruns.
23 Production operations are closely monitored to ensure that unplanned downtime isminimised and that operating costs are 24 tightly controlled.
25 Actual production is regularly checked against the annual 26 productionforecast.
27 Exploration failure Exploration activities can be capital intensive and may involve a high A dedicated team has been established under the leadership of the Reserves replacement ratio Exploration Director Operations Review 28 degree of risk.
Sustained exploration failure will impact the growth new Exploration Director, to exploit the explorationportfolio.
Full finding cost 29 and upside potential oftheCompany.
Exploration assets are subject to a rigorous peer review process.
30 Exploration risk is evaluated for each prospect by looking in detail 31 athow to fide-risk the key elements of the subsurface data, source rock, reservoir, trapping and seal mechanisms, etc.
Prospects are 32 subsequently ranked and budgets approved.
33 Exploration costs are funded by planned operational cash flows 34 in2012.
35 As Afrens activities expand there is a continuing focus on preventing Afren has a comprehensive EHSS management system with anannual LTIF Head of EHSS Corporate Social Environmental 36 major pollution and or significant loss of life due to systems or independent audit programme toensure effective implementation.
TRIF Responsibility safety incidents 37 equipment failure.
We have implemented EHSS management Dedicated EHSS teams in each area of operation.
Number of spills 38 systemsbased on best industry practice at both the corporate Contingency plans in place.
40 41 Unfulfilled work Loss of production interest or exploration licence due toincomplete The operations, finance and legal teams jointly monitor compliance Work plan and budget COO Operations Review 42 PSC obligations fulfilment of work orPSCobligations.
43 Maintenance of good open working relationships with local 44 governments in the countries ofoperation.
45 46 ExTERNAL RISK 47 Geo-politicalrisk The countries in which Afren operates face political, socio-economic Ongoing monitoring and close liaison on the ground to monitor the Civil political unrest Country MDs Operations Review 48 and legal uncertainties.
situation from an Afren safety and security perspective.
49 2011 has seen some ethnic tension and public protests in Nigeria.
50 These events have not impacted Afren operations.
51 In Cte dIvoire there was civil disruption throughout 2010 and 2011 following the disputed election.
The situation ultimately ended with 52 the change in government in mid 2011.
The country isgradually 53 returning to a state of peace and stability.
54 In the Kurdistan region of Iraq there are geopolitical and legal 55 uncertainties, particularly associated with the licensingframework andability to export.
56 57 Afren continues to operate in regions where kidnapping, piracy and Dedicated security teams in each area of operation.
Security incidents Head of EHSS Corporate Social Security incidents 58 criminal attacks are commonplace.
Responsibility 59 As we move into exploration activities in East Africa and development Security risk assessments for each asset and operation.
in the Kurdistan region of Iraq management of security risks will 60 continue to be a major strand in our risk management programme.
61 62 63 Our operations both on and offshore have the potential for Afren has a tried and tested system for managing community affairs Host communities incidents Head of EHSS Corporate Social 64 Host community interruption by our host communities if relationships are not which is applied toalloperations.
Development spend Responsibility action 65 wellestablished.
Dedicated community affairs teams are in place where required.
67 68 L L 69 22 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 KPIs and Risk Management Strategic priorities For more on our strategy see page 12 1 Production growth Organic reserves growth 2 3 Pursue materially accretive acquisitions 4 Operational efficiency and financial discipline 5 Corporate responsibility Key risk Description andimpact How do we manage it KPI Performance metric Strategic priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment OPERATIONAL RISK F ield delivery risk applies to all phases of the E&P cycle from seismic All operations are subject to risk reviews to identify as early Capital expenditure Chief Operating Officer Operations Review Field delivery risk 1 2 4 acquisition through to production operations.
Operating costperbarrel High mitigating measures will be different, however failure to control risks Our engineers analyse results from appraisal and development wells will manifest itself asproject delays, cost overruns, high production and determine theappropriate course of action in terms of drilling costs, early field decommissioning and ultimately lower than programme and facility design.
All projects are closely monitored to ensure the project delivers against plan and toenable actions to be taken to maintain progress.
Project finances are monitored against budget to minimise overruns.
Production operations are closely monitored to ensure that unplanned downtime isminimised and that operating costs are tightly controlled.
Actual production is regularly checked against the annual productionforecast.
Exploration failure E xploration activities can be capital intensive and may involve a high A dedicated team has been established under the leadership of the Reserves replacement ratio Exploration Director Operations Review 1 2 degree of risk.
Full finding cost Medium and upside potential oftheCompany.
Exploration risk is evaluated for each prospect by looking in detail athow to fide-risk the key elements of the subsurface data, source rock, reservoir, trapping and seal mechanisms, etc.
Prospects are subsequently ranked and budgets approved.
Exploration costs are funded by planned operational cash flows in2012.
A s Afrens activities expand there is a continuing focus on preventing Afren has a comprehensive EHSS management system with anannual LTIF Head of EHSS Corporate Social Environmental 5 major pollution and or significant loss of life due to systems or independent audit programme toensure effective implementation.
TRIF Responsibility safety incidents High equipment failure.
Number of spills systemsbased on best industry practice at both the corporate Contingency plans in place.
Unfulfilled work L oss of production interest or exploration licence due toincomplete The operations, finance and legal teams jointly monitor compliance Work plan and budget COO Operations Review 4 PSC obligations fulfilment of work orPSCobligations.
High Maintenance of good open working relationships with local governments in the countries ofoperation.
ExTERNAL RISK Geo-politicalrisk T he countries in which Afren operates face political, socio-economic Ongoing monitoring and close liaison on the ground to monitor the Civil political unrest Country MDs Operations Review 4 5 and legal uncertainties.
High 2 011 has seen some ethnic tension and public protests in Nigeria.
These events have not impacted Afren operations.
I n Cte dIvoire there was civil disruption throughout 2010 and 2011 following the disputed election.
The situation ultimately ended with the change in government in mid 2011.
The country isgradually returning to a state of peace and stability.
I n the Kurdistan region of Iraq there are geopolitical and legal uncertainties, particularly associated with the licensingframework andability to export.
A fren continues to operate in regions where kidnapping, piracy and Dedicated security teams in each area of operation.
Security incidents Head of EHSS Corporate Social Security incidents 4 criminal attacks are commonplace.
Responsibility High A s we move into exploration activities in East Africa and development Security risk assessments for each asset and operation.
in the Kurdistan region of Iraq management of security risks will continue to be a major strand in our risk management programme.
O ur operations both on and offshore have the potential for Afren has a tried and tested system for managing community affairs Host communities incidents Head of EHSS Corporate Social Host community interruption by our host communities if relationships are not which is applied toalloperations.
Development spend Responsibility action High wellestablished.
Afren plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Continued 1 2 3 4 5 Principal risks and uncertainties 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 Key risk Description andimpact How do we manage it KPI Performance metric Strategic priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment 15 ExTERNAL RISK CONTINUED 16 Oil prices can fluctuate significantly.
The policy of the Group is to protect its minimum cash flow Oil price achieved Finance Director Finance Section Oil price volatility 17 requirements in the context ofasustained downturn in oil prices.
18 The Group strategy to manage oil price risk is to hedge between 20-30% of the production curve by using financial instruments 19 whichallow the Group to protect thedownside risk.
20 21 STRATEGIC RISK 22 2010 saw the introduction of the UK Anti-bribery and Corruption Act.
Afren has implemented a Code of Business Conduct across Number of whistle blowing incidents Group General Counsel Business Ethics Bribery and 23 As an oil and gas operator working in Africa, Afren is potentially allitsoperations.
Section corruption 24 exposed to accusations of poor practise in this important area An independent whistle-blowing hotline has been established ofbusiness.
toenable concerns about poor practise to be voiced without the 25 fearofreprisal.
26 Additional policy and processes have been established to meet 27 thestringent requirements of the UK anti-bribery and 28 .
29 Audit and Risk Committee in place to review governance andinternalcontrols.
30 Risk Management function working with key functions 31 inthebusiness.
32 33 Management As the business continues to grow, so does the requirement for All acquisitions are subject to thorough due diligence in order Staff turnover Chief Executive Corporate Social of growth competent personnel with the right skills in the right place at the right todeliver an attractive integrationplan.
Inability to recruit for keypositions Responsibility 34 time.
Failure to manage either organic growth or to integrate Remuneration policies are designed to incentivise, motivate and 35 acquisitions will result in delays and other impacts onkey objectives.
retainkey employees aswellasto attract new personnel as and 36 whenrequired.
37 38 39 Loss of knowledge and skills to the Group in particular in countries Succession planning is considered on a Group-wide basis, taking into Staff turnover Head of HR Human Resources Loss of key 40 ofoperation.
account the development of the executive and senior management.
Section, employees 41 Intensified competition for human talent in Africa and the Remuneration policies are designed to incentivise, motivate and retain Remuneration 42 MiddleEast.
Report 43 Inability to attract required quality of personnel to fillvacancies.
Salaries and reward of senior executives, including Directors, Afren has continued through 2011 to minimise the staff turnover rate setatcompetitive levels using third-party benchmarks.
44 and to recruit highly talented individuals when required.
45 46 FINANCIAL RISK 47 There is a risk that future changes impact our profitability.
Our financial and legal teams monitor current legislation and Effective tax rate Finance Director Finance Section Taxation and other 48 proposed changes and incorporate these into our working practices.
legislation changes 49 Maintenance of good open working relationships with local 50 authorities in the countries ofoperation.
51 52 Treasury The availability of financing to maintain the ongoing operations of the The Group has utilised a number of sources of capital to supplement Liquidity Finance Director Finance Section management business is key.
cash generated from operations, through the bond issues in January 53 2011 and in February 2012 and an equity placing in July 2011.
54 TheGroup will continue to optimise its capital structure during 2012 55 toprovide further financial flexibility to fund the Groups 56 .
The Group continues to manage its expenditure and monitor 57 cashflows to ensure that future cash requirements are 58 .
59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 L L 69 24 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 KPIs and Risk Management Strategic priorities For more on our strategy see page 12 1 Production growth Organic reserves growth 2 3 Pursue materially accretive acquisitions 4 Operational efficiency and financial discipline 5 Corporate responsibility Key risk Description andimpact How do we manage it KPI Performance metric Strategic priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment ExTERNAL RISK CONTINUED O il prices can fluctuate significantly.
The policy of the Group is to protect its minimum cash flow Oil price achieved Finance Director Finance Section Oil price volatility 4 requirements in the context ofasustained downturn in oil prices.
Medium The Group strategy to manage oil price risk is to hedge between 20-30% of the production curve by using financial instruments whichallow the Group to protect thedownside risk.
STRATEGIC RISK 2 010 saw the introduction of the UK Anti-bribery and Corruption Act.
Afren has implemented a Code of Business Conduct across Number of whistle blowing incidents Group General Counsel Business Ethics Bribery and 5 As an oil and gas operator working in Africa, Afren is potentially allitsoperations.
Section corruption Medium exposed to accusations of poor practise in this important area An independent whistle-blowing hotline has been established ofbusiness.
toenable concerns about poor practise to be voiced without the fearofreprisal.
Additional policy and processes have been established to meet thestringent requirements of the UK anti-bribery and .
Audit and Risk Committee in place to review governance andinternalcontrols.
Risk Management function working with key functions inthebusiness.
Management A s the business continues to grow, so does the requirement for All acquisitions are subject to thorough due diligence in order Staff turnover Chief Executive Corporate Social 3 5 of growth competent personnel with the right skills in the right place at the right todeliver an attractive integrationplan.
Inability to recruit for keypositions Responsibility Medium time.
Failure to manage either organic growth or to integrate Remuneration policies are designed to incentivise, motivate and acquisitions will result in delays and other impacts onkey objectives.
retainkey employees aswellasto attract new personnel as and whenrequired.
L oss of knowledge and skills to the Group in particular in countries Succession planning is considered on a Group-wide basis, taking into Staff turnover Head of HR Human Resources Loss of key 5 ofoperation.
Section, employees High I ntensified competition for human talent in Africa and the Remuneration policies are designed to incentivise, motivate and retain Remuneration MiddleEast.
Report I nability to attract required quality of personnel to fillvacancies.
Salaries and reward of senior executives, including Directors, A fren has continued through 2011 to minimise the staff turnover rate setatcompetitive levels using third-party benchmarks.
and to recruit highly talented individuals when required.
FINANCIAL RISK T here is a risk that future changes impact our profitability.
Our financial and legal teams monitor current legislation and Effective tax rate Finance Director Finance Section Taxation and other 4 proposed changes and incorporate these into our working practices.
legislation changes Medium Maintenance of good open working relationships with local authorities in the countries ofoperation.
Treasury T he availability of financing to maintain the ongoing operations of the The Group has utilised a number of sources of capital to supplement Liquidity Finance Director Finance Section 4 management business is key.
cash generated from operations, through the bond issues in January Low 2011 and in February 2012 and an equity placing in July 2011.
TheGroup will continue to optimise its capital structure during 2012 toprovide further financial flexibility to fund the Groups .
The Group continues to manage its expenditure and monitor cashflows to ensure that future cash requirements are .
Afren plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
