Directors report Riskfactors The following section sets out the risks that we have identified as a result of the review process undertaken by our executive management and Board, which is explained in more detail on pages 56 to 58 of our Corporate Governance report.
It reflects the risks that we believe could have a material adverse effect on, among other things, the execution of our strategy, our market share, competitive position, business performance, results of operations, financial position or profitability.
The management of risk and the ways in which we might mitigate the impact of such risks forms part of our day to day operations and each function.
In the Business Review, on pages 31 to 33, we explain matters which formed part of the reviews undertaken by management and the Board during 2011.
Risks associated with ownership of our ordinary shares can be found on pages 158 and 159 of the Directors report Corporate and share information.
Strategy We may fail to anticipate key technological customer and market requirements on an accurate and timely basis.
Our strategy is to provide differentiated technologies and platforms that are innovative and to provide our customers with capabilities and features that are attractive for end users and consumers.
We may fail to anticipate, or to react to, changes in the marketplace that pose significant challenges to our business model, and such failure could adversely affect our prospects and profitability.
For example, we may not accurately predict technological evolution, market trends or customer requirements, or we may focus our R&D efforts in the wrong areas, fail to make the necessary investments, develop products that fail to meet our customers needs, or fail to pursue product development opportunities that our competitors seize.
Our technologies could be integrated into other integrated circuits, decline in importance or be superseded by superior technologies.
We derive the majority of our revenue from technologies providing wireless connectivity solutions Bluetooth and Bluetooth SMART, location awareness through our GPS-based solutions and high quality digital audio, video and imaging applications.
The markets to which we supply our solutions are characterised by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries.
The technologies which we bring to the market and the technologies that we have under development or that we may otherwise release in the future, may be integrated into chips of other suppliers, which could materially adversely affect our prospects.
Customers may cease to use our technologies as an anchor point around which to integrate other technologies, or they may integrate the functions that our solutions support into their products.
Our technologies may, therefore, decline in importance or be replaced entirely as the prevailing technology, or superior technologies may be developed, which could result in our products becoming less competitive.
The average selling prices of our products are likely to decrease significantly.
The average selling prices of our products have historically declined significantly over their life, and this is likely to continue.
We have in the past reduced, and expect in the future to reduce, the average selling prices of our products in response to competitive pricing pressures, or new product introductions by us or by our competitors, among other factors.
For example, the global recession resulted in our competitors becoming more aggressive in their pricing practices, whilst more recently new suppliers in developing markets, such as China, have sought to obtain market share by offering alternative products to customers at lower prices.
We may fail to offset reduced prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing costs or successfully introducing new products at higher prices.
Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our operating results.
Product, technology and execution We may fail to develop new products on a timely basis or secure new orders, or develop new markets, for our new technologies.
Meeting our strategic objectives and growing our business is dependent on our ability to develop new, and often increasingly complex, semiconductor solutions for existing and new markets, qualify our products under industry standards or prescribed regulations, and introduce those products to the market in a cost-effective and timely manner.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 39 Full version AR 290898. pdf 43 14 03 2012 17:20:31 Directors report Risk factors continued The development of new solutions may require us to engage third parties to provide products or resources we do not have or to qualify our products under specific industry standards or prescribed regulations prior to release to our customers.
Our programmes and the delivery of new products would be materially adversely affected if our own resources and capabilities or those of third parties are insufficient to develop products with the necessary specifications in accordance with expected delivery schedules.
The delay or failure by us to launch and deliver new products in line with our customers expectations could result in a decrease in customer orders, thereby adversely affecting our revenue and our market share.
The length of our product design cycles may result in our failure to timely deliver products with the desired performance or features.
The design and sales cycle for our integrated circuits can take up to 36 months and, in exceptional cases, even longer.
Achieving volume production of products using our integrated circuits can take an additional six months or more because our customers need to incorporate our technology into their own products.
These lengthy design cycles make it difficult for us to forecast product demand and the timing of orders.
Actual customer requirements for the combination of multiple technologies and the way these are incorporated into a customers products may differ from our expectations.
Further, even when a customer chooses our design, that customer may not order volume shipments.
The delays inherent in lengthy design cycles may result in our customers deciding to adopt the solutions or products offered by competitors, which could reduce our revenues and profitability.
We are subject to risks associated with the transition to smaller geometry process technologies.
To remain competitive and sustain our prospects for growth, we need to anticipate evolving industry standards and continue to progressively transition both our semiconductor and SoC products to increasingly smaller line width geometries.
This is required to support customer demands for smaller, more powerful and cost effective solutions.
Failure to transition to smaller geometries, particularly in the development of SoC solutions, could harm our competitive position.
This transition requires modifications to design and manufacturing processes, and achieving these modifications could result in delays in product deliveries, increased expenses or reduced manufacturing yields.
Economic Depressed economic conditions may continue to adversely affect demand for our products and hence our financial performance.
Global economic conditions continued to worsen in 2011.
Our products predominantly are, and will continue to be, supplied for incorporation into devices intended for the consumer market.
If depressed economic conditions persist or worsen and sales of such consumer devices decline, demand for our customers products, and therefore for our own products, are also likely to decline.
Any difficulties experienced by our customers and suppliers in accessing sources of liquidity could also seriously disrupt their businesses, which could lead to a significant reduction in future orders of our products or difficulty on their part to meet their payment obligations to us or the inability of suppliers to meet their obligations to us in supplying products or continuing to support our business needs.
Volatile and uncertain economic conditions may result in our failure to accurately forecast demand for our products.
Accurate forecasting of demand from customers in the volatile and dynamic sectors in which we operate can be very difficult, particularly in times of rapidly changing economic conditions and uncertain demand from end consumers for retail products.
The level of inventory required in our business is sensitive to changes in actual demand for our products compared to our forecast of sales of those products, and actual demand compared to forecasted demand may vary significantly in relatively short periods of time.
If changes in actual market conditions are less favourable than those we projected, we will hold higher levels of inventory than is required to satisfy customer demand.
This may result in us holding inventory that we may be unable to sell due to customers no longer requiring the product held in inventory.
We may need to reduce the selling price of the surplus products in order to sell the inventory, and this may still not be sufficient incentive to customers to enable us to sell the excess inventory.
In this situation, we may suffer reduced margins, inventory write-offs or both.
Similarly, in times of growing demand, generally or for particular products, we may not order sufficient inventory to satisfy customer requirements, and may not be able to obtain additional supply on reasonable terms or at all.
As a result, we may not be able to meet customer orders in a timely manner, or at all, which may harm our relationship with our customers and our reputation, and therefore decrease future orders.
Customers Errors, defects or bugs in our products could result in claims from customers.
Our products are designed for use in devices such as mobile telephones, automobiles, personal navigation units, headsets, gaming devices, digital cameras, printers, televisions, and DVD players, which are complex products.
The products that we supply to our customers are required to operate to very precise specifications.
We may not detect errors or defects during the R&D process for the software, due to inadequate testing or otherwise, used in our products or in their manufacture, or identify bugs or susceptibility to connectivity viruses before the products are supplied to customers or installed in the customers own finished devices.
Errors, defects or bugs could result in our customers devices being faulty, which would result in returns from consumers.
If failures of faulty devices are attributable to our products, we may face claims for losses or damages, incur costs for rectifying the defects or replacing the product, and experience order cancellations, any of which would adversely affect our results of CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 40 Full version AR 290898. pdf 44 14 03 2012 17:20:31 operations.
In addition, if any of our products failed to comply with customer specifications including in respect of environmental matters, customers could have a right to reject or return products to us.
We have agreements with customers that provide warranty protection or indemnities.
Some of these agreements have no limitations on liability and for those that do, the limitations may not be enforceable.
Also, our insurance coverage against losses that may arise as a result of some product defects may not be sufficient to cover claims asserted against us, or may not continue to be available generally or on reasonable terms.
Product defects could have longer term harmful effects on our reputation or our relationships with our customers or the market acceptance or sales of our products.
We are highly reliant upon the success of our customers products.
We rely on equipment manufacturers to select our products to be designed into their products.
Sales of our products are largely dependent on the commercial success of our customers products.
If the customers products are unsuccessful, our business may be materially adversely affected.
Our success also depends on the successful development of new markets for our customers products and the application and acceptance of new technologies and products of our customers in those new markets.
For example, the success of our Zoran business in the past depended on the ability of its customers to develop new products and enhance existing products in the digital still camera DTV, imaging and DVD markets and to introduce and promote those products successfully.
These markets may not continue to develop to the extent, or in the time periods, that we anticipate due to factors beyond our control.
We rely on a few large customers for a significant portion of our revenue.
We work with a broad range of customers across our product portfolio, but a few large customers represent a material portion of our total revenue.
Our largest customer accounted for approximately 10% of our net revenue in 2011, 14% in 2010 and 11% in 2009.
Our top five customers accounted for approximately 38% of our net revenue in 2011, 42% in 2010 and 43% in 2009.
Our operating results could be materially adversely affected if: we fail to maintain a good relationship with key customers: we fail to meet our customers product needs on a timely basis: we fail to achieve design wins for our products with key customers: key customers experience financial or other difficulties that result in failure to meet their payment obligations to us: or key customers change or cancel orders for our products due to a change in strategy or otherwise.
We are not protected by long-term contracts with our customers.
We do not generally enter into long-term purchase contracts with our customers, and we cannot predict whether our current customers will continue to place orders or whether existing orders or contracts will be cancelled.
Customers generally purchase our products subject to short-term purchase orders, which, in some cases, the customer may revise or cancel altogether for example, due to slowing demand, economic conditions, change in end consumer purchasing preference or other events beyond the control of the customer, including natural disasters, such as the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in March 2011.
If our customers stop placing orders for our products or cancel existing orders or contracts, our revenue would be adversely affected.
Our relationships with customers could be affected by our recent decision to cease investment in certain technologies.
In December 2011 the Company announced its decision to discontinue investment in the areas of digital television systems-on-a-chip DTV SoC and silicon tuners as a result of which we have implemented reductions in headcount and closed certain ongoing projects.
This has impacted our ability to meet customer expectations for future orders as well as development support for our customers roadmaps in digital television systems-on-a-chip DTV SoC and silicon tuners.
As a result, our relationships with those customers could be adversely affected, which could also adversely affect the business we conduct with those customers in other continuing areas of our Group.
If we are unable to protect our commercially sensitive information, our reputation and ability to conduct business could be adversely affected.
The information shared between us and third parties for the development of products and technologies and the terms on which we conduct business with our customers are commercially sensitive and highly confidential.
The Companys business reputation and its operating performance and results would be adversely affected if such information were to become known by third parties.
Monitoring the use and disclosure of our commercially sensitive information is difficult, and our security measures may not prevent the unauthorised use or disclosure of our commercially sensitive information.
Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions.
Also, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our commercially sensitive information to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Western Europe.
If commercially sensitive information were to become known by third parties, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, it could damage our reputation, give rise to legal claims or proceedings and liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and disrupt our operations, which could adversely affect our business.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 41 Full version AR 290898. pdf 45 14 03 2012 17:20:32 Directors report Risk factors continued Staff Loss of key employees or failure to equip employees with the necessary skills and capabilities to support our strategy could hurt our competitive position.
In pursuing our objectives and strategy, we depend, to a significant extent, upon our ability to retain key senior executives and R&D, engineering, operations, marketing, sales, support and other personnel, as well as upon our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel in each of the territories in which we currently, or may in the future, operate.
Key personnel may leave without us being able to replace them by recruiting new suitably qualified and experienced personnel.
We also depend on our employees skills and capabilities to develop new technologies and products to compete effectively and secure new business.
CSR and Zoran have experienced significant change, including those associated with events leading up to and following the acquisition of Zoran by CSR as well as subsequent actions taken in connection with restructuring the enlarged business.
The failure to recruit people or to provide adequate training or development may result in our employees not having the required knowledge and skills for us to pursue our strategy.
This could adversely affect our business.
Supply chain and product sourcing We depend on a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases a sole supplier, for some critical components.
We have in the past purchased and may in the future purchase critical components from a single supplier for certain products.
The loss of any such supplier, disruption of the supply chain, or delays or changes in the design cycle time could result in delays in the manufacture and shipment of products, additional expense associated with obtaining a new supplier, impaired margins, reduced production volumes, strained customer relations and or loss of business.
The third party foundries and subcontractors upon whom we rely to manufacture, assemble and test integrated circuit products may be unable to meet the requirements of our business.
We do not own or operate a fabrication facility and, therefore, rely on third parties, in particular TSMC and ASE, to manufacture, assemble and test our products on time.
Because of this reliance on third parties, we are subject to risks, which we have experienced in the past, including: changes to the terms on which the third parties are able or willing to supply products and services, including adverse changes to pricing, inadequate capacity made available to us for the manufacture or testing of our products or to support the delivery of finished products, for example by providing that capacity to other customers in preference to us: natural disasters, including earthquakes and tsunamis such as the events in Japan in March 2011 and more recently floods in Thailand, pandemics or geopolitical instability resulting in our suppliers being unable to obtain the raw materials to satisfy particular orders, interruptions in manufacturing or testing at the supplier sites, plant shut-downs, closures or cessation of business altogether: changes in working practices affecting product qualification or product quality, changes in management personnel of suppliers affecting working relationships, as a result of reorganisations, mergers, acquisitions or disposals: financial difficulties that may result in our suppliers being unable to obtain raw materials or services to satisfy particular orders, plant shut-downs or closures or cessation of business altogether: quality problems at suppliers manufacturing sites, resulting in lower yields, product failures and product returns: and limited control over suppliers delivery schedules, quality assurance and control and production costs.
We have no long term supply contracts and, therefore, our suppliers are generally not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order.
If we cannot source the products we need from one of our third party suppliers, we may be unable to quickly source our requirements from alternative suppliers.
Any of these developments would adversely affect our ability to deliver products, undermine our perceived reliability and adversely affect our operating results.
Financial difficulties of, or failure by, our distributors could cause us financial loss.
We supply a significant proportion of our products to end customers through third party distributors.
Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 18% of our revenue in 2011, compared to 12% in both 2010 and 2009.
The distributors are independent third parties who support our own direct marketing and sales.
The current economic environment presents significant challenges for our distributors, including: uncertain demand patterns, which mean distributors risk ordering more products than they require to satisfy our end customers, resulting in them holding excessive inventory: restrictions on credit terms, which mean distributors may have difficulty in selling products because end customers do not have the cash flow to enable them to buy from the distributors: and fluctuating order patterns, which means end customers may amend existing orders or stop buying products because of insufficient demand, each of which could affect our distributors ability to continue in business.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 42 Full version AR 290898. pdf 46 14 03 2012 17:20:32 Our business would be disrupted if end customers were unable to obtain our products from the distributors on a timely basis.
We may be unable to collect amounts due to a failure of a distributor for products that we have supplied or recover those products in default of non-payment.
Intellectual property risks IP litigation, administrative proceedings and disputes are common in our industry.
We are subject to pending patent infringement legal proceedings as detailed in note 31 to the Financial Statements.
IP related risk factors are set out below.
We are regularly, and may continue to be, subject to claims that we infringe third party intellectual property rights.
At any given time in the ordinary course of our business, we have regularly received, and may continue to receive, written notices or offers from competitors and others claiming to have patent and other intellectual property rights IPR in certain technology and inviting us to license this technology and related patents asserted to be relevant to our products, including but not limited to chips, software and system solutions.
These claims may involve technology and patents that may apply to a range of standards, such as Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, the IEEE family of standards, or other wireless or wired standards, embodied in our products.
These notices or offers have been made directly and through customers and other third parties.
We have responded, or are in the process of responding, directly or indirectly through our customers and other third parties, to notices and allegations of infringement that we or our customers have received regarding those offers with some of the parties that have sent the notices.
We are, and expect to be on an ongoing basis, involved in intellectual property litigation.
This type of litigation typically involves allegations of infringement and seeks unspecified damages, a permanent injunction against further infringement, a finding of wilful infringement, and attorneys fees and costs.
We and our customers who use our products have in the past been, and currently are, subject to material patent infringement litigation.
We and our customers may in the future be subject to further IP claims by third parties alleging infringement of our patents or other IPRs, including, for example, by third parties whose sole business is the assertion of patent rights and IP litigation, which is common in this industry.
As we diversify into different technologies, we may become more susceptible to these types of infringement claims.
Companies in the semiconductor industry often aggressively protect and pursue their IPR, including by filing complaints with the US International Trade Commission ITC urging it to investigate the import and sale of allegedly infringing products.
ITC litigation typically involves the plaintiff seeking an exclusion order against future import of the infringing integrated circuits, chipsets and products including the same and a cease and desist order in relation to marketing, advertising, demonstrating, warehousing for distribution, offering for sale, selling, distributing, licensing or using the infringing products in the US or transferring them outside the US.
The defence of IPclaims, even if determined in our favour or mutually settled, could result in significant costs and harm to our reputation.
Infringement claims that have been, or may in the future be, brought against us may require the expenditure of potentially significant funds and resources, including significant attorneys fees, to defend or settle such claims.
Litigation related to such claims, whether in courts or before administrative bodies such as the ITC, or in arbitration, can be complicated, protracted and expensive with regard to litigation fees and costs or settlement.
IP claims could also divert the attention of our management or other key employees.
No assurance can be made that third parties will not seek to commence additional litigation against us, or that the pending and or additional litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business.
Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our business, revenue, operating expenses, financial condition and profitability.
The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and either favourable or unfavourable outcomes could have a material impact.
Intellectual property litigation can take months or years to resolve, even if mutually settled between the parties in suit.
While a claim is pending against us, our customers may be reluctant to include our products as part of their future product design, including if they believe that our products might ultimately be subject to an injunction or other legal remedy preventing their sale, import or use.
Therefore, even if we are ultimately successful in defending an infringement action, negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business, in addition to the expense, time, delay and burden on management of the litigation itself.
If we are unsuccessful in defending any challenge to our IPRs, such IPclaims could subject us to significant costs, adversely affect our ability to market our products, require the redesign of our products or require us to seek licences from third parties and adversely affect our reputation and results of operations.
If we are unsuccessful in any challenge to our rights to market and sell our products, we may, among other things, be required to: pay actual damages, royalties, lost profits, exemplary damages, and or the third partys attorneys fees and costs, which may be material: cease the development, manufacture, use, marketing and or sale of products that use the intellectual property in question in light of a court-imposed order or injunction or in light of an administrative order such as, for example, an ITC order: cease the importation of products into the United States or other countries in light of a court-imposed order or injunction or in light of an administrative order such as an ITC order: CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 43 Full version AR 290898. pdf 47 14 03 2012 17:20:32 Directors report Risk factors continued expend significant resources to modify or redesign our products, manufacturing processes or other technology so that we do not infringe others IPRs, or to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, which may not be possible: and obtain licenses to the disputed rights, which could require the payment of substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments and may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or cease marketing the challenged products, and failure to obtain a license may be a competitive disadvantage as compared to competitors who are able to obtain such rights.
Any of the outcomes above may materially and adversely affect our business.
We may incur indemnity obligations under our contracts with customers.
We have agreed to indemnify some customers for costs and damages of IP infringement in some circumstances.
These agreements may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers or others.
Indemnification claims may subject us to payment of attorneys fees and costs for our attorneys, as well as for customers attorneys.
In addition, we could be required to pay damages, exemplary damages, potentially substantial attorneys fees and court costs awarded against the customer, and licensing or settlement costs.
If an injunction is issued against a customer, we may be required to pay for alternatives for the customer, which may or may not be available, and customers losses resulting from the injunction.
We may also be required to redesign products at substantial cost, which may increase our operating cost and require expenditure of time, including the time of management, and such redesigns may not be successful technically or in solving the underlying legal concerns.
To the extent we dispute a customers right to indemnification, such dispute may harm our goodwill and reputation with the customer and may harm the possibility of future business from that customer.
In some instances, a customer may demand discounts or refuse to pay outstanding invoices in light of the customers indemnification demands.
We have received, and expect to continue to receive, indemnification requests from customers that are involved in intellectual property litigation implicating, directly or indirectly, our products.
In some instances, our products are designed for use in devices used by potentially millions of consumers, such as, for example, mobile telephones, automobiles, including in-dash navigation units, personal navigation units, headsets and gaming devices.
Our server software is placed on servers providing wireless network services to end-users.
Because of the widespread consumer uses of devices using our products, we could be subject to considerable exposure should an infringement claim occur against us or our customers.
Protection of intellectual property rights We may fail or be unable to obtain sufficient intellectual property protection of our proprietary technology.
Protecting our proprietary technology is an important part of being able to compete successfully.
We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights.
These agreements and measures may not be sufficient to protect our technology from third-party infringement, or to protect it from the claims of others.
Also, the laws of some countries, such as China, in which we operate and or from which we derive significant amounts of revenue, may not protect intellectual property to the same extent as, for example, the laws of the United States and Western Europe.
Our patent applications may not provide sufficient protection for all competitive aspects of our technology or may not result in issued patents.
Issued patents may also not provide us competitive advantages.
Competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology and may obtain patents that restrict our business.
If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively would be affected.
Moreover, while we hold, or have applied for, patents relating to the technology used in our products, some of the products are based in part on standards, for which we do not hold patents or other IPRs.
Even where we have an issued patent, we may choose not to pursue all instances of patent infringement.
Our failure or inability to obtain sufficient patent protection could harm our competitive position and increase our expenses if we are required to pay license fees under patents issued to others.
Internal infrastructure We rely on IT and automated systems to conduct our business.
We rely on IT and automated systems to support our operations globally.
The loss of IT systems could affect our development work, for example by delaying a project, causing errors to occur in the software we develop for our products, or preventing us from launching new products on time.
Loss of our systems could also disrupt or cause delays in recording and satisfying customer orders, or result in errors in ordering products from our suppliers.
We could also lose the means to make decisions in conducting our business on a timely basis.
If our IT systems fail to evolve along with the needs of our business, for example, due to our lack of investment or failure to predict future business needs, our ability to develop new products, maintain adequate operating systems or grow our business could also be adversely affected.
In addition, as we grow our business, we expect that our IT infrastructure will need to grow as well.
We may face increased costs to efficiently coordinate and control our IT infrastructure, which could adversely impact our results of operations and profitability.
Competition We may fail to compete successfully in a very competitive market.
The markets for our products are highly competitive and rapidly evolving.
We compete in different markets to varying degrees on price, technical performance, product features, product system compatibility, product design and CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 44 Full version AR 290898. pdf 48 14 03 2012 17:20:32 technology, timely introduction of new products, product availability, and sales and technical support.
We are seeing increased competition throughout the market for wireless connectivity products.
The increased competition could result in more pronounced price reductions, reduced margins and or loss of market share.
Within the markets in which we operate, we face competition from public and private companies, as well as the in-house design efforts of their customers.
A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than we do.
Some of our competitors bundle their connectivity and location products with baseband processors, and we may lose those customers that prefer to use platform suppliers of the full suite of connectivity and baseband modem solutions.
If we fail to compete successfully, our results of operations and prospects would be adversely affected.
Political and other risks Our business and future operating results could be adversely affected by events that occur in, or otherwise affect, the Middle East.
As a result of the acquisition of Zoran, we conduct a significant portion of our R&D and engineering activities, in addition to a portion of our sales and marketing operations, at a facility in Haifa, Israel, where we employ approximately 340 people as at the date of this report.
These operations are affected by local conditions and the actions taken by the governments in the Middle East, which may disrupt or hinder our business generally by delaying product development or interfering with global marketing efforts.
For example, as a result of the heightened military operations in Gaza, some of Zorans employees were conscripted into the Israeli armed forces for several weeks during January 2009.
Additional employees may be called to active duty in the future.
Extended absences could disrupt our operations and delay product development cycles.
Military conflict, terrorist activities or other local economic and political instability in the Middle East, where there has been political instability in the past, could disrupt commercial activity, result generally in economic slowdown and reduce demand for consumer electronic products, including those that contain our products.
International political and other risks may adversely affect our operating results.
We derive nearly all our revenue from sales outside the UK and, accordingly, are subject to political and other risks in each of the countries in which we and our customers operate.
We may face restrictions on the import and export of our and our customers products, difficulties in complying with local business practices or managing cultural differences, difficulties in working with local infrastructure and transportation networks, as well as difficulties in complying with local regulatory requirements in the design of products.
If we or our customers fail, or are unable, to manage these risks in the various markets in which we operate, our business may be materially adversely affected.
We are subject to foreign currency exchange risks.
Substantially all of our sales and cost of sales are denominated in US dollars, which is the functional currency of our principal subsidiaries.
A significant portion of our operating costs and tax obligations are denominated in pounds sterling.
Although we put in place forward exchange contracts 11 to 15 months in advance to fix the exchange rate of the US dollar to sterling for the majority of these costs, movements in the US dollar to sterling rate impact any sterling operating costs not covered by the forward contracts.
In the longer term, movements in the exchange rate will impact all of our costs denominated in sterling, as it will affect the rate fixed by the forward contracts being put in place for future expenditures.
A material appreciation of the value of the US dollar against sterling could have a material adverse effect on our current year results of operations, mainly due to revaluation losses on sterling denominated assets, as the forward contracts we entered into provide a hedge to movements in most sterling denominated liabilities.
A material depreciation of the value of the US dollar against sterling could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, due to the recording of sterling operating expenses at a higher US dollar exchange rate.
We are also exposed to foreign exchange risks from costs recorded in other currencies, which are currently not covered by forward contracts.
Following the acquisition of Zoran, a portion of our operating costs, relating mainly to personnel and facilities, is incurred in Chinese renminbi, Israeli new shekels and other currencies other than US dollars.
As a result, we bear the risk that the rate of inflation in the relevant countries, or the decline in value of the US dollar compared to those foreign currencies, will increase our costs denominated in US dollars.
We may enter into currency hedging transactions designed to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the US dollar against other currencies.
These measures may not adequately protect us from the impact of inflation or currency fluctuation on our costs not denominated in US dollars.
If there is a significant devaluation of the currency in a specific country, the prices of our products will increase relative to that countrys currency, our products may be less competitive in that country and our revenue may be adversely affected.
Also, our international customers may not continue to be willing to place orders denominated in US dollars.
If they do not, our results of operations will be subject to foreign exchange fluctuations, which we may not be able to successfully manage.
Risks related to the industry Our business is highly cyclical, subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards, and has experienced significant downturns.
We operate in the global semiconductor industry, which is highly cyclical, subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards, and has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with maturing products and declines in general economic conditions, including in connection with the recent global financial crisis.
Such downturns have reflected decreases in product demand, production overcapacity, excess inventory levels and accelerated erosion in average selling prices, which could adversely affect our business.
These factors have in the past caused substantial fluctuations in our results of operations, which may occur in the future.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 45 Full version AR 290898. pdf 49 14 03 2012 17:20:32
