fide La Rues reputation is based on Risk and risk security, integrity and trust.
The risks outlined in this section represent the management principal major uncertainties and trends which may have an impact on fide La Rues ability to implement effectively its future strategy.
This section summarises the types of risks which are either specific to fide La Rue or which could have a material adverse effect on the Group, together with the controls which have been put in place to manage those risks.
It is not an exhaustive list as some risks may be as yet unknown and other risks, currently regarded as immaterial, could become material.
Risk management and governance structure Risk owners and managers Risk Committee Audit Committee Board Responsible for operational Proposes risk management Considers adequacy of internal Responsible for governance management and oversight of framework controls and risk management structure risk within individual businesses framework or functional areas Reviews business and Group Defines high level risk appetite Receives updates on risk risk registers and risk management framework management from the Chairman Allocation of appropriate levels of of the Risk Committee resource for individual risk control Members include the Chief Receives reports from Audit Executive, Group Finance and Risk Committees on risk Receives reports from internal Director, General Counsel and and internal controls and external audit on status Company Secretary, business of internal controls unit managing directors and Group Director of Business Continuity Details of Audit Committee members can be found on page 41 Considers actions to improve management of risk Considers new or emerging risks fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 20 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements The Combined Code on Corporate Governance requires Internal financial control the Board to maintain a sound system of internal control to The financial control framework includes the following key features: safeguard shareholders investment and the Groups assets and An annual strategic planning process at least annually to conduct a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
During the year, the Board An annual budget carried out its annual review which covered all material controls, A system of monthly reporting by each division which involves including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk comparison of actual results with the original budget and the management systems.
Additionally, the Board received information updating of a full year forecast about the Groups operations throughout the year enabling it regularly to evaluate the nature and extent of the risks to which Monthly reporting of performance to the Board the Group is exposed.
Audited annual Financial Statements Internal control Interim Financial Statements reviewed by the auditors The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It relies on the The main controls which address the financial implications of Audit and Risk Committees to assist in this process.
This is the the major business risks are centred on strict approval procedures.
first full year since significant changes to the risk assessment These are reviewed annually, approved by the Board and apply procedures were implemented to improve the management of to all subsidiaries.
They include: risks at the business unit and functional levels.
A further review Executive Directors approval of all major non routine revenue has been undertaken since year end by external risk advisers expenditure to assist the Board in determining whether, in the light of events during the year, further strengthening is necessary in the area of Board approval of all major capital expenditure risk management and activities overseen by the Risk Committee.
Board approval of all acquisitions and disposals It is anticipated that, as a result of this review, further changes will be made to the Groups risk management framework and A system of authorisation limits which cascades throughout processes and these will be reported in the 2011 12 Annual the Group Report.
Some measures already undertaken are set out on Board consideration of any matter likely to have a material page 37.
Details of the Audit and Risk Committees are set out effect on the Group in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 and 41.
Capital management Management is responsible for implementing the controls which The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base and modest are designed to meet the particular needs of the Group, and levels of net debt in order to maintain investor, creditor and market the risks to which it is exposed, with procedures intended to confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The controls by their nature Further details on capital management can be found in note 14 are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only to the accounts on page 72. provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The processes used by the Board and, Treasury, foreign exchange and borrowing facilities on its behalf, by the Audit and Risk Committees have been The Group Treasury department provides a central service to in place throughout the year, and include reviewing: Group companies and conducts its operations in accordance with clearly defined guidelines and policies, which have been Monthly finance, operational and development reports reviewed and approved by the Board.
Treasury transactions Internal and external audit reports are only undertaken as a consequence of underlying commercial transactions or exposures and do not seek to take active risk Significant issues identified by internal and external audits positions.
It is Group Treasurys role to ensure that the Group Significant Group risks and risk mitigation actions reported by has sufficient available borrowing facilities to meet its needs the Risk Committee including updates to the Groups risk register in the foreseeable future.
Annual compliance statements in the form of self audit Details of financial risk management can be found in note 14 questionnaires to the accounts on page 71.
Reports on other matters such as security, health, safety, environmental issues and fire risks fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 21 Each division and every Group function has developed and maintains a risk register, capturing significant risks to which the Risk and risk relevant business unit is exposed or which have been identified as a risk to the Group by the relevant function.
These risks management are reviewed on a regular basis by the Risk Committee, which identifies those risks which could have a material adverse impact in the context of the Group as a whole, and which are then reported continued to the Board.
The principal risks identified by the Risk Committee and reported to the Board in 2010 11 are set out below.
These are not presented in any particular order of potential materiality or probability of occurrence.
Risk Mitigation Non compliance illegal behaviour by third parties acting outside The Group has a process for the appointment and remuneration of the law or fide La Rue policies third party partners which operates independently of the sales function.
In some countries fide La Rue relies on the services of third parties to This process was reviewed during the year in anticipation of the represent its interests.
There is a risk that third parties such as suppliers implementation of the UK Bribery Act the Act and the changes will be or agents could operate in a manner contrary to the Groups strict reviewed by external advisers to provide further assurance.
The process policies on ethical business conduct or the law, exposing the Group includes a risk assessment of overseas agents and external advisers to potential financial and reputational damage.
are engaged to undertake due diligence as appropriate.
The process covers, inter alia, the appointment, reappointment and remuneration of agents.
Further control measures have been introduced such as dedicated training for sales personnel, senior managers and agents on the Code of Conduct and anti bribery and corruption issues with a particular focus on achieving compliance with the Act.
Whistleblowing procedures have also been improved to encourage employees to report any suspicious conduct.
Illegal behaviour or serious misconduct by employees The business Code of Conduct is kept under regular review There are already many controls across the business to ensure that and is enforced robustly, including dealing with non compliances standards of behaviour by employees are maintained at an appropriate through disciplinary processes where necessary.
However, as has been demonstrated during the year, it is possible been fundamentally reviewed during the year and was relaunched that employees acting either individually or in collusion with others in May 2011 as the Code of Business Principles.
All employees will could act in contravention of the Groups stringent requirements.
This receive a briefing on the code from a senior manager.
As part of the could result in major reputational and financial damage to the business.
new code, the Groups whistleblowing policies and procedures will also be relaunched.
Strict recruitment procedures are maintained including mandatory vetting processes and probationary periods for all employees.
Loss of key site The Group aims to achieve the highest standards of health, safety There are a number of key manufacturing sites across the business.
Risk engineering to minimise risks, The total loss of any one of these key sites could have a major financial particularly from fire hazards and the use of flammable solvents, is a key impact, particularly where the site forms a single source of supply for focus to ensure that site risks are clearly prioritised and resourced and the business.
actions taken, wherever possible, to eliminate or minimise these risks.
The development, updating and testing of business continuity plans is also an essential component in maintaining assurance for the continuity of operations.
Health and safety failure The Group has detailed corporate health and safety standards All fide La Rues activities are subject to extensive internal Health, which are internally audited and supplemented by certification to Safety and Environmental HSE procedures, processes and controls.
the OHSAS18001 standard in all major facilities providing regular Nevertheless, there is a risk that failure of process could, in the worst independent external audit verification.
The Health, Safety and case, lead to a serious injury or fatality.
Environment Committee reviews HSE performance regularly.
The Committee is chaired by the General Counsel and Company Secretary and is constituted of representatives from the Executive Committee, including the Chief Executive and managing directors of each division, as well as functional heads.
Each manufacturing facility has clear HSE action plans which are prioritised, monitored and subject to review by local senior management to ensure that health and safety standards are maintained.
HSE performance is reported to the Board monthly.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 22 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Risk Mitigation Product security Security is a key focus across fide La Rue.
Robust physical and audit There is the potential for reputational damage in the event of the loss security procedures at production sites reduce the risk of an inadvertent of materials from a manufacturing site as a result of negligence or loss or theft during manufacturing.
Movements of security materials theft.
Loss of product while in transit, particularly during transhipment, between fide La Rue sites and for onward delivery to customers are through the failure of freight companies or through the loss of an aircraft conducted applying stringent operational procedures using carefully or vessel as a result of an accident or natural disaster is also possible.
selected carriers and suitably screened personnel.
All movements are risk managed and monitored globally on a 24 7 basis.
Procedures are kept under continuous review and any incident or non compliance is always fully investigated.
Environmental breach Environmental awareness is afforded high priority at all fide La Rue fide La Rues main banknote paper manufacturing site is at Overton mill manufacturing sites and particularly at Overton.
To ensure continued which is located in an environmentally sensitive area.
Any significant compliance with regulations, constant monitoring of all key operating environmental breach, such as unauthorised discharges, could result parameters is in place with regular testing of discharge water against in immediate suspension of operations at the site.
performance criteria agreed by the Environment Agency.
Controls and specialist personnel are in place on a continuous basis throughout the year, with regular training and awareness programmes in place for all employees.
Adverse movements in foreign exchange The Group aims to hedge between 60 and 100 per cent of foreign The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange exchange exposure risk arising from future commercial transactions risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to and recognised assets and liabilities.
An annual review of hedging the US dollar and euro.
Any material exposure to foreign exchange risk policy is presented to the Board.
could have a major effect on the Groups profits.
Breach of competition regulations Regular training takes place for all sales and other personnel who may Breach of competition regulations could result in significant financial have contact with competitors, for example at industry forums or during penalties as well as reputational damage.
Information security fide La Rue keeps all aspects of its IS security arrangements under The confidentiality, integrity and availability of information systems IS regular review.
There are a number of controls in place to manage could be affected by factors that include human error, ineffective design this risk including network segregation, access restrictions, system or operation of key controls or through malfunction or deliberate attack.
monitoring, security reviews and vulnerability assessments of Outages and interruptions could affect the Groups ability to conduct infrastructure and applications.
Disaster recovery plans are in place day to day operations and any compromise of the confidentiality of to help recover from significant outages or interruptions and a major information could impact its reputation with current and potential business impact assessment has recently been undertaken to improve customers.
the effectiveness of business continuity arrangements.
Geo political instability Close and regular contact is maintained with all key stakeholders Political unrest has the potential to delay procurement decisions for so that any changes in customer requirements can be identified early.
sensitive products such as banknotes and passports.
Unexpected Financial risk exposure is mitigated through the use of secured payment changes in key government positions may result in the unilateral mechanisms such as letters of credit or through close management cancellation of contracts under local jurisdiction.
Breakdown of law of costs prior to receipt of payments.
and order can also disrupt freight schedules and increase shipping and delivery risks.
Failure to manage change A dedicated and fully resourced change team will be established under As detailed in the Chief Executives review on pages 6 to 9 the Group the full time guidance of a member of the Executive Committee.
will be undertaking a major programme of change in 2011 12.
Failure to manage this process could result in disruptions to the business or dilution of the intended benefits.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 23
