Principal risks and uncertainties There are risks and Loss of Disruption to Foreign uncertainties inherent in the market supply of key exchange rate groups operations which share profit raw materials movements could have a significant margins due impact on our business, The groups most As an international important raw material business, with costs to increased results and financial position.
is collagen, a naturally being incurred and competitive occurring animal revenues earned in The group has established risk management protein obtained from several different pressures processes to monitor, manage and mitigate cattle and pig hides.
currencies, the group The group operates the risks involved in our operations.
is exposed to the risk in competitive of changes in the markets throughout relative strengths of The Board has established a committee There is a risk that the the world.
This risk effect of changes to specifically to address the risks to which the increases in times of the abattoir and leather business is exposed.
This committee consists international economic industries will lead to a A major change in of the executive management of the group, uncertainty, such as the production shortage of hides, and meets four times per year.
capacities, pricing resulting in significant of the committee are to identify the most policies or behaviour cost increases for the significant risks facing the business, and to of our competitors, groups business.
Raw develop policies and actions to mitigate such or consolidation collagen represents This may result in risks.
Particular attention is paid to those risks between either approximately 10% of adverse impacts on which may have an impact on the competitors or the groups total revenues, costs and major customers, achievement of group strategy.
the sterling value of could have a managers throughout the group are consulted reported profits.
significant adverse to identify likely risks.
Changes in climatic Approximately 85% of effect on sales conditions or the groups revenues revenues and alterations to the Details of the most significant risks faced by are currently invoiced profitability.
feeding methods of in currencies other the group are set out on pages 14 and 15. livestock could also than sterling.
have an impact on the nature of collagen, in In addition to turn affecting the The financial impact of substantial capital productivity and exchange rate investment, the effectiveness of the fluctuations within our group invests over groups manufacturing operating units is 7 million in research Risk processes.
mitigated by a policy of and development hedging a substantial activities each year portion of transactional to extend and foreign exchange risk differentiate the product range and The group manages the for periods of up to improve the quality collagen sourcing risk fifteen months using of our products.
We by, where possible, forward contracts.
The also expand the total entering into long-term group does not hedge Impact collagen casings arrangements with the risk arising from market by several specialised changes in the rates at developing products suppliers in various which overseas which convert gut parts of the world.
We earnings are translated casing applications monitor developments into sterling.
and changes in the global abattoir and leather industries to Mitigation maintain and develop appropriate relationships.
14 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Development Impact of Increases in Increased Credit risks of non-casing changes in energy costs funding of The group is exposed to technologies regulations pension Energy represents a financial risks major element of the affecting food schemes More than 85% arising from its groups manufacturing of the groups trading with production costs, but may be Estimates of the revenue is derived customers and subject to significant amount and timing of from the As a food manufacturer, distributors in a price volatility.
future funding manufacture and the group complies with large number of obligations for the sale of edible food safety regulations.
countries, where groups defined benefit collagen casings, The relevant regulations There is a risk that prevailing payment pension schemes are primarily for are not only those of the significant additional terms are diverse.
jurisdictions where costs may be These include not assumptions, For many products are incurred in future as only customer including the projected years, several manufactured the a result of increased risk, but also the investment manufacturers of European Union, the USA energy prices.
risk of failures in performance of the machinery used in and Australia, but also the Energy costs the banking pension scheme the food industry regulations of the many currently represent system and may have been assets, future bond countries in which approximately 8% of increase in times promoting yields, changes to products are sold.
the groups total of economic co-extrusion assumptions about Regulatory authorities operating costs.
systems for the longevity of the routinely enact changes to sausages which schemes members, food safety legislation.
do not require There is a strong and statutory casings.
focus on measures Customer credit requirements.
aimed at reducing default may Changes to food safety usage and cost per adversely affect the regulations could result If there were to be unit of output.
An Any significant groups business, in restrictions on the a significant example is the deterioration in the results or financial movement of the conversion to investment in the schemes asset values condition, groups products, or its co-extrusion, there co-generation plant or unforeseen particularly during could be an raw materials, between at our Australian periods of difficult increases in scheme adverse effect on territories, or necessitate factory.
In addition, liabilities might increase global economic the sales of changes to the costs are actively the groups funding conditions.
casings, revenues production processes at managed by having and profits of the obligations and could one or more of the the capability to use groups adversely affect the groups manufacturing different forms of operations.
groups profits and The group has facilities.
energy at some of financial strength.
established our manufacturing internal The group plants and by The Regulatory Affairs procedures and makes substantial entering into Manager actively The position and controls to investments fixed-price contracts monitors planned and performance of each mitigate the risk of in product and where these are actual changes to non-payment process of the pension considered regulations in all relevant development to wherever we do schemes are appropriate.
As the jurisdictions in order to sustain competitive continually monitored business.
For group replaces old minimise disruption to advantage.
by the group, in example, we fixed assets, energy our business.
conjunction with require either consumption tends Where there have payment in to reduce as new trustees and The group is a founder been conversions to machines are more advance or professional advisers.
member of the Collagen co-extrusion in the energy efficient.
confirmed letters Casings Trade past, the group has of credit before Association, which often been releasing product represents the industry successful in to customers or and promotes its obtaining the distributors in excellent record in business to supply parts of the world regulatory and health the collagen gel where we assess issues.
required for such the risk to be high.
All of our manufacturing sites have achieved FS22000 approval.
15 | Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
