Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 35 such business combination, acquisition, disposal, joint venture or Risk factors partnership would deliver the benefits, cost savings or synergies Diageo believes the following to be the principal risks and uncertainties anticipated, if any.
If any of these risks occur, Diageos business, financial Similarly, there can be no assurance that the cost-saving or condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price restructuring programmes implemented by Diageo in order to improve and liquidity of securities could decline.
efficiencies and deliver cost-savings will deliver the expected benefits.
In the ongoing uncertain economic environment, certain risks may gain more prominence either individually or when taken together.
Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal and regulatory The following are examples of ways that any of the risks below may environment could increase Diageos costs and liabilities or limit become exacerbated.
Demand for beverage alcohol products, in its business activities particular luxury or super premium products, may decrease with Diageos operations are subject to extensive regulatory requirements a reduction in consumer spending levels.
Costs of operations may which include those in respect of production, product liability, increase if inflation were to become prevalent in the economic distribution, importation, marketing, promotion, sales, pricing, labelling, environment, or upon an increase in the costs of raw materials.
packaging, advertising, labour, pensions, compliance and control These factors may also lead to intensified competition for market share, systems, and environmental issues.
Changes in laws, regulations or with consequential potential adverse effects on volumes and prices.
governmental or regulatory policies and or practices could cause The financial and economic situation may have a negative impact on Diageo to incur material additional costs or liabilities that could third parties with whom Diageo does, or may do, business.
Any of these adversely affect its business.
In particular, governmental bodies in factors may affect the groups results of operations, financial condition countries where Diageo operates may impose new labelling, product and liquidity.
Diageo has taken and may take steps to manage its or production requirements, limitations on the advertising and or business through this challenging economic environment and position promotion activities used to market beverage alcohol, restrictions on its business to benefit from economic recovery as and when it may retail outlets, other restrictions on marketing, promotion, importation occur in the various markets in which Diageo operates, but there can and distribution or other restrictions on the locations or occasions be no assurance that the steps taken will have the intended results.
where beverage alcohol is sold which directly or indirectly limit the sales If there is an extended period of constraint in the capital markets, of Diageo products.
Regulatory authorities under whose laws Diageo with debt markets in particular experiencing a lack of liquidity, at a time operates may also have enforcement power that can subject the group when cash flows from Diageos business may be under pressure, this to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, may have an impact on Diageos ability to maintain current long term which could have an adverse effect on its sales or damage its reputation.
strategies, with a consequent effect on the groups growth rate.
Such An increase in the stringency of the regulatory environment could developments may adversely affect shareholder returns or share price.
cause Diageo to incur material additional costs or liabilities that could Additionally, continued volatility in exchange rates used to translate adversely affect its business.
foreign currencies into pounds sterling may have a significant impact In addition, beverage alcohol products are the subject of national on Diageos reported results.
Decreases in the trustees valuations of excise, import duty and other duties in most countries around the Diageos pension plans may also increase pension funding requirements.
An increase in excise, import duty or other duties could have a significant adverse effect on Diageos sales revenue or margin, Diageo faces competition that may reduce its market share both through reducing overall consumption and by encouraging andmargins consumers to switch to lower-taxed categories of beverage alcohol.
Diageo faces substantial competition from several international Diageos reported after tax income is calculated based on companies as well as local and regional companies in the countries extensive tax and accounting requirements in each of its relevant in which it operates.
Diageo competes with drinks companies across jurisdictions of operation.
Changes in tax law including tax rates, a wide range of consumer drinking occasions.
Within a number of accounting policies and accounting standards could materially reduce categories, consolidation or realignment is still possible.
Consolidation Diageos reported after tax income.
is also taking place amongst Diageos customers in many countries.
Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or Diageo is subject to litigation directed at the beverage alcohol customers could lead to downward pressure on prices and or a decline industry and other litigation in Diageos market share in any of these categories, which would Companies in the beverage alcohol industry are, from time to time, adversely affect Diageos results and hinder its growth potential.
exposed to class action or other litigation relating to alcohol advertising, product liability, alcohol abuse problems or health consequences from Diageo may not be able to derive the expected benefits from the misuse of alcohol.
Diageo may be subject to litigation with tax, its strategy to focus on premium drinks or its cost-saving and customs and other regulatory authorities, including with respect to the restructuring programmes designed to enhance earnings methodology for assessing importation value, transfer pricing and Diageos strategy is to focus on premium drinks to grow its business compliance matters, and Diageo is routinely subject to litigation in the through organic sales, operating profit growth and the acquisition ordinary course of its operations.
Diageo may also be subject to of premium drinks brands that add value for shareholders.
There can litigation arising from legacy and discontinued activities.
Such litigation be no assurance that Diageos strategic focus on premium drinks will may result in damages, penalties or fines as well as reputational damage result in opportunities for growth and improved margins.
to Diageo or its brands, and as a result, Diageos business could be It is possible that the pursuit of this strategic focus on premium materially adversely affected.
For additional information with respect to drinks could give rise to further business combinations, acquisitions, legal proceedings, see Additional information for shareholders Legal disposals, joint ventures and or partnerships including any associated proceedings and note31 to the consolidated financial statements.
financing or the assumption of actual or potential liabilities, depending on the transaction contemplated.
There can be no assurance that any Contamination, counterfeiting or other events could harm the transaction will be completed.
The success of any transaction will integrity of customer support for Diageos brands and adversely depend in part on Diageos ability to successfully integrate new affect the sales of those brands businesses with Diageos existing operations and realise the anticipated The success of Diageos brands depends upon the positive image that benefits, cost savings or synergies.
There can be no guarantee that any consumers have of those brands, and contamination, whether arising accidentally, or through deliberate third party action, or other events Diageo Annual Report 2011 36 Business description that harm the integrity or consumer support for those brands, could consequences from the misuse of alcohol.
If, as a result, the general adversely affect their sales.
Diageo purchases most of the raw materials social acceptability of beverage alcohol were to decline significantly, for the production and packaging of its products from third party sales of Diageos products could materially decrease.
producers or on the open market.
Diageo may be subject to liability if contaminants in those raw materials or defects in the distillation, Diageos business may be adversely impacted by unfavourable fermentation or bottling process lead to low beverage quality or illness economic conditions or political or other developments and risks among, or injury to, Diageos consumers.
In addition, Diageo may in the countries in which it operates voluntarily recall products in the event of contamination or damage.
Diageo may be adversely affected by political and economic Asignificant product liability judgement or a widespread product recall developments or industrial action in any of the countries where may negatively impact on sales and profitability of the affected brand Diageo has distribution networks, production facilities or marketing or all Diageo brands for a period of time depending on product companies.
Diageos business is dependent on general economic availability, competitive reaction and consumer attitudes.
Even if a conditions in the United States, countries that form the European Union product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, resulting and other important markets.
A significant deterioration in these negative publicity could adversely affect Diageos reputation with conditions, including a reduction in consumer spending levels, existing and potential customers and its corporate and brand image.
customer destocking, the failure of customer, supplier or financial In addition, to the extent that third parties sell products which are counterparties or a reduction in the availability of, or an increase in the either counterfeit versions of Diageo brands or inferior brands that look cost of financing to, Diageo, could have a material adverse effect on like Diageo brands, consumers of Diageo brands could confuse Diageo Diageos business and results of operations.
Moreover, a substantial products with them.
This could cause them to refrain from purchasing portion of Diageos operations, representing approximately one third Diageo brands in the future and in turn could impair brand equity and ofDiageos net sales for the year ended 30 June 2011, are carried out in adversely affect Diageos business.
emerging markets, including Brazil, Venezuela, Mexico, Russia and emerging markets in Africa andAsia.
Demand for Diageos products may be adversely affected by many Diageos operations are also subject to a variety of other risks factors, including changes in consumer preferences and tastes and and uncertainties related to trading in numerous foreign countries, adverse impacts of a declining economy including political or economic upheaval and the imposition of any Diageos collection of brands includes some of the worlds leading import, investment or currency restrictions, including tariffs and import beverage alcohol brands as well as brands of local prominence.
quotas or any restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and capital.
Maintaining Diageos competitive position depends on its continued Political and or social unrest, potential health issues including ability to offer products that have a strong appeal to consumers.
pandemic issues, natural disasters and terrorist threats and or acts may Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors including also occur in various places around the world, which will have an impact changes in demographic and social trends, public health regulations, on trade, tourism and travel.
Many of these risks are heightened, or changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, weather effects occur more frequently, in emerging markets.
These disruptions can and a downturn in economic conditions, which may reduce affect Diageos ability to import or export products and to repatriate consumers willingness to purchase premium branded products.
funds, as well as affecting the levels of consumer demand for example, Inaddition, concerns about health effects due to negative publicity in duty free outlets at airports or in on trade premises in affected regarding alcohol consumption, negative dietary effects, regulatory regions and therefore Diageos levels of sales or profitability.
Emerging action or any litigation or customer complaints against companies in markets are also generally exposed to relatively higher risk of liquidity, the industry may have an adverse effect on Diageos profitability.
inflation, devaluation, price volatility, currency convertibility and The competitive position of Diageos brands could also be country default.
Due to Diageos specific exposures, any or all of the affected adversely by any failure to achieve consistent, reliable quality foregoing factors may affect Diageo disproportionately or in a different in the product or service levels to customers.
manner as compared to its competitors.
In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products Part of Diageos growth strategy includes expanding its business in is inherently uncertain especially as to their appeal to consumers.
certain countries where consumer spending in general, and spending Thefailure to launch a new product successfully can give rise to on Diageos products in particular, has not historically been as great but inventory write-offs and other costs and can affect consumer where there are prospects for growth.
There is no guarantee that this perception of an existing brand.
Growth in Diageos business has been strategy will be successful and some of the markets represent a higher based on both the launch of new products and the growth of existing risk in terms of their changing regulatory environments and higher products.
Product innovation remains a significant aspect of Diageos degree of uncertainty over levels of consumer spending.
There can be no assurance as to Diageos continuing ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of Diageos operating results may be adversely affected by increased existing products or as to the profitable lifespan of newly or recently costs or shortages of labour developed products.
Any significant changes in consumer preferences Diageos operating results could be adversely affected by labour or skill and failure to anticipate and react to such changes could result in shortages or increased labour costs due to increased competition for reduced demand for Diageos products and erosion of its competitive employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit and financial position.
Continued economic pressures could lead to costs.
Diageos success is dependent on the capability of its employees.
consumer selection of products at lower price points, whether There is no guarantee that Diageo will continue to be able to recruit, Diageos or those of competitors, which may have an adverse effect retain and develop the capabilities that it requires to deliver its strategy, on Diageos profitability.
for example in relation to sales, marketing and innovation capability within markets or in its senior management.
The loss of senior If the social acceptability of Diageos products declines, Diageos management or other key personnel or the inability to identify, attract sales volume could decrease and the business could be materially and retain qualified personnel in the future could make it difficult to adversely affected manage the business and could adversely affect operations and In recent years, there has been increased social and political attention financial results.
directed to the beverage alcohol industry.
Diageo believes that this attention is the result of public concern over problems related to alcohol abuse, including drink driving, underage drinking and health Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 37 An increase in the cost of raw materials or energy could affect and financial systems as further changes to such processes are effected.
Diageos profitability They could also lead to adverse customer or consumer reaction.
The components that Diageo uses for the production of its beverage products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, climate change, may negatively affect Diageos business or agricultural uncertainty and or governmental controls.
Commodity operations, and water scarcity or poor quality could negatively price changes may result in unexpected increases in the cost of raw impact Diageos production costs and capacity materials, glass bottles, flavours and other packaging materials and There is a growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse Diageos beverage products.
Diageo may also be adversely affected gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global by shortages of raw materials, glass bottles, flavours or packaging temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of materials.
In addition, energy cost increases result in higher extreme weather and natural disasters.
In the event that such climate transportation, freight and other operating costs.
Diageo may not change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, Diageo may be be able to increase its prices to offset these increased costs without subject to decreased availability or less favourable pricing for certain raw suffering reduced volume, sales and operating profit.
Diageo may materials that are necessary for Diageos products, such as sugar, cereals, experience significant increases in commodity costs and energy costs.
Water is the main ingredient in substantially all of Diageos products.
It is also a limited resource in many parts of the world, Diageos operating results may be adversely affected by disruption facing unprecedented challenges from climate change, overexploitation, to production facilities, business service centres or information increasing pollution, and poor management.
As demand for water systems and change programs may not deliver the benefits intended continues to increase around the world, and as water becomes scarcer Diageo would be affected if there were a catastrophic failure of its major and the quality of available water deteriorates, Diageo may be affected production facilities or business service centres.
See Business description by increasing production costs or capacity constraints, which could Premium drinks Production for details of Diageos principal adversely affect Diageos results of operations and profitability.
Diageo operates production facilities around the world.
If there were a technical integrity failure, fire or explosion at one Diageos operations and financial results may be adversely affected of Diageos production facilities, it could result in damage to the by movements in the value of its pension funds, fluctuations in facilities, plant or equipment, their surroundings or the environment, exchange rates and fluctuations in interest rates could lead to a loss in production capacity, or could result in regulatory Diageo has significant pension funds.
These funds may be affected by, action, legal liability or damage to Diageos reputation.
In addition, the among other things, the performance of assets owned by these plans, maintenance and development of information systems may result in the underlying actuarial assumptions used to calculate the surplus or systems failures which may adversely affect business operations.
deficit in the plans, in particular the discount rate and long term inflation Diageo has a substantial inventory of aged product categories, rates used to calculate the liabilities of the pension funds, and any principally scotch whisky and Canadian whisky, which may mature over changes in applicable laws and regulations.
If there are significant periods of up to 30 years or more.
The maturing inventory is stored declines in financial markets and or a deterioration in the value of fund primarily in Scotland, and the loss through contamination, fire or other assets or changes in discount rates or inflation rates, Diageo may need natural disaster of all or a portion of the stock of any one of those aged to make significant contributions to the pension funds in the future.
product categories could result in a significant reduction in supply of Furthermore, if the market values of the assets held by Diageos pension those products, and consequently, Diageo would not be able to meet funds decline, or if the valuations of those assets by the pension trustees consumer demand for those products as it arises.
There can be no decline, pension expenses may increase and, as a result, could materially assurance that insurance proceeds would cover the replacement adversely affect Diageos financial position.
There is no assurance that value of Diageos maturing inventory or other assets, were such assets interest rates or inflation rates will remain constant or that pension fund to be lost due to contamination, fire or natural disasters or destruction assets can earn the assumed rate of return annually, and Diageos actual resulting from negligence or the acts of third parties.
In addition, experience may be significantly more negative.
there is an inherent risk of forecasting error in determining the quantity Diageo may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange of maturing stock to lay down in a given year for future consumption.
The results of operations of Diageo are accounted for in pounds This could lead to an inability to supply future demand or lead to a sterling.
Approximately 36% of sales in the year ended 30 June 2011 future surplus of inventory and consequent write down in value of were in US dollars, approximately 15% were in euros and approximately maturing stocks.
Movements in exchange rates used to translate Any failure of information systems could adversely impact foreign currencies into pounds sterling may have a significant impact Diageos ability to operate.
As with all large systems, Diageos on Diageos reported results of operations from year to year.
information systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on Diageo may also be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business rates, mainly through an increased interest expense.
Such unauthorised access could disrupt Diageos business any adverse impact from interest rate movements, the groups policy and or lead to loss of assets or to outside parties having access to is to maintain fixed rate borrowings within a band of 40% to 60% of privileged data or strategic information of Diageo and its employees, forecast net borrowings, and the overall net borrowings portfolio is customers and consumers, or to making such information public in a managed according to a duration measure.
See Business review manner that harms Diageos reputation.
The concentration of processes Risk management.
in business service centres also means that any disruption arising from system failure or physical plant issues could impact a large portion of Diageos operations may be adversely affected by failure to Diageos global business.
maintain or renegotiate distribution, supply, manufacturing Certain change programmes designed to improve the or licence agreements on favourable terms effectiveness and efficiency of end-to-end operating, administrative Diageos business has a number of distribution, supply, manufacturing and financial systems and processes continue to be undertaken.
This or licence agreements for brands owned by it or by other companies.
includes moving transaction processing from a number of markets These agreements vary depending on the particular brand, but tend to to business service centres.
There can be no certainty that these be for a fixed number of years.
There can be no assurance that Diageo programmes will deliver the expected operational benefits.
There may will be able to renegotiate its rights on favourable terms when they be disruption caused to production processes and to administrative expire or that these agreements will not be terminated.
Failure to renew Diageo Annual Report 2011 38 Business description these agreements on favourable terms could have an adverse impact It may be difficult to effect service of US process and enforce on Diageos sales and operating profit.
In addition, Diageos sales and US legal process against the directors of Diageo operating profit may be adversely affected by any disputes with Diageo is a public limited company incorporated under the laws of distributors of its products or with suppliers of raw materials.
The majority of Diageos directors and officers, and some of the experts named in this document, reside outside of the Diageo may not be able to protect its intellectual property rights United States, principally in the United Kingdom.
A substantial portion Given the importance of brand recognition to its business, Diageo has of Diageos assets, and the assets of such persons, are located outside of invested considerable effort in protecting its intellectual property the United States.
Therefore, it may not be possible to effect service of rights, including trademark registration and domain names.
Diageos process within the United States upon Diageo or these persons in order patents cover some of its process technology, including some aspects to enforce judgements of US courts against Diageo or these persons of its bottle marking technology.
Diageo also uses security measures based on the civil liability provisions of the US federal securities laws.
and agreements to protect its confidential information and trade There is doubt as to the enforceability in England and Wales, in original secrets.
However, Diageo cannot be certain that the steps it has taken actions or in actions for enforcement of judgements of US courts, of civil will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe on or liabilities solely based on the US federal securities laws.
misappropriate its intellectual property rights in its brands or products.
Moreover, some of the countries in which Diageo operates offer less intellectual property protection than Europe or North America.
Given the attractiveness of Diageos brands to consumers, it is not uncommon for counterfeit products to be manufactured and traded.
Diageo cannot be certain that the steps it takes to assist the authorities to prevent, detect and eliminate counterfeit products will be effective in preventing material loss of profits or erosion of brand equity resulting from lower quality or even dangerous counterfeit product reaching the market.
If Diageo is unable to protect its intellectual property rights against infringement or misappropriation, this could materially harm its future financial results and ability to develop its business.
