Diageo Annual Report 2011 76 Business review Currency risk Other contractual obligations continued The group publishes its consolidated financial statements in sterling Thisdeficit funding arrangement is expected to result in additional and conducts business in many foreign currencies.
As a result, it is annual contributions to the Irish Scheme of approximately 21 million subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange rate 19million over a period of 18 years from 2010, and provides for movements, which affect the groups transactions and the translation additional cash contributions into escrow of up to 188 million of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations.
To 169million if an equivalent reduction in the deficit is not achieved manage the foreign exchange risk the groups treasury department over the 18 year period.
The first contribution was made in the year uses certain financial instruments.
Where hedge accounting is applied, ended 30 June 2011.
Annual contributions to the GrandMet Irish hedges are documented and tested for hedge effectiveness on an Pension Fund of 6 million 5 million were agreed with the Irish trustee ongoing basis.
Diageo expects hedges entered into to continue to be for seven years in the year ended 30June 2010.
Contributions to other effective and therefore does not expect the impact of ineffectiveness plans in the year ending 30 June 2012 are expected to be approximately on the consolidated income statement to be material.
Capital commitments at 30 June 2011 are excluded from the Hedge of net investment in foreign operations table above.
The group hedges a substantial portion of its exposure to fluctuations in the sterling value of its foreign operations by designating net borrowings held in foreign currencies and by using foreign currency Post balance sheet events spots, forwards, swaps and other financial derivatives.
The board Since the year end the group has completed the purchase of 100% reviewed and approved a revised policy, applicable from 3 December 2010, to manage hedging of foreign exchange risk arising from net of the equity of Mey ki, a 50% equity stake in Zacapa rum and an additional 4% equity stake in Quanxing.
The aggregate consideration investment in foreign operations.
The groups revised policy is, where for these acquisitions amounted to 1.5 billion.
As a result of the a liquid foreign exchange market exists, to aim to hedge currency acquisition of Quanxing Diageo expects to make a mandatory tender exposure on its net investment in foreign operations by using gross debt in foreign currencies and foreign currency spots, forwards, swaps offer to all the other shareholders of ShuiJingFang.
Were all the other shareholders of ShuiJingFang to accept the tender offer the amount and other financial derivatives within the following percentage bands: payable would be 606 million.
80% to 100% for US dollars and euros and, at managements discretion, 0% to 100% for other currencies.
The groups previous policy was to aim where a liquid foreign exchange market existed, to hedge currency Off-balance sheet arrangements exposure on its net investment in foreign operations by using net debt Neither Diageo plc nor any member of the Diageo group has any in foreign currencies and foreign currency spots, forwards, swaps and off-balance sheet financing arrangements that currently have or are other financial derivatives and within the following percentage bands: 80% to 100% for US dollars and euros and 50% to 100% for other reasonably likely to have a material future effect on the groups financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, currencies.
Exchange differences arising on the re-translation of foreign capital expenditure or capital resources.
currency borrowings including foreign currency forwards, swaps and other financial derivatives, to the extent that they are in an effective hedge relationship, are recognised in other comprehensive income to Risk management offset exchange differences on net investments in foreign operations.
The groups funding, liquidity and exposure to foreign exchange and Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings not in a hedge interest rate risks are managed by the groups treasury department.
relationship and any ineffectiveness are taken to the income statement.
The treasury department uses a range of financial instruments to manage these underlying risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of board approved policies and guidelines, which are recommended and subsequently monitored by the finance committee.
This committee is described in the Corporate governance report.
These policies and guidelines include benchmark exposure and or hedge cover levels for key areas of treasury risk.
The benchmarks, hedge cover and overall appropriateness of Diageos risk management policies are reviewed by the board following, for example, significant business, strategic or accounting changes.
The framework provides for limited defined levels of flexibility in execution to allow for the optimal application of the board-approved strategies.
Transactions arising on the application of this flexibility may give rise to exposures different from the defined benchmark levels that are separately monitored on a daily basis using value at risk analysis.
These transactions are carried at fair value and gains or losses are taken to the income statement as they arise.
The finance committee receives monthly reports on the activities of the treasury department, including any exposures different from the defined benchmarks.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business review 77 Transaction exposure hedging Financial credit risk The board reviewed the groups transactional foreign exchange risk Diageo aims to minimises its financial credit risk through the application management policy and approved a revised policy on 1 October 2010. of risk management policies approved and monitored by the board.
The groups revised policy is to aim to hedge 18 months forecast Counterparties are limited to major banks and financial institutions and transactional foreign exchange rate risk in the three major currency pairs the policy restricts the exposure to any one counterparty by setting US dollar sterling, euro sterling and euro US dollar, up to 100% with a credit limits taking into account the credit quality of the counterparty.
target range of between 75% and 100% once the relevant annual plan The groups policy is designed to ensure that individual counterparty has been approved.
In addition, at managements discretion, the group limits are adhered to and that there are no significant concentrations of may decide to hedge other currencies for up to 18 months.
The board also defines the types of financial instruments previous policy was to aim, for currencies in which there was an active which may be transacted.
Financial instruments are primarily transacted with major international financial institutions with a long term credit market, to hedge between 60% and 100% of forecast transactional foreign exchange rate risk, for up to a maximum of 21 months forward, rating within the Aband or better.
The credit risk arising through the use using foreign currency forward contracts with coverage levels increasing of financial instruments for interest rate and currency risk management nearer to the forecast transaction date.
The effective portion of the gain is estimated with reference to the fair value of contracts with a positive value, rather than the notional amount of the instruments themselves.
or loss on the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and recycled into the income statement at the same time as the underlying When derivative transactions are undertaken with bank hedged transaction affects the income statement.
Any ineffectiveness counterparties, Diageo may, where appropriate, enter into certain is taken to the income statement.
agreements with such bank counterparties whereby the parties agree to post cash collateral for the benefit of the other if the net valuations Hedge of foreign currency debt of the derivatives are above a pre-determined threshold.
The group uses cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the foreign Diageo annually reviews the credit limits applied and regularly currency risk associated with certain foreign currency denominated monitors the counterparties credit quality reflecting market credit conditions.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and recycled into the income statement at the same time as the underlying hedged Business related credit risk transaction affects the income statement.
Any ineffectiveness is taken Trade and other receivables exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed to the income statement.
There is no concentration of credit risk Interest rate risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the group has a large The group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally on number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
changes in US dollar, euro and sterling interest rates.
To manage interest rate risk, the group manages its proportion of fixed to floating rate Liquidity risk borrowings within limits approved by the board, primarily through Liquidity risk is the risk that Diageo may encounter in meeting its issuing fixed and floating rate borrowing and commercial paper, and by obligations associated with financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or other financial assets.
The groups policy with regard utilising interest rate derivatives.
These practices aim to minimise the groups net finance charges with acceptable year on year volatility.
To to the expected maturity profile of borrowings is to limit the amount facilitate operational efficiency and effective hedge accounting, the of such borrowings maturing within 12 months to 50% of gross groups policy is to maintain fixed rate borrowings within a band of borrowings less money market demand deposits, and the level of commercial paper to 30% of gross borrowings less money market 40% to 60% of forecast net borrowings.
For these calculations, net borrowings exclude interest rate related fair value adjustments.
In addition, it is group policy to maintain backstop A template approved by the board specifies different duration facility terms from relationship banks to support commercial paper guidelines and fixed floating amortisation periods time taken for the obligations.
fixed element of debt to reduce to zero depending on different interest rate environments.
The majority of Diageos existing interest rate Insurance derivatives are designated as hedges and these hedges are expected The group purchases insurance for commercial or, where required, for to be effective.
Fair value of these derivatives is recognised in the legal or contractual reasons.
In addition, the group retains insurable risk where external insurance is not considered an economic means of income statement, along with any changes in the relevant fair value of the underlying hedged asset or liability.
Commodity price risk The group is exposed to commodity price risk.
The group primarily uses long term purchase contracts to secure prices with suppliers to protect against volatility in commodity prices.
Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the group.
Credit risk arises from cash balances including bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and credit exposures to customers, including outstanding loans, trade and other receivables, financial guarantees and committed transactions.
Credit risk is managed separately for financial and business related credit exposures.
