K S I R Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 28 BOARD REVIEw RISk EXEcUTIVE cOMMITTEE AUDIT cOMMITTEE MANAGEMENT The Group has an established risk management policy which is reviewed RISk MANAGEMENT andapproved by the Board.
Risks and uncertainties that may impact the successful implementation of Group strategy are identified, assessed and evaluated and risk registers identifying risk, mitigation and actions to improve controls are maintained in all operating units.
Executive management monitors risk and takes a leading role managing theprincipal risks faced by the business.
Arisk management committee comprising senior executives and chaired by the Group Finance Director, monitors the riskmanagement process and reviews mitigation with functional and process owners.
The Groups internal audit process includes a formal risk assessment of the operating unit under review.
REPORTING AND MONITORING The principal risks to which the Group POLITIcAL AND SUPPLY cHAIN RISk.
isexposed and which have the potential NEw PRODUcT cOMPETITOR RISk.
toadversely impact our ability to deliver DEVELOPMENT RISk.
strategic goals are summarised below.
LEGISLATION AND Thenature of risks is such that no list REGULATORY RISk.
canbe a comprehensive statement of the exposures of the business.
It is possible that other risks may arise or that risks which are not considered material at present may become so.
T C A P M I L A I T N E T O P N O I T A G I T I M Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 29 POLITIcAL AND EcONOMIc RISk risK MitigatiOn The Group makes sales into developed and developing The broad spread of markets and market sectors into which we sell new economies worldwide and into a wide variety of market equipment provides a natural hedge at Group level against local volatility.
Material adverse change in the political and economic The resilience of our business model is such that after market revenues situation in all countries where we operate can impact levels fromthe established installed base of printers worldwide sustains cash flow.
We monitor market intelligence and economic trends carefully: this allows timely action to be taken to minimise the impact of adverse market pOtential iMpact conditions on financial results.
reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
NEw PRODUcT DEVELOPMENT RISk risK MitigatiOn In order to sustain competitive advantage and grow market The Group has an established product creation process which encourages share the Group maintains significant investment in r&D.
theinput of new product ideas and prompts the selection of product Thedevelopment of new products involves risks both development projects based on market plans and anticipated financial returns.
inthechoice of what to develop and in the delivery of Development projects are managed via a formal gated process controlling newproducts to the market which work reliably and in product specification, system design, development and pre-launch validation atimely manner.
of products including risk assessments, peer reviews and process metrics.
Early life product performance is closely monitored.
pOtential iMpact Loss of market share.
Failure to achieve a return on r&D investment.
reduced profitability and cash flow.
cUSTOMER RISk risK MitigatiOn Dominos products are used in high throughput and in some The Group has comprehensive quality control processes operating in the cases time critical production processes.
Product failure can, manufacture of our products.
Delivered quality is measured and feedback in the most severe case, result in lost production or spoiled regularly reviewed.
Helpdesk and field monitoring systems have been product creating cost and disruption.
developed to enable correlation of reported incidents to cause and to monitor corrective actions.
pOtential iMpact Our commitment to customer service and support is delivered through an extensive service organisation with dedicated teams in place in all countries Lost customer.
where we sell, and a global service standard against which performance is Damage to the Domino brand.
LEGISLATION AND REGULATORY RISk risK MitigatiOn The Group operates in markets worldwide all of which have The Group has a dedicated regulatory affairs team which monitors unique regulatory and legislative requirements and in a broad legislation and factors affecting our business.
These are regularly reviewed range of areas.
In particular, developing legislation in respect with the risk management committee and status of action taken is reported of the use and transportation of certain chemicals may impact to the Board.
The Group also collaborates with Governmental and industry bodies to help us anticipate and manage change.
pOtential iMpact We have an active programme of managing compliance with chemical labelling and safety information requirements and an active programme Disruption to customer supplies.
developing products to replace those which use materials that are likely Additional costs associated with fluid reformulation tobe restricted or withdrawn.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 30 RISk MANAGEMENT cONTINUED SUPPLY cHAIN RISk risK MitigatiOn The Group has an active global sourcing programme, seeking We have a policy of dual source for all critical or extended lead time items.
the best quality sources of supply of components and sub Safety stock has been established in those cases where dual source is not assemblies at competitive prices.
Suppliers are spread across available or there is a risk to availability of a particular raw material.
the world exposing us to disruption in supply from natural All operational units have business continuity and disaster recovery plans, disasters or operational failures.
The Group maintains business interruption insurance.
pOtential iMpact Extended customer lead times leading to lost business and damage to reputation.
MANUFAcTURING RISk risK MitigatiOn The Group manufactures both printers and fluids.
The loss of The Group operates two main fluids plants, one in the Uk and one in the any manufacturing facility through natural disaster, accident or USA, both with the capability to scale up to meet global demand if necessary.
operational failure would be detrimental to the business.
The There are also smaller ink filling operations in China and India, both of which loss of a fluids plant would immediately place at risk the can provide additional capacity to meet short-term demand.
supply of ink and other consumables.
Formal disaster recovery plans are maintained by all operational sites.
cOMPETITOR RISk risK MitigatiOn The Group competes against large and well established global We closely monitor customer buying patterns and investigate changes in companies as well as local companies and independent customer behaviour, seeking to win back any customer who chooses to use suppliers of after market products and services.
While there alternative after market products or services.
is always risk associated with head to head competition, there We offer comprehensive service packages aimed at increasing customer is an increased risk of loss of profitable after market business uptime and reducing cost of use.
to low cost local providers.
Many of our fluids products have special properties or characteristics which mean they are optimised for use in Domino printers.
pOtential iMpact Loss of sales, profits and cash flow.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 31 HUMAN RESOURcE RISk risK MitigatiOn The Group is reliant on its ability to attract, recruit and retain The Group has a comprehensive Hr policy covering all aspects staff, in particular in emerging markets where competition for ofremuneration, training, development and succession planning.
experienced and qualified resources is high.
Domino is There is a well established performance management and appraisal attractive not only to potential employees but has also been processwhich provides the opportunity for feedback to and development seen as a source of talent by other companies.
talent pool is critical to continued success.
Benefits packages offered are competitive and are regularly reviewed.
There is regular communication on the performance and status of the pOtential iMpact business to encourage staff to feel responsible for results and enhance their loyalty tothe Group.
Shortage of qualified staff impedes the Group in delivering sales and profit growth.
Loss of staff before gaining a return on investment in recruiting and training them increases costs.
FINANcIAL RISkS risK MitigatiOn The Group has operations in a wide range of countries and is Group Treasury policy requires the use of forward contracts to provide exposed to volatility in exchange rates.
Transaction exposure certainty in the value of cash flows.
relates to the net cash flows in each currency and translation Net cash inflow or outflow in the principal currencies in which the Group exposure to the value of profits and short-term balances trades are sold or bought forward on a rolling three month or 12 month denominated and held in foreign currencies.
The major exposures are the US dollar and the euro, both of which are covered for 12 months.
pOtential iMpact No action is taken to mitigate the effect of profit translation on the incomestatement.
Changes in exchange rates can lead to volatility in Local debt, where appropriate and required, can provide a natural hedge reported profits and the sterling value of net assets.
forthe Group against changes in value of local assets.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 32 Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 33 BUILDING OUR SkILLED wORkFORcE GROwING OPPORTUNITIES wITHIN OUR GLOBALwORkFORcE The introduction of a range of new products in 2011 saw the Domino team live the Domino values in full the highly skilled technical competence of the R&D teams in designing and developing an innovative product range: the tenacity of the operations team to manufacture the new products toworld class standards: our sales andservice teams supportingour customers toenhance theirbusiness performance.
Suchhas been thesuccessof our new product rangewehave recruited 130 sales and service professionals over the past two years to provide greater breadth in our commercial presence.
I am thrilled that our efforts were recognised in winning the Uk plc of the year award and that we were able to share and celebrate our success with all our employees.
VIckI SANDERSON GROUP HUMAN RESOURcES DIREcTOR
