32 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties Internal control and The effective management of risks within the Group risk management underpins the delivery of our key priorities.
The Group has The Board is responsible for the Groups a comprehensive structure of governance controls in place system of internal control and for to manage risks.
Policies have been established in key areas reviewing its effectiveness.
A process has been established for identifying, of the business such as trading, treasury, production and evaluating and managing the significant health and safety to ensure that these risks are managed risks faced by the Group and this in a controlled manner and in accordance with the Boards has been in place for the year under appetite for risk.
review up to the date of approval of the 2011 Annual report and accounts.
The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk management committees There are five risk management committees: 1 Treasury and commodity risk management committee 2 Safety, health, environmental and production integrity committee 3 New business risk management committee 4 Corporate risk management committee 5 Haven Power risk management committee Each Committee is responsible for ensuring that all risks associated with their specic area of the business are identied, analysed and managed systematically and appropriately.
Each Committee has terms of reference that requires it to ensure that systems and controls are approved, implemented and monitored to ensure that activities are commensurate with the risk appetite established by the Board, are adequately resourced and comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Each risk committee contains at least one member of the Executive Committee.
Philip Hudson Director of Corporate Affairs and Company Secretary Policy and review 33 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Through the Audit Committee, the Risk management process Internal control Board has implemented a programme The key elements of the risk In addition, the Group has comprehensive of internal audit reviews of different management process are as follows: and well dened control policies with aspects of the Groups activities.
clear structures, delegated authority The programme, which is reviewed and Risk identication risks faced by levels and accountabilities.
updated annually, is designed so that, the Group are identied during the over time, all facets of the business are formulation of the Business Plan.
The Group has a system of planning and reviewed to ensure appropriate systems Senior management and risk owners, monitoring, which incorporates Board of control are in place and are working with the assistance of the risk approval of a rolling five year Business effectively or, where they are not, management committees, periodically Plan and approval, towards the end deficiencies are rectied by timely and review the risks to ensure that the risk of each year, of operating and capital appropriate action.
In agreeing the management processes and controls in expenditure budgets for the year ahead.
actions to be taken in response to each their area are appropriate and effective, Performance against the budget is report, the aim is always to embed internal and that new risks are identied.
subsequently monitored and reported controls, including measures intended to the Board on a monthly basis.
Risk analysis the basic causes of each effectively to identify and manage The Board also receives monthly reports risk are considered, and the impact and risk, within each area of the Groups on trading risk exposure as compared likelihood of its materialising is assessed.
In parallel with its work to the pre-set limits, and monitors overall Risk registers are used to document in relation to internal audit, the Audit Group performance against a Balanced the risks identied, level of severity and Committee also satisfies itself that an Corporate Scorecard which shows probability, ownership and mitigation action plan, for dealing with points raised progress against a set of financial, measures for each risk.
The risk registers by the external auditor in their yearly operating, safety and other targets set are reviewed by the risk management management letter is being properly at the start of the year.
Performance committees on a quarterly basis.
is reported formally to shareholders Risks are then logged with reference through the publication of Group With the assistance of the Audit to impact and probability as follows: results.
Operational management Committee, the Board has reviewed the makes frequent reports on performance effectiveness of the system of internal Probability to the executive directors.
It has reviewed the reports Low Medium High of the Audit Committee, which has The Group also has processes in considered all significant aspects of place for business continuity and internal control including financial, emergency planning.
operational, trading, compliance, social, environmental and ethical risks in accordance with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Following its review, the Board determined that it was not aware of any significant deficiency or material weakness in the system of internal control.
Risk appetite is identied by reference to the same criteria.
The analysis enables decisions to be taken as to how that risk should be managed by applying mitigation measures to align the risk with the identied risk appetite.
Risk monitoring and assurance Board Audit the Board is ultimately responsible for responsible Committee this system of risk management and for the system review the internal control.
The Audit Committee of risk management suitability of and internal control internal controls and reviews financial information and the review the risk registers suitability of internal controls on behalf Risk Management Committees of the Board.
Risk management Quarterly review of risk register.
Identify, monitor and manage risks committees assist the executive directors in the operation and implementation of Operating companies the risk management process, and Maintain an effective system of internal control and risk management provide a source of assurance to the Audit Committee that the process is Risk operating effectively.
Risk reporting Impact Low Medium High Financials Governance Business review 34 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties Commodity market risk Context Potential impact Change Examples of mitigating activities We experienced a great deal of uncertainty k Volatility in financial results.
k Well understood progressive hedging in power-related commodity markets strategy, forward power sales with Associated objective and key priorities during 2011 corresponding purchases of fuel and CO2 k Maximise the value of the Drax business.
Risk emissions allowances when profitable to k Maximise profitability from our coal do so.
k We are exposed to the effect of fluctuations in generation capacity.
commodity prices, particularly the price of electricity and gas, the price of coal and sustainable biomass and other fuels, and the price of CO2 emissions allowances.
Counterparty risk Context Potential impact Change Examples of mitigating activities The recent recession and uncertain k Additional costs associated with securing fuel k Diversified coal supply in terms of source economic growth potentially impact and other goods and services from other and counterparties.
k Good portion of purchases at market indexed k Failure to secure coal from other suppliers Risk prices no mark-to-market exposure.
resulting in limitation of operations.
k We rely on third party suppliers for the delivery k Diversified logistics routes.
k Adverse effect on cash flow and earnings arising of fuel and other goods and services.
We k Target to optimise holding of coal stocks.
from the failure of one or more of the purchase a significant quantity of our coal under k Close monitoring and reporting of counterparties to whom we sell power.
contracts with a number of large UK suppliers, concentration risk in suppliers.
so are exposed to the risk of non-performance Associated objective and key priorities k Full suite of power counterparties with strong by these suppliers.
k Maximise the value of the Drax business.
k We enter into fixed price and fixed margin k Close monitoring and reporting of contracts for the sale of electricity to a number concentration risk in power counterparties.
of counterparties, so are exposed to the risk of k Trading contracts generally include provisions failure of one or more of these counterparties.
that force counterparties to post collateral if they drop below investment grade.
Ratings risk Context Potential impact Change Examples of mitigating activities Our business model currently has k Requirement to post collateral for trading k Refinement to trading strategy to trade investment grade debt although we could positions.
operate as sub-investment grade with k Additional restrictions within facilities k Grow direct sales through Haven Power, actions that have been implemented agreements.
Risk Associated objective and key priorities k Additional access to collateral through the k Our investment grade debt rating currently 135 million trading facility signed in 2010. k Maintain an optimal supporting capital underpins our ability to deliver optimal value structure which can be either investment or from our existing trading strategy.
A downgrade sub-investment grade debt with appropriate of our debt rating to sub-investment grade trading strategy.
would require a modified trading strategy.
Electricity wholesale market risk Context Potential impact Change Examples of mitigating activities Liquidity in the market for wholesale k Inability to hedge shortto medium-term k Grow direct sales through Haven Power, electricity is dependent on there being a exposure to electricity prices through wholesale our electricity supply business.
sufficient number of counterparties willing market trading.
k Initiatives to be active, responsive and provide to trade actively k Increased exposure to short-term market good credit towards counterparties make volatility.
Risk Drax an attractive business partner.
k Inability to sell all of our output.
k Changes in the market structure or k Oppose structural changes that impact consolidation of the existing generation and k Lower revenues and increased costs to achieve our market access, such as clearing and trading objectives.
supply businesses in the UK could result in a margining.
reduction in the number of active participants k Work with other independent generators Associated objective and key priorities in the market with whom we are able to trade.
via Independent Generators Group to k Grow our retail customer base.
achieve positive market and regulatory k Maximise the value of the Drax business.
k Maximise profitability from our coal generation capacity.
35 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Biomass strategy risk Context Potential impact Change Examples of mitigating activities Sustainable biomass is well placed to provide k Inability to progress the biomass growth k Engage with Government to obtain the right the UK with low cost and exible renewable strategy.
framework and grandfathered support from power, and contribute to meeting carbon April 2013 including the grandfathering of fuel Associated objective and key priorities reduction targets supply contracts.
Risk k Hedge currency exposures or secure k We may not secure an appropriate regulatory contracts in sterling to the extent that its framework and specific support mechanisms appropriate.
from Government, which underpin the k Advanced discussions with several large economics of sustainable biomass.
creditworthy suppliers, building new k From April 2013, in order for the sustainable relationships and exploring new green field biomass we burn to qualify for support under the projects.
Governments renewables support mechanism, k Contract with suppliers where a robust we will have to demonstrate that it meets preoperational plant and logistics infrastructure determined sustainability standards.
Those is already in place: work with new suppliers to sustainability standards may be tightened over help develop such infrastructure.
time, and there is a risk that we may sign longterm supply contracts which meet the current standard but fail to meet a future standard.
k Most of the sustainable biomass that we can procure is priced in foreign currency which increases our exposure to fluctuations against sterling and poses a risk to profitability.
k There are relatively few sustainable biomass suppliers in the market leading to concentration of supply risk.
A supply disruption from one could impact on our generation capacity.
k We could fail to secure sustainable biomass supplies and logistics arrangements which meet our hurdle return rates and sustainability criteria.
Plant operating risk Context Potential impact Change Examples of mitigating activities Forced outages impact on our ability k Lower revenues.
k Comprehensive risk-based plant investment to generate electricity k Increased costs and contractual penalties.
k Adverse effect on financial results.
Risk k Target to optimise holding of spare k Forced outages may be caused by the components for use in the event of plant Associated objective and key priorities failure particularly long lead time items.
underperformance or outright failure of our k Maintain operational excellence.
power generation plant, or transmission assets k Business continuity plan for IT systems.
or other equipment and components including the IT systems used to operate the plant or conduct trading activities.
The duration of forced outages is influenced by the lead time to manufacture and procure replacement components and to carry out repairs.
Regulatory and political risk Context Potential impact Change Examples of mitigating activities The Governments market reform agenda is k Less funding available for plant retrofit k Deliver our biomass strategy.
driven predominantly by the need to move to investment costs to meet increasingly k Briefing, representation and engagement a sustainable, low carbon energy sector which stringent environmental requirements.
delivers affordable supplies to customers k Lower load factors generation levels.
k Development of abatement and alternative whilst maintaining security of supply over the k Adverse effect on financial results.
Laws and regulations are many and complex, are frequently changing, and Associated objective and key priorities k Regular third party assurance over system becoming ever more stringent, particularly effectiveness.
in relation to environmental matters k Strong safety culture and related training.
Risk k The Governments Energy Market Reform package, including the Carbon Price Support mechanism which will be introduced by HM Treasury from April 2013, will result in coal generation becoming progressively and relatively less economic than other major forms of generation like gas, nuclear and renewables.
k The EU, UK and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations cover many aspects of our operations including limits on emissions to air and water, noise, soil groundwater contamination, waste, and health and safety standards.
