BB UU SS IN IN EE SS SS N N O O TT IC IC EE BR U R E SE V IN V IE IE E W S W S REVIEW G G O O VV E G E RR O N N A VA E N N RC N C EA ENCE FF F IN IIN N AA A N N N CC C IA IIA A L L LS S S TA T TA A TT T EE E M M M EE E N N N TT T SS S NO O O F TF IC M M E E E E O E TF T IN IN M G G EETING 51271 p27-30 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:32 Page 27 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 27 Risk Management The Group maintains rigorous procedures for understanding and managing its risks.
The Group has various risks, both external and internal, which could There are further references to risks faced by the Group, in the have a material impact on its performance.
The Groups exposure is Financial Review, Corporate Governance section and in the Notes mitigated to some extent by the range of geographies and markets to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this report.
The Group served that constitute the business of the Group, and by the broad seeks to mitigate insurable risks through an insurance programme customer base.
The principal Group-wide risks, their impact on the that covers property and liability risks where it is relevant and costGroup and how we mitigate those risks, are set out below.
Key risks Availability and volatile pricing of raw materials Impact Mitigation In 2010 11 the Group spent c. 925 million on purchasing paper, plastics The Group is seeking to improve the speed with which we are contractually and other raw materials.
The Group also spent c. 126 million on energy.
able to recover input costs, by bringing the UK contract structures, typically These costs have increased substantially over the prior year, and to date the with six month price-review periods, in line with our continental European Group has largely recovered these costs in pricing, typically with the usual operations which operate on a three month price-review structure.
We also three to six month delay depending on the business.
However, in the event seek to differentiate our packaging through a focus on adding value to our that, due to competitor behaviour or other factors, DS Smith were unable to customers supply chains by focusing on service, quality and innovation.
A recover further price increases on a similar time-scale, the profitability of the description of our exposure to energy costs specifically is given later in this Group would be substantially reduced.
Acquisition risk Impact Mitigation The Group aims to grow through a combination of organic investment and The management team of DS Smith is being developed with additional acquisition.
Were the Group not to be able to find suitable acquisition targets resource, both from within the Group and externally, dedicated to acquisition available at prices that enable the Group to achieve its strategic return on and integration activities.
There is considerable experience of this work capital targets, or were the Group unable to integrate the acquired within the senior team, gained both within the Group and from their businesses effectively, this could curtail the growth of the Group.
The continued availability of competitively priced borrowing facilities Impact Mitigation The Group has committed facilities of 727 million 30 April 2010: The average term of the facilities committed is 4.2 years and 58% of the 566.5 million of which, as at 30 April 2011, 422 million was drawn Groups debt is at fixed rates for a period of 12 months or more.
The average interest rate paid in 2010 11 was 5.1%.
Were events, Group sources its debt finance from a mixture of private placements with either specific to DS Smith, or to the financial systems externally, to mean that institutional investors and bank debt from a syndicate of seven institutions.
capital was not available at competitive rates, this could have a material The counterparty risk is carefully monitored such that the failure of one lender impact on the profitability of the Group.
A one percentage point change would not materially impact on the Groups access to capital.
Cash deposits in the interest rate paid by the Group would increase interest costs by are placed with institutions with credit rating A or above.
In countries where c. 4 million.
this is not possible, deposits are held with strong local banks.
The funding position of the Groups UK dened benefit pension scheme Impact Mitigation The Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme is sensitive to a number of On 30 April 2011 the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme closed to key factors: the value of the assets, the discount rate used to calculate the future accrual.
This decision was taken by the trustees in light of the growing schemes liabilities based on corporate bond yields and the mortality deficit of the scheme and the trustees responsibility to safeguard the accrued assumptions for the members of the scheme.
The tri-ennial valuation of the benefits to existing members.
The Group also reached agreement with the Groups various pension schemes as at 30 April 2010, of which the UK trustees for a profile of future payments to repay the deficit, being annual scheme makes up the largest proportion, estimated the deficit of the schemes payments of 14.8 million starting in 2011 12, increasing by 2% per to be 147.5 million.
While the UK scheme is now closed to future accrual, annum, for ten years plus an initial payment of 14.5 million in 2010 11 changes in these assumptions could mean that the deficit increases further.
in addition to a pre-agreed top-up payment of 8.0 million.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Risk Management continued Key risks continued Environmental risks Impact Mitigation Were a material environmental incident to occur at a DS Smith site, this could As set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review section of this Annual Report, result in material financial costs and reputational damage that could the Group has detailed processes in place at all sites to ensure that, as a undermine our commercial position as a provider of environmental solutions.
minimum, we comply with all relevant environmental rules and regulations.
Other risks Fall in demand Impact Mitigation The profitability of the Group is sensitive to the volume, the mix of sales and In the event of falling demand, the Group would take prompt action to product pricing.
Over the last three years, the market has proved volatile, address its cost base.
Further, the strategy of the Group is to focus on and visibility at some points has been limited.
A 5% reduction in corrugated developing packaging for fast moving consumer goods FMCG as this packaging volumes across the Group would theoretically result in a fall in sector has historically shown substantially less volatility in demand during Group operating profit by around 25 million, to the extent not mitigated by periods of economic downturn, than industrial users of packaging.
UK concentration Impact Mitigation Approximately 50% of the Groups revenue and 30% of the Groups The Group is expanding in continental Europe, notably with the acquisition operating profit is derived from its operations in the UK.
Were the economy of Otor on 1 September 2010, which substantially strengthens the Group in in the UK to return to recession, the profitability of the Group could be France.
As set out above, the Group is also focused on FMCG customers, adversely impacted.
who have historically experienced less volatility in demand for their products than some other industry sectors.
Changes in the UK paper market Impact Mitigation DS Smith is the largest producer of corrugated case material CCM in We aim to develop long-standing relationships with our customers based on the UK, and also the largest producer of corrugated packaging.
In the event the value that we add to their supply chain, and to differentiate DS Smith by of material new paper production capacity being installed by our competitors, the service, quality and innovation that we offer.
DS Smith has also expanded this could impact the market for CCM, which is largely a commoditised product, its business in continental Europe by the acquisition of Otor in France and which could in turn influence pricing in the corrugated packaging market.
has a strategy to expand further in continental Europe, therefore diluting our exposure to the UK market.
We are also implementing plans to reduce our costs in the UK Packaging division and to improve procurement.
Energy costs Impact Mitigation The Groups exposure to energy costs is set out in the Financial Review in this The Group aims to mitigate its exposure to energy costs by a combination of Annual Report.
The most significant energy risk relates to the purchase of gas diversifying away from fossil fuels and, where this is not possible, through in the UK, where a 10 pence per therm increase represents an increase in long-term purchasing strategies.
The Group is looking to maximise in-house energy generation from its combined heat and power CHP plants in the UK and France.
We are also taking steps, in partnership with E. ON and Wheelebrator, to develop a waste-to-energy plant on the site of our paper mill at Kemsley.
This is going through the planning processes at present.
The Group has a range of energy efficiency programmes in place.
The Group operates a centralised approach to purchasing energy in the UK and France.
The impact of energy costs is managed through the use of long-term contracts and through hedging techniques.
The Group monitors its hedging instruments to ensure that it is not overly reliant upon any single counterparty.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:32 Page 29 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 29 Other risks continued Customer credit risk and key customer exposure Impact Mitigation While the Group has a broad base of customers, the loss of, or financial We closely monitor credit risk across our customer base.
The potential impact failure of, one or more of the Groups key customers may have a material of the loss of a customer or their financial failure is limited as no single customer impact on the results in a particular segment and result in a significant loss represents more than 2% of the Groups revenue.
IT systems and controls or facilities failure Impact Mitigation Like most businesses, the Group depends on its IT systems and controls for The Group manages its IT through a combination of experienced staff and the management of its operations.
Were these to fail for a material length contracted-out teams.
The Group has back-up arrangements in place at all of time, this could disrupt the Group from transacting its business.
We operate its major sites.
The Group operates to the highest standards of safety at 128 sites, ranging in size from 5 to c. 600 employees.
Were an incident its facilities.
The Group is also insured against losses arising from certain such as a fire to happen at a major site, this could impact on the operations incidents that might impact on the operations of our facilities.
and financial performance of the Group.
Competition Impact Mitigation The Group operates in a market controlled by laws governing competitive The Group has a rigorous programme of training for all relevant employees, behaviour.
Penalties for breaching competition laws could result in to ensure that they fully understand the applicable laws and the high standards substantial fines.
to which they are expected to operate.
Furthermore, the Group operates a Workplace Malpractice helpline in those jurisdictions where this is permissible, providing a confidential route for employees to report perceived malpractice of any type.
Industrial relations breakdown Impact Mitigation The Group employs over 12,000 people.
Were an issue to arise that caused The Group maintains good relationships with all significant organisations that a material breakdown in industrial relations, such that there was a prolonged seek to represent its employees.
Furthermore, the Group aims to provide strike or other industrial action within a part of the business, this could have a employees with a safe working environment and a culture that fosters excellent material impact on the financial performance of the Group.
Through being an employer of choice, we aim to avoid material industrial relations issues arising.
Employee safety Impact Mitigation Employee safety is the Groups top priority.
Were an incident to arise where The Group has a very detailed and extensive health and safety programme, unsafe practice was found to be taking place, this could potentially result in which is embedded in all its operations.
Further details of this programme the interruption of some of our operations for a period of time and the Group are set out in the section on Corporate Responsibility in this Annual Report.
could incur financial penalties and reputational damage.
Taxation Impact Mitigation The amount of taxation paid by the Group is dependent on the applicable The Group actively manages its tax affairs in order to minimise the tax paid, tax law in the jurisdictions in which we operate and on the geographic mix within the scope of the tax laws where we operate.
Were the tax rate to be increased in those jurisdictions, or the geographic mix of the business to change to be skewed towards higher tax jurisdictions, then the overall tax rate of the Group may rise, impacting on the profits that may be distributed to shareholders.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Risk Management continued Other risks continued Associates minorities Impact Mitigation The Group has two businesses that are not wholly owned and two joint These non-wholly owned businesses are insignificant in respect of the Group ventures, where shares in those companies are also held by third parties.
In these companies, the Group does not have complete control and therefore there is greater potential for financial returns not to be consistent from these businesses.
Foreign exchange rate movements Impact Mitigation Approximately 50% of the Groups revenues and 70% of the Groups In relation to currency translation, the conversion rate which is material operating profit are derived from non sterling currencies.
The Group does to the Group is sterling to the euro.
A decrease in the value of the euro by not hedge for currency translation effects on revenue or operating profit.
As 10 cents would reduce operating profit by 3.8 million and, after a benefit described in the Financial Review section of the Annual Report the Groups to the interest cost of 1.2 million, pre-tax profit by 2.6 million.
debt is mainly denominated in euros and this acts as a net investment hedge of the Groups euro net assets.
Other social and environmental matters Impact Mitigation The Groups management of other social and environmental risks is As described in the Corporate Responsibility Review.
described in the Corporate Responsibility Review in this Annual Report.
