20 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Business review Key risks and uncertainties Dunelm recognises that effective business management requires regular review of business risks to identify, evaluate and prioritise them, to assign management ownership and to ensure appropriate controls are in place in mitigation.
An annual risk identification and assessment workshop is in place to review the risk profile of the organisation and to compile the Groups Risk Register.
Quarterly reviews of these risks are undertaken by management and the Board gains assurance through twice yearly reviews, as well as by regular challenge to the executive team to consider What keeps us up at night.
The Board considers that the principal risks to Dunelms aims of achieving its strategic objectives are as follows: Strategic objectives Develop our specialist proposition Develop the store portfolio Grow multi-channel Develop and exploit our infrastructure Strategic risks Mitigation Strategy Competition The Group competes with a wide variety of retailers in both store The Board continually monitors Group performance format as well as on-line.
Failure to withstand increased competition within the Homewares market and against specific in the Homewares market on multiple fronts price, range, quality competitive threats.
Various initiatives are in place to and service could materially impact returns and limit opportunities continue the enhancement of our specialist proposition.
Economic uncertainty Uncertainty surrounding the resilience of the UK economy and The Group mitigates this by reacting quickly to effectiveness of fiscal and monetary measures will continue to put consumer changes and adjusting its offer in response.
This is likely to result in difficult In addition our focus on maintaining a low cost base trading conditions in the retail sector as a whole limiting profitability helps us to maintain our affordable Simply Value for and growth opportunities.
Commodity prices Significant cost price increases and high levels of volatility have been Dunelm uses its scale, buying power and growth to a feature of retailing over recent years particularly freight rates, raw secure supply of key raw materials at competitive prices.
materials, energy and exchange rates.
Failure to manage and control Freight rates, energy and currency are bought forward to these changes will lead to pressure on margins and adversely impact help mitigate volatility and aid margin management.
Portfolio expansion Availability of vacant or new retail space is essential to support our The Group has a strong pipeline of new space legally growth plans.
Inability to secure the required retail trading space committed.
The Property team has been strengthened either in terms of the number of new locations or at the required size to ensure that the appropriate resource can deliver a to deliver our format will limit our pace of expansion or force us to flexible approach to property acquisition.
In addition compromise our offer.
the Companys debt-free position provides an attractive covenant to landlords, and the ability to acquire freehold units if appropriate.
Information technology & systems Dunelm is dependent on the reliability and capability of key All business critical systems are established, industry information systems and technology.
A major incident or sustained leading package solutions.
They are supported by a performance problems with regard to store, logistics, multi-channel disaster recovery strategy designed to ensure continuity or head office systems could constitute a significant threat to the of trade.
In addition, a specialist company is responsible business, at least in the short term.
Trading performance could be for hosting Dunelms main ERP system off-site and a full adversely impacted by this reliance.
backup server facility is in place for all other key systems.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 21 Strategic risks Mitigation Strategy Infrastructure The Group could suffer the loss of a major facility or supply partner The Group seeks to mitigate this risk by limiting the with a consequent impact on short term trading or diversion of focus dependency on individual suppliers and by actively from longer term strategy and planning.
This could materially affect managing key supplier relationships.
High stock the profitability of the business.
service levels and a high proportion of direct-to-store deliveries further mitigate supply chain risk.
Head office, workroom, multi-channel and distribution centre activities are all subject to disaster recovery plans and could all operate from fall back facilities.
Key personnel The success of Dunelm is dependent upon senior management The Groups remuneration policy detailed on page closely supervising all aspects of Group performance, growth and 40 ensures that high calibre executives are attracted development.
The business could be vulnerable to the loss of and retained.
In addition the Board has ensured that individual key managers.
the Company continues to build strength in depth in the operating management team.
Lock-in of senior management is supported by awards under the LongTerm Incentive Plan.
The Operating Board seeks to develop high calibre individuals through sponsored talent management and succession planning.
Product & service quality The Group recognises that the quality and safety of our products and Dunelm operates a full test schedule for all new products services including coffee shops is essential to the business.
If our and on a sample basis for on-going lines, overseen by specialist proposition fails to deliver this there is a risk that individuals our specialist QA team.
could be harmed and that reputational damage could lead to consumers losing confidence in the brand.
Food hygiene is maintained through the adoption of clear operating guidelines contained in the companys Food Safety Manual.
Staff certification is compulsory and risk assessments, equipment inspections and compliance audits are in constant use to ensure standards are maintained.
Compliance The Group risks incurring penalties or punitive damages arising from Dunelm operates a number of company policies and failure to comply with legislative or regulatory requirements across codes of practice outlining mandatory requirements many areas including but not limited to, trading, health & safety, data within the business governing behaviours in all key areas.
protection, advertising, ethical standards and the environment.
Operational management are also responsible for liaising with external advisors to ensure that potential issues from new legislation are identified and managed.
Finance & treasury Lack of appropriate levels of cash resources or exposure to significant Dunelm has significant cash surpluses and further variations in interest rates or exchange rates could have an impact on uncommitted borrowing facilities with partner banks to the Groups operations and growth plans.
In addition, cash flows are monitored weekly against agreed budgets.
A Group Treasury Policy is in place to govern cash management strategies and to control foreign exchange exposures.
Nick Wharton David Stead Chief Executive Finance Director 15 September 2011
