Directors Report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES In the day-to-day operations of the Group we face We mitigate this risk in a number of ways.
First, many risks and uncertainties.
Our job is to mitigate having a global footprint is a great advantage because and manage these risks, and the Board has developed we can move rental fleet from low-growth economies a formal risk management process to support this.
to higher-growth environments: for example, in 2011, Set out below are the principal risks and uncertainties we moved fleet out of Western Europe into Russia to which we believe could adversely affect us, potentially support its rapid growth.
Secondly, we try to ensure impacting our employees, operations, revenue, profits, that, as they grow, our businesses build a customer-base cash flows or assets.
This list is not exhaustive there which is as diverse as possible, to minimise exposure are many things that could go wrong in an operation to any single sector.
In Brazil, we are investing in as large and geographically diverse as ours and the temperature control to reduce our sectoral exposure list might change as something that seems immaterial to offshore oil and gas: while in South Africa we are today assumes greater importance tomorrow.
expanding our geographic footprint to enable us to develop under-penetrated sectors such as shipping.
The foundation upon which the Groups risk Thirdly, in the event of a more generalised downturn management process is built is the Group Risk in demand, as we experienced in 2009, we can quickly Register.
This is compiled based on input from the reduce capital expenditure which was demonstrated by businesses across the world as well as a top-down our new fleet investment being 107 million lower in review by members of the Executive Committee and 2009 than 2008.
Given the large depreciation element Board.
This forms the basis of the mitigation strategies in the business cost base 186 million in 2011, put in place for all the key identified risks.
In the reducing capital expenditure to a level close to section below, we have picked from the Risk Register depreciation makes the business very cash generative those items we currently consider to be our most which, in turn, reduces debt and interest cost.
The order in which they are presented is not significant.
Another economic factor to consider is the price of fuel, which is usually the single biggest element in the Economic conditions cost of running a generator.
Over the last 5 years, the price of fuel has been volatile, with the Brent Blend There is a link in our business between demand for 1 price ranging from $35 to $145, but this does not our services and levels of economic activity: this link seem to have had any noticeable impact on peoples is particularly evident in the Local business.
If GDP willingness to rent: people rent generators because they growth goes negative, demand for rental equipment need power, not because it is a cheap way of generating is likely to shrink even faster and this impact is likely electricity.
The major impact of the oil-price on our to be multiplied by pricing weakness at times of low business is that, at times when it has been high it has demand.
As we have experienced in recent years, the produced huge wealth in oil-producing countries which operational gearing inherent in our business models has been re-cycled into infrastructure investment means that variations in demand can lead to much and this, in turn, stimulated demand for our services.
We also have some If the oil-price is persistently low by which we businesses which, by their nature, are exposed to mean under $50 per barrel we would expect to particular sectors for instance, our Australian see an adverse impact on our business in a number business is highly dependent on mining activity, our of oil-producing countries.
Singapore business has a high proportion of shipping activity, and a material proportion of our North American business comes from upstream and downstream oil and gas.
1 Bloomberg European Brent Blend Crude Oil spot price per barrel.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Exchange rate fluctuations can have a material impact Generally, we find that Governments are keen on our performance reflected in Sterling: the Groups to behave in a fair way to suppliers of critical asset values, earnings and cash flows are influenced by infrastructure such as Aggreko.
In the last four a wide variety of currencies owing to the geographic years, we have had two incidents, both of which diversity of the Groups customers and areas of were subsequently resolved, where our equipment was operation.
Around 75% of the Groups revenue and seized by authorities as a result of tax or import duty costs are denominated in US Dollars: the next largest disputes.
Neither of these were material to a Group currency exposure is to the Euro which accounts for of our size, but either could have been fatal to a small around 7% of our revenues and costs.
Both are indicative of the fact that we value of currencies can fluctuate widely and could operate in countries where the behaviour of the have a material impact on the Groups asset values, authorities can be unpredictable, and not always costs, earnings, debt levels and cash flows, expressed in line with contractual commitments.
We manage the transactional exchange impact through hedging and denomination of The quantum of political risk faced by the business has borrowings but we do not try and manage translational grown in recent years with the rapid expansion of our exchange impact.
In terms of translational exchange, International Power Projects business, but the benefit a 5 cent movement in the Sterling Dollar exchange of scale is that the risk becomes more diversified.
rate had an impact in 2011 of around 30 million on revenue and 9 million on trading profit.
Failure to collect payments or to recover assets Political risk In practice, the biggest risk is non-payment.
The vast This section should be read in conjunction with the majority of the contracts into which the Group enters subsequent section on failure to collect payments.
are small relative to the size of the Group and, if a The Group operates in around 100 countries, many in customer fails to pay a debt, this is dealt with in the Africa, Asia and Central and South America.
However, the Group has some large jurisdictions there are significant risks of political contracts in developing countries where payment instability which can result in civil unrest, equipment practices can be unpredictable.
The truth is that, with seizure, renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts in around 100 countries there are always two agreements, changes in laws, taxation policies or or three large customers who are misbehaving as far as currency restrictions.
Any of these could have a payment is concerned, and we constantly monitor the damaging effect on the profitability of our operations risk profile and debtor position of such contracts, and in a country.
deploying a variety of techniques to mitigate the risks of delayed or non-payment.
This mitigation will vary Prior to undertaking a contract in a new country, from customer to customer, but our armoury includes we carry out a risk assessment process to consider risks obtaining advance payments, letters of credit, bank to our people, to assets and to payments.
By far the guarantees, and, in some cases, insurance against greatest exposure to political risk is in the International losses.
As a result of the rigorous approach to risk Power Projects business.
In all cases, the safety of our management, the Group has never had a significant employees is always our first concern, and if the level loss, although we have had some very near misses.
of risk is considered unacceptable we will decline to While the rapid growth in our International Power participate in any contract: where there are potential Projects business makes it less likely that any bad debt risks, we develop detailed security plans to ensure the would be material to the Groups balance sheet, the safety of our employees.
In terms of asset risks, the increased number of contracts and countries in which Group uses a wide range of tools and techniques to we operate increases the likelihood of a loss and makes manage risk, including insurances, bonds, guarantees it highly likely that, at some stage, a major customer and cash advances.
International Power Projects will default or prevent us from repatriating assets.
financial exposures are monitored by the Board on a monthly basis and action plans to address assets, payments or tax exposures are reviewed.
30 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report The risk of non-payment of a receivable presents a broadening the Groups revenue base, the impact particular risk for a public company such as Aggreko, of a single event on the overall Group will reduce.
because our customers are rarely attuned to our Additionally, the ability to move equipment around obligations to update regularly the market on our the world allows the Group to adjust to changes in performance.
While we seek to ensure that no single utilisation caused by any changes in demand.
country could cause the company material medium or long-term damage, failure to collect a major debt Failure to conduct business dealings could result in an unexpected, and possibly significant, with integrity and honesty reduction in our profits in any given reporting period.
Some of the countries in which the Group operates The impact of failure to collect a debt is twofold: have a reputation for corruption and, given that many first we have a write-off of the debt, and secondly, of our contracts involve large sums of money, we are we lose future revenue and profit.
We continually make at risk of being accused of bribery and other unethical judgements as to whether we need to book a provision behaviour.
The first and most important way of avoiding against particular debts, and, if the debts are material, this risk is to ensure that people, both inside and outside they could cause us to miss a forecast and lead to the Group, know that Aggreko does not engage in, a negative share price reaction.
Unless a customer and will not tolerate, bribery, corruption or unethical actually seizes equipment, deciding whether a behaviour.
We have a strict Ethics Policy, a copy of receivable will be collected or not is more art than which is available on our website www.
science and there have been several occasions when Rather than just publishing it, we get every employee we have had to make difficult judgements as to when to sign it when they join the business: every consultant to provide for a debt.
The potential for volatility was acting on our behalf agrees in writing to abide by it, illustrated during 2011.
During the first half, the bad and every consultancy or agency agreement has an debt provision in International Power Projects was explicit term stating that the agreement will be increased by 14 million reflecting the heightened terminated immediately if the consultant or agent does risk of non-payment in 3 countries.
During the second not abide by our policy.
During the year we also rolled half, significant payments were received in respect of out a confidential, multi-lingual hotline, available these countries and circa 11 million of this bad debt worldwide, which allows any employee who has any provision was released to the Income Statement.
ethical concerns to report them to an independent third party on an anonymous basis.
Even though we have an ever broader portfolio of contracts, and therefore a more diversified portfolio While the risk of unethical behaviour can take of risk, we caution investors that the current very high many forms, the most significant risk we run in this returns on capital that we earn, particularly in our area is the behaviour of third party sales agents and International Power Projects business, are in effect consultants in our International Power Projects risk-unadjusted.
So far, no customer has behaved badly business.
Given the ephemeral nature of this business enough to adjust them, but, as we repeatedly tell people, there might be no business for us in a country for it is probably only a matter of time before they do.
5 years and then suddenly a power crisis might present an opportunity to supply 100MW for 6 months Events it is not practical to maintain full-time salespeople The business is, by nature, driven by events.
People in each of the 100 countries where we do, or could hire generators because some event or need makes conceivably do, business.
Instead, we make agreements it essential.
Aggrekos revenues, cashflows and profits with organisations which know a country well, can can be influenced significantly by external events as keep our services on the radar of decision makers, evidenced in the past by hurricanes in North America and keep us briefed on opportunities.
When an or by the contracts to supply power to the military opportunity arises, we send in our own salespeople camps in the Middle East.
These events are, by their to work with them.
These consultants do not get paid nature, difficult to predict and, combined with the a retainer and may receive no compensation other high operational gearing inherent in our business, can than a thank you and a pat on the back for years: lead to volatility in trading outcomes.
By developing the reason why they are prepared to do this is because the business globally, as well as by increasing and when we do win a contract, they are well rewarded.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued And they work hard for the money, often taking Safety responsibility for the supply of critical elements of the The business of the Group involves transporting, project such as finding power-plant sites, providing installing and operating large amounts of heavy administration and technical services, labour and equipment, which produces lethal voltages or very security.
The fact that they are only paid on results high pressure air, and involves the use of millions might be seen to raise the risk that they are tempted of litres of fuel which could cause serious damage to indulge in bribery to secure their income.
How do to the environment.
Every day, we manage the risks we protect against this?
In our view, it is all down to associated with this business, and we have carefully the choice of the sales consultant and, to this end, we designed procedures to minimise the risk of an carry out comprehensive due diligence on all potential accident.
If these procedures are not followed candidates.
Before we appoint an agent or consultant, however, accidents can happen and might result in we use specialist third-party investigators to conduct injury to people, claims against the Group, damage comprehensive background checks on them: these to its reputation and its chances of winning and checks include obtaining bank references and searches retaining contracts.
for previous records of inappropriate behaviour or of any family or other links with the customer The Group has a proactive operational culture that or government.
Once a sales consultant has been puts health and safety at the top of its agenda in order appointed, we keep a close eye on them.
Payments to reduce the likelihood of an accident.
We work very made to agents and sales consultants are subject to closely with our customers, employees and Health & audit by internal auditors to ensure they are in Safety authorities, to evaluate and assess major risks to accordance with the agreements, and we have a ensure that health and safety procedures are rigorously full-time Compliance Officer who continuously followed.
The Group has developed health and safety monitors our dealings with sales consultants and KPIs which are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
In addition, we carry out regular training by outside lawyers of managers and salespeople who Competition deal in at-risk jurisdictions and, from time to time, Aggreko operates in a highly competitive business.
we conduct independent reviews of contract files.
The barriers to entry are low, particularly in the Local We also structure our sales consultancy agreements business and, in every major market in which we to allow us to terminate any agreement immediately operate, competitors are constantly entering or leaving and without compensation in the event that we the market.
We welcome this competition as it keeps suspect any inappropriate behaviour.
Given that us sharp and also helps to grow the overall rental these sales consultants have much to gain by working market which, in many countries, is under-developed.
for us, this is a powerful incentive to behave.
We monitor competitor activity carefully but, Despite the fact that none of the business that we ultimately, our only protection from suffering material would consider to be at elevated risk of ethical issues damage to our business by competitors is to work comes under its jurisdiction, in the past we modelled relentlessly to provide our customers with a high our compliance regime around the requirements of the quality and differentiated service proposition at US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA, on the a price that they believe provides good value.
basis that it probably set the highest standards in the world.
The passing into law of the UK Bribery Act in 2011, which is generally regarded as being significantly stronger than the FCPA, led us to further review and tighten our procedures.
Amongst the changes we made was the establishment of a Board Ethics Committee, composed entirely of Non-executive Directors, to approve our ethics-related policies and procedures, and to monitor compliance.
A report from the Committee is set out on page 68 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
32 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report Product technology and People emissions regulation Aggreko knows that it is people who make the The majority of Aggrekos fleet is diesel-powered, and difference between great performance and mediocre some of our equipment is over 10 years old.
This is true at all levels within the the increasing focus on environmental issues, countries business.
We are keenly aware of the need to attract continue to introduce legislation related to permissible the right people, establish them in their roles and levels of emissions and this has the potential to affect manage their development.
As a framework for people our business.
Our engines are sourced from major development, we have in place a talent management manufacturers who, in turn, have to develop products programme which covers most of the management which conform to legislation, so we are dependent population.
Under this programme, we try to identify on them being able to respond to legislation.
We also the development needs of each individual from the have to be aware that when we buy a generator, outset, as well as identifying successor candidates for we want to be able to rent it for its useful life senior roles.
We also have an ongoing relationship and to be able to move it between countries.
with one of the worlds leading business schools, IMD, to deliver a tailor-made Group-wide management To mitigate these risks, we adopt a number of strategies.
First, we retain considerable in-house expertise on engine technology and emissions so we have a good Another risk is that competitors seek to recruit our understanding of these issues.
Secondly, we have very key personnel.
For many years, Aggreko has been a close relationships with engine manufacturers, so we get target for recruitment and we manage this on a daily good forward visibility of their product development basis.
We actually regard it as a compliment that so pipeline.
When new products appear particularly many companies want to recruit our people.
The main those with improved emissions performance we try mitigation for this is to make sure that people enjoy to introduce them into the fleet as quickly as possible working for Aggreko, that they feel that they are to ensure that, over time, our fleet evolves to everrecognised, cared for, and have challenging and better levels of emissions performance.
Reward is also an important part of of this is the significant investment we have made in the equation, and there can be little doubt that our the development of our gas-fuelled technology: these policy of rewarding people well for good performance, engines have significantly reduced emissions compared and of having a successful Long-term Incentive Plan, with other fuel types.
Thirdly, if emissions-compliance has acted as a powerful retention tool.
becomes such an issue that it begins to impact our business in a material way in some territories, our global footprint will be a major advantage as it gives us numerous options for the re-deployment of our fleet.
An example of this is in our North American business, where by the end of 2012 we will have replaced our whole power fleet with the latest level of emissions compliant equipment, with the previous fleet being re-deployed to other parts of the Group.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33
