Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 27 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties The risks and uncertainties described below are considered to have the most significant effect on easyJets business, financial results and prospects.
This list is not intended to be exhaustive.
easyJet carries out a detailed risk management process, to ensure that risks are identied and mitigated where possible, although many remain outside our full control, for example adverse weather, pandemics, acts of terrorism, changes in government regulation and macroeconomic issues.
A more detailed overview of the risk management process and internal control can be found in our Corporate Governance section on pages 49 and 50.
The trend line highlighted represents the prevailing inherent risk trend being faced by easyJet.
Inherent risk is assessed prior to the determination of all current mitigation.
Prevailing Strategic inherent impact Risk description and potential impact risktrend Current mitigation Major safety incident accident Our number one priority is the safety of our customers and people.
We operate a strong safety management system Failure to prevent a major safety incident or deal with it through: effectively.
Fatigue Risk Management System This could adversely affect our reputation, operational and financial performance.
Incident reporting Safety Review Board Safety Action Group Management and control system for our operations.
p Weekly operations meetings and reporting.
Regular review by the Board of Directors.
We have response systems in place and provide training for crisis management: combined with full crisis management exercises performed at least three times ayear.
Insurance is held which is believed to be in line with other airlines.
Security and terrorist threat or attack Our number one priority is the safety, including security, of our customers and people.
We operate a strong safety Failure to prevent a major security related threat or attack management system as set out above.
from either internal or external sources or deal with it effectively.
We constantly ensure that regulations required by relevant governments are enforced.
Crew are trained within the This could adversely affect our reputation, operation and current guidelines.
i We have response systems in place and provide training for crisis management: combined with full crisis management exercises performed at least three times ayear.
Insurance is held which is believed to be in line with otherairlines.
NO COMPROMISE ON SAFETY 28 easyJet plc Financial review Annual report and accounts 2011 Continued Prevailing Strategic inherent impact Risk description and potential impact risktrend Current mitigation Financial impact of mass disruption in peak seasonal Processes in place to adapt to widespread disruption.
months Afullcrisis management exercise is performed at least three times a year and a business continuity programme A number of factors can lead to widespread disruption to isin place.
our network, including epidemics pandemics, forces of nature extreme weather, volcanic ash, etc, acts of significant analysis and senior management focus has terrorism, union activity and strike action.
Any widespread resulted in additional crewing solutions being put into place disruption could adversely effect our reputation, operation to further recognise the external factors and volatility that p and financial performance.
If the widespread disruption occurred during our peak easyJet has a strong financial balance sheet allowing the summer months then easyJets financial results would be Company to be in a strong position to withstand potential signicantly impacted.
As load factors are also higher events that result in periods of reduced revenues.
during this period, it would potentially take longer to recover from any significant disruption.
Single eet risk The efficiencies achieved by operating a single eet type are believed to outweigh the risks associated with the easyJet is dependent on Airbus as its sole supplier Companys single eet strategy.
foraircraft, with two aircraft types A319 and A320.
All Boeing 737s are planned to be exited by the end of 2012 A rigorous established maintenance programme is followed.
There are significant cost and efficiency advantages in a single eet, however there are two main associated risks: Constant reviews of the second-hand market and managing exit strategies for the aircraft.
easyJet has a Technical or mechanical issues that could ground the full p number of different options when looking at exit strategies.
eet or part of the eet which could cause negative perception by the ying public Valuation risks which crystallise on the ownership exit of the aircraft.
The main exposure is with the A319 eet, where we are reliant on the future demand for second-hand aircraft IT system failure A business continuity programme, including disaster recovery, is in place and will be further developed over the easyJet is dependent on a number of key IT systems and coming year.
This covers alternative sites being available processes operated at London Luton airport and other key should there be a need to relocate at short notice due to facilities.
p A loss of systems and access to facilities could lead to significant disruption and have an operational, reputational and financial impact.
Dependence on third-party service providers Processes are in place to manage third-party service provider performance.
easyJet has entered into agreements with third-party service providers for services covering a significant Centralised procurement department that negotiates key proportion of its operation and cost base.
Failure to adequately manage third-party performance Most developed markets have suitable alternative service i would affect our reputation, operation and financial providers.
Loss of these contracts, inability to renew or negotiate favourable replacement contracts could have a material adverse effect on future operating costs.
Industrial action Employee and union engagement takes place on a regular basis.
Large parts of the easyJet workforce are unionised.
Similar issues exist at our key third-party service providers.
If any significant analysis and senior management focus has action was taken this could impact on easyJets ability to resulted in additional crewing solutions being put into place p maintain its ight schedule.
that recognises the external factors and volatility that impact the airline industry.
This could adversely effect our reputation, operation and financial performance.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 29 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Example only.
Prevailing Strategic inherent impact Risk description and potential impact risktrend Current mitigation Competition and industry consolidation Regular monitoring of competitor activity and potential impact of any consolidation activity.
easyJet operates in competitive marketplaces against both ag carriers and other low-cost airlines.
Rapid response in anticipation of, and to, changes.
Industry consolidation will affect the competitive p environment in a number of markets.
This could cause a loss of market share and erosion of revenue.
Regulator intervention easyJet has a key role in inuencing the future state of regulations.
The airline industry is currently heavily regulated, with expected increased regulator intervention: this includes A Regulatory Affairs Group coordinates the work and effort environmental, security and airport regulation in which in this area.
charges are levied by regulatory decision rather than by commercial negotiation.
easyJet is exposed to various regulators across our network, i which will increase as the Company grows geographically.
This could have an adverse impact to our reputation, cost base and market share.
An inadequate knowledge or misinterpretation of local regulations could result in fines or enforcement orders.
Major shareholder investor relationship issues Dedicated Investor Relations team, utilising a shareholder engagement programme.
easyJet has a major shareholder easyGroup Holdings Limited controlling over 25% of ordinary shares.
significant Board and Senior management time dedicated Shareholder activism could adversely impact the reputation to engage with major shareholders.
of the Company and cause a distraction to management.
i easyJet does not own its company name or branding which is licensed from easyGroup IP Licensing.
As for all brand licensees, the easyJet brand could be impacted through actions of the easyGroup or other easyGroup licensees.
Ineffective or non delivery of the business strategy Programme management ofce PMO and experienced project teams have been set up to oversee delivery and A number of key projects have been set up to deliver key track the budget and benets realisation of all projects.
If these projects do not deliver the benets and cost savings planned we could fall short of our Steering Group set up with full key senior management p planned financial results.
involvement to ensure monitoring, challenge and key decisions are being made at the appropriate level.
Information security Systems are secured and monitored against unauthorised access: this will receive continued focus.
easyJet faces external and internal information security risks.
The Company receives most of its revenue through Scanning software for fraudulent customer activity is credit cards and operates as an e-commerce business.
monitored and controlled by the Revenue Protection team.
i A security breach could result in a material adverse impact for the business and reputational damage.
Bribery Act 2010 easyJet has a strong ethical tone from the top.
The Bribery Act 2010 came into force in April 2011.
To date Risks assessments have been completed and appropriate there are no precedents set in respect of how this will be actions taken where necessary.
As with all companies, if we were found to be in General awareness training has been provided, with i breach of the Act this could adversely affect us nancially additional targeted training given to higher risk groups.
REPUTATIONAL RISKS EXTERNAL RISKS 30 easyJet plc Financial review Annual report and accounts 2011 Continued Example only.
Prevailing Strategic inherent impact Risk description and potential impact risktrend Current mitigation Missing optimisation opportunities for aircraft eet and A Network Portfolio Management Strategy is in place which network portfolio looks to take a balanced approach to the route portfolio that we y to ensure that we optimise each aircraft to get the easyJet has a leading presence on the top 100 routes in best return for each time of day, each day of the week.
Europe and positions at primary airports that are attractive to time sensitive consumers.
easyJet manages the Route performance is monitored on a regular basis and performance of its network by careful allocation of aircraft operating decisions are made to improve performances to routes and optimisation of its ying schedule.
s If we fail to continue to optimise our network and eet plan this will have a major impact on easyJets ability to grow and gain the required yield.
In addition, poor planning of the correct number of aircraft to y the schedule would have a critical impact on the Companys costs and reputation.
Exposure to fuel price uctuations and other Board approved hedging jet fuel and currency in place that macroeconomic shifts is consistently applied.
Policy is to hedge within a percentage band for rolling 24 month periods.
Sudden and significant increases in jet fuel price and movements in foreign exchange rates would signicantly To provide protection, the Group uses a limited range of impact fuel and other costs.
Increases in fuel costs have a hedging instruments traded in the over the counter OTC direct impact on the financial performance of the Company.
markets, principally forward purchases, with a number of If not mitigated, this could have a material adverse effect on approved counterparties.
i A strong balance sheet supports business through easyJets business can also be affected by macroeconomic uctuations in the economic conditions for the sector.
issues outside of its control such as weakening consumer Regular monitoring of markets and route performance by confidence, inationary pressure or instability of the euro.
our network and eet management teams.
This could give rise to adverse pressure on revenue, load factors and residual values of aircraft.
Financing and interest rate risk Group interest rate management policy aims to provide certainty in a proportion of its nancing.
All of the Groups debt is asset related, reecting the capital intensive nature of the airline industry.
Operating lease rentals are a mix of xed and oating rates currently 68% to 32%.
Market conditions could change the cost of finance which may have an adverse effect on the financial performance.
All on balance sheet debt oating rate, repriced up to p sixmonths.
None of the agreements contain financial covenants.
A portion of US dollar mortgage debt is matched with USdollar money market deposits.
Liquidity risk Board policy is to maintain an absolute minimum level of free cash and money market deposits.
The Group continues to hold significant cash or liquid funds as a form of insurance.
Allows business to ride out downturns in business or temporary curtailment of activities e. g. eet grounding, Lack of sufficient liquid funds could result in business p security incident, extended industrial dispute at key supplier.
disruption and have a material adverse effect on financial performance.
Credit risk Cash is placed on deposit with institutions based upon credit rating with a maximum exposure of 100 million for AAA Surplus funds are invested in high quality short-term liquid ratings.
instruments, usually money market funds or bank deposits.
i Possibility of material loss arising in the event of nonperformance of counterparties.
Chris Kennedy Chief Financial officer FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE END TO END CUSTOMER PROPOSITION
