regulatory, compliance, legal, financial and it risks and controls 16 FinAnce repOrt continued principAl risKs And uncertAinties RISK mANAGEmENT FRAmEwORK The table below shows the Elementis risk management framework.
Responsibility for the management of risk in the Group lies with It illustrates that the management of risk is embedded at every level the Board.
It sets the tone for the Groups policies on risk, appetite throughout the Group, and involves a continuous and active process for risk and levels of risk tolerance.
The day to day management of of risk evaluation and review of policies, processes and compliance.
risk, however, is delegated to the executive directors and the This holistic approach to risk management is supported by specific management team, who have specific responsibility for ensuring roles and activities that are undertaken during the year, and these are compliance with and implementing policies at corporate, divisional summarised as the principal features of our risk management system, and business unit level.
The Board retains an oversight role and has a which can be found on our website at: www.
com schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, with strict  risk-management delegation of authority limits.
The Board is supported by the Audit Committee, with assistance from the internal and external auditors, which has an important role monitoring our risk management and internal control system.
In addition to these formal structures, the Board considers and reviews many different types of risks regularly in its annual programme of meetings and examples of these are given on the next page.
eleMentis risK MAnAGeMent FrAMeWOrK Risk management Compliance policies and processes, monitoring communication board of and external and training directors audit Management team Audit risk committee committee business Operational site management leadership teams management and employees and Hse and risk management professionals commercial, supply chain, Review and Risk identification Hse and operational risks evaluation of assessment and risk management mitigation systems ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Governance and strategic risk 17 Although a key emphasis of any system of risk management concerns plans and carries out an annual risk review.
The annual risk review the prevention of material financial loss and fraud, safeguarding the process involves business sites and functions producing a risk map or value of assets including reputation and controls to ensure risk register.
These are then consolidated into business or corporate compliance with laws, regulations and Group policies, the Boards risk registers.
The business risk registers are discussed at the Specialty duty to generate and preserve value over the longer term means Products and Chromium leadership meetings and the output is it has to strike the right balance between being too risk tolerant presented, together with the corporate risks, in a Group risk register and being too risk averse.
Since risk, as a concept, is prevalent in which is discussed by the management team prior to submission to everything the Company does, risk management is much more than the Board for review and approval.
having structures and processes in place, important though they are.
An important aspect of risk management is the risk culture within an Key risks that are identified in management team meetings are also organisation.
For Elementis, this means not just having appropriate reported to the Board in the Group Chief Executives and Finance policies and processes in place, but involving all our people and Directors Board reports.
The Board considers a wide range of risks knowing that policies and processes have been communicated and in presentations from different parts of the business during the year.
are understood at every level within the Group.
This risk prevalence The following is a selection of the topics in which the associated and culture is best illustrated in the Elementis governance framework risks were discussed during the year: geo-political macroeconomic on page 32 in the Corporate governance report.
The message in events and developments: M&A activity: litigation: supply chain our governance framework is that risk management is inherent in issues: major capital investment projects: treasury management: everything we do at every level and how we view, embrace and IT strategy: internal audit: legal and compliance controls including manage risk in all its forms is central to how we seek to generate and anti-bribery and corruption matters : safety and business continuity preserve value over the longer term.
matters: and environmental, social and governance issues.
RISK mANAGEmENT REvIEw PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The management team meets on a monthly basis to review business In the table below is a summary of the principal risks agreed by the performance, which also includes reviewing business risks.
Twice Board, together with a description of how the risks are mitigated.
a year, the management team also has a more in-depth review of business and corporate risks when it considers its business continuity risK And iMpAct MitiGAtiOn 1. ecOnOMic dOWnturn P oor trading conditions or slower than forecast GDP growth F inancial performance including monthly sales, profit and rates mean lower volumes, which can lead to lower output cash flows is closely monitored with full year forecasts updated and capacity utilisation levels.
three times a year and variances explained and investigated.
C ontingency and cost reduction plans can be implemented R educed productivity and profitability.
in the event of an economic downturn to reduce operating L ower earnings and cash flow can potentially lead to bank costs, including freezing salaries and non-essential capital covenant breach.
C ompany was in a net cash position at the year end so risk of a covenant breach is small but an appropriate headroom will be maintained to ensure this remains the case.
GrOWtH OppOrtunities F ailure to exploit growth opportunities through making an acquisition.
O rganic and acquisitive growth is a priority for the Board and a key area of focus for the management team.
In tegration of an acquisition runs into difficulties.
E xperienced Board and management team, robust due diligence processes and support of professional advisers will ensure costly mistakes are avoided.
F ailure of the Specialty Products business to develop or launch C apacity expansion programmes are being implemented to new products.
ensure the business can supply to growth markets.
R egular Board reports on new product pipeline and progress on R&D projects.
3. rAW MAteriAls S hortage of key raw materials owing to supply difficulties, Source from a broad and diverse supplier base.
transportation strikes or increased prices including energy prices, Strategic holding of key raw materials.
could disrupt operations, leading to lower output and capacity Transport and carrier mitigation plans and insurance.
utilisation levels, erosion of operating margins, and reduced Energy and raw material costs are hedged where possible.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC shareholder 92 93 finanCial 50 91 Corporate 26 49 business 02 25 Company ifc 01 information statements governanCe review overview 18 FinAnce repOrt continued risK And iMpAct MitiGAtiOn 4. litiGAtiOn And OtHer clAiMs FrOM prOducts And HistOricAl And OnGOinG OperAtiOns A ctive compliance and risk management programme in place C osts of defending claims or regulatory actions, or obligations to pay including policies, procedures and training.
damages or fines could reduce profitability.
I nsurance programme and risk transfer strategy in place to N egative press coverage could damage business reputation and value.
E xperienced General Counsel supported by in-house and external legal teams.
R ole of the Audit Committee, as well as the internal audit programme.
5. uK pensiOn Fund C hanges to assumptions used in valuing UK pension fund deficit P ension investment strategy includes significant element of can lead to an increase in funding costs.
S ize of pension deficit can impact the Companys share price O ptions for pension fide-risking periodically reviewed.
L ong term funding plan agreed with pension trustees, which will be reviewed as part of the triennial valuation as at 30 September 2011.
6. reGulAtiOn tecHnOlOGicAl AdvAnces T ighter regulation on use of certain chemicals, e. g. solvents O ne R&D focus is to develop products for low solvent and water or aerosol antiperspirants, could shift demand away from based applications.
M oratorium on shale gas drilling could impact drilling activity T he Oilfield business unit is diversified into a number of segments and demand for our products.
and applications, including shale gas, deep water, high pressure high temperature deep well drilling and well stimulation additives.
Products for shale development represent 32 per cent of our revenues in this business unit or five per cent of total revenues in Specialty Products in 2011.
T echnological advances in dry drilling processes may require less R &D team continues to look to find ways of developing new dispersing agents, impacting demand for our products.
products and technologies for use in an evolving market to meet the changing needs of our sophisticated customers.
G reater focus of regulatory agencies in the US, e. g. on safety or C ontinuing focus on high safety and operating standards, good environmental matters, could lead to higher operating and or housekeeping, and risk and hazard assessment programmes, compliance costs.
supported by policies, clear communication and employee training, help to mitigate any impact from this risk.
MAjOr event Or cAtAstrOpHe A m ajor catastrophe, such as a fire, hurricane or flood, could G ood housekeeping, preventative maintenance and other cause significant disruption and lead to temporary plant closures safety procedures help to mitigate any impact from this risk.
or a suspension of operations and production, impacting sales R eliance on hectorite mine and flood risk mitigated by the and profitability.
installation of drainage pumps at the mine in 2011.
I nsurance programme and business continuity plans that are tested regularly help to mitigate any impact from this risk.
These principal risks and uncertainties should be read in conjunction with the note on contingent liabilities on page 86.
Brian taylorson Finance Director 28 February 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
