RIsKs anD uncERtaIntIEs Management of risks and uncertainties The Board has articulated EnQuests strategy to deliver shareholder value by: exploiting its hydrocarbon reserves commercialising and developing discoveries converting its contingent resources into reserves and pursuing selective acquisitions In pursuit of this strategy, EnQuest has to face and manage a variety of risks.
As a result, the Board has established a risk management framework, embedding the principles of effective risk management throughout the business.
Key business risks The Groups principal risks could lead to a significant loss of reputation or could prevent the business from executing its strategy and creating value for shareholders.
These risks, along with mitigating actions are set out below: Risk Mitigation The Group maintains, in conjunction with its core contractors, a comprehensive Health Safety and Environment programme of health, safety, environmental asset integrity and assurance activities hsE and has implemented a continuous improvement programme, promoting a culture of Oil and gas development, production transparency in relation to HSE matters.
The Group has established a Corporate HSE and exploration activities are complex committee which meets quarterly.
HSE performance is discussed at each Board meeting.
and HSE risks cover many areas including operational safety, personal In addition, the Group has a positive, transparent relationship with the uK Health and health and safety, compliance with Safety Executive.
regulatory requirements and potential environmental harm.
The Groups programme of asset integrity and assurance activities provides leading production indicators of significant potential issues which may result in unplanned shutdowns or The Groups production is critical to its which may in other respects have the potential to undermine asset availability and success and is subject to a variety of risks uptime.
The Group continually assesses the condition of its assets and operates extensive including uncertain subsurface, operating maintenance and inspection procedures designed to minimise the risk of unplanned in a difficult environment with mature shutdowns and expenditure.
The Group monitors both leading and lagging key equipment and potential for significant performance indicators in relation to its maintenance activities.
unexpected shutdowns and unplanned expenditure to occur.
Life of asset production profiles are audited by independent reserves auditors.
The Group Lower than expected reservoir also undertakes regular internal peer reviews.
The Groups forecasts of production are performance may have a material impact risked to reflect appropriate production risks.
The Sullom Voe Terminal has a good safety record and its safety and operational The Groups delivery infrastructure on performance levels are regularly monitored by the Group and other Terminal owners theuKCS is dependent on the Sullom and users to ensure that operational integrity is maintained.
The Group has project teams which are responsible for the planning and execution of project Execution The Groups success will be dependent such new projects with a dedicated team for each development.
The Group has detailed controls, systems and monitoring processes in place to ensure that deadlines and upon bringing new developments to production on budget and on schedule.
budgets are met and that design concepts and Field Development Plans are adhered to and implemented.
These are modified when the circumstances require and only through The Alma and Galia development is the Groups first since inception and it involves controlled process and with the necessary internal and external authorisation.
In the case of the Alma and Galia development, the major contracts have been procured and are in significant capital expenditure.
To be successful, the Group must ensure that place.
EnQuest ensures that responsibility for delivering time critical supplier obligations and lead times are fully understood, acknowledged and proactively managed by the most project implementation is both timely and on budget.
Failure to do so may senior levels within supplier organisations.
have a material negative impact on the Groups performance.
The Group puts a strong emphasis on subsurface analysis and employs industry leading Reserve Replacement professionals.
The Group has recruited a significant number of employees during the year Failure to develop its contingent and in a variety of technical positions which enable it to manage existing assets and evaluate prospective resources or secure new the acquisition of new assets and licences.
All analysis is subject to internal, and where licences and or asset acquisitions and appropriate, external peer review.
All reserves are externally audited by a Competent realise their expected value.
EnQuest PLC 16 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BusInEss REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk Mitigation The Group has secured appropriate bank facilities to fund its development activities.
Financial Thisfunding is supported by operating cash inflow from the Groups producing assets.
Inability to fund appraisal and development The Group reviews its cash flow requirements on an ongoing basis to ensure it has work programmes.
suitable resources for its needs.
The Group monitors its employee value proposition to support the recruitment and human Resources The Groups success is dependent upon its retention of technically qualified personnel, used in identifying and executing its commercial and technical work.
Specifically, the Group regularly monitors the ability to attract and retain key personnel.
employment market to provide remuneration packages, bonus plans and long term share-based incentives plans targeted to incentivise performance and loyalty to the Group.
To enable the Company to meet its growth aspirations, the Group is undertaking a number of human resource initiatives.
These will offer significant career development and progression opportunities for the current workforce: including senior management succession planning and talent management.
There has already been a high level of recruitment activity: robust recruitment and selection strategies and processes are in place.
EnQuests experienced HR department will continue to seek to recruit in line with current workforce plans and forecasts.
The Group also maintains market competitive contracts with key suppliers to support the execution of work where the necessary skills do not exist within the Groups employee base.
Reputation Operational activities are conducted in accordance with approved policies, standards and procedures.
Interface agreements are agreed with all core contractors.
The reputational and commercial exposures to a major offshore incident The Group undertakes regular audit activities to provide assurance on compliance are significant.
with established policies, standards and procedures.
Oil price The Group monitors oil price sensitivity relative to its capital commitments and has a policy which allows hedging of up to 50% of its production.
A material decline in oil and gas prices may adversely affect the Groups results of In order to develop its resources, the Group needs to be able to fund substantial levels operations and financial condition.
The Group will therefore regularly review and implement suitable policies to hedge against the possible negative funding impacts of changes in oil prices.
It is difficult for the Group to predict the timing or severity of such changes.
However, political and Fiscal the Group does engage with government and other appropriate organisations, through Changes in the regulatory or fiscal Oil & Gas uK and other industry associations in order to ensure the Group is kept abreast environment affecting the Groups ability of expected potential changes and takes an active role in making appropriate to deliver its strategy.
At a more operational level, the Group has procedures to identify impending changes in relevant regulations to ensure legislative compliance.
The Group operates regular cash call and billing arrangements with its co-venturers Joint Venture partners to mitigate the Groups credit exposure at any one point in time and keeps in regular Failure by joint venture parties to fund dialogue with each of these parties to ensure payment.
Risk of default is mitigated by their obligations.
joint operating agreements allowing the Group to take over any defaulting partys share in an operated asset.
The Group generally sets out to be the operator.
The Group maintains regular dialogue Dependence on other parties where the with its partners to ensure alignment of interests and to maximise the value of joint Group is not the operator.
The Group has a strong balance sheet which puts it in a favourable position to be able competition The Group operates in a competitive to compete effectively and move quickly when looking to acquire assets.
environment across many areas including the acquisition of oil and gas assets, the The Group also has strong technical and business development capabilities to ensure it is well positioned to identify potential acquisition opportunities.
marketing of oil and gas, the procurement of oil and gas services and access to The Group has good relations with oil and gas service providers and constantly keeps human resources.
Human resources are key to the Groups success and programmes outlined above are in place to ensure it can attract and retain key personnel.
