ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 Sustainable Development Review continued Risk Management Risk and the Board of Directors The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining a sound risk management and internal control system.
Our system of risk management and internal control is designed to identify, manage and mitigate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The system provides reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There are ongoing processes in place for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting on the significant risks faced by the Group.
These processes are in place for the year under review up to, and including, the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
In the Annual Report and Accounts for the preceding year, we reported on 10 principal risks.
These risks were reviewed during the course of the current year by the Executive Committee, which determined that our risk environment had changed: Positively as a result of: Continued enhancement of our risk reporting and compliance framework driving further accountability and where necessary additional remediation plans: Greater focus on tone from the top to enhance our risk culture: and Implementation of key risk management action plans.
Negatively as a result of: Downgrade of the Companys credit rating: Increased competition for high calibre mining talent: and Increased external scrutiny.
Accordingly, the principal risks to the execution of the Groups business strategy are shown in the rest of this section.
We have explained the nature of each risk, identifying the possible impact and the associated strategic priorities.
In addition, we have described the mitigating activity to address those risks, as well as our plans for further enhancements.
Risk Mitigation Project management Context The approved capital expenditure programme for 2012 is significant A Group Investment Policy has been approved by the Board and includes large scale expansion projects in existing and and its main principles include: acquired operations.
Stage gated approach to project selection: Risk Clear governance framework: Failure to deliver major capital projects within the agreed time, Wider decision making support accessible: cost and quality criteria.
Group investment procedures: and Investment valuation manual.
Possible impact Lower long-term growth profitability and reputation.
Associated strategic priorities A project assurance programme.
Continue expansion and development of existing reserves and Quarterly review and analysis of capital projects and reporting capacity.
on project progress to the Executive Committee.
Planned implementation and training of personnel on a Group-wide project management code of practice.
A new IT solution to support long-term sensitivity modelling.
Risk Mitigation Business development Context Industry consolidation continues.
The Group made a number The Board defines the investment strategy.
of acquisitions in 2011 and will continue to consider opportunities The Investment Committee oversees acquisition activity, if appropriate to do so.
approves targets and supervises execution.
Risk Potential transactions are subject to analysis to ensure Failure to identify opportunities to participate in value-adding consistency and high standards.
transactions, overpaying for a transaction, inaccurate business case or poor integration leading to inadequate return on investment.
An approved investment criteria for assessing potential targets has been developed and implemented.
Possible impact Lower long-term growth, profitability and reputation.
Formal integration plans are now being developed for each acquisition, progress will be monitored and reported to the Associated strategic priorities relevant committees.
Add value and customer diversity by expanding product portfolio.
In 2011 an Investment Policy, which also includes policy Expand our asset portfolio in natural resources worldwide.
on divestment and sale of assets, was approved.
44 Unlocking Value Risk Management continued Risk Mitigation Legal and regulatory breach Context We are an emerging markets business and aware that some of We adhere to the principles of self-regulation backed by the jurisdictions in which the Group operates pose particular and appropriate policies and management review.
often heightened reputational issues that need to be managed Our Code of Conduct has been revised to bring more prominence appropriately.
Natural resources businesses operating in emerging and clarity on behaviours and accountability.
markets are subject to additional regulatory scrutiny.
We are developing a high calibre Group-wide Compliance Risk function.
Failure to comply with laws and regulations regarding: We have launched web-based ethics and compliance training anti-bribery: across the Group, as well as targeted face-to-face training.
anti-corruption: Our whistleblowing hotline has been upgraded.
anti-money laundering: and or sanctions.
External books and records review and adequate procedures reviews underway.
Possible impact Share price devaluation, financial penalties and criminal A revised Whistleblowing and Investigations Policy has been prosecutions.
We are developing a Contract Due Diligence Policy.
Associated strategic priorities Commit to high standards of corporate social responsibility and We have engaged third party advisors to assist with assessing sustainable development.
compliance for record retention requirements.
We have established an Anti-bribery and Corruption Steering Expand our asset portfolio in natural resources worldwide.
Committee see page 58 for further details.
In 2012, there will be continued focus on tone from the top.
We will continue to further enhance the adequacy and robustness of Group-wide legal and regulatory processes and compliance procedures.
In 2012 we will introduce compliance monitoring audits in business units.
Group-wide risk assessments for compliance issues are being undertaken and will be completed in 2012.
Risk Mitigation Management capability Context Over the last three years we acquired a number of companies in A new Global HR Director has been recruited.
His key focus areas Africa and Brazil.
These regions will require strong leadership and include: an experienced senior management team to integrate and operate Developing a 10-year HR strategy: the acquired companies effectively.
Enhancing the HR functional capability: Enhancing the Groups HR policies and procedures: Risk Reviewing the Groups approach to compensation and benefits: Failure to attract, retain and develop key management talent.
and Further developing the Groups approach to resourcing, Possible impact learning and development.
Inability to execute long-term growth strategy, lower long-term growth, lower profitability, corporate reputation.
Associated strategic priorities Continue expansion and development of existing reserves and capacity.
Commit to high standards of corporate social responsibility and sustainable development.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45 www.
com Risk Management continued Risk Mitigation Organisational development Context Originally the Groups operating plants were based in Kazakhstan A review of the organisational structure is being carried out.
with a Sales and Marketing function based in Switzerland.
We now A Group governance framework is being developed.
operate a large scale global business and it is important that our governance structures, controls and clear delegations of authority Planned implementation of a Group-wide project management are appropriate for our new business.
code of practice for the ENRC Group.
Further development of in-house project management capability Risk for large capital expenditure projects in 2012.
Ineffective delegation of authority, governance structures and frameworks can impact on the delivery of the Groups strategic Details of our governance structure are set out in the Corporate objectives.
Governance Report on pages 51 to 58.
Possible impact Failure to deliver strategic objectives, lower long-term growth, corporate reputation and financial return.
Expand our asset portfolio in natural resources worldwide.
Risk Mitigation Liquidity Context Over the last three years the Group executed a number of The Group Treasury policies and procedures are updated acquisitions and purchased businesses in Africa and Brazil.
regularly and monitoring and reporting processes continue The Group has also approved a number of large scale greenfield to be enhanced.
and brownfield projects in Brazil and Africa that will require Building and maintaining relationships with financial providers significant additional financing.
The Group has recently been and credit rating agencies.
downgraded by both Standard and Poors S&P and Moodys credit rating agencies.
The Groups credit ratings are now BBCash flow forecasts are regularly prepared and presented with S&P and BA3 with Moodys, with both ratings on a negative to the Board.
It is possible that as a result of this action the Groups Annual budgeting process.
access to future sources of debt finance may be restricted.
Risk On a longer-term horizon, the five-year financing plan enables Failure to arrange or provide sufficient financing for the Groups us to develop a long-term funding strategy for the Group.
operating, investment and mergers and acquisitions activities.
Formal CFO approval and sign-off for all major projects.
Possible impact Investment Committee oversight.
Inability to meet payment obligations and restriction of the Groups ability to raise finance, or inadequate funds available to complete projects and make further acquisitions.
Add value and customer diversity by expanding the product portfolio.
46 Unlocking Value Risk Management continued Risk Mitigation Political risk Context We are an emerging markets business and most of the Groups The Groups existing senior management team possesses operations are based in fast developing emerging markets extensive experience of operating in Eurasia, Africa and economies.
Our business could be adversely affected by the developing markets.
behaviour of, or new regulations that could be introduced by, Constructive engagement with governments and external the governments of the countries concerned, for example: stakeholders.
Re-nationalisation: Appropriate investment to improve the economic and social Controls on imports, exports and sales prices: impact of our businesses in local communities working in Terms of mining and other licences: partnership with governments.
Restriction on foreign ownership of assets: Restriction on the remittance of funds: New forms or rates of taxation, duties and royalties: or New policies or systems.
Risk The risk of strategic, financial, or personnel loss as a result of non-market factors such as macroeconomic and social policies fiscal, monetary, trade, investment, industrial, income, labour and developmental, or events related to political instability terrorism, riots, coups, civil war and insurrection.
Possible impact Business repatriation, significant loss of earnings, financial volatility.
Associated strategic priorities Maintain and improve upon low-cost operations.
Risk Mitigation Technical disaster Context Technological processes within the mining and metals industry can Site safety declarations are in place for each of the Kazakhstani be susceptible to incidents and disasters, which may have potential hazardous sites, and these examine potential incidents related significant consequences.
to site operations and their impact.
Technical committees provide input into the operational and Risk capital investment processes of the established businesses.
Large-scale technical incident leading to loss of life, environmental impact and interruption to business operations.
Further development of risk management and post-incident crisis management plans are under way.
Possible impact For each of the Kazakhstani sites, the Group has developed Corporate reputation, prospects for long-term growth, financial post-incident plans to minimise the impact of an incident.
profitability, loss of life, environmental damage.
In 2012 a new Group-wide project to enhance our business Associated strategic priorities continuity plans was initiated.
Commit to high standards of corporate responsibility and Operational site risk surveys are conducted on a rotational basis.
Appropriate property damage and business interruption insurance Expand our asset portfolio in natural resources worldwide.
For further details of safety performance please refer to the Sustainable Development Review on pages 39 to 42 and to the Sustainable Development Report, to be published separately.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 www.
com Risk Management continued Risk Mitigation Commodity pricing volatility Context The prices of our core products have been historically volatile The Group regularly monitors market prices, global sales volumes and have fluctuated significantly in response to changes in supply and internal levels of inventory.
and demand, market uncertainty, the performance of global and Sensitivity analysis is performed to stress test business models.
regional economies and cyclicality in industries that purchase these products.
The Sales and Marketing function produces regular forecasts of the sales volumes and prices for each of the Groups Risk commodities.
A substantial decline or volatility in commodity prices could The Sales and Marketing function discusses and agrees materially affect the Groups business and financial results appropriate production and distribution plans with the as well as the cash flow projections.
management of the operating companies.
Possible impact Operations are able to quickly and significantly reduce costs Lower profitability, lower long-term growth.
by temporarily reducing labour during periods of pricing volatility.
Associated strategic priorities For further detail please refer to the Chief Executive Officers Continue expansion and development of existing reserves Statement on pages 8 to 11. and capacity.
Risk Mitigation Health, safety, environment and community Context By their very nature, mining operations can be hazardous.
However, The Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committee ENRC management is committed to achieving zero health and focusing on: safety related incidents.
Safety management and performance: Implementation of a new safety improvement programme: and There is also the potential that environmental legislation may Review of HSEC risks and action plans.
be introduced that will impose additional costs on the business.
ENRC Safety Policy and Standards, and ENRC internal corporate Risk accident investigation policy.
Health and safety incidents impacting on staff welfare, lost working time and breaches in health, safety and environmental regulation.
Environmental legislation drives additional demands, including Certified Occupational Health and Safety Management System additional costs required to ensure compliance with new standards.
Possible impact DuPont safety improvement programme to develop a new safety Corporate reputation, prospects for long-term growth, financial management system.
Associated strategic priorities Commit to high standards of corporate responsibility and For further details please refer to the Sustainable Development sustainable development.
Review on pages 39 to 42, the Sustainable Development Report to be published separately and Key Performance Indicators on Expand our asset portfolio in natural resources worldwide.
