26 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Effective management of risk is essential to achieving EVRAZs objective of delivering long-term value to shareholders and to the protection of its assets, people and reputation.
Identifying, evaluating and managing business risks are integral to the way EVRAZ runs its business.
Strategic Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigation The steel and mining industries are cyclical and strongly Regular strategic planning, global operations diversifying Global Economy and influenced by global economic conditions.
As a result, risk across a number of key economic markets, increasing Industry Cyclicality EVRAZs business is highly dependent on, and sensitive to, the number of medium and long-term customer contracts, the global macroeconomic environment.
If macroeconomic maintaining a competitive low product cost structure, conditions deteriorate or a significant economic contraction prudent financial management.
takes place in any of the Groups key geographic markets, the Groups business, financial condition and prospects could be materially affected.
The industries in which the majority of our steel customers operate, are themselves cyclical in nature and sensitive to economic conditions.
Renewed weakness in these industries would adversely affect EVRAZs business.
The prices of EVRAZs primary commodities and its steel products are influenced by many factors including demand, worldwide production capacity, capacity utilisation rates, raw material costs, exchange rates and trade barriers.
Prices for these commodities may experience significant fluctuations as a result of these and other factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition, the results of operations and future prospects.
Dependency In 2011, EVRAZ derived around 40% of its consolidated Regular strategic planning, increasing the number of revenues from sales to customers in Russia and about medium and long-term customer contracts, maintaining on Russian and 22% from sales to customers in North America.
The overall a competitive low cost product structure, matching North American success of EVRAZs operations is therefore closely tied contract product pricing to key input costs, increasing Markets to the business and operating environments in these product portfolio and customer focus strategies to more two regions.
Any significant decrease in demand for steel robust infrastructure market categories.
products or decline in the price of these products in these territories could result in significantly reduced revenues, thereby materially adversely affecting EVRAZs business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.
Political Adverse consequences from specific or general political Regular strategic planning, positive investment in social actions hindering the Groups long-term planning ability and and community projects, effective sustainability activity limiting its capacity to obtain financing in the international in health, safety and environmental programmes, careful markets which could have a material adverse effect on and diligent attention to local and international regulations, Evrazs business, financial condition, results of operations laws and taxation regimes.
Steel production and mining are capital intensive In addition to the mitigation actions described above Capital Expenditure businesses.
EVRAZ plans to continue to invest in its regarding global economic risks, the Group has production facilities, maintaining and upgrading existing established procedures and dedicated management for facilities, developing new mines and investing in new the planning, realisation and commissioning of capital projects.
In 2011, the Group had capital expenditure of projects.
The Group aims to minimise short-term debt US$1.28 billion.
The Group expects to be able to fund its and secure liquidity to ensure funding of the necessary current planned capital expenditures from cash generated capital expenditure.
from operations and external funding.
However, planned capital expenditures may be adversely affected by the following factors: changes in the terms of existing financing arrangements: changes in economic conditions: fluctuations in the Russian or global steel markets: regulatory developments: delays in project completion: cost overruns: and defects in design or construction.
It is possible that EVRAZ may have difficulty in financing its capital expenditures and external sources of financing may not be available.
The failure to fully finance its planned capital expenditures at a level intended to grow its business, or to finance such expenditures at an acceptable cost or at all, may have an adverse impact on EVRAZs business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operational Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigation EVRAZs operations are subject to a wide range of health, The Group has introduced a management structure to Health, Safety and safety and environmental HSE laws, regulations and appropriately escalate material HSE issues to Board level.
Any breach of existing laws and regulations The Group is actively assessing its environmental impacts resulting from health, safety or environmental incidents and potential liabilities to improve management of those may result in the imposition of fines, penalties, or other exposures.
actions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.
The introduction of new laws and regulations may result in increased costs, or in the event of non-compliance, also lead to the imposition of substantial penalties or other actions that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.
EVRAZs business depends on good labour relations There are established Group and local HR procedures, Labour Relations with employees.
Labour disputes, restrictive labour channels for timely communications and negotiations with and employment laws, as well as increasing costs of trade unions, other representative bodies and authorities.
skilled labour, could have a material adverse impact on EVRAZ.
Although EVRAZ believes its labour relations with its employees are good, a strike or a work stoppage could occur at any of the Groups facilities or greenfield operations.
At most of the Groups business units, there are collective bargaining agreements in place with labour unions.
However, existing agreements may not prevent future strikes, work stoppages or other labour-related disputes which could result in a decrease in EVRAZs production levels.
They could also lead to adverse publicity or an increase in costs, which could have a material adverse effect on EVRAZs business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects.
EVRAZ operates in markets that are highly competitive.
Cost Competitiveness Management reporting framework, Group and site Competitors include major international steel producers operational KPIs, regular Management Committee and mining companies, as well as other Russian steel meetings, PRM Product and Resource Management and mining producers and producers in other emerging meetings.
Proactive HR skills and management gap market countries.
The Groups competitive position as one analysis, site and group level in-house training and of the worlds lowest cost steel producers is dependent established Lean management processes.
The above on, among other factors, its ability to manage its cost management mitigation action is supported by specific base and increase the efficiency and productivity of its investment projects to deliver reduced cost per tonne: employees.
Competition for skilled labour is intense in a key example being the investment in PCI facilities at the steel and mining industries, and labour costs are EVRAZ NTMK and EVRAZ ZSMK.
increasing significantly, particularly in Russia.
Continued high demand for skilled labour and labour cost inflation could make it difficult for the Group to attract qualified employees at a commercially reasonable cost and such a difficulty could thus have a material adverse effect on EVRAZs business, results of operations, financial condition and futureprospects.
In addition, EVRAZs Russian subsidiaries are in many instances the largest employers in the cities in which they operate, which means its ability to reduce the numbers of its employees may be subject to political and social considerations.
Any inability to make planned reductions in workforce numbers in order to increase efficiency could have a material adverse effect on EVRAZs business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.
28 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Continued Operational Risks continued Risk Type Risk Mitigation The mining, smelting and refining operations of EVRAZ The Group has established protocols and procedures Business Interruption are subject to a number of operational risks which can across the Group as a whole such that plans are in place cause prolonged shut downs or production delays.
to ensure business continuity in the Groups operations in These include: the availability of raw materials, water the event of a major disruption to the Groups operations.
and power, geological and technical challenges, climatic The Group also carries business interruption insurance conditions such as flooding and earthquakes, equipment except for mining operations.
failure, interruptions to power supplies, or limitations or disruptions to transportation services such as railways.
Any such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on EVRAZs operating performance, production levels, financial condition and future prospects.
In addition, long-term business interruption may result in a loss of customers and damage to the Groups reputation.
Financial Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigation EVRAZ, like many large multinational companies, faces EVRAZ manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate Treasury Risks a variety of treasury risks including liquidity risk, credit cash reserves and borrowing facilities, by continuously risk, currency risk and interest rate risk.
Adverse events monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching or uncertainties affecting the global financial markets the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
could adversely affect EVRAZs ability to raise new debt EVRAZ reviews cash flow forecasts, debt profiles and or refinance existing debt facilities in the capital markets.
funding options by the financial team, top management, It could also in future lead to higher borrowing costs.
the Audit Committee, in respect of Going Concern EVRAZ needs ongoing access to liquidity funding in order deliberations, and by the Board.
to meet its trading requirements, support its existing To manage credit risk related to cash, EVRAZ maintains operations and invest in new investment projects.
There its available cash, mainly in US dollars, in reputable is a risk that the Group may be unable to obtain the international banks and major Russian banks.
necessary funds when required or that such funds will Management periodically reviews the creditworthiness only be available on unfavorable terms.
EVRAZs borrowing of the banks in which it deposits cash.
facilities include a requirement to comply with certain EVRAZs trade receivables consist of a large number specified covenants in relation to the level of net debt of customers, spread across diverse industries and and interest cover.
A breach of these covenants could geographical areas.
There are no significant concentrations result in a significant proportion of the Groups borrowings of credit risk within the EVRAZ customer base.
Some of EVRAZs sales are made on terms of letter of EVRAZ transacts with a variety of commercial and financial credit.
In addition, EVRAZ requires prepayments from counterparties including customers, financial institutions certain customers.
EVRAZ does not require collateral and suppliers.
Accordingly, the failure or default of a in respect of trade and other receivables, except when counter party could give rise to a material loss which may a customer asks for a payment period which is longer have an adverse impact on EVRAZs business, financial than normal terms.
In this case, EVRAZ requires bank condition, results of operations and future prospects.
guarantees or other liquid collateral.
The Group developed The mix of EVRAZs revenues and costs is such that it standard payment terms and constantly monitors is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly the status of accounts receivable collection and the between the Rouble and the US dollar.
The appreciation creditworthiness of the customers.
of the Rouble against the US dollar tends to result in Natural hedging against foreign exchange risk.
The majority an increase in the EVRAZ Groups costs relative to its of EVRAZ revenues are received in roubles for sales in revenues.
Therefore, adverse currency movements may Russia and US dollars almost all sales in other countries.
materially adversely affect EVRAZs financial condition However, rouble prices in the Russian domestic market and results of operations.
are linked to export parity, so viewed as effectively US EVRAZ borrows on both a fixed and variable rate basis dollar prices with a domestic premium in times of higher and has other interest-bearing liabilities, such as finance demand.
Also, domestic sales in Russia are generally lease liabilities and other obligations.
more profitable compared to exports due to the effect of EVRAZ incurs interest rate risk on liabilities with variable transportation costs.
When the Russian market performs interest rates.
well, the rouble appreciates, which leads to both increased costs and increased revenues in US dollar terms due to both the domestic premium and the higher proportion of domestic sales.
On the other hand, when the Russian economy weakens, rouble production costs fall, while steel prices usually follow the RUB USD exchange rate trend and more steel is exported.
Finally, almost all of EVRAZs debt is US dollar denominated including the Rouble bonds which are swapped into US dollars.
EVRAZs treasury function performs analysis of current interest rates.
In the event of changes in market fixed or variable interest rates management may consider the refinancing of a particular debt on more favourable terms.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financial Risks continued Risk Type Risk Mitigation EVRAZ is exposed to tax compliance and tax management The procedures of tax risk identification and tax Taxation processes in multiple tax jurisdictions.
The integrated compliance are established.
The Audit Committee nature of EVRAZs worldwide operations can give rise to reviews tax risk and compliance each half year.
uncertainty with regards to the Groups tax liabilities and produce conflicting claims from revenue authorities in relation to the profits to be taxed in specific jurisdictions.
Failure to manage tax risks could lead to additional tax charges.
It could also lead to reputational damage or a financial penalty for failure to comply with required tax procedures or other aspects of tax law.
Other Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigation EVRAZ is controlled by Lanebrook the Major Control Exercised by The board has a balance of 50% independent nonShareholder, a limited liability company incorporated executive directors who have a duty to protect the minority the Major Shareholder under the laws of Cyprus.
As at 31 December 2011, shareholder regarding General Meeting resolutions, the Major Shareholder held a 72.34% stake in EVRAZ.
also to oversee and where appropriate seek independent As a result of its controlling interest in EVRAZ, the valuations of any proposed related party transactions.
Major Shareholder has the ability to exert control over The Nomination Committee is charged with the selection certain actions requiring shareholder approval, including of the Chief Executive, succession plans for key senior increasing or decreasing the authorised share capital of management and selection of independent non-executive the Company and disapplying pre-emptive rights, the directors.
election of directors, the declaration of dividends, the appointment of management and other policy decisions.
While transactions with the Major Shareholder can benefit the Company, the interests of the Major Shareholder could at times conflict with the interests of the other shareholders.
Any such conflict of interest could adversely affect EVRAZs business, financial condition and results of operations.
30 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Rail Mill Shop Modernisation at EVRAZ ZSMK In January 2010 EVRAZ began reconstruction of a rail mill located 1 at EVRAZ ZSMK with the objective of increasing rail production volumes to 950,000 tonnes per annum up to 100% thermostrengthened rails and of manufacturing 100-metre rails in compliance with all new national standards and in accordance with the requirements of Russian Railways.
Construction is underway and most of the plant and equipment is already delivered to site.
Commissioning works are planned to start in October 2012.
1 NKMK and ZSMK steel mills were consolidated under the name EVRAZ United West-Siberian Iron and Steel Plant EVRAZ ZSMK in 2011.
EVRAZ ZSMK Asset Location in Russia Moscow EVRAZ ZSMK 950 ktpa 950,000 tonnes of rail per annum objectives of increasing rail production Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc EVRAZ plc 31 31 Annual Repor Annual Report and Accounts 2011 t and Accounts 2011 Operating Review
