Exillon Energy Directors report Relationship Agreement on 10 December 2009, we entered into a relationships between the respective parties are relationship Agreement the relationship conducted at arms length and on a commercial Agreement with Maksat Arip and the trustees basis.
Further details about the relationship of his investment vehicle.
The principal purpose Agreement and transactions with the former of the relationship Agreement is to ensure the chairman are set out on page 30 in the corporate regulation of our ongoing relationship with Mr. governance report.
Arip and to help ensure that transactions and Events Since Balance Sheet Date post balance sheet events are set out in note 32 to 2010.
The settlement was for 292,950, and the the Financial Statements on page 74. total value of the related party Transactions under investigation was 930,000.
We disclosed these We concluded a settlement following an FSA transactions in April 2011 in our 2010 Financial investigation, after failing to identify and notify Statements.
the FSA of certain related party Transactions in Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring mitigate known risks and the effectiveness of and that risk is managed effectively, while the efficacy progress in implementing these plans are reviewed of our internal control system is monitored by the regularly in accordance with Turnbull guidance.
The day-to-day responsibility Despite our best efforts to factor these known risks for managing risk and maintaining our system of into its business strategy, inevitably risks will exist of internal control lies jointly with the Chief Financial which we are currently unaware.
Officer and the Chief Executive Officer.
Plans to 17 Directors report Principal risks and uncertainties risk Mitigation control We could be adversely The russian taxation regime serves as a hedge against oil price affected by a substantial declines, as the most significant components of taxation such as or extended decline in the Export Duty and Mineral Extraction Tax decline to zero as the oil prices for crude oil.
price decreases to US$15 bbl.
our business depends on Our licences are subject to periodic review by the regional authorities exploration and production and as part of the most recent reviews, the authorities indicated that licences issued by the we are in compliance with the terms of our licences.
russian authorities, which could be suspended, restricted, terminated or not extended.
leases relating to some Exillon Tp leases three wells which represent approximately 1.4 % of of our oil wells have Exillon Tp's reserves and a small portion of its expected production.
expired, which may result Article 621 2 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation states that in a potential inability to such leases are extended for an indefinite term if the tenant continues operate these wells.
Either party is entitled to terminate the lease upon three months notice.
Fluctuations in currency A significant part of our revenues from the sale of crude oil are exchange rates may denominated in U. S. dollars, while a substantial proportion of our materially and adversely costs are denominated in roubles.
Accordingly, the real appreciation affect our financial results of the Rouble against the U. S. dollar may negatively affect our profit, and condition.
but we anticipate that such appreciation will most likely be the result of high crude oil prices which would neutralise the effect.
We rely on the services of our assets are located in well developed regions, which means that third party providers.
services are available on commercially reasonable terms from a number of providers.
Most of the crude oil we Transneft is controlled by the russian Federation.
in addition our oil produce is transported via is of high quality which makes it attractive to refinery and pipeline a single pipeline system operators.
operated by an external provider Transneft.
18 Exillon Energy Directors report risk Mitigation control We could be subject to In the last two years, the authorities have not imposed any fines claims and liabilities under on Exillon WS and Exillon Tp or instructed them to improve their environmental, health, procedures or infrastructure in relation to any environmental laws and safety and other laws and regulations.
We face drilling, our core technical and operational team have extensive experience exploration and production gained from their work on a wide variety of projects in Russia.
risks which may prevent us from realising profits and may result in substantial losses.
We do not carry the types We currently maintain all mandatory insurance required by law and of insurance normally carhave enhanced our policies with respect to medical insurance and ried by a business of our accidents.
We do not maintain property insurance.
We could be subject to None of our oilfields is regarded as a strategic deposit and none restrictions on foreign of our subsidiaries is engaged in any other activities of strategic ownership in future.
importance envisaged by the Strategic investment law.
There are high levels of We anticipate that high levels of inflation in Russia will be balanced inflation in Russia.
by higher domestic oil prices and or rouble devaluation.
russian tax law and There can be no assurance that the russian Tax code will not be practice are not fully changed in the future in a manner adverse to the stability and developed and are subject predictability of the tax system.
However, we are committed to to frequent changes.
complying with all the provisions of the Tax code.
