g n i r o t i n o M g R n e i t p r o 38 Experian Annual Report 2011 Experian has a risk management framework which provides a structured and consistent process for identifying, assessing and responding to risks in relation to the Groups strategy and business objectives including the Groups strategic focus on data and analytics, driving profitable growth and optimising capital efficiency.
Risks and uncertainties Risk management operates at all levels internal control framework.
Managements risk management across the Group.
throughout the Group, across geographies, responsibility is to manage risk on behalf The corporate governance statement in business lines, and operational support of the Board.
By reporting regularly to the this report provides further detail on this functions.
The Board is ultimately Board and to the Audit Committee, the process.
responsible for risk management, which Group's internal audit and the global risk includes the Groups risk governance management functions provide support structure and maintaining an appropriate to the Board in maintaining effective Risk management framework Full risk review undertaken at Controls analysed for adequacy least bi-annually by each and effectiveness Effective management of risk and business and function Risk analysed for impact, opportunity is essential to the delivery Both financial and non-financial probability and the speed of the Groups objectives, achievement risks recorded in controlled risk with which a risk impacts the of sustainable shareholder value and registers organisation known as velocity to determine net exposure protection of its reputation.
Experian has Risk owners allocated to assess and manage risk an established global risk management process which has operated throughout the Identify Analyse year ended 31 March 2011.
The framework enables the risks of the Group to be identified, analysed, evaluated, controlled, monitored and reported.
In doing so the main functions of the Board are supported Respond Evaluate by: identifying and managing risk in Risk owners identified Risk exposure reviewed and risks prioritised Action plans implemented to alignment with the Groups strategic manage or respond to risk subject Risk evaluation documented objectives, corporate responsibility to regular review in controlled risk register strategy and the long-term value drivers in the business: and enabling management to demonstrate a responsible and proactive, embedded approach to risk management.
Key aspects of the Experian risk Control reviews and follow-ups Executive risk management management framework performed by management, internal committee with global oversight of risk audit and third parties management processes Defined and communicated business principles and strategies Budgetary controls and monthly Regular reporting on risk to the Audit performance reviews, including Committee by senior management Clear Group objectives, supported achievement of objectives and KPIs by financial and non-financial key Regular risk updates to the Board performance indicators KPIs Regional risk management committees with local oversight of risk management Standardised process to identify, processes evaluate and manage significant risks on an ongoing basis o r p t i e n R g g n i r o t i n o M Business review Risks and uncertainties 39 Risk factors The following information sets out the risk factors which the Group believes could cause its future results to differ materially from expected results.
However, other factors could also adversely affect the Groups results and so the factors discussed below should not be considered to be a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties.
The Groups approach to identifying, assessing, managing and reporting risks is formalised in its risk management framework described in this section.
Risks that the Group faces are critically evaluated throughout the year and synthesised in the years report.
Product service or technology obsolescence has been added as a principal risk in recognition of innovation being integral to Experians success.
Principal risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies The Groups business requires the appropriate The Group has established rigorous Loss or inappropriate usage and secure utilisation of consumer and other information security policies, standards, of data sensitive information by its business units or its procedures, and recruitment and training third party partners.
Internet-based electronic schemes, which are embedded throughout Related strategy: commerce requires the secure transmission of its business operations.
The Group also Focus on data and analytics confidential information over public networks, screens new third party partners carefully and several of our products are accessed and conducts targeted audits on their through the internet.
Continued investments connection with maintaining data and the are made in IT security infrastructure, delivery of our products and services could including the significant use of data and harm our reputation, business and operating communications encryption technology.
Please refer to the key resources overview section of this report for further information on how data is considered to be the foundation of Experians value proposition.
The Groups business model is dependent The Groups legal, regulatory and government Dependence upon third upon third parties to provide data and certain affairs departments work closely with parties to provide data and operational services, the loss of which senior management to adopt strategies to could significantly impact the quality of and help secure and maintain access to public certain operational services demand for our products.
Similarly, if one or and private information.
The Groups Related strategy: more of our outsource providers, including global strategic sourcing department Focus on data and analytics third parties with whom we have strategic works closely with senior management Optimise capital efficiency relationships, were to experience financial or to select and negotiate agreements with operational difficulties, their services to us strategic suppliers based on criteria such would suffer or they may no longer be able as delivery assurance and reliability.
to provide services to us at all, significantly impacting delivery of our products or services.
Legislative, regulatory and judicial systems The Groups legal, regulatory and government Exposure to legislation or in the countries in which the Group operates affairs departments work closely with senior regulatory reforms are responding to changing societal attitudes management to adopt strategies and educate about how commercial entities collect, manage, lawmakers, regulators, consumer and privacy Related strategy: aggregate, use, exchange and sell data.
Some advocates, industry trade groups and other Focus on data and analytics proposed changes may adversely affect the stakeholders in the public policy debate.
This Groups ability to undertake these activities in includes negotiating, advocating and promoting a cost effective manner.
The growing ubiquity new industry self-regulatory standards, when of the internet drives public concerns about appropriate, to address consumer concerns how consumer information is collected and about privacy and information sharing.
In used for marketing, risk management and addition, the Group retains internal and fraud detection.
These concerns may result external tax professionals that monitor the in new laws, regulations and enforcement likelihood of future tax changes.
These risks practices, or pressure upon industries to adopt are generally outside the control of the Group.
In addition, the Group is subject to changes in specific countries tax laws.
Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws.
The Groups businesses must comply with To the best of Experians knowledge, the Regulatory compliance federal, regional, provincial, state and other Group is in compliance with data protection Related strategy: jurisdictional regulations and best practice.
requirements in each jurisdiction in Focus on data and analytics These include rules that authorise and which it operates.
The Groups regulatory prescribe credit reporting protocols, as well as compliance departments work closely general information privacy, anti-corruption with the businesses to adopt strategies to and information security requirements.
help ensure compliance with jurisdictional Non-compliance could lead to penalties, regulations and identified business ethics increased prudential requirements, enforced which includes active monitoring of its suspension of operations or, in extreme cases, collection and use of personal data.
Risk based withdrawal of authorisations to operate.
procedures have been developed to ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010.
40 Experian Annual Report 2011 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Without the timely introduction of new or Product innovation is a key driver of growth Product service or enhanced products and services, the Groups for Experian in all our markets and we have technology obsolescence offerings will become technologically or continued to invest strongly in new data commercially obsolete over time.
Without sources and new analytical products, Related strategy: continued investments in our technology together with the platforms that support Drive profitable growth Optimise capital efficiency infrastructure, the Group may not be able to their worldwide delivery.
Over 10% of Group support changes in the way our businesses revenues come from products developed and clients use and purchase information.
during just the past five years.
In addition, In either case, revenue and operating nearly 20% of our global costs are in IT and results would suffer.
Refer to the business data.
Detailed competitive and market analyses and market overview section of this report are performed which provide the foundation for some examples of how business units of a rigorous product and services investment are delivering innovative solutions.
The Groups ability to provide reliable The Group has strict standards, procedures Interruptions in business services largely depends on the efficient and and training schemes for physical security.
processes or systems uninterrupted operation of our computer Comprehensive business continuity plans network systems, data and call centres, as well and incident management programmes Related strategy: Optimise capital efficiency as maintaining sufficient staffing levels.
System are maintained to minimise business and Drive profitable growth or network interruptions, or the significant operational disruptions including pandemic reduction in key staff or management resulting incidents.
The Group maintains full duplication from a pandemic outbreak, could delay of all information contained in databases and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or and runs back-up data centres.
Support maintain our products and services, causing arrangements, strict standards, procedures harm to our business and reputation and and training schemes for business continuity resulting in loss of clients or revenue.
have been established with third party vendors.
The Group also monitors potential pandemic threats and adjusts action plans.
The ability of the Group to meet the demands of Effective recruitment programmes are Dependence on recruitment the market and compete effectively with other ongoing across all business areas, as and retention of highly IT suppliers is, to a large extent, dependent on well as personal and career development the skills, experience and performance of its initiatives.
Talent identification and skilled personnel personnel.
Demand is high for individuals with development programmes have been Related strategy: appropriate knowledge and experience in the implemented and are reviewed annually.
Focus on data and analytics IT and business services market.
The inability Compensation and benefits programmes are Drive profitable growth to attract, motivate or retain key talent could competitive and also regularly reviewed.
have a serious consequence on the Groups ability to service client commitments and grow our business.
Please refer to the key resources section of this report for further information on how Experian is investing in its people.
Other risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies The financial services, mortgage, retail and No single client accounts for more than 2% Exposure to consolidation telecommunications industries are intensely of the Groups revenue, which reduces the among clients and markets competitive and have been subject to probability of this potential risk having a consolidation in recent years.
Consolidation significant impact on the Groups business.
Related strategy: in these and other industries could result In addition, the Group continues to expand Drive profitable growth in reductions in the Groups revenue in other market segments such as the public and profits through price compression sector, telecoms, utilities and healthcare, as from combined service agreements or well as invest in a wide range of counter-cyclical through a reduced number of clients.
products and solutions, across all relevant business lines.
Refer to the key performance indicators section of this report for additional information on Experians revenue dependency on the top 20 clients and percentage of revenue from verticals other than financial services.
Business review Risks and uncertainties x 4x 1 Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies The Group is involved in litigation claims in the The Group vigorously defends all pending and Exposure to material United States and Latin America, including a threatened litigation claims.
The Group retains adverse litigation number of class actions in the United States.
internal and external legal professionals to As is inherent in such proceedings, outcomes assist in the effective management and disposal Related strategy: Focus on data and analytics cannot be predicted with certainty and there is of litigation proceedings.
Insurance coverage Drive profitable growth a risk of unfavourable outcomes to the Group.
is maintained against litigation risks where such coverage is feasible and appropriate.
The Groups global footprint subjects its The Groups portfolio is diversified by Exposure to country and businesses to economic, political and geography, by product, by sector and by regional risk political, other risks associated with international client in order to protect itself against many of financial, economic, social sales and operations.
A variety of factors, these fluctuations, especially those that are including changes in a specific countrys or restricted to individual territories and market particularly in the United regions political, economic, or regulatory sectors.
The Group operates in 41 countries States and United Kingdom requirements, as well as the potential for and derives 29% of revenue from outside the geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and United States and the United Kingdom.
Related strategy: war, could result in loss of services, prevent Drive profitable growth our ability to respond to agreed service levels or fulfil other obligations.
These risks are generally outside the control of the Group.
The Group continues to expand its global The Group assesses all acquisitions rigorously, Strategic investments reach and extend its capabilities through using both internal and external professional including acquisitions and a combination of acquisitions, strategic advisers.
In addition, the Group conducts alliances joint venture and organic strategic extensive post-acquisition and organic other organic initiatives may investments.
The contributions of these investment reviews to ensure performance not meet expectations businesses and initiatives to the Group remains consistent with business plans.
Related strategy: may result in financial outcomes that are Drive profitable growth different than expected.
Refer to note 40 to the Group financial statements for a detailed description of the implications of these acquisitions to the Group.
As the Group operates on an international The Groups financial risk management Exposure to the basis, it is exposed to the risk of currency focuses on the unpredictability of financial unpredictability of financial fluctuations and the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potentially markets foreign exchange, markets in which it operates.
Refer to note 8 to adverse effects on the Groups financial the Group financial statements for a detailed performance.
Refer to note 8 to the Group interest rate and other description of these financial related risks.
financial statements for a detailed description financial risks of the Groups mitigation strategies.
Related strategy: Drive profitable growth Optimise capital efficiency The Group operates in a number of geographic, The Group is committed to continued Exposure to increasing product and service markets that are highly research and investment in new data competition competitive.
The competitor environment sources, people, technology and products continues to be dynamic with new entrants to support its strategic plan.
For example, Related strategy: Drive profitable growth that may have scale, integration capability and Experian was the first and is to date the only partner networks.
Competitors may develop major credit reporting agency to include products and services that are superior to ours residential rental payment data in US or that achieve greater market acceptance credit reports following the acquisition of than our products and services which could RentBureau in June 2010.
RentBureau is the result in the loss of clients or reduction largest and most widely used credit bureau in revenue.
Please refer to the business for the US apartment rental industry.
and market overview section for further information on Experian's market position.
The Groups success depends, in part, upon The Group, where appropriate and feasible, Loss or infringement of proprietary products and or services and relies upon a combination of patent, intellectual property rights related intellectual property rights.
The extent copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, to which intellectual property rights can be as well as various contractual restrictions, Related strategy: protected varies in different jurisdictions.
to protect our proprietary products and Focus on data and analytics Drive profitable growth Third parties may claim that the Group is services and continues to monitor this infringing their intellectual property rights situation.
The Group also vigorously defends or our intellectual property rights could be all third party infringement claims.
If the Group does not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results.
