Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 34 Ferrexpo Principal Risks The list of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Groups business that follows below is based on the Boards current understanding.
Due to the very nature of risk it cannot be expected to be completely exhaustive.
New risks may emerge and the severity or probability associated with known risks may change over time.
1 risks relating to the groups operations possiBle impact mitigation associateD strategic priority Fluctuations in iron ore prices as well as in demand may negatively impact the financial Ferrexpo has a low cost base which has enabled it to produce at full capacity To develop further the Groups significant resource Iron ore prices and market result of the Group.
and remain profitable throughout the commodities cycle.
The Group has an established, broad customer base and logistics infrastructure To improve the quality of the Groups pellets.
which can service regional and seaborne markets.
This provides flexibility should To expand the Groups logistic services.
a particular region experience a decline in demand.
To open and develop new markets and customers.
The mining risks and hazards may result in material mine or plant shutdowns or periods Safety, environmental and operational performance is regularly and rigorously To be a responsible corporate citizen.
Mining risks and hazards of reduced production.
Such events could damage the Groups operating results reviewed throughout the organisation including the COO, the Executive Committee and reputation.
Through its capital investment programme Ferrexpo is modernising its mining and production facilities which is improving safety, environmental and operational performance.
All accidents are fully investigated and lessons are drawn and implemented.
Appropriate safety training is regularly provided to employees.
Employee remuneration is linked to safety performance.
The Group purchases certain goods and services from state-owned enterprises, and The factors affecting the Groups future cost structure are closely managed.
To remain in the lowest quartile of the global pellet Reliance on changes in the related tariffs affect the Groups cost base.
Availability of services can also Cost reduction initiatives are planned and reported to the Board.
be limited, which could affect the Groups ability to produce and deliver pellets.
Examples Since 2005, the BIP has reduced the C1 cash cost by US$6.60 per tonne To consider investments to secure production statemonopolies include railway tariffs and availability of rail wagons, supply of gas and electricity and of pellets.
associated tariffs, and mining royalties.
The Group has purchased its own rail wagons to reduce reliance on state-owned To develop further the Groups significant rail cars.
The Group sourced alternative gas supplies in January 2009 when there were gas To maintain adequate liquidity and low balance price disputes between Russia and Ukraine.
The Group actively looks to invest in areas to reduce reliance on state monopolies.
The Groups logistics capability is dependent on services provided by third parties The Group continues to enhance its logistics capabilities in order to meet the To expand its logistics services.
Logistics and state-owned organisations, mainly in relation to rail and port services.
Logistical expected increase of sales volumes and to reduce its reliance on third parties.
bottlenecks may affect the Groups ability to distribute its products on time, Beside considerable investment in the rail car fleet in 2010 and 2011, the Group impacting customer relationships.
acquired a barging company operating on the Danube Rhine River corridor.
It also owns a 49.9% investment in the port of TIS-Ruda which guarantees the Group independent access to the seaborne markets avoiding reliance on the state port.
Financial instability of the Groups counterparties, especially its major customers, The financial strength of the Groups customers is subject to regular and thorough To open and develop new markets and customers.
Counterparty risk could lead to lower sales volumes and adversely affect its financial results.
The results of these reviews are used to allocate pellet volumes and if necessary amend sales terms with customers, in order to mitigate the potential risk of unallocated pellets and bad debts.
The Group has not experienced any significant bad debt losses.
The Group regularly reviews its supplier base in order to avoid excessive dependence on any supplier, actively encouraging a diversity of supply where possible.
The Group complies with commitments under its various licences in order to ensure To develop further the Groups significant Mining and land allotment licences are critical to the Groups operations, and there can that the conditions contained within the licences are fulfilled or if appropriate waivers Licences resource base.
be no guarantee that they will be renewed or that additional licences will be obtained.
See also Risk relating to the Groups strategy This could adversely affect the Groups operations and its ability to develop in the future.
ww overview Business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 1 risks relating to the groups operations possiBle impact mitigation associateD strategic priority Fluctuations in iron ore prices as well as in demand may negatively impact the financial Ferrexpo has a low cost base which has enabled it to produce at full capacity To develop further the Groups significant resource Iron ore prices and market result of the Group.
ww 1 Please see pages 12 and 13 for the KPI associated with the Strategic Priorities Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 36 Ferrexpo Principal Risks continued risks relating to Finance possiBle impact mitigation associateD strategic priority The Group receives the majority of its income in US Dollars while a large proportion Historical weakness of the Ukrainian Hryvnia in times of low commodity prices To remain in the lowest quartile of the global pellet Exchange rate risk of its costs are denominated in Ukrainian Hryvnia.
has provided a natural hedge during downturns in the commodity cycle.
Groups revenues and associated debt are denominated in US Dollars.
An appreciation of the Ukrainian Hryvnia against the US Dollar could have a negative impact on the profitability of the Group.
A portion of the Groups finance facility is linked to US Dollar LIBOR rates.
An The Group has optimised its debt structure, maintaining low balance sheet To maintain adequate liquidity and low balance Interest rate risk increase in interest rates will have a negative impact on the Groups financial costs, gearing.
As a result its interest costs are a low proportion of its profitability.
The Groups development projects may be funded using debt secured with financial The Groups financing risk has been mitigated by the issue of a US$500 million To maintain adequate liquidity and low balance Financing risk guarantees.
There is a risk that cancellation of contracts as a result of force majeure Eurobond and a US$420 million bank facility.
events and or lower iron ore pellet prices would limit the amount of funding available Ferrexpo maintains debt with long maturities.
Average maturity of four years at to the Group, and could prompt lenders of existing finance facilities to require the 31 December 2011.
Ferrexpo to assign additional contracts to meet agreed ratios.
The Group has minimal debt repayments of US$11 million and US$10 million in 2012 and 2013 respectively.
risks relating to the groups strategy possiBle impact mitigation associateD strategic priority anD kpi The Groups growth depends on its ability to upgrade existing facilities and develop The Group has established strict procedures to control, monitor and manage this To develop further the Groups significant Expansion capital its iron ore resource base.
For any major capital project there is a risk of insufficient expenditure which is regularly reviewed by the Investment and Executive resource base.
controls, cost overruns, shortage of required skills, and unexpected technical Committee and the Board.
To improve the quality of the Groups pellets.
investment problems affecting the time taken to complete the project and the return on the To open and develop new markets and customers.
The Group does not yet have all the governmental approvals required to develop Ferrexpo maintains an open and proactive relationship with various governmental To develop further the Groups significant Government approvals of future deposits.
Although all approvals that have been applied for have been authorities and is fully aware of the importance of compliance with local resource base.
granted, there is no guarantee that others will be granted in the future.
expansion The Group monitors and reviews its commitments under its various mining licences in order to ensure that the conditions contained within the licences are fulfilled or the appropriate waivers obtained.
Ferrexpo maintains strict compliance with the Ukrainian mining code and execution of work in accordance with the project design through active engagement of Ukrainian and international legal advisers.
risks relating to operations in ukraine possiBle impact mitigation associateD strategic priority anD kpi Ukraine is a young democracy which has been subject to various changes in Management proactively engages with local, regional and central government.
To develop further the Groups significant Political government over the past 20 years.
As is common with developing economies there Ferrexpo protects its local and international interests by ensuring it operates to resource base.
is a risk that the country may develop in a manner that is adverse to general the very highest international standards.
This could include a weak judicial system that is susceptible to outside influence.
As the Groups operations are in Ukraine it is exposed to cost inflation.
Ukraine has The Groups BIP has achieved continuing efficiency improvements and To remain in the lowest quartile of the global pellet Ukrainian producer price experienced double digit inflation over a number of years.
In 2011, the average PPI cost reductions over many years.
Since 2005 it has reduced the cash cost curve.
The inflationary environment increases local costs if not mitigated cost of production by US$6.60 per tonne of pellets.
The Group also has a To consider investments to secure production inflation PPI by a devaluation of the Ukrainian currency and operational efficiency improvements.
consistent track record of producing at full capacity to achieve maximum inputs.
As the bulk of the Groups output is exported, it does not collect substantial The Group maintains an open dialogue with the Government and operates to To maintain adequate liquidity and low balance Ukrainian VAT receivable amounts of VAT on sales which could otherwise be used to offset VAT incurred best international standards, ensuring the validity of the VAT repayments.
on purchases of goods and services.
The Ukrainian government refunds the outstanding balance of VAT, although not always on a timely basis.
The late repayment of VAT results in increased working capital, which is funded by the Group.
The Group is exposed to changes in local tax laws especially in Ukraine.
Ukrainian The Group takes regular advice on tax matters from Ukraine tax experts and To remain in the lowest quartile of the global pellet Ukrainian taxes tax laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and inconsistent complies with all known requirements.
The Group maintains a transparent and cost curve.
enforcement by local, regional and national authorities.
Tax authorities can challenge open relationship with local, regional and national tax authorities.
To maintain adequate liquidity and low balance the Groups interpretation and treatment of these laws resulting in increased tax sheet gearing.
liabilities owed by the Group.
overview Business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 risks relating to Finance possiBle impact mitigation associateD strategic priority The Group receives the majority of its income in US Dollars while a large proportion Historical weakness of the Ukrainian Hryvnia in times of low commodity prices To remain in the lowest quartile of the global pellet Exchange rate risk of its costs are denominated in Ukrainian Hryvnia.
