Our Risk Management Framework The Board of Directors is responsible for maintaining our risk Our comprehensive risk management management and internal controls systems.
Through its risk governance mandate, the Board defines risk appetite and is framework ensures that we manage and responsible for monitoring our risk exposures to ensure that the mitigate the risks that could impact our ability nature and extent of significant risks taken by the Company are to execute our strategy.
A more deeply aligned with our overall goals and strategic objectives.
The Audit embedded risk management culture supports Committee supports the Board of Directors in monitoring our risk exposures and has been delegated the responsibility for reviewing long-term value creation for all Fresnillo the effectiveness of our risk management and internal controls stakeholders.
Internal Audit supports the Audit Committee in evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of our risk mitigation strategies and the internal controls implemented by management.
Risk management processes and internal controls operate across our mine sites, exploration and development projects and corporate ofces.
Risk management and internal control procedures are embedded within our business practices across functional areas including finance, HSECR, human resources, procurement, IT, legal, security and insurance management.
Risk identication, assessment and mitigation is performed at various degrees of granularity from a very detailed assessment of safety risk at the operational hazard level at each mine site, to the analysis and monitoring of project delivery risks within each of our major capital projects, to the assessment and mitigation of strategic and financial risk at the Executive Management and Board level.
Risk management framework diagram Top-down The Board Oversight, Has overall responsibility for Sets strategic objectives and Monitors the nature and Provides direction on the Groups risk management defines risk appetite extent of risk exposure the importance of risk identication, and internal controls system against risk appetite for our management and risk assessment and principal risks management culture mitigation of risk at corporate level Executive Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit Assesses and mitigates our risks Supports the Board in monitoring Supports the Audit Committee Company-wide riskexposure against risk appetite in reviewing the effectiveness of our risk management and internal Monitors our risk management Reviews the effectiveness of our risk controls systems process and internal controls management and internal controls systems Bottom-up Operational level Identication, Risk management process and internal Risk identication, assessment and Risk awareness and safety culture assessment and controls embedded across functional mitigation performed across the business embedded across the business areas, mining operations, projects and mitigation of risk exploration sites atbusiness unit level and across functional areas 36 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Strategic Review What we did in 2011 What we plan to do in 2012 We view risk management as an evolving process, and have Now that we have a more formalised denition of risk appetite and takensignicant steps during 2011 to build on our existing risk enhanced risk identication and assessment processes, we will management framework to enhance risk governance and continue to evolve our risk management process in 2012 with our riskmanagement across the business.
We had three key priorities priorities being: for improving our risk management in 2011: Continue to embed risk management processes within the Formalise the denition of risk appetite for our principal risks business.
Formalise our practices for dening, implementing andmonitoring risk management action plans for the principal Augment our risk identication and assessment process risk areas, particularly where the current level of risk exceeds throughout the business ourrisk appetite.
Implement an anti-bribery and corruption programme Continue to rene our risk monitoring processes.
define and implement Key Risk Indicator metrics in alignment with our Key Performance Indicators to allow management to identify changes to our risk exposures and to highlight new and emerging risks.
Managers across the business will undergo refresher training so that we may continue to integrate risk management processes, giving us a consistent risk management approach, risk language and risk culture.
What we did in 2011 Benets for our Stakeholders Formalise the denition of risk appetite for our principal risks Risk appetite was dened by the Board of Directors through a series of Formalising the denition of risk appetite strengthens our risk governance workshops and dedicated time during the July and October Board meetings.
structure within which opportunities can be pursued and the downside of During these sessions the Directors reviewed our goals and strategy from risks mitigated by setting out which risks and how much risk we are willing arisk perspective, the expectations of our stakeholders and the current to take in the pursuit of our goals.
levelof risk exposure for our principal risk areas.
Risk appetite is not static, and going forward the Board of Directors will continue to monitor and reassess our principal risks and risk appetite to ensure it continues tobealigned with our goals and strategy.
Augment our risk identication and assessment process throughout the business We implemented a more structured approach for risk identication and We have enhanced our mechanism for understanding, documenting, assessment incorporating a top-down and bottom-up perspective on risk.
analysing and responding to risks as they emerge at different levels The top-down process involved the identication and assessment of risks throughout the organisation, while maintaining focus by the Board by the Board, Executive Management and other management at the ofDirectors and Executive Management on our strategic risks.
The bottom-up process involved a more comprehensive Thisenrichesour ability to analyse risks and respond to opportunities and operationally focused identication and assessment of risks provided by aswepursue our strategic objectives.
senior and line management at the Business Unit level and across functional areas.
Each risk identied through these processes was assessed and scored based on both quantitative and qualitative criteria for likelihood of occurrence and the degree of impact on the achievement of our objectives.
Implement an anti-bribery and corruption programme The Board of Directors appointed a Compliance officer and a Compliance The implementation of the anti-bribery and corruption programme Manager, and established an Honour Commission to provide oversight demonstrates our dedication to conducting business with the highest andgovernance for the anti-bribery and corruption programme.
Meetings standards of integrity and ethical values.
We have formalised our ofthe Honour Commission have begun, and reports received through mechanisms for ensuring that the six principles for bribery prevention, ourenhanced whistleblower mechanism continue to be analysed and asset out in the Bribery Act 2010 Guidance published by the Ministry of responded to directly by the Honour Commission.
We have implemented Justice, are embedded within our business.
The work we have completed abribery and corruption risk assessment process, which provides in 2011 to implement an anti-bribery and corruption programme provides management and the Board with deeper insights into the potential our stakeholders with greater comfort that we have the commitment, transactions and third-party relationships through which bribery and structure and procedures in place to effectively counter bribery corruption may occur.
As well as performing an assessment of Fresnillo plcs andcorruption.
exposure to potential bribery and corruption risks, core anti-bribery and corruption policies were designed, approved and implemented across thebusiness through training, with employees now required to certify theirunderstanding and compliance with the policies.
37 Our Risk Management Framework continued Our risk prole Risk heat map 97 risks were identied and assessed through our risk identication The following risk heat map illustrates the relative and assessment processes in 2011.
Executive Management and positioning of our principal risks in terms ofimpact theBoard of Directors performed further analysis to prioritise theserisks with a focus on highlighting the principal risks to the and likelihood: achievement of our strategic objectives.
Of the total risks identied, 25 were highlighted as higher priority and then further consolidated into our nine principal risks.
These nine risks are monitored closely by Executive Management and the Board of Directors.
While these principal top 9 risks represent a significant portion of our overall risk prole, Executive Management and the Audit Committee continue B A to monitor the entire universe of risks to identify and assess any changes in risk exposure, new or emerging risks forconsideration C E D H bythe Board of Directors.
G F I Unlikely Almost certain Likelihood Risk A.
Impact of global macroeconomic developments B.
Access to land C. Safety D. Security E. Projects F. Human resources G. Exploration H. Environmental incidents I.
Potential actions by the government 38 Very low Severe Impact Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Strategic Review Our approach for managing risk is underpinned by our understanding of our current risk exposures, risk appetite and how our risks are changing over time.
Risk Risk Risk appetite Risk change Description of risk change rating during 2011 High High Considering the cyclical nature of metals prices the likelihood A.
Impact of global of a drop in the price of gold and silver has increased macroeconomic developments High Medium More challenging negotiations for land in Mexico combined B.
Access to land with an increase in requirement for land High Low Increased reliance on contractors, not all of whom are initially C. Safety familiar or in compliance with our safety policies and procedures High Low Increased state of insecurity in Mexico D. Security High Medium We continue to mitigate project risk through our investment E. Projects governance process and system of capital project controls Medium Medium Greater competition for skilled personnel F. Human resources Medium Medium Continued investment in the exploration programme has G. Exploration stabilised this risk Low Low Mature environmental management programme continues to H. Environmental incidents reduce the likelihood of a significant environmental incident Medium Low Pressure for a mining tax in Mexico has increased.
Potential actions taxes have recently been implemented in other Latin by the government American countries Chile and Peru, and Mexican legislators continue to take steps to move in this direction.
For those risks with a risk rating that is above our risk appetite, management takes action to reduce the level of risk.
See Risk Response Mitigation in the following table.
39 Our Risk Management Framework continued Our principal risks Strategic Risk description and context Risk response mitigation objective A.
Impact of Global Macroeconomic Developments 1,2, 3 There could be an adverse impact on our sales and profit, Prices of gold and silver: we have full exposure to uctuations andpotentially the economic viability of projects, and currently no hedging as per our investors mandate frommacroeconomic developments such as: Prices of by-products and foreign exchange movements, a decrease in gold and silver prices after a prolonged including currencies impacting equipment purchase periodof increase primary driver of the risk commitments we have hedging policies in place See Note 31 inthe Financial Statements page 163 adverse uctuations in MXN USD exchange rates orotherforeign currencies Inationary pressures: we engage suppliers in long-term i nation and contracts to maintain our position as a low cost producer andcontrol the impact of the rising cost of mining inputs a decrease in the price of by-products zinc and lead SeeSuppliers page 24 B.
Access to land 1,2, 3 Given our growth strategy and aggressive exploration plan, To maximise our opportunities for successful land access we: failure or significant delays in accessing the surface over our Invest in hiring and training negotiators and provide mineral concessions and other land of interest is a persistent ExecutiveManagement support for our negotiation teams risk with a potentially high impact on our objectives.
Plan well in advance for land requirements and Potential barriers to land access include: acquisitions e. g. anticipating potential land purchase before intensive exploration Rising expectations of land owners Foster strong community relations through investment in Inuence of multiple interest groups in land negotiations community programmes and infrastructure See Community Conicts in land boundaries with an often arduous Relations pages 74-75 resolution process A lways seek tri-party cooperation between the Succession issues among land owners resulting in a lack of government, community and ourselves in securing access clarity about the legal entitlement to possess and sell land toland Insecurity and conicts in our exploration operation areas increases land access complexity C. Safety 4 Inherent to our industry is the risk of incidents due to unsafe Mitigating activities include: acts or conditions causing injuries or fatalities to our people.
Ownership of safety risk by management of business units mines, projects and exploration, supported with Increased operational and project activity, combined with safety guides, operational manuals and detailed procedures, increased reliance on contractors who may not initially comply withoversight through our comprehensive HSECR system with our safety policies and procedures, has increased this risk and people, who coordinate consistent and complete during 2011, evidenced sadly by the fatalities from such responses to safety risks incidents during 2011.
Training including reinforcing employee and contractor Our people face risks of res, explosions, electrocution and instruction and emphasis on Leadership in Safety carbon monoxide poisoning, as well as risks specic to each Zero tolerance attitude for safety incidents at all levels mine site and development project, for example rock falls ofoperations, with rules incorporated into operational caused by the geological conditions, collisions of equipment procedures, safety manuals and all aspects of inlarge operations, cyanide contamination, collisions between communication on safety.
Contractors must sign up equipment and people and smaller vehicles.
tospecic requirements, standards and procedures toalignwith our safety policies Comprehensive information on our response to safety risk isonpage69 in the Sustainability Report.
40 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Strategic Review 1 2 3 4 Strategic Risk description and context Risk response mitigation objective D. Security 1,2, 3,4 Our people face the risk of kidnapping, extortion or harm As well as closely monitoring the security situation, clear internal dueto violence and insecurity prevailing in Mexico.
In regions communications and coordination of work in areas of higher of particular insecurity we also face the risk of restricted insecurity, we have a number of practices in place to manage accessto operations projects or theft of assets.
our security risks and prevent possible incidents: Travel management e. g. reroute to avoid risky areas, The growing inuence of drug cartels, other criminal elements travelinconvoy, use aircraft versus land travel and avoid andgeneral lawlessness in the north of Mexico, combined known insecure areas withour aggressive exploration and project activity in areas oftransfer or cultivation of drugs, makes working in these Enhanced on-site security measures cameras, barriers, areasparticularly risky forus.
delayed access Theft prevention e. g. alternating frequency of shipments, minimum inventory, minimum people informed about shipment logistics and facilities management Invest in community programmes, infrastructure improvements, and government initiatives to support development of lawful local communities and discourage criminal acts E. Projects 2 Core to our strategic objectives is pursuing advanced Our investment evaluation process determines how to best exploration and significant development opportunities, direct available capital using technical, financial and other whichcarry project related risks: qualitative criteria.
Economic viability: impact of capital cost to develop and Technical: we assess the resource estimate and confirmed maintain the mine, future metals prices and operating costs resources, metallurgy of the mineral bodies, investment through the mines production life cycle.
required in general infrastructure e. g. roads, power, general Uncertainties associated with developing and services, housing and infrastructure required for the mine operating new mines: such as uctuations in ore grade andplant.
and recovery, unforeseen complexities in the mining Financial: we look at risk relative to return for proposed process, poor rock quality, unexpected presence of water, investments of capital.
We set expected internal rates of return lack of community support, and inability to obtain and IRR per project as thresholds for approving the allocation of maintain required operating permits.
capital based on the present value of expected cash ows Delivery risk: projects may go over budget in terms of cost fromthe invested capital.
and time, or may not be constructed in accordance with Other qualitative factors: e. g. strategic alignment of therequired specications.
investment with our business model and value chain: synergies Our other principal risk areas have an impact too, such as lack with other investments and operating assets: and implications of reliable contractors, failure or delays in gaining access to for safety, security, people and resourcing and community land, inability to replace mined reserves, and uncertainty relations.
relating to global economic condition.
We closely monitor our project controls to ensure we deliver Some projects are riskier than others.
For example, Orisyvo approved projects on time, on budget and as per dened and San Julin currently represent significant risks to the specications.
The Executive Management Team and Board Company as both are in areas of significant insecurity ofDirectors is regularly updated on progress.
impacting the movement of people and supplies.
Each advanced exploration project and major capital Orisyvoisvery sensitive to metals prices and exposed development project has a risk register containing the identied tooperational complexities which increase risk.
and assessed risks specic to the project.
For example at the Orisyvo project, we are looking at various potential models for the mine and alternative mining techniques to mitigate economic viability and project delivery risks.
41 Our Risk Management Framework continued Strategic Risk description and context Risk response mitigation objective F. Human resources 1,2, 3,4 Our people are critical to delivering our objectives.
We face risks Recruitment: We assessed our requirements for hiring key in selecting, recruiting, training and retaining the people we people between now and 2015, which we aim to meet through need, particularly as the current mining boom has created internal training and promotion, and by recruitment through: aglobal shortage of skilled and experienced earth sciences Our close relationships with universities offering earth sciences professionals.
programmes we have dedicated programmes to identify potential candidates based on performance who may be hired Although we have a risk of union action or degradation of union as interns and or residents on graduation relations at some sites, our overall relationship continues to strengthen and this risk has decreased.
CETEF Centre for Technical Studies Fresnillo which teaches specic mining operational skills We risk a lack of reliable contractors with adequate CETLAR the Peoles Centre for Technical Studies which trains infrastructure, machinery, performance and skilled people, mechanics and electrical technicians withthe mining boom limiting availability of the pool of competent contractors available for the development and Retention: We provide a stable labour environment, strong construction of mining works.
Our growth plans make this corporate culture committed to our people, good working asignicant risk for us.
conditions, competitive benets and career development opportunities.
Contractors: We have long-term drilling and mining contracts and provide financial resources to contractors for purchasing supplies and equipment.
We invest signicantly in training contractors, particularly on safety and environmental requirements.
Unions: We have clearly assigned responsibilities and programmes for maintaining close relationships with unions at mine site and national levels.
Our very experienced legal team, specically at Peoles, provide legal support to us.
We are proactive and timely in our responses to the needs of the union.
G. Exploration 3 See pages 5961 for more on our exploration programmes and investment We are highly dependent on the success of our exploration planin meeting our targets 2011 to 2018 and through them We invest heavily in our exploration programme, aiming to ourstrategic value-creation, production and reserves goals.
maintain asufcient exploration budget across metals cycles.
SeeOur Strategy and KPIs pages 3031 We also ensure we have: Risks that might impact prospecting and converting inferred a team of highly trained and motivated geologists, resources include the growing level of insecurity, lack of bothemployees and longer-term contractors qualied personnel, available land and sufficient coverage oftarget areas.
a broad and robust portfolio of prospects and projects with sufficient potential in terms of indicated andinferred As our production escalates and more mines come close resources totheendoftheir lives, it becomes increasingly challenging a dvisory technical reviews by international third party experts toreplenish theirreserves.
up-to-date and integrated GIS databases and software foridentifying favourable metallurgical belts and districts drill-ready projects see page 46 for pipeline a focus on increasing the regional district exploration programme s trong links with government to promote better conditions formining identied opportunities and openness to partnerships, mergers and early stage projects acquisitions.
42 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Strategic Review 1 2 3 4 Strategic Risk description and context Risk response mitigation objective H. Environmental incidents 4 Inherent to our industry is the risk of environmental incidents We have strong environmental systems, procedures and controls such as a tailings dam overow or collapse, cyanide spill and inplace and, as for Safety risks, Environmental risks are owned by dust emissions, among others, any of which could have a high theBusiness Units with oversight provided by the HSECR team.
potential impact on our people, communities and business.
Ourenvironmental management system supports our compliance with all required regulations.
Our operations are certied under ISO 14001 and the Clean Industryprogramme and we rigorously adhere to the requirements established by each projects environmental permit Environmental Impact Manifest.
Potential actions by the Government 1,2, 3,4 We face the risk of potential implementation of new Our Executive Team are members of the Mexican Mining requirements fromthe government with an adverse impact Chamber.
Weparticipate in industry and government meetings onus, such as a tax royalty on mining companies in Mexico and events to continuously monitor the political and regulatory ornew or more stringent ecological or explosives regulations environment.
e. g. banning open pit mining, theuse of cyanide, etc.. We collaborate with other members of the mining community The current risk level is very difficult to measure as there is lack tolobbyagainst new detrimental taxes royalties or regulations.
of certainty on the likelihood, structure and magnitude of any We also aim for resilience against potential impact by maintaining potential mining tax royalty.
The potential likelihood of new a low cost ofproduction and a strong capital position.
ecological regulation is currently highly uncertain.
However, We maintain strict control in receiving, handling, storing and stricter regulation on explosives is likely due to their dispatching explosives in each of our operations.
43 44 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements Performance Performance With a portfolio of world-class operating minesand an extensive pipeline of growth projects, underpinned by a programme of continuous investment regardless of precious metals cycles, we are on track to achieve our goal ofproducing 65 million ounces of silver and500,000 ounces of gold by 2018.
Performance Overview 46 Our Mines in Operation 48 Our Development Projects 58 Our Exploration Programme 59 Sustainable Development Report 62 Financial Review 76 Herradura Production at the Herradura gold mine has increased continuously since the commencement of operations in 1997.
Exploration and development in the Herradura District has consolidated our regional position.
