Overview Strategic review Performance Performance Our risk assessment andmanagement process Risk and potential impact to KPI Mitigation u Group management continually monitors competitor activity to ensure that the group can react quickly to any competitor Price competition actions which would directly affect the groups results.
The security industry comprises a number of u All business plans and strategic planning includes competitor and SWOT analysis and the pricing strategy for contracts verycompetitive markets.
In particular, manned is managed through business unit and regional price approval levels.
Significant price reductions require group capex security markets can be fragmented with committee approval.
relativelylow economic barriers to entry and thegroup competes with a wide variety of Case study Customer relationship management operators of varying sizes.
Actions taken by the u During 2011 the group implemented a new customer relationship management system across the organisation.
groups competitors may place pressure upon Combined with the groups sales leadership programme and account management, this should help the group win larger itspricing, margins and profitability.
contracts more often and keep and develop existing customers.
Risk and potential impact to KPI Mitigation u The group performs strategic and business planning at group, division, region and business unit level to ensure that specific Major changes in marketdynamics local regulation requirements are met.
Monthly business unit trading reviews ensure that market changes are identified Such changes in dynamics could include new quickly and actions taken to maintain performance and ensure that business objectives continue to be achieved.
technologies, government legislation, political u The group also monitors local markets and engages with governments around the world to ensure adherence to regulatory oreconomic volatility or customer consolidation requirements, to identify any restrictions that could adversely impact the groups activities and take appropriate actions.
andcould, particularly if rapid or unpredictable, impact the groups revenues and profitability.
Case study Reputation management Security canbe a high profile industry.
There is During 2011, the group undertook a number of initiatives to protect its reputation as the worlds leading security group: awide andever-changing variety of regulations u It formed a business ethics steering group to develop a strategy to ensure compliance with the requirements of the UK applicable to the groups businesses across the Bribery Act and similar legislation.
world, witharecent development being an u Actively participated in the development of the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers of which it increase of restriction of foreign ownership in is a founder signatory and which sets out principles for security operations in so-called complex environments areas some countries.
Failure, or an inability, to comply experiencing or recovering from disaster or unrest and where governments or the rule of law are weak.
This code covers with such regulations may adversely affect the recruitment, vetting and training of staff, use of firearms, health and safety reporting and complaints handling.
During groups revenues and profitability.
2011, G4S worked with companies, governments and NGOs to develop an oversight mechanism for the code and how appropriate action will be taken against a company if it is not compliant.
Risk and potential impact to KPI Mitigation u The group has formal systems and policies in place documenting physical security procedures and directives and adheres Cash losses toasecurity framework to help reduce the risk of cash losses.
The group is responsible for the cash held on u The group also operates a captive insurance business unit to mitigate against the financial risk of losses and attacks.
Increases in the value of u All transactions are subject to strict authorisation limits and regular reconciliations of cash balances are performed for cash lost through criminal attack may increase bothcash in ATMs and cash held on customers behalf.
thecosts of the groups insurance.
Were there tobe failures in the control and reconciliation u In addition there is regular reporting of any cash losses attacks and audits of security are performed in branches.
processes surrounding customer cash these could u The group has in place regional cash reconciliation managers to increase the focus on cash reconciliations globally also adversely affect the groups profitability.
Case study G4S UK cash solutions u Through investment in technology and ongoing development of operational procedures, the number of attacks in theUKhave roughly halved over the last two years.
All changes have been made with the support and backing of the GMB union.
Risk and potential impact to KPI Mitigation u Group-wide operational procedures and standards for crisis management and communication are in place and adherence Poor operational service delivery and to them is tested in all business units.
There is also a robust supervision structure which allows management to monitor crisis management theprogress and delivery of the groups contracts and customer relationships.
Failure to meet the operational requirements u The Group crisis communications process is reviewed regularly and an updated process was introduced in 2011. ofits customers and or failure to respond to acrisis could significantly impact the groups reputation, contract retention and growth.
G4S plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Risk committees Group The group operates around 160 businesses spread over more than 125 countries and Management meetings acrossa range of product areas.
Most of the Regions Risks identified risksidentified below aremarket specific and so and clusters and escalated based the diversity of the groups operations means on materiality anyparticular issue should have a limited impact.
The group operates a management structure thatis appropriate to the scale and breadth of Company itsactivities, and the internal audit department and business functions operates under awide remit to ensure strict adherence to group authorisation procedures andcontrol standards as outlined here.
Risk reporting system Risk and potential impact to KPI Mitigation u The group treasury department monitors and follows policies to mitigate against liquidity, refinancing and currency Financing exchangerate risks.
Refer to note 33 to the group accounts for more details.
If, due to adverse financial market conditions, u The groups historical main source of funding has been a revolving bank facility of 1.1bn which was renewed in March 2011 insufficient or only very costly financial funding until 2016.
The group has sought to diversify its sources of finance by issuing a number of private placement bonds in the US were available, the group might not be in a and more recently a public bond in the UK.
position to implement its strategy or invest in u These have spread out the refinancing requirements over the next ten years to ensure the group has access to sufficient acquisitions or capital expenditure.
This includes funds to meet its business and strategic plans.
possible bank bankruptcy, loss of headroom particularly from movement of exchange rates, unavailability of bank, bond or other sources offinancing and downgrading of the G4S credit rating.
These could adversely impact G4S revenuegrowth and profitability.
Risk and potential impact to KPI Mitigation u The group employs IT specialists at all levels and has in place mandatory minimum security controls relating to 35 IT specificcontrols.
In addition penetration testing of networks and systems is performed regularly to ensure that key Cyber attacks and incidents on G4S and systemsare robust.
clientsystems and services, especially around critical national infrastructure could result in financial loss, breach of contract, legal action andreputational damage.
Risk and potential impact to KPI Mitigation u Any new contracts entered into are subject to a defined approval process.
Standard contracts are used where practicable.
Onerous contractual obligations Non-standard contracts which expose the group to material risk e. g. unlimited liability are subject to risk assessment The group could commit to sales contracts anddepending on the level of risk exposure are referred for regional or group legal department review.
specifying disadvantageous pricing mechanisms, unachievable service levels or excessive liability.
This could impact its margins and profitability.
Risk and potential impact to KPI Mitigation u The performance of the groups pension schemes and deficit funding plans are reviewed regularly by both the group Defined benefit pension scheme andthetrustees of the schemes taking actuarial and investment advice as necessary.
A prolonged period of poor asset returns and orunexpected increases in longevity could Case study Defined benefit pension scheme management require increases in the level of additional cash u The UK scheme was closed to future accrual from 5 July 2011 and this should help to reduce future volatility in the deficit.
contributions to defined pension schemes.
This could constrain the groups ability to invest inacquisitions or capital expenditure adversely affecting its growth and profitability.
G4S plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
