3D Risks and uncertainties GKN has an extensive risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood and consequences of risk and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate their impact.
A detailed description of this framework is given on page 50.
Set out below are the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Group and the corresponding mitigating actions that are in place.
Additional risks not currently known or which are currently regarded as immaterial could also adversely affect future performance.
Market risks Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation GKN operates globally and as such our results could be n Diverse business portfolio serving different markets, with Operating in impacted by changes in macroeconomic conditions, lead indicators in those markets kept under review global markets consumer demand and preferences.
An adverse impact n Effective management of variable and fixed cost base, could result from volatility in automotive demand and investment spending and working capital changing consumer preferences: rescheduling or cancellation of orders for civil aircraft and changes in amount or timing of defence spending: and volatility in agricultural, construction, mining and industrial markets.
Economic and Given the global footprint of the Group, our operations n Regular monitoring of market environment, including political, political instability could be impacted adversely by global and regional economic and regulatory developments changes in the economic, political and regulatory n Flexible systems, including daily cash management, to mitigate environments including availability of affordable credit.
GKNs risk should a country withdraw from the eurozone n Group-wide governance framework supported by a strong control environment Customer Significant customer concentration exists in the n GKN is not dependent on contractual or other arrangements concentration automotive and aerospace industries.
The insolvency with any individual customer.
No customer represented more of, damage to relations, or significant worsening of than 10% of Group sales at 31 December 2011 commercial terms with a major customer could result n Active management of customer relations and credit exposure in the loss of future business opportunities, asset n Strong commercial and engineering focus at customer level write-offs and restructuring actions.
together with effective programme management Highly competitive GKN operates in highly competitive markets with customer n Continual review of competition and market trends markets decisions based typically on price, quality, technology and n Maintaining GKNs competitive position through new service.
Customer vertical integration including OEMs product technology taking production in-house, the entry of new competitors n Investment in engineering and lean manufacturing capabilities, or consolidation of existing competitors could restrict our whilst also maintaining strong customer relationships ability to deliver the Groups strategic objectives.
GKN may lose customers to competitors offering new n Regular assessment of market and technology trends Technology technologies if we are unable to adapt to market and drivers advancements developments such as changes in legislative, regulatory n Divisional technology plans aligned to emerging and or industry requirements, competitive technologies or future trends consumer preferences.
This may result from failure to n Focused investment in research and development launch new products, new product applications or n Effective programme delivery over the long term incorporating derivations of existing products to meet customers needs.
3E GKN plc Annual Report Operational risks and Accounts 2011 Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation Supply chain Supply chain disruption caused by lack of availability of n Effective supply chain management to ensure appropriate disruption equipment, components, services and raw materials that inventory levels are maintained in times of production volatility meet specifications could impact GKNs sales to and n Ongoing assessment of supplier technology and dependency relationships with customers and result in additional n Dual sourcing where appropriate to reduce dependence on unrecoverable costs.
single supplier n Monitoring of financial viability of key suppliers volatile input costs Sudden increases in the cost of raw materials, labour and n Contracts that ensure the ability to pass on charges to customers energy could adversely affect the Groups earnings if we are where possible unable to pass increases on to customers.
n Securing long-term contracts with stable pricing for key inputs n Maintaining good labour relations n Forward purchasing of energy requirements where appropriate Product quality Product quality issues could lead to potential liabilities n High levels of quality assurance are embedded in robust issues for defects in products, warranty claims or product manufacturing systems recalls and as a result adversely affect GKNs financial performance and damage our reputation.
A lack of robust safety processes and procedures could n Consistent Groupwide application of health and safety Inadequate safety result in accidents involving employees and others on programmes in the workplace GKN sites and potentially causing adverse financial impact n Development of health and safety audits to ensure adherence and damage to GKNs reputation.
to Group policies and procedures n A focus on process and behavioural safety through a number of Groupwide activities including machinery risk assessment, thinkSafe!
and RADAR A lack of technical capability and management depth n Annual performance appraisal and development process People could result in an inability to execute the strategic plan n Competitive reward packages together with focused training and deliver improving financial performance.
and development programmes n A culture that motivates individuals to perform to the best of their abilities acquisitions and A lack of suitable acquisition targets aligned with the n Thorough reviews to ensure strategic alignment of acquisitions their integration planned growth strategy, a failure to integrate acquired n Extensive pre-acquisition due diligence which confirms the businesses successfully, or an inability to capture value transaction value from them could impact operations and prevent successful n Careful management of integration plans delivery of GKNs strategic objectives.
n Post acquisition reviews Financial risks Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation Pension deficit levels are affected by changes in asset n Active management of pension scheme assets and long-term Pension deficit values, discount rates, inflation and mortality assumptions.
view of liability assumptions including the level of benefits volatility Accounting valuations of pension obligations can cause n Alternative funding and risk mitigation actions are volatility in financial results.
Additional Company pension implemented where appropriate contributions may have an impact on investment in businesses.
Currency risks include: transactional subsidiary sales n Hedging of transaction exposures through forward foreign Exchange rate or purchases in currencies other than their functional exchange contracts volatility currency and translational exchange rate movements n Borrowings in local currency including access to overseas in investments in overseas operations.
The Groups debt capital markets financial statements may fluctuate as a result of movements in exchange rates.
Complexity of Given GKNs global footprint and against a background n Ongoing monitoring of tax developments in major global tax regimes of complex tax laws on a global basis, it is possible that jurisdictions actual tax liabilities could differ from accruals which are n Group-wide tax compliance programme supplemented based on management judgements.
by appropriate documentation The Group insures against the impact of a range of unpredictable losses associated with both our business assets and liabilities.
GKNs risk financing strategy is based on a significant level of capped self-insured retention at the Group level within GKNs own captive insurance company, Ipsley Insurance Ltd, which does not insure the risks of any other entity and a much lower retention at subsidiary level through deductibles.
Catastrophe insurance is then purchased in the commercial market over and above these levels of retention.
Ipsleys current participation in GKNs principal insurance programme is 10 million per incident capped at 20 million in any one year.
Due to the nature of the risk, the Groups aviation products liability insurance is placed solely in the commercial market.
