72 GSK Annual Report 2011 Financial review Risk factors & risk New product candidates may appear promising in development Risk factors but, after significant investment of Group economic and human There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Groups business, resources, may fail to reach the market or may have only limited financial condition and results of operations that may affect the commercial success.
This, for example, could be as a result of Groups performance and ability to achieve its objectives.
The efcacy or safety concerns, an inability to obtain necessary factors below are among those that the Group believes could cause regulatory approvals, difficulty manufacturing or excessive its actual results to differ materially from expected and historical manufacturing costs, erosion of patent coverage as a result of a results.
There are other risks and uncertainties that may affect the lengthy development period, infringement of patents or other Groups performance and ability to achieve its objectives that are intellectual property rights of others or an inability to differentiate not currently known to the Group, or which are deemed immaterial.
the product adequately from those with which it competes.
Furthermore, health authorities such as the US Food and Drug The Group reviews and assesses significant risks on a regular basis Administration, the European Medicines Agency and the Japan and has implemented an oversight programme to help ensure that Pharmaceuticals and Medicines Device Agency have increased their there is a system of internal control in place.
This system includes focus on safety and product differentiation when assessing the policies and procedures, communication and training programmes, benefit risk balance of drugs, which has made it more difficult for supervision and monitoring and processes for escalating issues to pharmaceutical and vaccine products to gain regulatory approval.
the appropriate level of senior management.
Such a system helps facilitate the Groups ability to respond appropriately to risks and to There is also increasing pressure on healthcare budgets as a result achieve Group objectives and helps ensure compliance with of the financial crisis, the increase in the average age of the applicable laws, regulations and internal policies.
The Groups population in developed markets, and the increase in the absolute management of risks is further discussed on pages 91 to 94 population in developing markets.
Payers therefore, increasingly Corporate Governance.
have demanded greater incremental benefit from pharmaceutical and vaccine products before agreeing to reimburse drug It is not possible, however, for the Group to implement controls to manufacturers at prices manufacturers consider appropriate.
A respond to all the risks that it may face, and there can be no failure to develop commercially successful products or to develop assurance that the steps the Group has taken to address certain additional uses for existing products for any of these reasons could risks will manage these risks effectively or at all.
The six principal materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
risks and uncertainties that might affect GSKs business are broken down in the following areas: Intellectual property protection Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful Failure to obtain effective intellectual property new products protection for our products The Group operates in highly competitive markets.
In the As an innovator pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses, it faces competition from company, the Group seeks to obtain appropriate intellectual proprietary products of large, international manufacturers and from property protection for our products.
Our ability to obtain and producers of generic pharmaceuticals.
The Pharmaceuticals and enforce patents and other proprietary rights with regard to our Vaccines businesses also face increasing competition from products is critical to the Groups business strategy and success.
manufacturers in emerging markets, with a lower cost In a number of markets in which the Group operates, the manufacturing base than that of the Group.
In the Consumer intellectual property laws and patent ofces are still developing, Healthcare business, the Group likewise faces competition from and some markets may be unwilling to extend intellectual property large, international consumer healthcare companies as well as local protection to innovative products in a fashion similar to markets in consumer healthcare companies.
significant product innovations, more developed regions such as the European Union, Japan and technical advances or the intensication of price competition by the USA or to enforce previously granted intellectual property competitors may materially and adversely affect the Groups rights.
The Groups inability to obtain and enforce effective financial results in the three businesses.
The Group cannot always intellectual property protection for our products in certain markets predict the timing or impact of competitive products or their could have a material adverse result on the Groups financial results.
potential impact on sales of the Groups products.
In light of the In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent competitive environment in which the Group operates, continued protection may be signicantly weaker than in the USA or the development of commercially viable new products as well as the European Union.
Some developing countries have reduced, or development of additional uses for existing products is critical to threatened to reduce, effective patent protection for the Groups ability to replace sales of older products that decline pharmaceutical products generally, or in particular therapeutic upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall sales.
areas, to facilitate early competition within their markets from Developing new pharmaceutical and vaccine products is a costly, generic manufacturers.
Any loss of patent protection, including lengthy and uncertain process.
A new product candidate can fail at reducing the scope of patent rights or compulsory licensing in any stage of the development process, and one or more late stage which a government forces a manufacturer to license its intellectual product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval.
property to a competitor, could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results in those markets.
Absence of adequate patent protection could limit the opportunity to rely on such markets for future sales growth for the Groups products.
GSK Annual Report 2011 73 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Expiry of intellectual property rights protection on the Potential changes in intellectual property laws and Groups products and on competitive products: regulations Competition from generic manufacturers Proposals to change existing patent and data exclusivity laws and regulations in major markets in which the Group sells its products Pharmaceutical and vaccine products are usually only protected from being copied by generic manufacturers during the period of are a continuing feature of the political process in those countries.
These include proposals that could have the effect of making exclusivity provided by an issued patent or related intellectual property rights such as Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan prosecution of patents for new products more difficult and time consuming or that could adversely affect the exclusivity period for Drug status.
Following expiry of intellectual property rights protection, a generic manufacturer may produce a generic version the Groups products, including biological products.
Should such proposals be enacted, they may materially and adversely affect the of the product.
For example, in 2010, as part of the The Group faces intense competition from manufacturers of comprehensive healthcare reform in the USA, the Biologics Price generic pharmaceutical products in all of its major markets.
Competition and Innovation Act was enacted which introduced Introduction of generic products, particularly in the USA where new regulations for follow-on biologics that allow a sufciently the Group has its highest turnover and margins, typically leads similar biologic to be able to rely on an innovators approval to a dramatic loss of sales and reduces the Groups revenues following a 12-year data exclusivity period.
Regulations outlining and margins for its proprietary products.
The Group had eleven the requirements for establishing biosimilars and interchangeable pharmaceutical and vaccine products with over 500 million in products, as well as the operation of complicated patent litigation annual global sales in 2011.
For certain of these products there provisions, have not yet been proposed by the FDA.
In Europe, is generic competition in the USA and some markets in Europe.
the EMA has nalised guidelines for similar biological medicinal In addition, the timing and impact of entry for a follow-on products containing MAbs Monoclonal antibodies.
product to Seretide Advair that contains the same active The loss of patent protection for some or all of the Groups ingredients is uncertain.
products could have a material adverse impact on sales of the The US patent for compositions containing the combination of Groups products.
active substances in Seretide Advair expired during 2010.
The outlook for the timing and impact of entry of follow-on Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation and competition is uncertain.
GSK has not been notied of any government investigations acceptance by the US FDA of an application for a follow-on Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, contains a product that refers to Seretide Advair and contains the same active discussion of material proceedings and governmental investigations ingredients as would be expected to precede the introduction of currently involving the Group which, if proven, could give rise to such a product, and is not able to predict when this may occur civil and or criminal liabilities.
Unfavourable resolution of these and or when any such follow-on product may enter the US market.
similar future proceedings or investigations may have a material Generic drug manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and results of market generic versions of many of the Groups most important operations.
The Group has made provisions in 2011 and prior years products prior to the expiration of the Groups patents.
Efforts may related to such legal proceedings and investigations, which reduced involve challenges to the validity or enforceability of a patent or its earnings.
assertions that their generic product does not infringe the Groups In the future, the Group may also make additional significant patents.
If the Group is not successful in defending an attack on its provisions related to legal proceedings and investigations which patents and maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of would reduce its earnings.
In many cases, the Group believes that it its major products, particularly in the USA and Europe, the Groups is the practice of the plaintiff bar to claim damages in amounts that financial results would be adversely affected.
The expiration dates bear no reasonable relationship to the underlying harm allegedly for patents for the Groups major products and a description of caused by the Groups products or its actions.
Accordingly, it may litigation settlements which may affect the dates on which generic be potentially misleading for the Group to quantify, based on the versions of the Groups products may be introduced are set out on amount of damages claimed, its potential exposure to claims, page 239.
Legal proceedings involving patent challenges are set proceedings and investigations of the type described in Note 44 out in Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
The Group may also experience an impact on sales of one of its Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical product products due to the expiry or loss of patent protection for a liability exposures, has increased the cost, and reduced the capacity, product marketed by a competitor in a similar product class or for of insurers to provide coverage for pharmaceutical companies treatment of a similar disease condition.
The availability of generic generally, including the Group.
products in the same or similar product class in which one of the In order to contain insurance costs in recent years, the Group has Groups products competes could have a material adverse impact continued to adjust its coverage prole, accepting a greater degree on sales of the Groups products.
of uninsured exposure in some areas, and a lesser degree in others, in order to optimise the value of insurance markets.
In addition, where claims are made under insurance policies, insurers regularly reserve the right to deny cover on various grounds.
74 GSK Annual Report 2011 Financial review Risk factors continued & risk In the USA, for example, while the Group has reached agreement Product liability litigation in principle to resolve certain federal governmental investigations Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development into the pricing, marketing and reimbursement of its prescription of potential pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare drug products, as detailed in Note 44 to the financial statements, products to determine the safety and efcacy of the products for Legal proceedings, related state investigations that have been use by humans following approval by regulatory authorities.
initiated on the basis of the same factual claims could result in Notwithstanding the efforts the Group makes to determine the restitution or civil litigation on behalf of state governments, and safety of its products through regulated clinical trials, unanticipated could also result in related proceedings initiated against the Group side effects may become evident only when drugs and vaccines are by or on behalf of consumers and private payers.
Such proceedings widely introduced into the marketplace.
may result in trebling of damages awarded or fines in respect of In other instances, third parties may perform analyses of published each violation of law.
The conduct of the Group could result in clinical trial results which, although not necessarily accurate or additional investigations in the future by the US federal and state meaningful, may raise questions regarding the safety of governments and similar civil litigation.
Any of these consequences pharmaceutical, vaccine or consumer healthcare products which could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
may be publicised by the media and may result in product liability Governmental, payer and regulatory controls claims.
The Group is currently a defendant in a substantial number of product liability lawsuits, including class actions, that involve Pricing significant claims for damages related to the Groups Pharmaceutical and vaccine products are subject to price controls pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products.
Litigation, or pressures and other restrictions in many markets, including but particularly in the USA, is inherently unpredictable.
Class actions not limited to France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain.
Some that sweep together all persons who were prescribed the Groups governments intervene directly in setting prices.
In addition, in products can inate the potential liability by the force of numbers.
some markets, major purchasers of pharmaceutical or vaccine Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are frequently products whether governmental agencies or private health care asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent providers have the economic power to exert substantial pressure potentially open ended exposure and thus could materially and on prices or the terms of access to formularies.
difficult economic adversely affect the Groups financial results.
conditions, particularly in the major markets in Europe, could increase the pricing pressures on the Groups pharmaceutical and Anti-trust litigation vaccine products.
The Group cannot accurately predict whether In the USA, it has become increasingly common for patent existing controls, pressures or restrictions will increase or whether infringement actions to prompt claims that anti-trust laws have new controls, pressures or restrictions will be introduced.
Such been violated during the prosecution of the patent or during measures may materially and adversely affect the Groups ability litigation involving the defence of that patent.
Such claims by direct to introduce new products profitably and its financial results.
and indirect purchasers and other payers are typically led as class actions.
The relief sought may include treble damages and For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins and the most sales for any country, there are no direct government restitution claims.
Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought by government entities or private parties following settlement of price controls over private sector purchases, but federal law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain patent litigation, alleging that such settlements are anti-competitive and in violation of anti-trust laws.
The Group may also be subject drugs to be eligible for reimbursement under several state and federal healthcare programmes, primarily Medicare and Medicaid.
to other anti-trust litigation involving competition claims unrelated to patent infringement and prosecution.
A successful anti-trust Pricing pressures are likely to increase as the US governments share of national health spending continues to increase.
Additionally, due claim by a private party or government entity against the Group could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
to passage of comprehensive health care reform in 2010, the US governments role in providing or subsidising health insurance is Sales and marketing regulation expected to signicantly expand in 2014, which indicates the The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory growing role and leverage the government will bring to bear on environments that often vary among jurisdictions.
The failure to the Groups rebate liability with respect to US federal programs.
comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these In recent years, a number of states have also proposed or jurisdictions may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings implemented various schemes to control the pharmacy budget for brought against the Group by governmental entities at the federal drugs used by their low-income and senior citizens programmes, and state levels and by private plaintiffs.
As those rules and including increasing the rebate liability of pharmaceutical regulations change or as governmental interpretation of those companies, importation from other countries and bulk purchases rules and regulations evolve, conduct of the Group may be called of drugs.
Given the new state mandates contained in the US health into question.
care reform law, which will increase the number of Medicaid eligible participants, and the economic pressures on state government budgets, pricing pressures on the Groups pharmaceutical and vaccine products are likely to increase.
Any of these trends may materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
GSK Annual Report 2011 75 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Materials and services provided by third-party suppliers are Regulatory controls necessary for the commercial production of our products, The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls including speciality chemicals, commodities and components on the manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution and marketing necessary for the manufacture and packaging of many of the of many of its pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare Groups Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products that affect not only the cost of product development but products.
Some of the third-party services procured, for example, also the time required to reach the market and the uncertainty of services provided by clinical research organisations to support successfully doing so.
Historically, there have been more stringent development of key products, are very important to the operation regulatory requirements in developed markets.
However, in recent of the Groups businesses.
Although the Group undertakes years, emerging markets have been increasing their regulatory business continuity planning, single sourcing for certain expectations based on their own national interpretations of US components, bulk active materials, nished products, and services and EU standards.
As detailed on page 15, health authorities in creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of regulatory developed markets have increased their focus on safety when non-compliance or physical disruption at the manufacturing sites.
assessing the risk benefit balance of drugs in the context of not The failure of a small number of single-source, third-party suppliers only initial product approval but also in the context of approval or service providers to full their contractual obligations in a timely of additional indications and review of information regarding manner or as a result of regulatory non-compliance or physical marketed products.
Stricter regulatory controls also heighten the disruption at the manufacturing sites may result in delays or service risk of changes in product prole or withdrawal by regulators on interruptions, which may materially and adversely affect the the basis of post-approval concerns over product safety, which Groups financial results.
could reduce revenues and result in product recalls and product liability lawsuits.
There is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially Taxation and Treasury in the USA, on advertising and promotion and in particular on The Groups effective tax rate is driven by rates of tax in direct-to-consumer advertising.
jurisdictions that are both higher and lower than that applied in the In addition, in some cases, the Group may voluntarily cease UK.
In addition, many jurisdictions such as the UK, Belgium and the marketing a product or face declining sales based on concerns USA currently offer regimes that encourage innovation and new about efcacy or safety for example, the decline in sales of the scientific endeavours by providing tax incentives, for example R&D Groups product Avandia beginning in 2007 following publicity tax credits.
Furthermore, given the scale and international nature of around questions regarding risks associated with the product, the Groups business, intra-group transfer pricing is an inherent tax whether or not scientically justied, even in the absence of risk as it is for other international businesses.
Changes in tax laws or regulatory action.
The development of the post-approval adverse in their application with respect to matters such as transfer pricing, event prole for a product or the product class may materially and foreign dividends, controlled companies, R&D tax credits or a adversely affect the Groups financial results.
restriction in tax relief allowed on the interest on intra-group debt, could increase the Groups effective tax rate and materially and Risk of interruption of product supply adversely affect its financial results.
The manufacture of pharmaceutical and vaccine products and their The tax charge included in the financial statements is the Groups constituent materials requires compliance with good manufacturing best estimate of its tax liability but, until such time as audits by tax practice regulations.
The Groups manufacturing sites are subject to authorities are concluded, there is a degree of uncertainty review and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies.
regarding the final tax liability for the period.
The Groups policy is Compliance failure by the Groups manufacturing facilities or by to submit tax returns within the statutory time limits and engage suppliers of key services and materials could lead to product recalls tax authorities to ensure that the Groups tax affairs are as current and seizures, interruption of production, delays in the approval of as possible, and that any differences in the interpretation of tax new products, and revoking of license to operate pending legislation and regulation are resolved as quickly as possible.
In resolution of manufacturing issues.
For example, non-compliance exceptional cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement with current Good Manufacturing Practice cGMP requirements with tax authorities, GSK may have to resolve disputes through for US supply could ultimately result, in the most severe formal appeals or other proceedings.
For example, in January 2012, circumstances, in fines and disgorgement of profits.
Any the Supreme Court of Canada heard an appeal in respect of the interruption of supply or the incurring of fines or disgorgement Groups transfer pricing, as discussed in Note 14 to the financial impacting significant products or markets could materially and statements, Taxation.
adversely affect the Groups financial results.
The Group deals in high value transactions on a frequent basis which may result in an increased risk of financial loss due to the mismanagement of cash or entering into high risk positions on hedge transactions, any of which could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
76 GSK Annual Report 2011 Financial review Risk factors continued & risk There are a number of further risks, which could affect the financial At 31 December 2011, the Group had trade receivables due from condition or results of the Group, as follows: these three wholesalers totalling 934 million 31 December 2010 890 million.
The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit Implementing the Groups strategic priorities risk in respect of these wholesalers such that, if one or more are The Group has established three strategic priorities: to grow a affected by financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely diversied business, deliver more products of value, and simplify its affect the Groups financial results.
The Group may not be able to implement its Global political and economic conditions strategic priorities fully.
Even if the Group is able to implement them, the strategic priorities may not deliver the expected benets.
As described on page 13, many of the worlds largest economies, including the major markets in which the Group operates, and For example, the strategic priority to grow a diversied business financial institutions have in the recent past faced extreme financial involves expanding the Groups business into Emerging Markets.
difficulty, including a decline in asset prices, liquidity problems and The Groups pharmaceutical sales in Emerging Markets grew 6% limited availability of credit.
The economic uncertainty continued in in 2011 to nearly 3.7 billion, and represented 17% of the Groups 2011, with multiple downgrades of sovereign credit ratings, 2011 pharmaceutical turnover.
There is no guarantee that the particularly in the Eurozone.
High levels of sovereign debt are Groups sales in Emerging Markets will continue to grow or that negatively impacting growth in the global economy.
It is uncertain these markets will continue to experience relatively high growth how long these effects will last, or whether economic and financial rates.
Some emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to the trends will worsen or improve.
The ongoing debt crisis in certain ongoing global financial crisis, or may have very limited resources countries in Europe has increased pressures on the payers in those to spend on healthcare.
Competition in these markets for staff with countries to force healthcare companies such as the Group to the skills and training suitable for employment at an enterprise such decrease the price of its products.
The debt crisis has also given rise as the Groups may be intense.
In some emerging markets, the to concerns that some countries may not be able to pay for our Group may be required to rely on third party agents, which may products.
Current economic conditions may also adversely affect put the Group at risk of liability, and some emerging markets lack the ability of our distributors, customers, suppliers and service sufficient protection against crimes such as counterfeiting.
A failure providers to pay for our products, or otherwise to buy necessary to continue to expand its business in emerging growth markets inventory or raw materials, and to perform their obligations under could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
agreements with us, which could disrupt our operations, and In addition, the Group is undertaking a restructuring programme negatively impact our business and cash ow.
Some of our that has an estimated cost of approximately 4.85 billion and is distributors, customers, suppliers and service providers may be expected to deliver annual pre-tax savings of approximately unable to pay their bills in a timely manner, or may even become 2.8 billion by the time it is substantially complete in 2014. insolvent, which could negatively impact our business and results The Group may not be able to execute fully this transformation of operations.
These risks may be elevated with respect to our of its business.
Furthermore, changes in the Groups structure, interactions with third parties with substantial operations in operations, revenues, costs or efficiency resulting from these countries where current economic conditions are the most severe, restructuring activities or other strategic initiatives could result in particularly where such third parties are themselves exposed to higher than expected costs or other difficulties.
Failure to realise the risk from business interactions directly with scally-challenged expected cost savings by the end of the restructuring programme government payers.
or to achieve and maintain a competitive cost base could materially Such continued economic weakness and uncertainty could and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
materially and adversely affect the Groups revenues, results of Anti-bribery and corruption operations and financial condition.
The Groups businesses, including Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, The Groups extensive and increasing international operations may may be particularly sensitive to declines in consumer or government give rise to possible claims of bribery and corruption.
In addition, further or renewed declines in asset prices comply with applicable legislation such as the US Foreign Corrupt may result in a lower return on the Groups financial investments Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act, or similar legislation in other and may cause the value of the Groups investments in its pension countries, could expose the Group and senior ofcers to civil and plans to decrease, requiring the Group to increase its funding of criminal sanction, including fines, prosecution, potential debarment those pension plans.
from public procurement and reputational damage, all of which could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside The compliance mechanisms and monitoring programmes that the the UK.
The Groups management of foreign exchange rates is Group has in place may not adequately prevent or detect possible discussed in Business review, Foreign exchange management violations under applicable anti-bribery and corruption legislation.
Fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling and other currencies, especially the US dollar, the Euro and the Risk from concentration of sales to wholesalers Japanese Yen, could materially and adversely affect the Groups In the USA, similar to other pharmaceutical and vaccine companies, financial results.
the Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers The Group has no control over changes in ination and interest in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups.
rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other Sales to the three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately economic factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of 77% of the Groups US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in 2011. in jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
GSK Annual Report 2011 77 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 The Group operates in a number of markets that are experiencing Failure to implement appropriate safeguards to adequately protect political and social unrest.
These events may lead to business against any unauthorised or unintentional access, acquisition, use, disruption and liquidity problems that could adversely impact the modication, loss or disclosure of this critical or sensitive data may Groups results.
adversely impact the Groups ability to maintain patent rights and competitive advantages or may result in regulatory non-compliance Environmental liabilities resulting in fines and penalties or inability to sell product in a The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and particular market.
potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated Alliances and acquisitions sites.
The Group has also been identied as a potentially responsible party under the US Comprehensive Environmental As part of the Groups strategy to diversify into new product areas Response Compensation and Liability Act at a number of sites for and markets, the Group has grown, and expects to continue to remediation costs relating to the Groups use or ownership of such grow, in part through acquisitions and business alliances.
Failure to manage properly the environmental risks could intense competition for alliance and acquisition candidates in the result in additional remedial costs that may materially and adversely pharmaceutical industry, and, as such, the Group may be unable to affect the Groups financial results.
See Note 44 to the financial make these deals on acceptable terms or at all.
In acquiring or statements, Legal proceedings, for a discussion of environmental forming alliances with companies, the Group may assume related proceedings in which the Group is involved.
The Group significant debt, become subject to unknown or contingent routinely accrues amounts related to its liabilities for such matters.
liabilities or fail to realise the benets expected from these transactions.
For example, most pharmaceutical companies, Accounting standards including those that the Group may consider acquiring, are involved New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations in patent disputes, product liability litigation, government issued from time to time by the International Accounting Standards investigations and other legal proceedings whose outcome is Board could result in changes to the recognition of income and subject to considerable uncertainty.
The assumption of debt or expense that may materially and adversely affect the Groups unknown or contingent liabilities or the failure to realise the financial results.
expected benets may materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
Under International Financial Reporting Standards, changes in the market valuation of certain financial instruments are required to be The process of integrating companies the Group may acquire may reected in the Groups reported results before those gains or result in disruption to the ongoing business as the effort of losses are actually realised.
This could have a significant impact on integrating organisations in different locations and with, among the income statement in any given period.
Accounting for deferred other things, differing systems and corporate cultures may divert taxation on inter-company inventory may give rise to volatility attention and resources, result in the loss of key employees or have depending upon the Group entity that owns the inventory.
other adverse consequences, any of which may materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
Regulators regularly review the financial statements of listed companies for compliance with accounting and regulatory Attraction and retention requirements.
The Group believes that it complies with the The Group relies heavily on recruiting and retaining talented appropriate regulatory requirements concerning its financial employees with a range of skills and capabilities to meet its statements and disclosures.
However, other companies have objectives.
The Group faces intense competition for qualied experienced investigations into potential non-compliance with individuals, as the supply of people with specic skills and accounting and disclosure requirements that have resulted in significant leadership potential or in specic geographic regions restatements of previously reported results and sometimes may be limited, particularly given the Groups plans to expand its significant penalties.
Any such investigation and required operations in Emerging Markets and Vaccines.
restatement could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
The inability to attract staff with specic technical and leadership skills, retain key employees or ensure effective succession planning Protection of electronic information and assets for critical positions may materially and adversely affect the Groups The Group relies on critical and sensitive data, such as corporate ability to implement key strategic objectives and ultimately impact strategic plans, personally identiable information, trade secrets financial results.
and intellectual property, to drive planning and operations.
Security of this type of data is exposed to escalating external threats that are increasing in sophistication and changing from a goal of disruption to being nancially or politically motivated.
The Group is also subject to various standards for the protection of personally identiable information and this year submitted an application for Binding Corporate Rules status, which is under review by UK Information Commissioners Ofce.
