1.7 | Principal risks and uncertainties Glencores business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by competitive, economic, political, legal, regulatory, social, business and financial risks and uncertainties.
The risks described below are those that Glencore currently believes may materially affect it although this is not an exhaustive list.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to Glencore, or those which are currently deemed to be immaterial, may become material and adversely affect Glencores business, results of operations, financial condition and or prospects.
The results may differ significantly from those previously projected as a result of certain factors, including the risks which it faces, as described below.
The order in which the following is presented does not necessarily reflect the likelihood of their occurrence or the relative magnitude of their potential material adverse effect on Glencores business, results of operations, financial condition and or prospects.
These principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection with any forward looking statements in this document and the cautionary statement.
EXTERNAL Fluctuation in expected volumes of supply or demand for the commodities in which Glencore markets Glencore is dependent on the expected Impact: Fluctuations in the volume of each commodity produced or marketed by volumes of supply or demand for comGlencore could materially impact Glencores business, results of operations and earnmodities in which Glencore is active, ings.
These fluctuations could result in a reduction or increase in the income generwhich can vary over time based on changated in respect of the volumes handled by Glencores marketing activities, or a reduces in resource availability, government tion or increase in the volume and or margin in respect of commodities produced by policies and regulation, costs of producGlencores industrial assets.
tion, global and regional economic conditions, demand in end markets for prodmItIgatIon: The risk of fluctuations in demand for the commodities in which Glencore ucts in which the commodities are used, markets is managed by maintaining a diversified portfolio of commodities to market, technological developments, including reducing the impact of movement in any one commodity market.
Individual commodicommodity substitutions, fluctuations in ties, even apparently closely linked products such as barley and wheat, have their own global production capacity, global and demand cycles reducing over-reliance on any single product.
regional weather conditions and natural disasters, all of which impact global markets and demand for commodities.
Fluctuation of commodity prices The revenue and earnings of Glencores Impact: Fluctuations in the price of commodities produced or marketed could materiindustrial asset activities and to a lesser ally impact Glencores business, results of operations and earnings.
The impacts that extent its marketing activities are depenfluctuating commodity prices have on Glencores business differ between its marketdent upon prevailing commodity prices.
ing activities and industrial activities: Commodity prices are influenced by a number of external factors, including the Marketing activities: In a market environment in which prices for a particular comsupply of and demand for commodities, modity are higher on average, the premiums margins that Glencore generates in its speculative activities by market participhysical marketing operations relating to such commodity as a result of geographipants, global political and economic cal, time and quality imbalances tend to be higher.
Glencore also generally benefits conditions and related industry cycles from fluctuating market prices, rather than long periods of stable prices, as it seeks to and production costs in major producing physically arbitrage such resulting price differentials.
As prices of commodities rise, countries.
Glencore generally has higher working capital financing requirements over the same quantity of commodities in question.
During periods of falling commodity prices, the opposite applies in that Glencore will require less working capital financing for its marketing activities.
Industrial activities: Higher prices will be particularly favourable to the profitability of Glencore in respect of those commodities which Glencore produces at its industrial assets or are produced by its associated companies and other investees.
Similarly, low prices will negatively impact Glencores industrial activities and could result in such activities incurring losses.
24 | Annual Report 2011 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion A significant downturn in the price of commodities generally results in a decline in Glencores profitability during such a period and could potentially result in a devaluation of inventories and impairments.
Although the impact of a downturn on commodity prices affects Glencores marketing and industrial activities differently, the negative impact on its industrial activities is generally greater, as the profitability in the industrial activities is more directly exposed to price risk due to its higher level of fixed costs, while Glencores marketing activities are ordinarily substantially hedged in respect of price risk and principally operate a service-like margin-based model.
mItIgatIon: The risk of fluctuations in commodity prices is managed by maintaining a diversified portfolio of commodities, reducing the impact of movement to any individual commodity price.
In addition, Glencore continuously reviews and looks to optimise its asset portfolio to ensure it is sufficiently cost effective and efficient and a substantial portion of our inventory is either under contract for sale at a predetermined price or hedged through futures and options on commodity exchanges or with highly rated counterparties.
Therefore, at any one time, the commodity price risk is restricted to a small proportion of the working capital balance.
Financial expense risk during periods of low commodities prices is mitigated by maintaining an investment grade rating and a mix of floating and fixed rate funding options, the former generally passed on via the transactional terms in marketing arrangements.
Fluctuation in currency exchange rates The vast majority of Glencores transacImpact: The vast majority of transactions undertaken by both Glencores marketing tions are denominated in U. S. Dollars, and industrial activities are denominated in U. S. Dollars.
However, Glencore is exwhile operating costs are spread across posed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates: several different countries the currencies of which fluctuate against the U. S. Dollar.
through its industrial activities, because a large proportion of the operating costs of these assets are denominated in the currency of the country in which each asset is located, the largest of such currency exposures being to the Australian Dollar, the Kazakhstan tenge, the Colombian Peso and the Canadian Dollar via Glencores stake in Xstrata: through the costs of Glencores global office network, which are denominated largely in the currency of the country in which each office is located, the largest of such currency exposures being to the Swiss Franc, the Pound Sterling and the Euro: and through its marketing activities, although only a small minority of purchase or sale transactions are denominated in currencies other than U. S. Dollars.
Foreign exchange rates have seen significant fluctuation in recent years and a depreciation in the value of the U. S. Dollar against one or more of the currencies in which Glencore incurs significant costs will therefore result in an increase in the cost of these operations in U. S. Dollar terms and could adversely affect Glencores financial results.
mItIgatIon: Glencore manages the risk of fluctuating currency exchanges rates by operating in a number of different geographies and by hedging specific future non U. S. Dollar denominated commodity purchase or sale commitments.
| Annual Report 2011 | 25 Geopolitical risk Glencore operates and owns assets in a Impact: The geopolitical risks associated with operating in a large number of regions large number of geographic regions and and countries, if realised, could affect Glencores ability to manage or retain interests countries some of which are categorised in its industrial activities and could have a material adverse effect on the profitability, as developing, complex and having unability to finance or, in extreme cases, viability of one or more of its industrial assets.
stable political or social climates and, as Although Glencores industrial assets are geographically diversified across various a result, is exposed to a wide range of pocountries, disruptions in certain of its industrial operations at any given time could litical, regulatory and tax environments.
have a material adverse effect on Glencores marketing business.
These environments are subject to change in a manner that may be materially admItIgatIon: Geopolitical risk is managed through geographical diversification of verse for Glencore, including changes to commodities and operations, continuous monitoring and dialogue through and with government policies and regulations Glencores network of field offices and a commitment to engage proactively with emgoverning industrial production, foreign ployees and the communities in which it operates, in order to maintain and improve investment, price controls, export conits licence to operate.
trols, tariffs, income and other forms of taxation including policies relating to the granting of advance rulings on taxation matters, nationalisation or expropriation of property, repatriation of income, royalties, the environment and health and safety.
Compliance with a significant number of laws and regulations As a diversified production, sourcing, mar - Impact: These laws and regulations could allow governmental authorities and private k eting and distribution company conparties to bring lawsuits based upon damages to property and injury to persons reducting complex transactions globally, sulting from the environmental, health and safety and other impacts of Glencores Glencore is exposed to and subject to past and current operations, and could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, extensive laws and regulations governing penalties, other civil or criminal sanctions, the curtailment or cessation of operations, various matters.
These include laws and orders to pay compensation, orders to remedy the effects of violations and or orregulations relating to bribery and corders to take preventative steps against possible future violations.
Moreover, the costs ruption, taxation, anti-trust, financial mar - associated with compliance with these laws and regulations are substantial and any kets regu la tion, environmental protec tion, changes to these laws could cause additional expenditure including capital expendimanagement and use of hazardous subture to be incurred or impose restrictions on or suspensions of Glencores operations stances and explosives, management of and delays in the development of its properties.
In addition, obtaining the necessary natural resources, licences over resour ces governmental permits can be a particularly complex and time consuming process and owned by various governments, exploramay involve costly undertakings.
The duration and success of permit applications are tion, development of projects, produccontingent on many factors, including those outside Glencores control.
Failure to tion and post-closure reclamation, the obtain or renew a necessary permit could mean that such companies would be unable employment of expatriates, labour and to proceed with the development or continued operation of a mine or project, which, occupational health and safety standards, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on Glencores business, results of operaand historic and cultural preservation.
tions, financial condition and prospects.
mItIgatIon: Glencore is committed to comply with or exceed the laws, regulations and best practice guidelines applicable to its operations and products in the jurisdictions in which it operates and through continuous monitoring of legislative requirements and engagement with government and regulators it strives to ensure full compliance.
Liquidity risk Glencores failure to obtain funds could Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to Glencores businesses.
Liquidity risk limit its ability to engage in desired acis the risk that Glencore is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or that tivities and grow its business.
it is unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments.
While Glencore adjusts its minimum internal liquidity targets in response to changes in market conditions, its liquidity may be impaired due to circumstances it is unable to control, such as general market disruptions, sharp increases in the prices of commodities or an operational problem that affects its suppliers or customers or itself.
26 | Annual Report 2011 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion Impact: A lack of liquidity may mean that Glencore will not have funds available to maintain or increase its marketing activities and industrial activities.
Marketing activities: Glencores marketing activities employ significant amounts of working capital to fund purchases of commodities for future delivery to its end customers, to meet margin requirements under derivative contracts and to fund the acquisition and maintenance of certain transport and storage assets which complement its marketing activities.
Any inability to fund these amounts of working capital may prevent Glencore from maintaining its historic levels of marketing activity or from increasing such levels in the future.
Industrial activities: Glencores industrial activities may be capital intensive and the continued funding of such activities is critical to maintain its ownership interests in its industrial assets, to maintain production levels in periods when net operating cash flow is negative or insufficient to cover capital expenditures, to increase production levels in the future in accordance with its business plans and to grow its industrial activities through the acquisition of new assets.
Any inability to fund these operating and capital expenditure requirements may prevent Glencore from maintaining or growing its industrial activities production output.
mItIgatIon: Glencore operates a policy of liquidity risk management, whereby it seeks to maintain via a minimum prescribed level sufficient cash and cash equivalents and other sources of committed funding available to meet anticipated and unanticipated funding needs.
MARKETING ACTIVITIES Arbitrage opportunities Glencores marketing activities are fideImpact: Many of the physical commodity markets in which Glencore operates are fragpendent, in part, on its ability to identify mented or periodically volatile.
As a result, discrepancies generally arise in respect of and take advantage of arbitrage opporthe prices at which the commodities can be bought or sold in different forms, geotunities.
graphic locations or time periods, taking into account the numerous relevant pricing factors, including freight and product quality.
These pricing discrepancies can present Glencore with arbitrage opportunities whereby Glencore is able to generate profit by sourcing, transporting, blending, storing or otherwise processing the relevant commodities.
Profitability of Glencores marketing activities is, in large part, dependent on its ability to identify and exploit such arbitrage opportunities.
A lack of such opportunities, for example due to a prolonged period of pricing stability in a particular market, or an inability to take advantage of such opportunities when they present themselves, because of, for example, a shortage of liquidity or an inability to access required logistics assets or other operational constraints, could adversely impact Glencores business, results of operations and financial condition.
mItIgatIon: Glencore mitigates the risk of an inability to take advantage of arbitrage opportunities or lack thereof by maintaining a diversified portfolio of products and through informational advantages Glencore enjoys via its global network, its sizeable market share and logistics capabilities in many commodities enabling it to move quickly in response to arbitrage opportunities afforded by fluctuations and disequilibrium in commodity markets.
Hedging strategy Glencores hedging strategy may not Impact: Glencores marketing activities involve a significant number of purchase and always be effective, does not require all sale transactions across multiple commodities.
To the extent Glencore purchases a risks to be hedged and may leave an excommodity from a supplier and does not immediately have a matching contract to sell posure to basis risk.
the commodity to a customer, a downturn in the price of the commodity could result in losses to Glencore.
Conversely, to the extent Glencore agrees to sell a commodity to a customer and does not immediately have a matching contract to acquire the com- | Annual Report 2011 | 27 modity from a supplier, an increase in the price of the commodity could result in losses to Glencore, as it then seeks to acquire the underlying commodity in a rising market.
In the event of disruptions in the commodity exchanges or markets on which Glencore engages in hedging transactions, Glencores ability to manage commodity price risk may be adversely affected and this could in turn materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, there are no traded or bilateral derivative markets for certain commodities that Glencore purchases and sells, which limits Glencores ability to fully hedge its exposure to price fluctuations for these commodities.
mItIgatIon: In order to mitigate the risks in its marketing activities related to commodity price fluctuations and potential losses, Glencore has a policy, at any given time, of hedging substantially all of its marketing inventory and relevant forward purchase commitments not already contracted for sale at pre-determined prices through futures and swap commodity derivative contracts, either on commodities exchanges or in the over the counter market.
In instances where there are no traded or bilateral derivative markets for certain commodities, Glencores ability to hedge its commodity exposure is limited to forward contracts for the physical delivery of a commodity or futures and swap contracts for a different, but seemingly related, commodity.
Counterparty credit and performance risk Glencore, in particular via its marketing Impact: Non-performance by Glencores suppliers, customers and hedging counteractivities, is subject to non performance parties may occur in a range of situations, such as: risk by its suppliers, customers and hedging counterparties.
a significant increase in commodity prices could result in suppliers being unwilling to honour their contractual commitments to sell commodities to Glencore at preagreed prices: a significant reduction in commodity prices could result in customers being unwilling or unable to honour their contractual commitments to purchase commodities from Glencore at pre-agreed prices: customers may take delivery of commodities from Glencore and then find themselves unable to honour their payment obligations due to financial distress or any other reasons: and hedging counterparties may find themselves unable to honour their contractual commitment due to financial distress or other reason.
Non-performance by a counterparty could have an adverse impact on its business, results of operations and financial condition, including by creating an unintended, unmatched commodity price exposure.
In addition, financial assets consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, receivables and advances, derivative instruments and long-term advances and loans could potentially expose Glencore to concentrations of credit risk.
mItIgatIon: Glencore seeks to reduce the risk of customer non-payment by requiring credit support from creditworthy financial institutions including making extensive use of credit enhancement products, such as letters of credit or insurance policies, where appropriate, and by imposing limits on open accounts extended.
Whilst these limits are believed appropriate based on current levels of perceived risk, there is a possibility that a protracted difficult economic environment would negatively impact the quality of these exposures.
In addition, mark-to-market exposures in relation to hedging contracts are regularly and substantially collateralised primarily with cash pursuant to margin arrangements put in place with such hedge counterparts.
Glencore actively monitors the credit quality of its counterparties, including the risk of non-performance by suppliers and customers alike, through internal reviews, strong relationships and industry experience and a credit scoring process which includes, where available, public credit ratings.
28 | Annual Report 2011 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion Risk management policies and procedures Identifying, quantifying and managing Impact: Glencores marketing activities are exposed to commodity price, foreign risk is complex and challenging and alexchange, interest rate, counterparty including credit, operational, regulatory and though it is Glencores policy and pracother risks.
Glencore has devoted significant resources to developing and implementtice to identify and, where appropriate ing policies and procedures to manage these risks and expects to continue to do so in and practical, actively manage such the future.
Nonetheless, Glencores policies and procedures to identify, monitor and risks to support its objectives in manmanage risks have not been fully effective in the past and may not be fully effective in aging its capital and future financial sethe future.
Some of Glencores methods of monitoring and managing risk are based curity and flexibility, Glencores policies on historical market behaviour that may not be an accurate predictor of future market and procedures may not adequately behaviour.
Other risk management methods depend on evaluation of information reidentify, monitor and quantify risk.
lating to markets, suppliers, customers and other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by Glencore.
This information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up to date or properly evaluated.
Management of operational, legal and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to properly record and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective in doing so.
Failure to mitigate all risks associated with Glencores business could have a material adverse effect on Glencores business, results of operations and financial condition.
mItIgatIon: Glencore uses, among other techniques, Value-at-Risk, or VaR, as a key market risk measurement technique for its marketing activities.
VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore expect that VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results.
VaR has certain limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and tail risks.
While Glencore recognises these limitations and continuously refines its VaR analysis, there can be no assurance that its VaR analysis will be an effective risk management methodology.
Management of counterparty non-payment risk is mitigated by substantial use of credit enhancement products, including letters of credit, insurance and bank guarantees.
Please refer to section 2.1Financial review for further explanation on the use of VaR.
Supply of commodities from third parties Glencore purchases a portion of the Impact: Any disruptions in the supply of product by factors such as weather and physical commodities sold by its marketother natural disasters, unexpected maintenance problems, collapse or damage to ing activities from its controlled indusmines, labour disruptions and changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect trial operations and associates, including Glencores margins.
Glencores business, results of operations, financial condition and Xstrata.
The remainder of the commodiprospects could be materially adversely impacted if it is unable to continue to source ties sourced by its marketing operations required volumes of commodities from its suppliers on reasonable terms or at all.
are purchased from third party suppliers and entities in which Glencore has mItIgatIon: Glencore sources product from a large range of suppliers industrial asa minority stake excluding associates.
sets and third parties and is not reliant on any one supplier to satisfy its performance.
Glencore expects to continue to source This enables Glencore to source alternative product in the event of supply disruption.
commodities from such third parties in Glencore benefits from investments in numerous communities and shared ownership the future.
Glencore is potentially exwith local entities that helps to mitigate against some country specific risks.
posed to both price and supply risks with respect to commodities sourced from third parties and entities in which it holds a minority stake.
Glencore is reliant on third parties to source the majority of the commodities purchased by its marketing operations.
| Annual Report 2011 | 29 Freight, storage, infrastructure and logistics support Glencores marketing activities require Impact: Increases in the costs of freight, storage, infrastructure and logistics support access to significant amounts of freight, or limitations or interruptions in the supply chain which impedes Glencores ability storage, infrastructure and logistics supto deliver its products on time, could adversely affect Glencores business, results of port and it is exposed to increases in the operations or financial condition.
In addition, Glencore often competes with other producers, purchasmItIgatIon: The risk of disruptions to or limitations of freight, storage, infrastructure ers or marketers of commodities or other and logistics support is mitigated through Glencores market position, global reach products for limited storage and berthand its longstanding relationships with third party suppliers of freight.
These give ing facilities at ports and freight termiGlencore an advantage in ensuring its commodity transport needs are met along with nals, which can result in delays in loading its investments in storage and logistic assets such as vessels, oil terminals, metals or unloading Glencores products and warehouses and grain silos.
expose Glencore to significant delivery interruptions.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES Non-controlling stakes, joint ventures and strategic, partnership arrangements Some of Glencores industrial assets are Impact: Glencore does not control a number of its industrial investments.
Although held through non-controlling stakes or Glencore has various structures in place which seek to protect its position where it joint ventures and strategic partnership does not exercise control, the boards of these companies may: arrangements.
have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with or are opposed to those of Glencore: exercise veto rights or take shareholders decisions so as to block actions that Glencore believes to be in its best interests and or in the best interests of all shareholders: take action contrary to Glencores policies or objectives with respect to its investments or commercial arrangements: or as a result of financial or other difficulties, be unable or unwilling to fulfil their obligations under any joint venture or other agreement, such as contributing capital to expansion or maintenance projects.
Improper management or ineffective policies, procedures or controls of a non-controlled entity could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the relevant investment and, therefore, of Glencore.
mItIgatIon: Where projects and operations are controlled and managed by Glencores co-investors or where control is shared on an equal basis, Glencore may provide expertise and advice, but it has limited or restricted ability to mandate compliance with Glencores policies and or objectives.
Project development Glencore has a number of significant Impact: Any future upward revisions in estimated project costs, delays in completing expansions planned for its existing opplanned expansions, cost overruns, suspension of current projects or other operationerations, the development of which is al difficulties after commissioning, may have a material adverse effect on Glencores exposed to a number of risks outside of business, results of operations and financial condition, in turn requiring Glencore to its control such as technical uncertainconsider delaying discretionary expenditures, including capital expenditures, or susties, availability of suitable financing, inpending or altering the scope of one or more of its development projects.
frastructure constraints, cost overruns, insufficient labour skills or resources and mItIgatIon: Project development risks are mitigated and managed through Glencores delays in permitting or other regulatory continuous project status evaluation and reporting processes, the significant focus of matters.
such being appropriate approval processes and transparent and timely reporting of costs and progress relative to plan.
Significant projects are regularly audited against the project plan and reporting processes.
30 | Annual Report 2011 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion Operating risks and hazards Glencores industrial activities are subject Impact: These risks and hazards could result in damage to, or destruction of, properto numerous operating risks and hazards ties or production facilities, may cause production to be reduced or to cease at those normally associated with the d evelopment properties or production facilities, may result in personal injury or death, environmenand operation of natural resource projects, tal damage, business interruption and legal liability and may result in actual producmany of which are beyond Glencores contion differing from estimates of production.
The realisation of such operating risks and hazards and the costs associated with them These operating risks and hazards include could materially adversely affect Glencores business, results of operations and finanunanticipated variations in grade and cial condition, including by requiring significant capital and operating expenditures other geological problems, seismic activto abate the risk or hazard, restore Glencore or third party property, compensate third ity, climatic conditions such as flooding parties for any loss and or pay fines or damages.
or drought, metallurgical and other processing problems, technical failures, unamItIgatIon: Operating risks and hazards are managed through Glencores continuous vailability of materials and equipment, assessment, reporting and communication of the risks that affect its business through industrial actions or disputes, industrial its annual risk review processes and updates to its risk register.
In addition, risk is mitiaccidents, labour force disruptions, ungated somewhat through geographic and multiple project diversification.
anticipated transportation constraints, tribal action or political protests, force majeure factors, environmental hazards, fire, explosions, vandalism and crime.
Title to the land, resource tenure and extraction rights Glencore has industrial activities investImpact: Glencore does not believe that any such disputes are imminent, however, such ments in certain countries where title to a dispute, if related to a material industrial asset, could disrupt or delay relevant minland and rights in respect of land and ing, processing or other projects and or impede Glencores ability to develop new resources including indigenous title has industrial properties and may have a material adverse effect on Glencores business, not been and may not always be clear, results of operations and financial condition.
creating the potential for disputes over resource development.
In many cases, mItIgatIon: Title and tenure risks are managed through geographical diversification the government of the country in which a of commodities and operations, continuous monitoring and dialogue through and particular asset is located is the sole auwith Glencores network of local offices and a commitment to engage proactively with thority able to grant such rights and, in employees, governments and the communities in which Glencore operates to mainsome cases, may have limited infrastructain and better its licence to operate.
ture and limited resources which may constrain Glencores ability to ensure that it has obtained secure title to individual exploration licences or extraction rights.
Availability of infrastructure The production, processing and product Impact: The mining, drilling, processing, development and exploration activities of delivery capabilities of Glencores industhe industrial assets in which Glencore holds an interest depend on adequate infratrial assets rely on their infrastructure bestructure.
Certain of these assets are located in areas that are sparsely populated and ing adequate and remaining available.
Reliable roads, power sources, transport infrastructure and water supplies are essential for the conduct of these operations and the availability and cost of these utilities and infrastructure affect capital and operating costs and therefore Glencores ability to maintain expected levels of production and results of operations.
Any such issues arising in respect of the infrastructure supporting or on Glencores sites could have a material adverse effect on Glencores business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
mItIgatIon: Availability of infrastructure risk is mitigated through the continuous monitoring and dialogue through and with Glencores network of local offices, a commitment to engage proactively with governments and the communities in which Glencore operates to maintain and improve its licence to operate, and where appropriate, the establishment of back-up sources of power.
| Annual Report 2011 | 31 Cost control As commodity prices themselves are Impact: Production costs are heavily influenced by the extent of ongoing developout side of Glencores control, the comment required, ore grades, mine planning, processing technology, logistics, energy petitiveness and sustainable long-term and supply costs and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on costs of operations.
profitability of its industrial asset port - All of Glencores industrial assets are, to varying degrees, affected by increases in folio depends significantly on its ability costs for labour and fuel.
Unit production costs are also significantly affected by proto closely manage costs and maintain duction volumes and therefore production levels are frequently a key factor in detera broad spectrum of low-cost, efficient mining the overall cost competitiveness of Glencores industrial activities.
Costs associated with the operation of Glencores industrial asmItIgatIon: Maintaining costs and where appropriate lowering them is supported by sets can be broadly categorised into laGlencores continuous reporting on these measures, coupled with the inclusion of cerbour costs and other on-site expenses, tain cost control evaluation measures in assessing management performance.
In addiincluding power and equipment costs.
tion, risk is mitigated somewhat through geographic and multiple project diversification.
Resources and reserves Glencores stated mineral, coal and hyImpact: Actual reserves, resources or mineralised potential may not conform to gedrocarbon reserves, resources and minological, metallurgical or other expectations, and the volume and grade of ore or eralised potential are only estimates and product recovered may be below the estimated levels.
Lower market prices, increased the anticipated volumes or grades may production costs, reduced recovery rates and other factors may render Glencores not be achieved.
reserves, resources or mineralised potential uneconomic to exploit and may result in revision of its reserve estimates from time to time.
If Glencores actual mineral, coal and hydrocarbon reserves and resources are less than current estimates or if Glencore fails to develop its resource base through the realisation of identified or new mineral potential, Glencores business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.
mItIgatIon: Glencore updates annually the quantity and quality of the estimated proven and probable reserves to reflect extraction, additional drilling and other available data in accordance with internationally recognized reporting frameworks, including JORC, SAMREC and PRMS.
For the major deposits, the estimates are prepared and signed off by independent competent persons.
Environmental hazards The processes and chemicals used in Impact: Where Glencore holds or has interests in industrial activities, these assets are Glencores extraction and production generally subject to environmental hazards as a result of the processes and chemicals methods, as well as its shipping and used in traditional extraction, production, storage, disposal and transportation methstorage activities, are subject to environods.
Environmental hazards may exist on Glencores owned or leased properties or at mental hazards.
those of the industrial activities in which it holds an interest, or may be encountered while its products are in transit.
The storage of tailings at Glencores industrial assets may present a risk to the environment, property and persons, where there remains a risk of leakage from or failure of Glencores tailings dams.
Additionally, Glencore conducts oil exploration and drilling activities and also stores and transports crude oil and oil products around the world.
Damage to exploration or drilling equipment, a vessel carrying oil or to a facility where it is stored could lead to a spill, causing environmental damage with significant clean-up or remediation costs.
Glencore may be liable for losses associated with environmental hazards, have its licences and permits withdrawn or suspended or may be forced to undertake extensive remedial clean-up action or to pay for government-ordered remedial clean-up actions, even in cases where such hazards have been caused by any previous or subsequent owners or operators of the property, by any past or present owners of adjacent properties, by independent third party contractors providing services to Glencore or by acts of vandalism by trespassers.
Any such losses, withdrawals, suspensions, actions or payments may have a material adverse effect on Glencores business, results of operations and financial condition.
32 | Annual Report 2011 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion mItIgatIon: Compliance with international and local regulations, protecting our people, communities and the environment from harm and our operations from business interruptions are top priorities for Glencore.
Glencore operating procedures and those of its partners in relation to owned tankers conform to industry best practise working under the guidelines of the International Maritime Organisation IMO, relevant Flag States and top tier Classification societies.
Tankers chartered from third parties are required to meet strict vetting inspection requirements in line with OCIMF Oil Companies International Marine Forum and Glencores own standards.
Glencores oil exploration activities engage best industry practises and procedures and utilise first class drilling contractors with proven expertise and experience.
Additionally, wide-spread and comprehensive insurance cover is actively procured, to reduce the financial impact of operational risks, property damage, business interruption and environmental liabilities to the extent possible.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Emissions and climate change regulation Glencores global presence exposes it to Impact: Increasing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, including the progressive a number of jurisdictions in which regulaintroduction of carbon emissions trading mechanisms and tighter emission reduction tions or laws have been or are being contargets is likely to raise production, transportation and administrative costs.
In addisidered to limit or reduce emissions.
The tion, regulation of greenhouse gas emissions in the jurisdictions of Glencores major likely effect of these changes will be to customers and in relation to international shipping could also have a material adverse increase the cost for fossil fuels, impose effect on the demand for some of Glencores products.
levies for emissions in excess certain permitted levels and increase administrative mItIgatIon: Glencore, through its sustainability program, strives to ensure emissions and costs for monitoring and reporting.
climate change issues are identified, understood and effectively managed and monitored in order to meet international best practice standards and ensure regulatory compliance.
Community relations The continued success of Glencores exImpact: If it is perceived that Glencore is not respecting or advancing the economic and isting operations and its future projects social progress and safety of the communities in which it operates, Glencores reputaare in part dependent upon broad suption and shareholder value could be damaged, which could have a negative impact on port and a healthy relationship with the its social licence to operate, its ability to secure new resources and its financial perforrespective local communities.
The consequences of negative community reaction could also have a material adverse impact on the cost, profitability, ability to finance or even the viability of an operation.
Such events could lead to disputes with national or local governments or with local communities or any other stakeholders and give rise to material reputational damage.
If Glencores operations are delayed or shut down as a result of political and community instability, its earnings may be constrained and the long-term value of its business could be adversely impacted.
Even in cases where no action adverse to Glencore is actually taken, the uncertainty associated with such political or community instability could negatively impact the perceived value of Glencores assets and industrial investments and, consequently, have a material adverse effect on Glencores financial condition.
mItIgatIon: Glencore believes that the best way to manage these vital relationships is to adhere to the principles of open dialogue and co-operation and in doing so it engages with local communities to present and demonstrate the positve communal attributes of Glencores local operations and ensure that appropriate measures are taken to prevent or mitigate possible adverse effects on them, along with the regular reporting of such.
| Annual Report 2011 | 33 Employees The maintenance of positive employee Impact: Some of Glencores employees, as well as employees in non-controlled indusand union relations and the ability to attrial investments, are represented by labour unions under various collective labour tract and retain skilled workers are key to agreements.
Glencore or the industrial investments in which it holds an interest may the success of Glencore.
not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate its collective labour agreements when they expire and may face tougher negotiations or higher wage demands than would be the case for non-unionised labour.
In addition, existing labour agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at its facilities in the future, and any strike or other work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on Glencores business, results of operations and financial condition.
The success of Glencores business is also dependent on its ability to attract and retain highly effective marketing and logistics personnel as well as highly qualified and skilled engineers and other industrial, technical and project experts to operate its industrial activities in locations experiencing political or civil unrest, or in which they may be exposed to other hazardous conditions.
Glencore may not be able to attract and retain such qualified personnel and this could have a material adverse effect on Glencores business, results of operations and financial condition.
mItIgatIon: Glencore understands that one of the key factors in its success is a good and trustworthy relationship with its people.
This priority is reflected in the principles of its corporate practice and its related guidance, which require regular, open, fair and respectful communication, zero tolerance for human rights violations, fair remuneration and, above all, a safe working environment.
Health, safety and environment Glencores operations are subject to Impact: New or amended environmental, health and safety legislation or regulations health, safety and environmental regulamay result in increased operating costs or, in the event of non compliance or accidents tions and legislation along with complying or incidents causing personal injury or death or property or environmental damage at with Glencores corporate sustainability or to Glencores mines, smelters, refineries, concentrators, drill rigs or related facilities framework Glencore Corporate Practice.
such as logistics and storage facilities or surrounding areas may result in significant losses, interruptions in production, expensive litigation, imposition of penalties and sanctions or suspension or revocation of permits and licences, even in cases where such hazards have been caused by any previous or subsequent owners or operators of the property, by any past or present owners of adjacent properties, by independent third party contractors providing services to Glencore or by acts of vandalism by trespassers.
mItIgatIon: Glencore is committed to comply with or exceed the laws, regulations and best practice guidelines applicable to its operations and products in the jurisdictions in which it operates and through its extensive compliace program, including continuous monitoring of legislative requirements and engagement with government and regulators, it strives to ensure full compliance.
34 | Annual Report 2011 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion | Annual Report 2011 | 35 Business review 2 | Business review 2.1 | Financial review 38 2.2 | Metals and minerals 48 2.3 | Energy products 58 2.4 | Agricultural products 64 2.5 | Reserves and resources 68
