business review risks and uncertainties This section highlights some of the Risks keyrisks and uncertainties which affect Greene King, but it is not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of all risks facing Economic risks the business.
Formal risk management The groups business operations are sensitive to Ourlicensees are also affected by the economic processes are in place to identify and economic conditions and in particular to levels climate, leading to the risk of more tenant defaults evaluate risks, taking into account the of consumer spending.
Any delay in economic and business failures.
Property values are also likelihood of their occurrence, the scale recovery could affect consumer expenditure and impacted by the economic uncertainty, and with of potential impact on the business and therefore our revenue.
There is an on-going risk itour ability to continue to make disposals at to our business ofincreases in the cost of key appropriate values.
the impact of planned risk mitigation products, including food, drink, Sky and utilities.
actions, so that risks can be ranked and actions suitably prioritised.
Given that some risks are external and not fully within our control, the risk management processes are designed to manage risks which may have a material impact on our business, rather than to fully mitigate all risks.
Regulatory risks Using a group-wide consistent approach, The last few years have seen an increased causes serious illness, injury or even loss of life each business unit or functional area governmental focus on alcohol consumption, toone of our customers, employees or tenants, reviews its risks and mitigation plans inregard to both its impact on the health of inturn leading to a significant impact on drinkers and law and order issues.
onaregular basis, and draws up plans to risk of further legislation in these areas, including manage new risks or gaps in mitigation additional taxation, which may adversely impact The tied model in the UK has faced continuous plans.
Progress of these risk implementation our business.
scrutiny by various governmental bodies over the plans is monitored by senior management years and despite the EU block exemption and on a regular basis.
In addition, a A failure to comply with health and safety clean bills of health by the OFT, it could remain company-wide risk committee reviews in legislation, including in relation to food safety soin the future.
Any changes to the model could orfire safety, could lead to an incident which impact our strategy and relations with our licensees.
detail and monitors those risk mitigation plans, ensuring that plans work across the group as well as the sharing of best practice.
Particular emphasis has been placed during the year on reviewing plans to deal with Supply chain risks those risks which might arise from Our business could be at risk of both interruption Alongside the production and distribution catastrophic events, and on emerging of supply and of failure of such key suppliers ofour own beers, we work with a number of key strategic risks.
There has also been an ordistributors.
suppliers particularly in relation to food, lager increased focus on ensuring that risk and wines, spirits and minerals and third party mitigation plans are subject to distributors to supply our pubs and restaurants.
At executive level, each of the risks has anidentified owner to ensure senior management accountability for risk mitigation measures.
Each business unit managing director or functional head Operational risks presents a report to the audit committee We are a consumer facing business with some We are reliant on information systems and once a year on the risk management well known national brands.
Poor service standards technology for many aspects of our business, processes for which they are responsible.
and non-compliance with brand standards could which could be damaging if they were to fail The audit committee also reviews the lead to a loss of trade and areduction in our forany length of time.
companys top risks, as set out on the perceived valuation by keystakeholders.
groups risk register, on an annual basis, prior to their submission to the board, which retains ultimate responsibility for the companys risk management framework.
Financial risks It is vital to the business that we continue to We are also reliant on maintaining sound systems meet our financial covenants and to ensure that ofinternal control to protect us from risk of financial there is sufficient short term financing to meet fraud or material error in our financial statements.
We are exposed to interest rate risk on the variable and floating rate components of our financing.
People risks A failure to attract, retain, develop and motivate the best employees and tenants across all our managed and tenanted pubs, our brewing operations and our head office may impact ourability to deliver our operational and strategic objectives.
24 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk Business review Mitigation processes We have a diversified business encompassing All parts of our business are constantly reminded of ofour new franchise agreement is designed to brewing and drinks distribution, pubs and the need to keep costs, including labour costs, down.
ensure that more of our tenants are able to run restaurants, with a wide range of offers targeted Our purchasing team has successfully negotiated profitable businesses.
at different consumer groups, as well as a broad various contracts to protect us against significant geographic spread.
The board and the senior increases in major cost items and arange of other The long term value of each of our sites is management team regularly review the impact techniques are also employed tokeep costs down regularly assessed.
Decisions are made on a site ofthe economic conditions on the groups budget and protect us from pricevolatility.
by site basis around further improvements, and strategic plans.
By emphasising excellent operational focus for poorer performing sites, quality, service, value for money and up-to-date The vital signs of our licensee health are constantly appropriate impairments where necessary and product offers, we aim to broaden our appeal monitored and additional operational and financial the active marketing of sites that no longer have tocustomers.
support is provided to licensees where necessary long-term value for Greene King.
The introduction and roll out We are committed to acting as a responsible regular monitoring, to ensure compliance with We remain committed to the tied pub model and retailer and engage actively with government to existing regulatory requirements in relation to firmly believe that material changes to the tie, ensure that it recognises our belief that the safest health & safety, including food safety.
Audits of all including its abolition, would lead to accelerated and most responsible place to consume alcohol managed houses are carried out every year by an pub closures due to the higher costs of entry and isin well-managed licensed on-trade premises.
independent company to measure their performance ongoing overheads for licensees.
Our new Code Internally we ensure that our training covers all against strict standards, and scores continue to of Practice is designed to ensure that we continue aspects of licensing requirements and have due improve year on year.
All of our Retail sites have to have a transparent and mutually beneficial diligence in place to ensure that all our pubs had an independent fire risk assessment completed relationship with our tenants.
comply with all relevant licensing legislation.
during the year, whilst in Pub Partners we have continued to improve the systems in place to protect our assets, our brand and our tenants.
We have a range of policies and procedures inplace, including training and e-learning, the carrying out of risk assessments, reporting and We have detailed risk mitigation and risk With regard to third-party suppliers, producers We also regularly review the financial position management plans in our internal production and supply chain partners, we review the disaster ofour major suppliers to assess the risk of them and distribution activities, including an on-going recovery plans of key suppliers regularly as well ceasing to be able to trade and, with the help of programme of testing the relevant disaster-recovery as our own back-up plans which are designed to external consultants, we monitor the financial systems.
We are always looking to improve and learn ensure that we can cope in the event of the failure stability of those we regard as of highest risk.
from other best-in-class operators in this area.
by or loss of a key supplier.
We endeavour to maintain tight controls to protect The introduction of PDAs for our Retail business major incident affecting our systems or technology.
and enhance our reputation and brand values.
We development managers has helpedimprove the We have access to anoff-site disaster recovery focus constantly on consistency and quality, with effective monitoring ofbrand standards.
facility, which isregularly tested, in the event of staff training, targeted investment programmes amajor issue with our head office or its systems.
and mystery guest visits all designed to help maintain A business continuity plan is in place to regularly standards, and have systems in place to escalate review our critical business processes and ensure and respond to relevant incidents.
that we can continue to operate in the event of a Our performance against our financial covenants which can be found in note 24 to the financial Our systems of internal control, which include is regularly monitored.
We also undertake detailed statements.
During the year we successfully segregation of duties and authority levels for and regular stress-testing of our performance against negotiated anew 400m 5year bank facility.
expenditure and payments, are reviewed on a those covenants.
Working capital is carefully forecast regular basis to ensure that they remainsuitable.
At the year end 98% of our We continue to move towards a single platform floating rate debt was hedged through the use of financial accounting system to unify the systems, derivative financial instruments, more details of processes and organisation of our finance teams.
We aim to recruit the best people with the We carry out an annual employee engagement Our licensee recruitment and training programmes, rightskills and offer training and development survey to obtain direct feedback from our employees, and the variety of rental agreements and support programmes to ensure that we retain them.
and make sure that our businesses act on the results available, are designed to attract and retain the Remuneration packages are benchmarked to thereof to improve employeeengagement.
ensure that they remain competitive, including incentive arrangements where appropriate.
There has been an increasing emphasis on succession planning across the group.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 25
