38 Business Review Risks and Uncertainties Like all businesses, our Group faces risks and uncertainties that could impact the achievement of the Groups strategy objectives.
These risks are accepted as being a part of doing business and the Board recognises that the nature and scope of these risks can change and so regularly reviews the risks faced by the Group as well as the systems and processes to mitigate them.
The Corporate Governance report on pages 78 to 83 describes the systems and internal control processes through which the directors identify, assess, manage and mitigate risks.
Business Unit Strategy Extending Range and Services Our strategy is developed to be delivered under recognisable and measurable performance metrics and communicated to all colleagues.
Investing in the Store Portfolio Ongoing focus on cost control Leveraging the Halfords brand in multichannel Key Risks and Uncertainties Senior Management colleagues assess risks on a department by department basis using a variety of techniques to identify risk.
The likelihood and impact of these risks are considered and scored against a recognised framework dependent upon their effect on the achievement of our corporate strategies.
Mitigation Responsibility for taking necessary actions to manage risk is delegated to appropriate colleagues in the business, with executive sponsor involvement.
The Risk Register is monitored and updated with current and ongoing mitigation on a regular basis.
Report & Review The Executive Committee and the Group Board consider the risks reported within the Risk Register and review and monitor new risks and all mitigating actions to ensure the status of risk mirrors the Boards appetite for risk.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 39 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Strategy Economic The economy is a major influence on consumer The Group mitigates against these risks by focusing spending.
Trends in employment, inflation, taxation, on maintaining the defensive characteristics of its consumer debt levels and interest rates impact needs driven product groups and by ensuring that its consumer expenditure in discretionary areas.
Changes stores and centres are the key destination for its core in Government policies may also affect our consumers products and services.
We also ensure that we have ability to benefit from our products and services.
representation with Governmental decision-makers in the areas supporting our core categories.
Business Strategy The delivery of the Groups business strategy will The budgetary and planning process delivers the deliver long-term value to our shareholders.
The Groups growth targets in conjunction with any M&A Board understands that if the strategy and vision are activity and business plans are developed to ensure inappropriately formulated and communicated and that these targets are achieved and that they are resourced the necessary resources are not in place to deliver the appropriately.
Regular monitoring of performance strategy both from the core business and from M&A against plan is carried out by both the executive activity the business will suffer.
managers of the Company and the Group Board to ensure targets are being achieved and that they remain relevant to and focused on the Group Strategy.
Competition The retail industry is highly competitive and dynamic.
The Board is aware of the risks faced from UK The Group competes with a wide variety of retailers of Retailers, both in-store and online, and from the varying sizes and faces competition from UK retailers, national car-servicing network and seeks to continually in both stores and online, as well as international strengthen its own-brand and sub-brand retail offer operators.
Failure to compete with competitors on and develop service opportunities to differentiate the areas including price, product range, quality and Halfords offer.
service could have an adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
Compliance The Group operates in an environment governed by The Group has a Quality Assurance team and a legislation, standards and codes in areas including, Commercial Regulatory team that manage legal but not limited to, trading, advertising, product quality, and regulatory control processes both in-house and health and safety, hazardous substances and data externally to advise and take action on existing and protection.
Our various Codes of Practice regulate our behaviour in our dealings with all stakeholders including customers, suppliers and colleagues and our attitudes toward such areas as the environment and ethical trading.
Changing Customer Preferences Some of the products that Halfords sells, particularly in Halfords has recruited experienced, knowledgeable the car enhancement category, are subject to rapidly colleagues who can identify and interpret trends and changing consumer preferences.
Products such as consequently respond in a timely manner to changes childrens cycles face competition from alternative in consumer preferences.
Colleagues also monitor products such as games consoles and some of the developments in alternative products and our forecasts products that the Group sells are non-discretionary in reflect the latest assumption in these areas.
We their nature and predicting future trends is difficult.
are continually looking at ways of moving into new merchandising opportunities to mitigate technology changes and to improve forecasting and planning to ensure we meet our customers changing needs.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 40 Business Review Risks and Uncertainties continued Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Strategy Reputation The Halfords name is a key asset of the business and Ultimately the protection of the Halfords brand as the largest operator in its markets, expectations of and position in its core markets will be sustained the Group are high.
Failure to protect the Groups by unique and extensive product offerings and a reputation and brand could lead to a loss of trust and multichannel approach to sales in our stores and confidence.
This could result in a decline in the a high service based customer proposition in our customer base and affect the ability to recruit and stores and autocentres.
This is complemented by retain good people.
quality training from accredited Automotive Technician training to Cytech Cycles, RoSPA, and the Institute of Mechanical Industries, ensuring that colleagues at both stores and centres are capable of supporting the Halfords brand.
Reliance on Foreign Manufacturers Halfords sources a significant proportion of the Extensive research is conducted into quality and ethics merchandise it sells in its stores from outside of the before the Group procures product from any new UK, either directly or via third-party suppliers.
The Groups strong management Consequently, the Group is subject to the risks team in the Far East has been recruited from local associated with international trade particularly those nationals who understand the local culture, market which are common in the import of goods from regulations and risks and we maintain very close developing countries including, but not limited to, relationships with both our suppliers and shippers to inflation, currency fluctuation, the imposition of taxes or ensure that disruption to production and supply are other charges on imports, the exposure to different managed appropriately.
legal standards, the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws and changing foreign government policies and natural disasters.
Product and Service Quality The Board recognises that the quality and safety of The Group constantly seeks to enhance its position both our products and services in our stores and as store or centre of first choice in each of the autocentres is of critical importance to us and that any markets that it serves.
Halfords continues to invest major failure will affect consumer confidence.
We in both its existing estate to ensure that it remains recognise that if our products are seen to be or contemporary and in constant product innovation to perceived to be of poor standard or of poor value for meet customer needs.
In addition, the Groups market money then customers will look to obtain these from leading in-store wefit proposition provides a range of our competitors.
There is also the risk that our service services at a lower cost to our customers than that proposition fails due to inconsistent levels of service at provided by competitors.
We have an established individual stores and individual centres.
training infrastructure to ensure that our colleagues receive ongoing product and service training.
In our Autocentres the training of our technicians to provide high quality motor vehicle repairs is enhanced through an apprenticeship programme and accredited automotive technician training.
Sixty per cent of our Autocentre workshop colleagues hold a Motor Industry qualification.
We continually track performance against a broad range of measures that customers tell us are critical to their shopping and servicing experience, and monitor customer perceptions of ourselves to ensure we can respond quickly if required.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 41 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Strategy Information Technology IT systems and infrastructure In common with most businesses, Halfords is reliant on Extensive controls are in place to maintain the integrity the reliability and suitability of a number of important IT of our systems and to ensure that systems changes systems where any sustained performance problems, are implemented in a controlled manner.
Halfords key particularly with regard to store or warehouse, trading systems are hosted within a secure data centre multichannel and distribution systems, could potentially operated by a specialist company remote from our compromise our operational capability for a period of Head Office.
These systems are also supported by a time.
With ambitious growth plans for our multichannel number of disaster recovery arrangements including offer, our trading capacity could be affected by internal a comprehensive backup strategy, including a hotlink and external systems resilience and interdependencies.
secure data centre hosted outside the UK and access to a further data support centre elsewhere in the UK in case of a major incident.
Dependence on key management personnel The success of the Groups business depends upon its Our Remuneration Policy outlined on page 84 details senior management closely supervising all aspects of the strategies in place to ensure that high calibre its business, in particular the operation of its stores, executives are attracted and retained.
The Group looks autocentres and the design, procurement and to improve its senior manager cadre through operating allocation of its merchandise.
Retention of senior a talent management process to help individuals management is especially important in the Group due achieve their full potential within Halfords and to ensure to the limited availability of experienced and talented that appropriate succession plans are in place to meet retail executives.
the future needs of the business.
At a junior level the Group continues to invest in graduate programmes and store centre colleague training and development.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction
