Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 RISK MANAGEMENT The Code requires that the Board review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls including financial controls, operational controls and risk management.
The Company's Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee has been set up to review the Company's financial reports, internal control principles and risk management systems, significant financial reporting judgements and for dealing with the appointment of the auditors and monitoring their relationship with the Company and its management.
As part of the process of listing the Companys shares on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on June 30 2011, the Company performed a detailed review of its systems of internal controls.
The result of this review that was performed by management in consultation with the Groups professional advisors was reported to the Board of Directors.
The system of internal controls covers the following key elements: - A Code of Conduct has been adopted by the Group.
To assist in the reporting of non-compliance with this Code as well as any other non-compliance with the Group policies, the Group adopted a Whistleblower Policy in February 2012.
- The Board has approved a Risk Management Policy and a Compliance Policy that are in the process of being implemented.
- The Group has in place a system of delegated authorities including a clearly defined schedule of matters that are reserved for the Board.
- The Board and its Committees receive regular monthly or quarterly reporting covering production, finance, investor relations, safety, human resources, legal matters, the status of significant capital projects, environmental issues and political and macro economic issues impacting the Group.
In this regard the Board considered a draft Commodity and Treasury Risk Management Policy in November 2011 that was subsequently approved in February 2012.
- Controls over financial accounting and reporting including any changes to significant accounting and reporting policies or practices.
The Board notes that no cost effective system will preclude all errors and irregularities and so the groups system of internal controls and risk management processes provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance, against material mis-statement or loss.
The Companys prospectus dated June 20, 2011 includes a detailed overview of the various risks to which the Company is exposed.
Set out below is a summary of the Boards assessment of the Companys most significant business risks and how the Company seeks to mitigate those risks: Risk Description Mitigation Mining and The Groups mineral resources and The Group has, with the assistance of Production reserves are only estimates and the external experts, conducted numerous future operational and financial geological studies and assessments and performance of the Group is dependent modeling of the resources and reserves on its ability to successfully mine and of each of its projects.
The projections process those resources and reserves.
contained within these models are Further the business of mining is subject regularly reconciled to the actual results to a number of inherent risks including of mining and production activity and the risks from geological, geotechnical and models updated as appropriate.
The seismic factors, industrial and knowledge of the deposits acquired mechanical accidents, unscheduled through this process allows plant shutdowns, technical failures, management to mitigate mining and ground or water conditions and production risk.
inclement or hazardous weather conditions.
Gold prices Gold price volatility may affect the future The Companys strategic objective is to production, profitability, financial position provide maximum exposure to the price and financial condition of the Group.
As such a no-gold-hedging Page | 35 Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 Risk Description Mitigation policy has been adopted.
The Company publishes its reserves and resources calculations based on gold prices which are lower than the current market prices of gold.
The price which the Company uses for this calculation is reviewed regularly given movements in the gold price as well as changes in the cost of production.
Retention of key The Group depends on its key The Company has developed attraction personnel personnel.
If the Group is unable to and retention strategies designed to attract and retain key personnel, its ensure that the Company is able to business may be materially adversely attract and retain employees with the affected.
These strategies include benchmarking of salaries and other working conditions against the Companys direct competitors for labour and a significant investment in apprenticeships, scholarships and structured training programs to train local employees in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates.
Country and The Groups current and proposed The Group assesses legal and political political risk exploration and mining activities are in risks as part of its evaluation of potential PNG and the Solomon Islands.
Investments and operations in PNG and the Solomon Islands are subject to It actively monitors legal and political numerous risks associated with developments in countries in which its operating in those jurisdictions.
The Group actively engages in dialogue with the Papua New Guinea and Solomon Islands governments and legal policy makers to discuss all key legal and regulatory developments applicable to its operations.. Social, safety The Company's success may depend on Significant management attention is and its social, safety and environmental directed towards maintaining sound environmental performance failures may lead to relations with local communities and temporary or permanent suspension of working with these Groups to enhance its mining activities.
In addition the Company has prepared environmental plans for each Project and reports regularly to the Board of Directors on its performance against the approved environment plans.
Page | 36 Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration and Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr. House and its other members are Mr. Caruso and Mr. Lowrie.
Mr. Steemson was a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee until his resignation from the Board on August 16, 2011.
Members of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee are appointed by the Board from amongst the NonExecutive Directors.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee has defined terms of reference.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee meets at least twice per year.
The Committee met twice during the reporting period.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the framework for the remuneration of the Chief Executive, the Chairman of the Board if the Chairman is an Executive Director, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary, and such other members of executive management within the remit of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee, with the objective of ensuring that members of the executive management of the Group are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee is also responsible for determining, within the terms of the agreed policy and in consultation with the Chairman of the Board and or the Chief Executive as appropriate, the total individual remuneration package of the Chairman if the Chairman is an Executive Director, each Executive Director, the Company secretary and other designated senior executives including bonuses, incentive payments and share options or other share awards.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee is also responsible for approving the design of, and determining targets for, any performance related pay schemes operated by the Group and approving the total annual payments made under such schemes, reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders, and determining the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for each Executive Director and other designated senior executives.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee does not decide upon the remuneration of the NonExecutive Directors, which is decided by the Board in accordance with the limits set out in the Companys constitutional documents.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee reviews the procedure for the appointment of new Directors and evaluates the structure, size and composition as well as the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and makes any recommendations to the Board where necessary.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee is responsible for the succession planning of Directors and for the identification and nomination of candidates to fill vacancies where necessary.
Given the size of the Company, the Board feels that it is appropriate for the remuneration and nomination sub-committees of the Board to be combined.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, and make recommendations in respect of any area within its remit where action or improvement is needed.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee has been actively involved in the determination of the levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
The current Remuneration Report, presented separately in this Directors Report, details the executive remuneration approved by the Committee.
During the reporting period the most significant activities undertaken by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee were: A review of the appropriateness of the Boards structure, size and composition to identify any opportunities to strengthen the Board.
Considered and approved bonuses for Executive Directors.
Identification and assessment of potential candidates with skills and experience that would complement and enhance the skills of the current Board.
Managed the Board evaluation process.
Considered and recommended to the Board bonus payments to the Executive Directors.
Considered management proposals in relation to the attraction, retention and reward of employees, including Executive Directors.
Page | 37 Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 Engaged an external consultant to provide a paper summarising for the Committee remuneration practices adopted by companies listed on the Main Market.
Approved a set of key performance indicators for the Executive Director.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Company is required to comply with corporate governance policies and practices consistent with the Code or otherwise explain why it has not complied.
The Company complied with the Code during the current period except as set out below: Mr. Caruso acted as both the Chairman and Chief Executive until June 30, 2011 and was not independent within the meaning of the Code.
3.1 of the Code requires that the Chairman be independent, the Board considered that Mr. Carusos relationship with the Group and his importance to it meant that his presence as NonExecutive Chairman continues to be in the best interests of shareholders, notwithstanding that he is not independent within the meaning of the Code.
The Company has not complied with provision B.
1.2 of The Code which requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman should be comprised of NonExecutive Directors.
Under the independence criteria set out in the Code, none of the NonExecutive Directors were considered to be independent as a result of the Allied Gold Mining PLC options held by them: however, as at December 31, 2011 these interests have expired for all NonExecutive Directors with the exception of Mr. Caruso.
Notwithstanding the matters noted above that prevented the NonExecutive Directors from being considered to be independent during the reporting period, it is the Boards view that: a.
All NonExecutive Directors are, and were during the reporting period, independent in character and judgement.
No relationship exists, or existed during the period, between a NonExecutive Director and another party that would affect the independent exercise of the NonExecutive Directors judgement.
The Board is fully committed to adhering to the good principles of corporate governance enshrined in the Code, and as such is continually assessing its composition with respect to the requirements of the Code.
The Board did not have a Senior Independent Director as required by provision A.
4.1 of the Code because, as explained above, none of the Directors were considered independent during the period.
Mr. Harvey was appointed as the Senior NonExecutive Director on the Companys admission to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and became the Senior Independent Director on December 31, 2011 when all options over the Companys shares that were held by Mr. Harvey expired.
The Company has two Board sub-committees, the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
The Company does not have separate Remuneration and Nomination Committees as recommended by the Code as given the size of the Company and its current composition, the Board feels that it is appropriate for the Remuneration and Nomination Committees to be combined.
The Chairman did not hold formal meetings with the NonExecutive Directors without the Executives present as required by provision A.
Similarly, the Senior Independent Director, and other NonExecutive Directors did not meet without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
Discussions were held on an informal basis amongst the NonExecutive directors and between the Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors.
The Company will move to implement procedures such that in camera sessions are held at least once per year.
Page | 38 Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 Provision B.
7.1 of the Code recommends that all NonExecutive Directors be subject to annual reelection.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, at each annual general meeting of the Company, one third of the Directors or, if their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not exceeding one-third shall retire from office by rotation.
The Company does not comply with the requirements of the Code as given the small number of Directors the provisions of the Companys Articles effectively mean that each NonExecutive Director would be required to retire and submit for re-election at least every second year.
Given the stage of the Companys development, the Board considers that having Directors retire every second year provides an appropriate level of stability at the Board level.
The Board will continue to review this item of the Articles of Association in light of any future changes that occur to the composition of the Board and if considered appropriate amend the existing requirements regarding how often NonExecutive Directors are required to submit to re-election.
Although the Company does not at the present time comply with all of the Code requirements, the Directors are committed to making the appropriate changes to meet the requirement of the Code wherever possible and appropriate taking into consideration the Companys specific circumstances and requirements.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE AUSTRALIAN STOCK EXCHANGE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND BEST PRACTICE RECOMMENDATIONS The Companys shares are traded as Chess Depositary Interests CDIs on the Australian Stock Exchange ASX and as such the Company is required to disclose the extent to which the Company has followed the ASX Corporate Governance Councils CGC Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Best Practice Recommendations during the period.
Where a recommendation has not been followed, that fact must be disclosed together with the reasons for the departure.
The Board has developed policies and practices consistent with the ASX Recommendations, with such adjustments as the Board believes are appropriate for the particular circumstances of the Company.
The Companys corporate governance practices were in place throughout the year and are compliant, unless otherwise stated, with the Corporate Governance Councils principles and recommendations, which are noted below.
Lay solid foundations for Refer discussion of Board structure and processes at pages 29 to 33. management and oversight The Company complies with this requirement.
Structure the Board to add Refer discussion of Board structure and processes at pages 29 to 33. value The Company has established a Code of Conduct and a Securities Dealing Policy that may be viewed on the Companys website at www.
Promote ethical and The Company has established a Code of Conduct and a Securities Dealing Policy that responsible decision making may be viewed on the Companys website at www.
au The Company currently does not have a diversity policy.
There are currently 195 women working within the organization and there are no women directors.
Safeguard integrity in financial Information on the composition and responsibilities of the Audit, Risk and reporting Compliance Committee is provided at pages 33 to 34.
The Company complies with this requirement.
