Directors report | governance principAL riSkS risk management actions to mitigate risk the Group has diversified its operations to include a balance of both temporary and permanent Cyclical nature of our business the performance of the Group is placement recruitment services to publicand private-sector markets, and operates across 31 countries and 20 sector specialisms.
significantly impacted by changes to the underlying economic situation in the United the Groups cost base is highly variable and is carefully managed to align with business activity.
Kingdom, australia, Germany and France.
the Group has ensured that net debt has been kept at an appropriate level.
the Group is highly cash generative, requiring low levels of asset investment.
Cash collection is a key priority and the Group has made appropriate investment in its credit control and working capital management processes.
We have leveraged our broad geographical and sectoral footprint to win a significant number of Business model risk multispecialism contracts with large corporate organisations.
this has strengthened significantly our the Group faces a number of industry risk relationship with these clients, increasing our share of their recruitment spend and increasing our share factors in the competitive environment of the markets in which we operate.
notably the increasing use of social media and the gradual shift towards outsourced We monitor changes in the market in terms of industry trends including social media, and continue to recruitment models with associated invest in our online presence to provide a high-quality customer experience.
We continue to ensure that overall remuneration packages are competitive.
this includes performancetalent related commissions to incentivise staff.
the Group is reliant on its ability to recruit, train, develop and retain staff to deliver its Increased focus has been given to internal recruitment activities and training opportunities for example growth plans.
our leadership development programmes are in place and developing the potential of future leaders.
annual succession plans are undertaken across all regions to identify key roles and successor options.
We maintain mediumto long-term management incentive schemes for our top 360 employees to foster commitment to the continued growth of the Group.
all new employees receive training in respect of the relevant operating standards that are applicable Compliance risk to their particular recruitment role.
the Compliance function is also available to provide support and Certain checks are required before we place guidance to recruitment consultants.
For certain roles and industries those checks are more our higher-risk specialisms such as education and healthcare have supplementary processes and specific as set out by legislation.
Failure to controls in place to ensure that operational standards are complied with.
complete, maintain or refresh those checks could lead to legal, financial and In territories where legislation sets out additional requirements, compliance specialists are employed, for example occupational health and safety in australia.
dedicated compliance auditors conduct spot checks on candidate records, to ensure that the appropriate vetting checks and due diligence are carried out in line with legal and .
technology systems are housed in various data centres and the Group has capacity to cope with a data Reliance on technology centre loss through the establishment of disaster recovery sites that are physically based in separate the Group continues to develop and locations to the ongoing operations.
integrate new systems to improve performance.
Business activities are data protection remains a key priority.
specific contractual provisions exist with regard to our data increasingly reliant on system performance centres, to ensure we have sufficient handling and storage procedures around confidential data.
and integrity hays and its clients systems to deliver service to clients and workers.
the Company has in place data protection and security policies and, where data protection legislation allows, email monitoring programmes are undertaken to highlight potential areas of concern, which are a large amount of confidential data is held in these systems.
during contract negotiations management seeks to minimise risk and ensure that the nature of risks and Contract risk their potential impact is understood.
the Company enters into contractual arrangements with clients, some of which our legal team has the depth of knowledge and experience to enable them to advise management on can be onerous in terms of required activities.
the level of risk presented in contracts.
Reviews are performed on a risk basis across key contracts, to identify and agree improvements to the way in which we deliver services to clients.
the Group Finance director reviews and approves contracts with non-standard terms.
Profits from australia and euro-based markets are a material proportion of the Groups profitability.
Foreign exchange there is no active management of translation foreign-exchange risk, however, we continue to monitor the Group has significant operations outside our policies in thisarea.
the UK and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange translation risk.
37 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011 Directors report | governance corporATe governAnce reporT ContInUed UnderSTAnding ShArehoLderS viewS the notice of meeting sets out the resolutions being proposed at responsibilities the annual General meeting to be held on 9 november 2011.
It is hays gains insight into the views of shareholders and other stakeholders the Companys policy at present to take all resolutions at a general through a variety of means.
Feedback received through these meeting on a poll.
engagement channels is regularly reported to the Board.
Formal consultations Primary responsibility for engaging with shareholders rests with the the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consults with Chairman, Chief executive and Finance director, supported by the major investors and seeks their views on the proposed incentive Investor Relations and Company secretarial departments, and arrangements for executive directors and senior management externaladvisers.
From time to time, we specifically seek major shareholders views on other Company proposals.
should shareholders wish to raise any concern where the normal channels have failed to resolve the issue or are inappropriate for any Communications from shareholders and representative bodies reason, lesley Knox is available to shareholders in her role as senior From time to time, we receive circulars directly from major shareholders Independent director.
lesley is a significant contributor to the Board and representative bodies, such as the association of British Insurers, on shareholders perspectives.
lesley will be stepping down from the the national association of Pension Funds and Pensions Investment Board at the conclusion of the Companys annual General meeting to Research Consultants.
We also review the various environmental, social be held on 9 november 2011 and, following the annual General meeting, and governance reports published about us annually and endeavour to Paul harrison will become the senior Independent director.
address any weaknesses or failings identified.
external advisers We are delighted to inform shareholders that our Investor Relations legal, financial, remuneration and communications advisers naturally team has been recognised as ranking eighth out of 60 european have broad exposure to shareholder views and practice in the course support and business services companies in the 2011 thomson of their research and work with their many clients.
appropriate external Reuters extel survey of investor relations professionals.
We believe advice is sought by the Board, Board committees and Group that this demonstrates the importance we attach to effective departments when considering important issues.
Corporate website there is a wealth of information available on our corporate website, how we engage with shareholders haysplc.
com, including: during the year, the Board has maintained a regular and open dialogue financial information and results history: with investors.
We have formal arrangements for engaging with shareholders including those described below.
all announcements made to the london stock exchange: Investor meetings the terms of reference of the audit, nomination and Remuneration the executive directors and the Investor Relations team regularly meet Committees: with analysts and major investors to discuss any concerns they may a pro forma letter of appointment for the non-executive directors: have and to explain the Companys strategy.
latest news and press releases: and the Groups advisers maintain a dialogue with major shareholders and, following each investor roadshow, provide a report on the views of webcasts and interviews given by our executive directors.
shareholders on key issues and management performance.
a summary of this report is subsequently provided to the Board.
all non-executive directors are aware of the investor relations programme and are available should shareholders wish to meet them.
Investors are offered the opportunity to meet the Chairman and senior Independent director.
annual general meeting the annual general meeting provides an opportunity to communicate with all shareholders and in particular with our private shareholders.
the Chairmen of the audit, nomination and Remuneration Committees are also available at the annual general meeting to answer any questions shareholders may have.
38 Directors report | governance boArd focUS in The 2011 finAnciAL YeAr what the board has done in the year developing a successful strategy ensuring appropriate financial management Implementing governance and ethics and Regularly received reports on the Groups Regularly received reports on the Groups monitoring risk strategic performance financial performance Performed the annual review of the effectiveness Received progress reports on the Groups approved financial announcements of internal control and of the nature and extent of risks identified and mitigation strategies It infrastructure projects forpublication attended a strategy day, with the members approved the annual budget approved a new anti-Bribery and of the management Board, at which key CorruptionPolicy approved the interest rate hedging policy strategic matters were discussed Reviewed regular reports on legal and compliance matters from the Company secretary Visited operations in australia and China during which presentations were given by the senior Reviewed Board and committee effectiveness management team on performance and Reviewed and approved changes to the terms opportunities and the Board undertook a visit of Reference of the audit, nomination and of operations Remuneration Committees Reviewed the operations and strategy plans for each of the Groups regions approved the expansion of operations into new countries motivating employees engaging with investors Building strong leaders Considered the results from talKback, the Received regular updates on views and assessed Fast Forward, the leadership Groups employee engagement survey concerns from investors development programme for senior managers and received presentations from certain Considered the Companys investor participants relationsstrategy Considered the tools employed in the leadership and development strategy Reviewed the Groups succession plans and assessed risks and options main committee activities audit Committee nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Received reports from Internal audit on the led the process for the appointment of a new Reviewed the incentive framework for executive findings of their work and reviewed and approved non-executive director directors and senior management, taking risk the updated Internal audit plan into account Reviewed the composition of the Board and its Received reports from the tax, treasury, Insurance committees Considered and approved the outturn of the and Compliance functions annual bonus awards for the executive directors Considered directors annual re-election as for the 2010 financial year Reviewed credit control in the UK recommended by the Code Considered feedback received from investors Considered the external audit plan and reviewed regarding the performance conditions for the the results of the audit Performance share Plan award granted in the assessed the performance of the key individuals 2011 financial year in the Group, asia Pacific and UK finance teams Considered and approved the targets for the Reviewed the risk management and controls Performance share Plan and deferred bonus framework and their effectiveness awards made in the 2011 financial year Reviewed the performance and effectiveness Considered the annual bonus targets for the of the auditor executive directors for the 2011 financial year Considered the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and received regular reports of any serious concerns Reviewed financial announcements for publication Attendance table the table opposite sets out the number of scheduled meetings held by audit nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee the Board and its committees during the year and individual attendance by Board and committee members at those meetings.
attended 1 1 alan thomson was appointed to the Board on 1 october 2010 and attended all alan thomson 6 meetings held since his appointment.
alistair Cox 8 2 Richard smelt was appointed as a member of the audit Committee on 23 march 2011 William eccleshare 8 4 2 6 and attended all audit Committee meetings held since his appointment.
3 Bob lawson retired from the Board on 10 november 2010 and attended all meetings Paul harrison 8 4 2 6 held prior to his retirement, except for one nomination Committee meeting which lesley Knox 8 4 2 6 concerned the succession of the Chairmanship and was chaired by lesley Knox as 2 Richard smelt 8 1 2 6 senior Independent director.
Paul stoneham 8 4 2 6 Paul Venables 8 3 Bob lawson 4 1 39 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011 Directors report | governance corporATe governAnce reporT ContInUed around the strategic objectives facing the business.
the committees boArd effecTiveneSS are well chaired and their structure and responsibilities are clear and Understanding the business appropriate.
We consider that, to function effectively, all members of the Board need appropriate knowledge of the Company and access to its operations Various actions arising from the review will be addressed in the coming and staff.
Presentations and reports on commercial initiatives, our year, including consideration of the use of board pack technology to markets, our competitive position and the general economic indicators facilitate meetings, increasing the Boards focus on strategy and are given periodically to the Board.
In addition, we hold Board meetings execution, facilitating external briefings on key issues affecting the away from the head office approximately twice a year, which allows Group and providing additional training updates on governance and focus on local markets and operations and enables the non-executive regulatory matters, and continued operational focus in relation to directors to meet the local management.
looking forward, the Board will continue to board training and development ensure that it has the appropriate balance of skills and experience in on appointment, directors receive a formal induction, which includes relation to the strategic objectives of the business.
visits to relevant business units and functions and discussions with the audit Committee also undertook its own separate review, details senior management.
these are tailored to the needs of the individual of which are reported in the audit Committee Report on page 43. director and continue throughout their tenure.
Individual performance Briefing sessions on legislative and accounting developments are held the effectiveness of each member of the Board was reviewed in for the Board and its committees when appropriate.
during the year, the respect of the financial year.
the Chairman, along with the nonBoard received updates from the Company secretary and from executive directors, reviewed the performance of the executive Freshfields Bruckhaus deringer llP, the Companys external legal directors individually against their objectives.
the remuneration of the advisers, regarding regulatory changes and new legislation, the executive directors is linked to their respective performances and is Remuneration Committee received updates from their external determined by the Remuneration Committee based upon the result of advisers,  llP, regarding regulatory and these reviews.
Further details are reported in the Remuneration Report governance changes and recent developments in shareholder on pages 48 to 57. sentiments, and the audit Committee received updates from deloitte on developments in accounting standards and company regulations.
the non-executive directors, led by the senior Independent director, met without the Chairman present to appraise his performance during performance evaluation the year.
this year the Board undertook an internal review of the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual members, having carried out Following the performance evaluation review, the Chairman is satisfied an external review with egon Zehnder in 2010. as part of the review, that each of the directors, who will all be put forward for reappointment each director other than the Chairman completed a questionnaire at the forthcoming annual General meeting, remains independent in comprising questions relating to: character and judgement.
as William eccleshare and Paul stoneham will extend their terms of office beyond six years, the nomination information flows, board papers and agenda composition: Committee has given their performances particular consideration, controls: as required by the Code, taking into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
each of the directors being put forward for board dynamics and relationships: reappointment at the 2011 annual General meeting continues to be discussion topics and decision making: effective.
their ongoing commitment to the role is undiminished and they continue to make a valuable contribution to the Board and value creation, strategy and performance: and its committees.
the effectiveness of the audit, nomination and Remuneration Committees.
the disclosures required by dtR 7.2.
6R of the disclosure Rules and the completed questionnaires were sent to the Company secretary transparency Rules of the United Kingdom listing authority who compiled a report on the results of the evaluation for the information required by paragraph 13 2 c, d, f, h and i of Chairmans consideration.
the Chairman met with each of the directors schedule 7 to the large and medium-sized Companies and Groups individually to discuss the results of the review and their responses, and accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 can be found in the other to provide constructive feedback.
the senior Independent director also statutory Information section of this annual Report.
met with the other non-executive directors to appraise the performance of the Chairman, having consulted with the executive directors.
the findings of the 2011 performance evaluation were then considered by the Board and certain actions will be implemented as a result.
Board and committee performance the structure of the Board is considered to be appropriate and relationships between Board members are constructive.
the Chairman provides strong leadership, encouraging open debate and challenge and the Board is appraised of all material matters.
