financial Review c O n T i n u e d Following an amendment to the terms of the $165,000,000 8.00% PRiMaRy RisKs and unceRTainTies facing convertible bonds due in 2012 the Bonds, the special dividend T h e B u s i n e s s was also paid to Bondholders and no adjustments were made to the Heritages business, financial standing and reputation may be impacted conversion rights under the terms of the Bond the Conversion by various risks, not all of which are within its control.
The Group Rights in respect of any dividend paid or made by the Company.
identifies and monitors the key risks and uncertainties affecting the The Company paid a $2.4 million consent fee to Bondholders who Group and runs its business in a way that minimises the impact of such voted in favour of the amendment to the terms.
Accordingly, the risks where possible.
The primary business risks include: Company agreed to pay the holder of each Bond a pass-through dividend the Pass-through Dividend which was equal to the Exploration and development expenditures and success rates the dividend which would be received by the holder of a number of Group has experienced management and technical teams with a Ordinary Shares equal to the number of Ordinary Shares to which the track record of finding major hydrocarbon discoveries and has a Bondholder would have been entitled if it had exercised its Conversion diversified portfolio of exploration, appraisal, development and Rights on the record date of 13 August 2010.
The aggregate principal production assets.
Considerable technical work is undertaken to amount of Bonds outstanding on the record date was $127,100,000.
reduce related areas of risk and maximise opportunities.
These Bonds were convertible into 27,042,553 Ordinary Shares Factors associated with operating in developing countries, political, pursuant to the Conversion Rights and accordingly the Company fiscal and regulatory instability the Group maintains close contact paid to Bondholders a Pass-through Dividend of 27,042,553 on with governments in the areas where it operates and, where 27 August 2010. appropriate, invests in community projects.
Considerable work is undertaken before commencing operations in any new territory.
financial POsiTiOn Title disputes notwithstanding potential challenges in Kurdistan liquidiT y and Malta, the Group believes that it has good title to its oil and gas There was a net decrease in cash and cash equivalents in 2011 of properties.
However, the Group cannot control or completely $287.4 million.
At 31 December 2011, Heritage had a working capital protect itself against the risk of title disputes or challenges and there surplus of $550.2 million, including cash and cash equivalents of can be no assurance that claims or challenges by third parties $310.9 million.
Like most oil and gas exploration companies, Heritage against the Groups properties will not be asserted at a future date.
raises financing for its activities from time to time using a variety of Naturally, the Group strives to employ the best internal and sources.
Sources of funding for future exploration and development advisory knowledge available to help to minimise this risk programmes will be derived from inter alia disposal proceeds from the associated with its activities.
sale of assets, such as the sale of the Companys Ugandan Assets in Oil and gas sales volumes and prices whilst not under the direct 2010 see disposals section of the Financial Review on pages 3 and 4, control of the Company, a large movement in commodity prices using its existing treasury resources, new credit facilities, reinvesting its could impact on the Group.
The Group did not hedge oil prices in funds from operations, farm-outs and, when considered appropriate, 2011. issuing debt and additional equity.
Accordingly, the Group has a Loss of key employees remuneration packages are regularly reviewed number of different sources of finance.
to ensure key executives and senior management are properly remunerated.
Long-term incentive programmes have been established.
caPiTal sTRucTuRe Employees are encouraged to develop their potential and, where Heritages financial strategy has been to fund its capital expenditure appropriate, to further their careers within the Group.
This is one of programmes and any potential acquisitions by selling non-core assets, the Groups Key Performance Indicators and continues to remain at reinvesting funds from operations, using existing treasury resources, low levels.
finding new credit facilities and, when considered appropriate, either Foreign exchange exposure generally, it is the Groups policy to issuing unsecured convertible bonds or equity.
conduct and manage its business in US dollars, which is its reporting currency.
Cash balances in Group subsidiaries are On 26 July 2010, the Company completed the disposal of the Ugandan primarily held in US dollars but small amounts may be held in other Assets for cash consideration of $1.35 billion and an additional currencies in order to meet immediate operating or administrative contractual settlement amount of $100 million.
expenses or to comply with local currency regulations.
At 31 December 2011, Heritage had net cash of $135.1 million Further details on risks and how the Company mitigates them are 31 December 2010 $409.2 million cash and cash equivalents less disclosed in the Annual Review on pages 34 to 37. total liabilities and nil gearing 31 December 2010 nil net debt as a percentage of total shareholders equity.
In February 2012, Heritage repaid the outstanding Bonds of $127.1 million at the end of the five year term.
cRediTORs PayMenT POlicy It is the Company and Groups general policy to settle all debts with creditors on a timely basis and in accordance with the terms of credit agreed with each supplier.
Average creditor payment days in 2011 were approximately 45 days 2010 45 days.
heritage oil plc Financial Statements 20 06
