NOTES TO CONSOLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C ONTI N U E d 3 RISk MANAGEMENT B CAPITAL RISk MANAGEMENT C ONTI N U E d The Companys objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the The table below summarises the impact of increases decreases of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide relevant oil benchmark on the Companys loss for the year.
The analysis returns for shareholders, benefits for other stakeholders and to is based on the assumption that commodity prices had increased maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
decreased by 5% with all other variables held constant: Capital consists of share capital and retained earnings and reserves.
Year ended 31 December The Company monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio.
This 2011 2010 ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital.
Net debt is $000 $000 calculated as total borrowings including borrowings, trade and other Brent light crude 697 120 payables, current tax liabilities, deferred tax and provisions as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and cash 697 120 equivalents.
Total capital is calculated as equity as shown in the consolidated balance sheet plus net debt.
The loss from continuing operations for the year would increase decrease as a result of commodity revenues received.
Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 iii Interest rate risk $000 $000 The Group had fixed rate convertible bonds in the years under review, Total borrowings 175,823 189,080 therefore it was not exposed to interest rate risk with respect to this Less cash and cash equivalents note 14 310,882 598,275 fixed rate borrowing.
In January 2005, a wholly owned subsidiary of Net cash 135,059 409,195 the Company received a sterling denominated loan of 4.5 million to refinance the acquisition of a corporate office.
Interest on the loan is Total equity 936,204 1,122,825 variable at a rate of Bank of Scotland base rate plus 1.4% note 16.
In Total capital 936,204 1,122,825 October 2007, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company received a long-term loan of $9.45 million with a variable rate of LIBOR plus 1.6% Gearing ratio 0% 0% note 16.
An increase decrease of LIBOR by 1% would result in an increase decrease of the Companys loss from continuing operations 4 C RITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES, for the year by $58,000 31 December 2010 $144,000.
ASSUMPTIONS ANd JUdGEMENTS iv Credit risk In the process of applying the Companys accounting policies, which All of the Companys production in 2010 and 2011 was derived from are described in note 2, management makes estimates and assumptions Russia.
In 2011 sales were to a maximum of eight 2010 nine customers.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates Trade debtors of the Company are subject to internal credit review to and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material minimise the risk of non-payment.
The Company does not anticipate adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within any default as it transacts with creditworthy counterparties.
No credit the next financial year are discussed below.
limits were exceeded during the reporting years and management does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties.
A RECOvERABILITY OF E&E COSTS The Company is also exposed to credit risk in relation to regular joint Under the modified full cost method of accounting for E&E costs, venture billings which are typically outstanding for one month and in certain costs are capitalised as intangible assets by reference to relation to its cash balances held with reputable banks.
appropriate cost pools, and are assessed for impairment when circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its v Liquidity risk recoverable value.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet liabilities.
Cash forecasts identifying liquidity requirements of the Such circumstances include, but are not limited to: Group are produced quarterly.
These are reviewed regularly to ensure sufficient funds exist to finance the Companys current operational and i the period for which the entity has the right to explore in the investment cash flow requirements.
specific area has expired during the period, or will expire in the near future, and is not expected to be renewed: Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Companys cash position ii substantive expenditure on further exploration for, and evaluation on the basis of expected cash flow.
of, mineral resources in the specific area is neither budgeted nor planned: The Group had available cash of $311 million at 31 December 2011. iii exploration for, and evaluation of, mineral resources in the specific Based on its current plans and knowledge, its projected capital area have not led to the discovery of commercially viable quantities expenditure and operating cash requirements, the Group has sufficient of mineral resources and the entity has decided to discontinue such cash to finance its operations for more than 12 months from the date of activities in the specific area: and this report.
iv sufficient data exists to indicate that, although a development in the specific area is likely to proceed, the carrying amount of the The Companys financial liabilities consist of trade and other payables exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full and borrowings.
Trade and other payables are due within 12 months, from successful development or by sale.
and borrowings fall due as outlined in notes 15 and 16. heritage oil plc Financial Statements 20 22
