Financial review & Risk management 57 Risk management Overview Itmeets four times a year and more frequently if required.
As with all businesses, management of the Groups operations TheRisk Committee comprises the CEO, the Vice Presidents and execution of its growth strategies are subject to a number and the head of the internal audit function.
A live risk matrix of risks.
The occurrence of any of these risks may adversely is compiled and updated at each Risk Committee meeting and affect the execution of growth strategies and hence the the most significant risks are reported to the Groups Audit performance of the Group.
The Groups risk management Committee which has oversight of risk management on behalf framework is premised on continued monitoring of the of the Board.
Further details on the Audit Committees prevailing environment and the risks posed by it as well as the activities are provided in the Corporate Governance Report management of risks which, in light of either likelihood and onpages 70 and 71.
The key business risks affecting the Group or impact on the business, are categorised as significant risks.
are set out in the table below.
The steps taken by the Group ARisk Committee is responsible for implementing the Groups tomitigate these risks, where possible, are also described.
policy on risk management and monitoring the effectiveness ofcontrols in support of the Companys business objectives.
Financial risks Type of risk Description of risk Mitigating steps Adverse movements in precious metals prices could have Derivative facilities have been negotiated with major Commodity price amaterial impact on the Groups results of operations bankinginstitutions to facilitate hedging activity as and whenconsidered appropriate.
To mitigate the impact of this risk, and other risks which couldpotentially impact the Groups results of operations, the Company continuously focuses on reducing costs and expenses and maintains a low leverage policy thus maintaining the lowest level of fixed commitments possible.
Loss of revenue resulting from defaulting customers The Company has invested during 2011, and continues to Counterparty invest, in increasing its dore capabilities, significantly reducing creditrisk itsexposure to counterparty risk since the sale of dore, as opposed to concentrates, is settled almost immediately.
The Groups sales contracts for concentrate incorporate various protection measures including i inbuilt provision for advance payment or the delay in transferring title of goods sold in the event of non-payment, and ii the requirement to provide parent company guarantees where possible.
In addition, the Group implements risk profiling to appraise key and new customers.
The Groups diversified customer base further mitigates the riskof default.
The Group may lose financial resources through the The Company has elected a small number of top tier financial failureoffinancial institutions counterparties with whom to invest excess cash.
Management and the Board have defined limits for the amount of exposure to each counterparty based on a credit risk assessment.
The Board receives regular reports on the management of cash and, in particular, oversees the implementation of procedures to monitor counterparty risk.
The Group may be unable to raise funds to meet its Notwithstanding the strength of the Companys balance sheet, liquidity financial commitments as they fall due the Board and senior management continually monitor the Groups requirements for shortand medium-term liquidity.
TheCompany maintains strong banking relationships and access to credit lines to ensure an appropriate level of financing.
Given the combination of US dollar denominated sales Local currency exposures may be partially mitigated by offsetting Foreign currency and certain costs denominated in local currencies, variances in revenues due to silver and gold price movements.
adverseforeign currency movements may impact the However, management periodically reviews the profitability of Groups results every operation, which may be impacted by foreign currency movements, to ensure their positive cash flow generation.
Hochschild Mining plc 58 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial review & Risk management Risk management continued Operational risks Type of risk Description of risk Mitigating steps Increase in production costs could impact on the As stated in the Operating Review there has been cost inflation Costs Groupsprofitability during the year across the mining industry and the Group seeks to mitigate the impact of this by entering into long-term supply contracts, where possible.
Costs are monitored by management on a monthly basis.
Assets used in operations may break down and insurance The Group has combined property damage and business Business policies may not cover against all forms of risks due to interruption insurance policies for all operations, and adequacy interruption certain exclusions and limitations of coverage is regularly reviewed with appointed advisers.
Management reporting systems have been implemented to ensure that an appropriate level of inventory of critical parts is maintained.
Adequate preventative maintenance programmes, supported by the SAP Maintenance Module, are in place in the operating units.
Annual inspections by insurance brokers and insurers take place and recommendations are addressed in order to mitigate operational risks.
Contingent power supplies are provided at each of the Groups operations.
The Groups future profitability and operating margins The Group allocated $70 million in 2011 to fund its exploration Reserve depend upon its ability to replenish reserves with and geology activities.
The 2012 budget has been increased and resource  to enable mining at to$90 million.
Reserves stated in this Annual Report Specific initiatives have been, and continue to be taken to retain are estimates and incentivise the Groups Geologists see Mitigating Steps for Personnel-related risks below for further information.
The Group has an annual drilling plan which is revised on a monthly basis with exploration targets continually evaluated andnew targets incorporated.
In parallel, the Groups Business Development function continually evaluates acquisition and joint-venture opportunities.
i Loss of key senior management and personnel i The Group seeks to provide competitive compensation Personnel including highly skilled engineers and geologists: arrangements and develop well-defined career plans for positions of strategic importance through the Groups Talent ii the lack of availability of individuals with relevant Inventory Review.
With respect to incentives, in addition to the mining experience in the vicinity of the Groups launch of a Long Term Incentive Plan, during 2011 the Group operations, particularly when neighbouring projects designed and implemented the Exploration Incentive Plan commence operations: and which provides additional rewards for geologists based on iii failure to maintain good labour relations with themineral content of a given project: workersand or unions which may result in work ii and iii, a labour relations strategy focusing on working slowdown, stoppage or strike conditions, management style, development opportunities, motivation and communication has been developed to ensure that employees needs are identified and met.
Regular meetings are held with workers and unions to ensure a full and accurate understanding of matters of concern and requirements.
Financial review & Risk management 59 Macroeconomic risks Type of risk Description of risk Mitigating steps Costs associated with ensuring compliance with all 2011 saw new administrations take office in Peru and Argentina Political, legal relevant laws and regulations are substantial.
which resulted in a number of legislative developments andregulatory Furthermore, changes in the legal or regulatory landscape impacting on mining companies.
including increases in taxes and or royalties could result The Group has local teams to monitor constantly and react, as inadditional expense, restrictions on or suspensions of, necessary, to policy changes.
It also seeks to participate actively in operations and may lead to delays in the development legislative consultations either directly or through participation ofcurrent operations and early stage projects in trade associations.
Regional risk assessments are performed when investments innew countries are considered.
These incorporate reviews of political environments and likelihood of changes in policy that are likely to impact the Groups results from operations.
Corporate responsibility risks Type of risk Description of risk Mitigating steps Group employees working in the mines may be exposed to During the year, the Group attained Level 7 of the DNV safety Health and safety health and safety risks.
Failure to manage these risks may management information system at Arcata and Pallancata and result in accidents, a work slowdown, stoppage or strike Level 6 at San Jose.
and or may damage the reputation of the Group and A number of initiatives were taken during 2011 further hence its ability to operate reinforcing the Groups commitment to safety.
The Group may be liable for losses arising from The Group has a dedicated team of professionals with Environmental environmental hazards associated with the Groups anallocated budget for environmental management.
activities and production methods, or may be required to Monthlyaudits are carried out to monitor the implementation undertake extensive remedial clean-up action or pay for of third-party environmental recommendations and governmental remedial clean-up actions achievement of targets.
Air and water quality are monitored onaquarterly and weekly basis respectively.
Communities living in the areas surrounding Hochschilds During the year, the Group has restructured its Community Community Relations operations may oppose the activities carried out by the Relations CR department to facilitate an ongoing dialogue Group at existing mines or, with respect to development with local communities.
A specific CR strategy focusing on projects and prospects, may invoke their rights to be Education, Health & Nutrition, and Sustainable Development consulted under new laws enacted during the year.
was designed, with associated action plans.
Furthermore, the Group maintains a database of all agreements with communities These actions may result in longer lead times and to ensure that all social commitments are met.
additional costs in bringing assets into production and lead to an adverse impact on the Groups ability to obtain Specific initiatives during the year include the Maestro Lder the relevant permissions for current or future projects.
campaign, a training programme for community teachers, and Mdico fide Cabecera, a programme taking healthcare to the rural populations.
Further information on financial risks can be found in note 36 to the .
