REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Principal risks and uncertainties We discuss below the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance and our mitigating activities.
For further information on how we manage risk, see the business review and also page 41, within the corporate governance report.
AREA OF PRINCIPAL RISK AND UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIVITY Economic and market risks As detailed in the chief executives statement, the volatile economic outlook for 2011 is expected to Impact on sales, margins, costs, profit and cash of: continue the unpredictable nature of recent years.
Within the UK, consumers are adjusting their spending Economic conditions patterns in response to changes in their disposable income.
The economic environment, including the Cost of raw material products, services response of other retailers to it, widens the possible forecast outcomes of the Groups performance in and utilities respect of sales, margins, costs, profit and cash generation.
Consumer preferences Considerable cost savings have been made in the last two years.
Looking ahead we will continue to Competitor activity focus on cost reduction opportunities although material cost savings may be more challenging to achieve, Seasonality and or weather which coupled with the risk of higher cost inflation, may see an increase in costs.
Overseas sourcing UK-centric store network capabilities continue to be leveraged to support consumers in these challenging economic times, further Expansion and or development of store network extending Value ranges in both Argos and Homebase.
Changing demographics The Group has responded to changing consumer behaviour with the introduction of Twitter, Facebook and iPhone apps to its multi-channel capabilities.
Other mitigating activities include: Empowering customer choice by strengthening range architecture: over 12,000 internet-only product lines have been introduced see p14 of the business review Price tracking versus our competition and dynamic pricing to ensure competitiveness is maintained Continuous review of key customer metrics Strategy At every Plc and Operating Board meeting strategic issues are discussed in addition to the time that is Inappropriate direction dedicated to strategic reviews at various Executive meetings across the Group.
Poor investment decisions The Group has a clear vision to build successful businesses that bring unrivalled convenience and value Failure to execute to customers everyday lives, whether shopping at home or on the move.
Other mitigating activities include: Monthly review of performance against strategic targets Comprehensive strategic debates with non-executive directors and advisers Communication with stakeholders: investors, colleagues, suppliers, government etc.
Currency The volatility of the global economy continues to create a risk of exposure to fluctuations in currency Purchase of products whose cost base of rates as over a third of the products ranged by Argos and Homebase are imported, with much sourced manufacture is in currencies other than from Asia in US dollars.
sterling, principally the US dollar Sale of products in currencies other than Mitigating actions include: sterling, principally the euro in the Republic Treasury policies to hedge currencies over appropriate time periods of Ireland Adjustments to customer pricing to reflect movement in hedged exchange rates Seeking opportunities for further sourcing efficiencies Regulatory environment Good governance practices remain important to the Group.
In addition to ensuring compliance with Changes in UK and overseas legislation existing requirements such as Data Protection, we are active in monitoring potential future developments.
and regulation, eg consumer protection, We also lobby, often with other retailers, to support and develop the industry and the interests of environmental regulation consumers.
Key developments impacting the Group are Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, Changes in UK fiscal and or employment policy, the Bribery Act and potential government changes concerning retail credit.
Changes and potential changes eg minimum wage in accounting regulation, particularly lease accounting, could have a significant impact in future years.
Other mitigating activities include: Membership of industry representative groups, including the British Retail Consortium Direct engagement with government and regulators such as Financial Services Authority, UK Department of Business, Innovation and Skills and Trading Standards Dedicated working parties to manage operational change 32 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS AREA OF PRINCIPAL RISK AND UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIVITY Operations Our multi-channel capabilities continue to increase with greater participation of sales purchased online Failure to ensure appropriate processes are in place or using Check & Reserve for in-store collection.
The anti-fraud controls across the Group are robust with to manage the complexity of operations, including historically low levels of fraud perpetrated, which provides confidence for the development of mobile sourcing of products and customer service commerce initiatives.
Multi-channel creates a dynamic retail environment that requires the Group to continually evolve its media and promotional strategy.
Investment is being made in enhancing the in-store systems that support complex showroom activities for big ticket within Homebase.
The sourcing of products from outside the UK introduces complex supply chain risks that the Group seeks to mitigate through robust processes that ensure stock is in the right place at the right time to meet customer needs.
Opportunities to leverage distribution capabilities across the Group are regularly reviewed.
Other mitigating activities include: Continuously improving the efficiency of catalogue production processes Maintaining and extending the award-winning installation services for kitchens, bathrooms and bedroom furniture Continuation of the Argos store refurbishment programme see page 14 of the business review Trialling in-store collection of Argos online exclusive products Specific financial risks are detailed on page 31 of the Group financial review Infrastructure development and projects The Group is committed to investing for growth, extending multi-channel leadership and maintaining Delay or failure to manage and implement major a robust infrastructure.
Strategic projects to replace or enhance key systems and infrastructure carry a business and infrastructure projects effectively degree of risk: however, we have dedicated project teams in place with strong governance frameworks to manage them.
Projects to enhance systems within our contact centres for home delivery and stores for customer ordering and stock management are being progressed.
Other mitigating activities include: Detailed approval and planning process prior to project commencement Board review of status and progress of major change programmes Internal Audit attendance at steering group for key projects Management expertise in significant infrastructure and change programmes Post-project implementation reviews Product safety The safety and quality of our products is of paramount importance to the Group.
Suppliers are required Failure to manage supplier relationships and or to sign up to the Groups Supply Chain Principles and to specific policies regarding products and their ensure appropriate quality checks are in place environmental impact.
Argos and Homebase teams aim to work in conjunction with suppliers to ensure improvement opportunities are explored when failings are identified as a result of systematic checks.
Demonstrating continuous improvement, our internal alert process for serious product concerns was further enhanced during the year.
Other mitigating activities include: Rigorous quality and safety assessment programme for new products Ongoing monitoring of quality and safety for goods on sale Supplier relationship protocols Robust risk-based approach to factory auditing Standardisation of terms and conditions for all suppliers People The Group values its colleagues and their contribution to the success of the organisation.
Internal training Reliance on key personnel schemes maintain the succession pool and actively encourage promotion from within.
Additionally, in Availability of specialist skills order to continue to improve our business and take advantage of opportunities our existing capabilities Pension obligations are continually reviewed and strengthened if needed.
We are committed to open communications with colleagues at all times and monitor employee satisfaction through an annual Group-wide staff survey.
Other mitigating activities include: Competitive remuneration packages Nomination and Remuneration Committee duties Twice-yearly comprehensive succession planning sessions, up to Operating Board level Strategies for recruitment and development of talent to deliver strategic priorities Regular review of pension trustee activities and plans to mitigate any funding deficit Business interruption A major incident could impact the ability of the Group to continue trading.
We manage this risk by Acts of terrorism maintaining and routinely testing our business continuity plans.
The Group remains vigilant to supplier Failure or unavailability of operational and vulnerability and continues to work towards a sustainable outcome for all parties.
As the UK prepares or IT infrastructure to host the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2012 management effort will be increased as appropriate Delay or interruption in service provided by to address areas of heightened risk.
A major infrastructure project to consolidate and relocate our data third-party suppliers centre will be completed during 2011, once complete this will further enhance our continuity risk management capabilities.
Other mitigating activities include: Business continuity and recovery planning IT recovery plans including website resilience and penetration tests Third-party supplier management Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 33
