Principal risks and uncertainties omeServe has a risk management HomeServe has identified the following process which provides a structured and principal risks and uncertainties.
These Hconsistent framework for identifying, should be read in conjunction with the Chief assessing and responding to risks.
These risks Executives and Financial Reviews.
Additional are assessed in relation to the Groups business risks and uncertainties of which we are not performance, financial condition, prospects, currently aware or which we currently believe liquidity and results.
Risk management operates are immaterial may also adversely affect our at all levels throughout the Group, across business, financial condition, prospects, liquidity geographies and business lines.
or results of operations in the future.
Risks to HomeServes business are either specific to HomeServes business model, such as affinity partner relationships and underwriting, or more general, such as the impact of competition and regulatory compliance.
Risk Description Mitigation Commercial Underpinning the success in HomeServe has regular contact and reviews relationships HomeServes chosen markets are with the senior management of its affinity close commercial relationships partners to ensure that it responds to their affinity partner relationships with needs and delivers the service that they expect.
utility companies and household appliance manufacturers.
The loss These partnerships are secured under long term of one of these relationships could contracts which increase the security of these impact the Groups future customer relationships over the medium term.
In addition, there are a number of partnerships across the markets, mitigating, in part, the impact of losing any one of these relationships.
Customer A key element of the Groups The policy retention rate is a Key Performance loyalty business model is customer loyalty.
Any retention Any reduction in the proportion of variance to budget is carefully investigated to customers renewing their policies identify why customer behaviour is changing could significantly impact Group and to implement corrective action.
The Group has a full range of tools available to manage retention rates including specific retention products and propositions.
There are also dedicated retention call centre agents who are trained and experienced in talking to customers who are considering not renewing their policy.
HomeServe 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Business review Risk Description Mitigation Competition There are a number of businesses The market and the activities of other that provide services that are participants are regularly reviewed to ensure similar to those of the Group and that the strategies and offerings of current and could therefore compete in one potential competitors are fully understood.
or more of its chosen markets.
Increased competition could affect Both qualitative and quantitative research is HomeServes ability to meet its undertaken to ensure that the Groups products expectations and objectives for the and services continue to meet the needs of its business in terms of the number of customers whilst retaining a competitive position customers, policies or the financial in the market.
HomeServe believes that it has a compelling proposition for its customers providing them with real value.
This helps reduce the effect of increased competition.
Marketing A significant reduction in the The performance of each marketing campaign is effectiveness response rates on direct marketing regularly reviewed, with any significant deviation or telesales campaigns could have to the expected response rate quickly identified a significant impact on the Groups and remedial action taken for subsequent customer and policy numbers.
Exposure to The Group is subject to a The Group has regulatory specialists and legislation broad spectrum of regulatory compliance teams within each of its businesses or regulatory requirements in each of the to help ensure that all aspects of the legislative reforms markets in which it operates, regime in each territory are fully understood and particularly relating to product adopted as required.
design, marketing materials, sales processes and data protection.
The Group keeps up to date on current government policies through a range of external Failure to comply with the regulatory advisers and ensures products are designed, requirements in any of its countries marketed and sold in accordance with relevant could result in HomeServe having legal and regulatory requirements.
to suspend either temporarily or permanently certain activities.
Any changes in the legislative, regulatory or judicial environment in the countries in which it operates, or failure to comply with regulations may adversely affect its ability to deliver its growth expectations.
HomeServe 37 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Risk Description Mitigation Availability of The Group uses underwriters to The Group uses a number of underwriters, with underwriters minimise the impact of significant the main partner in the UK being separate to short term deviations in claims those in Europe and the US.
The Groups principal underwriters are party The Group needs to ensure that to medium term agreements, with the rates policy pricing and claims frequency subject to regular review.
In addition to this, the represent an acceptable risk that Group maintains relationships with a number the underwriters are prepared of other underwriters and regularly reviews the to price.
market to ensure it understands current market rates and how these apply to its policies.
Quality of HomeServes reputation is heavily Processes have been established to ensure customer dependent on the quality of its that any directly employed engineers or sub service customer service.
Any failure contractors meet minimum standards.
These to meet its service standards or include criminal record checks and minimum negative media coverage of poor qualification requirements.
service could have a detrimental impact on customer and policy Service levels provided by both our directly numbers.
employed and sub-contract engineers are monitored through the use of customer telephone call backs after a repair has been completed.
Any failure by the engineer to adhere to processes or deliver the appropriate standard of service is addressed by the engineers line manager.
Dependence The ability of the Group to meet its HomeServes employment policies, on recruitment growth expectations and compete remuneration and benefits packages and and retention effectively is in part dependent long term incentive programmes are regularly of skilled on the skills, experience and reviewed and are designed to be competitive personnel performance of its personnel.
The inability to attract, motivate or retain key talent could affect Employee surveys, performance reviews and the Groups ability to service regular communication of business activities are its customers and improve the just some of the methods used to understand performance of the business.
and respond to employees views and needs.
Processes are also in place to identify high performing individuals to ensure that they not only have fulfilling careers, but that as a Group we are able to actively manage succession planning.
HomeServe 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Business review Risk Description Mitigation Exposure to As a result of its growing The criteria for entering a new country includes country and international footprint HomeServe a full assessment of the stability of its economy regional risk is subject to increased economic, and political situation, together with a review political and other risks associated of the manner and way in which business is with operating in overseas conducted.
When entering a new country the Group A variety of factors, including generally does so on a small scale test basis.
changes in a specific countrys This low risk entry strategy minimises the political, economic or regulatory likelihood of any loss.
requirements, as well as the potential for geographical turmoil including terrorism and war, could result in the loss of service.
Financial The main financial risks are the Interest rate risk strategy and availability of short and long-term HomeServes policy is to manage its interest treasury risk funding to meet business needs, cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debts.
the risk of suppliers not paying This is achieved by entering into interest rate monies owed and fluctuations in swaps for certain periods, in which it agrees interest and foreign currency rates.
to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed upon notional principal amount.
These swaps are designated to hedge underlying debt obligations.
Credit risk HomeServe trades only with creditworthy third parties and subsidiary undertakings.
All customers who wish to trade on credit terms are reviewed for financial stability.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, HomeServes exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty.
The risk associated with cash and cash equivalents is managed by only depositing funds with reputable and creditworthy banking institutions.
Liquidity risk HomeServe manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows.
HomeServe 39 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Loyal customers In the UK over 21% of our customers now hold a combined policy with an average of six elements typically covering the customer for plumbing and drainage, water supply pipe, heating, insect infestations, home appliance and locks and glazing emergencies.
Whilst each country has its own culture the type of home emergencies that customers need repairing remain very similar burst pipes, blocked drains, broken boilers and faulty air conditioning units.
Our typical customer is over 50, owns their own home and likes to have the peace of mind that they are protected against the inconvenience and cost of a home emergency.
Our customer base is very loyal with 83.6% of policies retained on an annual basis, reflecting the benefits and value customers receive from HomeServes policies.
Our measurement Global retention rate % 2011 83.6 2010 83.6 2009 83.9 HomeServe 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Business review HomeServe 41 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility omeServe is committed to developing 2 Employees and implementing a successful Embed customer focused values within our HCorporate Responsibility programme business operations.
that benefits key stakeholders and utilises Hire, develop and retain talent to ensure our HomeServes core skills to make a sustainable customers enjoy a positive experience in the difference to its communities.
We believe event of a home emergency.
that a successful business must also be Provide a safe, healthy and inclusive a responsible business.
We aim to: 3 Community Achieve sustainable profits for our Use our core skills to give something back shareholders.
to the community, specifically in peoples Build enduring relationships with key homes.
stakeholders, including our customers, Support more vulnerable members of the partners and the community.
community by helping them in their homes.
Develop partnerships with charitable and Respect the environment.
other organisations which are closely aligned Use our core skills to give something back to to our business activities and therefore the communities we operate in.
Support and encourage employee Our business is centred on providing emergency involvement in charitable giving and services to people in their homes and our volunteering, using relevant employee skills corporate responsibility objectives support this.
Our key focus is around the following four areas: 4 Environment Reduce our carbon emissions per employee.
Support and educate customers and Implement ethical, sustainable and employees to reduce emissions, specifically responsible principles throughout the in their homes.
Identify future risks and opportunities and These Corporate Responsibility principles are ensure the customer is at the centre of our part of the way we operate on a daily basis business decisions.
and reflect in the way we deal with customers, Treat customers fairly throughout the employees, partners and the community.
customer experience: protecting the A Corporate Responsibility Committee, chaired business reputation and ensuring customers by Jon Florsheim, was established in the trust the business to resolve their home UK in 2010 to govern and ensure successful emergency.
A similar committee has also now been established in the USA, chaired by Jonathan King.
