Job: PrincipalXrisks v11 Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: paul Date: 9 March 2012 7:45 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Review of Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Group has an established risk management The Board and senior management follow a monitoring and review process described in the rigorous process of approving, managing and monitoring capital investments along with Corporate Governance Report on pages 47 to 51.
The process requires all businesses to identify, planning for contingencies.
All capital expenditure above discretionary limits requires evaluate and monitor risks and take steps to reduce, eliminate or manage the risk.
Group risks Board approval prior to commitment.
are formally reviewed by the Board at least three times a year and are discussed at every Board Shale Drilling The Group is increasingly providing products meeting.
The principal risks identified through this process that Hunting is exposed to, which that serve the oil and gas shale drilling industry, could have a material adverse impact are listed particularly following the recent acquisition below, together with the steps the Group has of Titan.
There may be considerable future taken to mitigate against these risks.
Some arise resistance to further oil and gas shale exploration from the specific activities undertaken by the and development from significant sections of Group whereas others are common to many the public, and a drilling moratorium or new international manufacturing companies.
laws and regulations may unfavourably impact the industry.
Risks Specific to the Nature of Hunting GroupBusinesses The Board monitors public and political opinion Product Quality and Reliability and maintains an awareness of the potential for Product quality and reliability is critical to the changes to legislation especially with regard to Groups reputation with its customers.
the US where the Group is mainly exposed.
Quality assurance standards are monitored, Raw Material Commodity Prices measured and regulated within the Group under Although not under the Groups control, a the authority of a Quality Assurance Director, material movement in oil or gas commodity who reports directly to the Chief Executive.
prices could impact demand for the Groups products and services.
Acquisitions and Capital Investment Acquisitions are an integral part of the continuing Working capital and in particular inventory levels Groups strategy of expansion and development.
are closely managed to mitigate against exposure While recent new acquisitions to the Group to commodity price movement.
have integrated well, the Board is conscious of the potential disruption to both the Group Relationships with Key Customers and acquiree, of an acquisition process and The Groups success is defined by relationships subsequent integration.
A material reduction in orders from a major customer, whether through The Board is actively involved in monitoring, competitive action, contractual dispute, business approving and assessing acquisitions through post consolidation or change in strategy could impact acquisition appraisals to mitigate the risk of poor the Groups financial performance and prospects.
All acquisitions require The Group is also reliant upon the conduct of Board approval prior to commitment.
its customers, given its products are exported by those customers across the world and used The Group continues to seek opportunities for in a range of environments, including deep sea organic growth and maintains an active capital exploration and production.
The programme maintain close relationships with key customers encompasses investments in new territories, and seek to maintain the highest level of service buildings, production equipment, rental to preserve Huntings reputation for quality.
There is a range of risks involved in such programmes, including poor financial returns, management distraction, facility upheaval and risk of IT systems failure.
Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27 PrincipalXrisks v11.
indd 27 09 03 2012 20:00 Job: PrincipalXrisks v11 Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: paul Date: 9 March 2012 7:45 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions Review of Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Management and the Board closely monitor Other Risks Common to International Manufacturing Businesses trading results, forecasts, political developments and projected economic trends in order to Fluctuation in Currency Exchange Rates The Group has significant overseas operations, match capacity to demand and, where hence results are denominated in a variety of possible, minimise the impact of adverse currencies.
As a result, the Groups financial trends on the Group.
In addition overheads statements, which are reported in sterling, are are monitored regularly to ensure the cost subject to the effects of foreign exchange rate baseis actively managed.
fluctuations with respect to currency conversions.
Health, Safety and Environmental HS&E The Group maintains an active strategy of The Group is subject to a number of HS&E laws financial hedging to mitigate such risk, subject and regulations that affect its operations, facilities to the availability of suitable products at the and products in each of the jurisdictions in which right cost.
The Group is committed to operating in compliance with all HS&E laws and regulations Effective Control Over Subsidiaries relating to its products, operations and business Group subsidiaries operate within a control activities.
However, there is a risk that it may have framework with a degree of autonomy vested in to incur unforeseen expenditures to cover HS&E liabilities, to maintain compliance with current or local management.
The operations of subsidiaries are subject to regular checking by management future HS&E laws and regulations or to undertake any necessary remediation.
through board and management meetings, regular reporting and contact together with It is difficult to estimate with any reasonable external and internal audit.
certainty the future impact of HS&E matters, including potential liabilities, due to a number of Key Executives The Group is highly reliant on the continued factors and especially the lengthy time intervals often involved in resolving them.
There is regular service of its key executives and senior management, who possess commercial, HS&E compliance reporting to the Board.
engineering, technical and financial skills thatare critical to the success of the Group.
Remuneration packages are regularly reviewed to ensure they are remunerated in line with market rates.
External consultants are engaged to provide guidance on best practice.
Dennis Proctor Failure to retain suitably qualified individuals, Chief Executive or to attract and retain strong management and technical staff in the future, could have an adverse effect upon the Group and the results ofits operations.
Senior management continually reviews the availability of the necessary skills within the Group and seeks to find suitable staff where they feel there is vulnerability.
Peter Rose Finance Director Economics and Geopolitics 8 March 2012 The economic and political environment in the geographic areas in which the Group operates impacts demand for energy and therefore the Groups range of products and services.
28 Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 PrincipalXrisks v11.
