BOARD REPORTS PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES In common with all businesses, there are a number of risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance.
The Group has in place an established risk management structure and internal controls framework which together are designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
A summary of the Groups risk management processes is given on page 46 and the Groups approach to corporate social responsibility and associated risks is described on pages 28 to 33.
In addition to the risks described here, the Group is also exposed to a number of financial market risks including credit risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, uctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
A description of these risks and the Groups centralised approach to managing them is described in note 18 to the financial statements.
Further information about pension liabilities is given in note 19 to the financial statements.
RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK AND POTENTIAL IMPACT EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIONS The Groups European revenues are principally derived from Diverse business portfolio serving different customers Economic s Northern and Central Europe, however, the status of the global and markets and market economy and in particular the uncertainties in the Eurozone could environment Accelerate growth agenda: investment in new product development s adversely affect the Groups revenues.
The Groups cost base and emerging markets includes many costs that cannot be reduced in the short-term Monitoring of customer and supplier financial security in line with reductions in profitability.
The Group may also be s required to reassess the carrying value of acquired goodwill and Cost base reduction initiatives s other assets if certain end-markets deteriorate further or for longer, Regular updating of contingency plans s which may result in impairment charges.
Effective cash management s Allocation of resource to more resilient customers, markets and s geographies and focus on global growth trends climate change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and ageing population Legal and The Groups worldwide operations and expansion in emerging Commitment to good governance practices which are embodied in s markets expose it to different legal and regulatory requirements The IMI Way providing a guiding set of values that exemplify how IMI regulatory and standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates employees should behave risks including those for financial reporting, taxation, environmental, IMI Way days held in all businesses which includes face-to-face s operational, anti-corruption, fraud and competition matters.
training for all employees The Group is also exposed to the potential for litigation from Policies, manuals, training, business processes and monitoring of key s third parties which may arise in the ordinary course of business.
compliance and legal risks The Company operates various corporate governance, compliance and internal control frameworks which are essential Increase in resources dedicated to legal and regulatory compliance s for the effective management of such geographically diverse Training of employees on The IMI Way and key risk areas such as s businesses.
Failures in these controls might have a material competition law and anti-corruption impact on the Group.
Enhanced version of The IMI Way to be published in 2012 s Availability and promotion of the IMI Hotline to report concerns s anonymously Internal financial control audits by IMI Group Assurance s Anti-bribery, corruption and fraud workshops carried out s The Group recognises that it has a duty of care to all of its Established systems in place under the IMI Safety First, Safety Always Health, s employees and to others with whom the Group interacts through slogan, to ensure that health, safety and environmental matters are safety and its products and operations.
In the event of any failure in the appropriately addressed and any such risks are minimised including environGroups health, safety and environmental procedures, there is a monthly reporting to, and review at, the Executive and quarterly review mental potential risk of injury or death to IMIs employees or others: or at the IMI Board environmental damage, with the consequential impact on the Increase of full-time health, safety and environmental ofcers across s operations and the risk of regulatory action against the Group.
the Group to ensure policies are embedded and measured Introduction of a new travel risk management programme providing s appropriate advice and support to all of the Group's international travellers Regular review of Group safety performance s Group Environment, Health and Safety function with experienced s specialist employees to provide support and guidance to businesses - including the conduct of regular risk control and health and safety audits Maintenance of insurance for costs associated with any employers' s liability, workers' compensation or equivalent claims and also certain environmental incidents The Groups dened benefit pension arrangements are exposed deficit reduction plans implemented where appropriate Pension s to the risk of changes in interest rates and the market values of funding Liability management exercises implemented to remove risk from the s investments as well as ination, increased longevity of members IMI Pension Fund and statutory requirements.
This may result in the cost of funding Closure of overseas dened benefit plans to new members and future dened benefit pension arrangements becoming an increasingly s accrual where permissible significant burden on the Groups financial resources.
Active management of pension scheme assets and long-term view of s liability assumptions 34 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK AND POTENTIAL IMPACT EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIONS The Group is exposed to risks associated with the Continued focus on quality and safety, including audits to Products s commercial failure of products, projects and technologies appropriate quality standards and such as product liability and warranty claims.
The quality and Processes to mitigate the reputational and legal implications of any technology s safety of our products is of the highest importance and there failure is an associated risk if they are below standard.
For product Maintenance of insurance cover for product liability claims s claims not covered by insurance, the costs that cannot Upgrade of talent and focus on functional excellence in quality and s otherwise be recovered may be material to the Group.
product development Contract management resources for both sales and purchases s Certain of the Groups businesses benefit from close Collaborative development of bespoke new products Key s commercial relationships with key customers.
The loss customers Development of strong relationships with new accounts to maintain s of certain of these key relationships whether through a diverse portfolio across business sectors and geographic regions competition, consolidation or insolvency could have a Monitoring of markets for advance warning of negative commercial s material impact on the Groups results.
The Groups top developments ten customers represent approximately 15% of total Group Further investment in and development of Key Account s revenues.
Onerous contract conditions with key customers Management and Engineering Advantage could impact the Groups financial performance.
Increase in resources dedicated to legal contract review and s enhanced contract sign off procedures The Group has a significant number of contracts with Monitoring of risk and development of contingency plans to Supply s a broad base of suppliers.
In the current economic mitigate the impact of any supplier failure or increased prices chain environment there is a risk that their access to credit or Review of supply base to reduce over-reliance on key suppliers s adverse trading conditions could lead to an inability to Moves to new lower cost manufacturing facilities, ongoing review s meet their contractual commitments to the Group.
In of alternative low cost economy based suppliers and, where addition, upward price pressure from the supply chain appropriate, supplier consolidation could erode profits.
The increasing use of suppliers in low Training and audit programme to validate suppliers business s cost economies could introduce risks related to quality processes, quality and standards or responsible business practices.
All this could have a material impact on the Groups results.
Competitive The Group operates in highly competitive markets.
Initiatives and investment in research and development targeted s significant product innovations, technical advances or to sustain the Groups Engineering Advantage markets the intensication of price competition could all adversely Monitoring of competing markets and products, including s affect the Groups results.
The Groups continued success adjacent technologies, to facilitate early identication of potential depends upon its ability to continue to develop and threats and development of contingency plans produce new and enhanced products and services on Cost base reduction initiatives, including supplier rationalisation s a cost-effective and timely basis in accordance with and value engineering customer demands.
Processes for managing investment in research and development s including appropriate stage gates for reviewing progress against clearly-dened, often customer-driven, technical and commercial objectives M&A IMIs growth strategy is in part dependent on acquisitions.
Rigorous due diligence process with clear financial targets s The execution and integration of acquisitions involves activity Formal internal approval requirements s a number of risks, including diversion of managements Appropriate business integration processes to ensure that the s attention, failure to retain key personnel of the acquired Groups policies, values, compliance and control framework are business and risks associated with unanticipated events or adopted and embedded liabilities.
The Group may also be subject to liabilities as a Investment in M&A skills and resources to support the s result of past or future disposals.
growth strategy Talent A loss of key personnel or the inability of the Group to recruit Succession plans in place and regularly reviewed s and retain high calibre managers and engineering talent may acquisition Group-wide training and development programmes s lead to the Group not being able to implement its business and Increased resources in emerging markets s plans and strategy effectively and experiencing delays, or retention Regular employee-wide surveys and action plans targeted by s increased difficulty, in the strategic development of the Group, company or geography including in developing and selling its products and services.
Major The achievement of IMIs strategic objectives will require a Upgrade of resources and talent in project management s number of major change projects in areas of manufacturing change Regular review of project progression by Executive s realignment, information technology improvements and projects Enhanced risk assessment process including full mitigation action s business reorganisations.
Failure to deliver successful plans for all major change projects major change projects in a timely manner could impact the Groups financial performance.
Risk Appetite The Board has considered the Groups risk appetite and it is considered appropriate to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
The level of risk appetite varies according to the rewards associated with each of the above risk categories.
Risk appetite is higher for new product development, emerging market growth and bolt-on acquisitions, in keeping with our objective for further strategic convergence and is lower for employee safety and compliance with regulatory and business ethics.
The degree of risk to be accepted on an operational basis is managed through delegation of authority levels and ensuring consistency with The IMI Way.
