Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials e t a g i t i M I d e n t 16 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Effective risk management Effective Risk Management Operating Risk Group Risk Register Markets, Executive Co-ordination factories, and Audit Committee regions and Committee functions Risk Management Overview Risk Management: How it works at Environmental, Community and We must manage and mitigate the risks Imperial Tobacco Ethical Risks that we face in a business as large and To support the Operating Executive and As well as strategic, operational, financial diverse as Imperial Tobacco.
In this section, the Audit Committee in managing the and legal risks, our risk register covers we outline the principal risks specific to material risks facing our business we a number of environmental, community our business and how we manage and have a Risk Co-ordination Committee.
These are integrated mitigate these risks.
We also highlight the This ensures a consistent top-down into our decision-making and risk formal risk management process that the approach in how we identify, assess assessment processes.
and prioritise material risks, as well as assessing our existing measures Not all these factors are within our control to manage and mitigate those risks.
and the list is not exhaustive.
There may Our Group Risk Register is maintained be other risks and uncertainties that are by the Risk Co-ordination Committee.
unknown to us and the list may change as something that seems immaterial now This top down approach is complemented may have greater importance in the future.
by a bottom up approach requiring each area of the business to formally review We are subject to the same general risks its principal areas of risk and uncertainty as many other businesses: for example, and to produce annual risk assessment changes in general economic conditions, summaries which are compared to the including currency and interest rate Group Risk Register.
These ongoing risk fluctuations, changes in taxation legislation, assessment summaries identify major areas the cost of our raw materials and the of risk, including specific local risks and impact of competition, political stability how they are managed and mitigated by inthe countries in which we operate and controls embedded in business processes.
source our raw materials and the impact ofnatural disasters.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 i f y k n a R M o n i t o r s s e s s A Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 17 Principal risks Illicit Trade Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales Overview It is estimated that the illicit trade in tobacco accounts for up to 12 per cent of the global tobacco market.
It is a significant and growing problem for the legitimate tobacco industry and we encourage regulators to recognise the relationship between regulation, excise and illicit trade.
In countries where economic conditions are difficult as a result of reduced disposable incomes, consumers look for cheaper products.
Illicit trade can take the form of smuggled genuine tobacco products, counterfeit tobacco products and illicit whites whereby third parties produce cigarettes paying minimal tax, for the primary purpose of smuggling.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Illicit trade may lead to erosion of demand for legitimate We proactively engage on the issue of illicit trade with a wide tobacco products and damage to our brand integrity, loss of range of stakeholders.
potential earnings, and potentially impact on our reputation.
We invest to counter the illicit trade in tobacco products and are Illegal trading in our products may result in the Group and working with governments, other legitimate tobacco companies orour employees being subject to investigation or other and international organisations globally.
proceedings by customs or other authorities which could In 2010, we entered into a 20-year co-operation agreement with ultimately result in penalties and fines being imposed on the EU to collectively tackle the problem of illicit trade.
alongside the European Commissions Anti-Fraud Office OLAF and the law enforcement agencies of EU Member States.
We have signed Memoranda of Understanding MoU and industry agreements with customs authorities in 19 countries to tackle illicit trade, based on joint action and shared intelligence.
We have strong internal business conduct and controls and apply stringent controls to our customers.
These are set out inour Group policies and standards, Code of Conduct and product supply compliance processes and procedures.
Our Code of Conduct is available on our website www.
com Excise Duty Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales Overview Tobacco products are subject to excise duty which, in many of the markets in which we operate, represents a substantial percentage of theretail price.
Taxes are generally increasing in many markets and the rate of increase varies country by country and by different tobacco product group.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Substantial increases in excise duty and any unfavourable We conduct regular reviews of our product portfolio to ensure change in the tax treatment of fine cut tobacco, if widely itis aligned to consumer preferences in the context of the adopted, may have an adverse effect on the demand for exciseduty structure in each market.
We are particularly ourproducts and impact our future profit development.
focused on continuing to develop portfolio strategies that will enable us to capitalise on value seeking consumers.
Increasing levels of excise duty are also likely to encourage consumers in affected markets to switch from higher priced We proactively engage with local tax and customs authorities cigarettes to lower-priced cigarettes and fine cut tobacco.
Excise duty increases also encourage both legal and illegal cross-border trade from countries with lower levels of duty.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 18 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Regulation Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales and cost Overview The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasingly restrictive regulatory practices worldwide.
In many of the countries inwhich we operate, there is a wide range of regulatory restrictions in place, including where tobacco products can be smoked and their development, content, manufacture, packaging and labelling, testing, data reporting, sale, distribution, display, marketing and advertising.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Imperial Tobacco, along with all other tobacco companies, We employ experienced senior Corporate Affairs specialists to isoften excluded from engaging with regulators on the manage regulatory risk and engage withregulators.
We develop company positions and toolkits and provide training Any future changes to regulation of the tobacco industry and guidance for our markets to comply with regulation.
could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products We monitor proposals for new measures globally and analyse or increase the costs related to compliance and contribute them to identify their potential impact on the Group and toan increase in illicit trade.
We consult with external experts where necessary to provide advice and guidance regarding any impact.
We work towards consistent engagement on key issues and areactive members of relevant industry bodies.
We challenge unreasonable and disproportionate regulation.
Market Place Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales and cost Overview The continued growth of our business is underpinned by our position in our key markets, including in the UK and Germany andother EU markets.
Given our significant position in certain markets, we may be subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny in thesecountries.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Any material decline in the performance of our key markets Our international footprint and total tobacco portfolio may impact on our future profit development and have an provides an increasingly balanced exposure to both adverse impact on the Groups revenue or profits.
Our significant market position in certain countries could result Our total tobacco portfolio includes international strength in in investigations and adverse regulatory action by relevant cigarettes and world leadership in fine cut tobacco, cigars, competition authorities, including the potential for monetary rolling papers and tubes, which provides us with enhanced fines and negative publicity.
The Groups policies and standards, including our Code of Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with competition laws in the countries in which we operate.
We provide training and guidance to relevant employees detailing the obligations and requirements of competition laws.
We employ experienced internal and external lawyers specialising in competition laws to provide advice and guidance regarding interpretation and compliance with competition laws.
Further details of a market specific regulatory action by a competition authority are outlined on page 58.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 19 Financing Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on cost and cash Overview We have a significant level of committed debt which is financed primarily in the debt capital markets and in the bank loan markets.
We expect to rely on these markets to refinance this debt when it matures and rely on the availability of committed funds from our bank counterparties to be available when required to be drawn.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities We may be unable to refinance our debt, when it matures, We have a centralised treasury function, which is responsible in the debt capital markets and loan markets.
In addition, for the management of the financial risks of the Group, the cost of refinancing the debt, when it matures, may be together with its financing and liquidity requirements.
materially higher than the current cost.
The Group Treasury Committee GTC sets a framework for We may be subject to reduced availability of financing the treasury function to operate within.
The framework covers, because our bank counterparties are unable to honour their amongst other things, financing, liquidity and counterparty risk.
commitments when required to deliver funds that they have The GTC oversees the operation of Group Treasury in committed to lend when requested.
accordance with the terms of reference set out by the Board.
Although a material part of the Groups debt is currently at The Board reviews and approves all major treasury decisions fixed levels of interest, the Group is still exposed to movements and receives regular reports from the Group Treasurer.
in interest rates which could result in higher cash outflows.
Cash flows and financing requirements are regularly forecast If we are unable to refinance our debt or higher interest costs and developments in debt capital and bank loan markets are this could impact the Groups profitability, credit rating and monitored to ensure we are well placed to meet the future ability to operate as a going concern.
financing needs of the Group.
In addition, limited ability to borrow additional funds may also reduce the flexibility for, or reacting to, competitive and industry pressures, or opportunities.
Further details of the Groups treasury operations and the approach to managing its financing risks can be found in Note 16 to the Financial Statements on pages 99 to 113.
Legal Compliance Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on cost Overview We may be exposed to liabilities and reputational risk by failing to comply with any of the laws that are applicable to the Group or incur costs and liabilities as a result of tobacco litigation claims.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Failure to comply with local and international laws may result The Groups policies and standards, including our Code of in investigations.
This may cause damage to our reputation Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with laws and has the potential for financial and criminal penalties for in the countries in which we operate.
both the Group and individuals.
To date, no tobacco litigation claim brought against the Tobacco-related litigation claims are pending against the Group has been successful and or resulted in the recovery of Group in a number of countries.
More claims may be brought damages.
We employ internal and external lawyers specialising in the future, including claims for personal injury and the in the defence of product liability litigation to provide advice recovery of medical costs allegedly incurred in treating and guidance on defence strategies and to direct and manage smokers.
If any claim were to be successful, it may result litigation risk and monitor potential claims around the Group.
in a significant liability for damages and may lead to further Further details of market specific tobacco litigation claims claims against us.
Regardless of the outcome, the costs of against Group companies are outlined on pages 58 and 59. defending such claims can be substantial and may not be fully recoverable.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011
