32 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 buSIneSS RevIew continued growing band of customers to book a Green Engage hotel by We regularly track public policy issues which may affect our introducing an online booking capability for guests who want to stay business and we have recently commissioned a shareholder review at green hotels.
In 2012 we will continue to expand awareness of of CR to really understand what our investors think of our activities.
our Green Engage hotels on IHG branded and external booking Findings will feed into future strategy development.
We will also continue to work with our brand teams to ensure To make sure our hotel operators have the latest information on our that CR is integral to their Brand Plans.
programmes we produced a CR in a Box toolkit in collaboration with the IHG Owners Association.
This quick and easy guide enables Community hotels to do more to support our CR efforts through how to guides, Our scale gives us a real opportunity to improve the lives of local videos and other downloadable material.
In 2012 we will help our people.
Our Community Strategy, which sets out how we seek operators get more involved in our programmes by providing to create local economic opportunity, is critical to achieving further tools, including information they can share with guests.
economic success and Great Hotels Guests Love.
In 2011 we We will continue to provide quarterly updates through our online put more focus on the community, successfully expanding our CR report.
The report attracts roughly 5,000 visits a month and two main programmes.
is an important source of stakeholder feedback, which in turn IHG Academy drives our strategy.
And we will continue to add new case Through the innovative IHG Academy we join forces with local studies to our Innovation Hotel, giving hotels the chance education providers to provide real life skills and create job to share their achievements.
This public-private partnership Regulation and legislation improves employment prospects for local people, provides us Over and above complying with legal requirements wherever we with a pipeline of talent and ensures we offer high-quality guest operate, our systems and programmes help keep us ahead of experiences worldwide.
It also gives our employees the opportunity regulatory demands.
Green Engage is core to helping hotel owners manage current Originally developed in China, we expanded the programme globally regulatory performance and prepare for anticipated regulations.
We now have 36 IHG Academy programmes in numerous countries, and over 5,500 participants took part in 2011 up almost This year we used Green Engage to comply with the requirements 20% from 2010.
Chief Executive Richard Solomons opened our first of the UKs Carbon Reduction Commitment, a mandatory carbon UK IHG Academy at Rosedale College in Hayes, Middlesex.
In 2012 emissions reporting and pricing scheme.
we will formally launch our programme in Newham, East London, These and other complex regulatory matters are overseen by which will support the legacy and regeneration goals of the London our Global Carbon Strategy Team.
We review our carbon strategy 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
regularly with our CR Committee and discuss it with the IHG Owners Association to make sure our franchise owners support Disaster relief our aims.
We have a long history of helping communities in times of disaster.
The IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme, launched formally in 2011, External recognition builds on this tradition, using our scale to pool our resources and Our activities continued to receive external recognition in 2011. efforts.
When disaster strikes, we provide guidance to help IHG Our first entry in the BITC CR Index achieved a Silver status rating.
hotels react swiftly and effectively, so they can provide help such The CR Index is the UKs leading voluntary benchmark for as emergency shelter, food and clean water to communities corporate responsibility and over 350 organisations have used the around our affected hotels.
To develop and deliver this Programme we have established a We were also shortlisted for an award for Best Corporate global partnership with CARE International, who advise us on how Social Responsibility CSR Programme at the Business Travel to act and help find appropriate charity partners in the disaster Awards 2012. area.
We also set up an IHG Shelter Fund, which is supported Policies and Code of Ethics through employee fundraising activities.
We have already put the IHG Shelter Fund into action and more than $700,000 was raised to We have detailed policies on the environment, human rights, the help those affected by the Japanese tsunami and the earthquakes community and a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct.
Money from the IHG Shelter Fund was also used we also added a Vendor Code of Conduct to our approach.
during the flooding in Thailand to help employees of our hotels in Among the Groups core values is the concept that all employees Bangkok repair damage to their homes and belongings.
should have the courage and conviction to do what is right.
The Groups global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct consolidates Stakeholder engagement and public policy and clarifies expected standards of behaviour and communicates Our stakeholders are important to us.
We engage with them the ethical values of the Group.
It states clearly that IHGs through a number of channels, including forums, meetings, reputation is built upon the trust and confidence of our individual interviews, surveys and our award-winning online CR stakeholders and is fundamental to our operations worldwide.
In 2011 we launched the IHG Planet CR Facebook page and A Confidential Disclosure Channel also provides employees with created a one-stop-shop resource centre on our company intranet a means to report any ethical concerns they may have.
The Code of to help keep corporate employees and hotel operators up-to-date Ethics and Business Conduct is applicable to all employees and is with our programmes.
We also developed a series of animated available on the Companys website at www.
com investors videos to help raise awareness and understanding of our key under corporate governance.
programmes in a fun and engaging way.
The videos are also available on YouTube.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION business review 33 CR priorities, performance and targets The following table outlines IHGs overall CR priorities, developments and achievements during the year and priorities for 2012.
CR priorities 2011 developments and achievements 2012 priorities Launched Green Engage version 2.0: M eet 6% to 10% energy reduction target by drive environmental end of 2012: sustainability met target to have over 1,700 hotels using Green Engage by the end of 2011: c ontinue to grow hotels enrolled in Green Engage to 50% of our estate: reduced energy consumption of IHG offices and hotels: e nhance quality of use of Green Engage at hotel level: led the Cornell University carbon study and fed this into the International Tourism d evelop Green Meetings offering: and Partnership ITP and World Travel & Tourism c ontinue to drive the development and Council WTTC industry carbon working use of a global CO standard for hotels.
2 group: and participated in President Obamas Better Building Challenge.
Expanded the IHG Academy programme IHG Academy in a Box to be created for Positive impact to numerous countries including our first roll-out across all regions: on the local UK-based IHG Academy: community o nline process for donation requests set created a toolkit providing our hotels with up and communicated: guidance on how to become an IHG Academy: f undraising events in each region: established the IHG Shelter in a Storm p ilot life skills offering in London 2012 Olympic Programme and IHG Shelter Fund and and Paralympic Games through social donated over $700,000 to help communities enterprise: and in New Zealand, Japan and Thailand: and f urther refine our key CR policies.
formalised our partnership with CARE International to help provide strategic advice and guidance to our hotels in times of crisis.
CR and our CR elements embedded in Brand Plans: and I HG Owners Association agreement on making Green Engage a brand standard: and brands increased presence of Green Engage in IHG internal communications.
i mplementation plans and budgets in place for agreed CR elements in Brand Plans.
engage Launched Innovation Hotel version 2.0: C ontinue to engage with our stakeholders through our refined stakeholder engagement stakeholders created the IHG Planet CR Facebook page: process and channels: to champion created a CR Resource Centre for internal and protect c ontinue to update the Innovation Hotel with stakeholders so they can access up-to-date new case studies and feed learning into Green IHGs trusted information about our programmes: Engage: reputation completed a stakeholder and communications and deliver l aunch video to communicate the results strategy session focusing on our sphere of of IHGs economic impact study: against public influence, our stakeholders and our goals for affairs priorities stakeholder engagement: i ncrease Facebook fans to 6,000-10,000 by the end of 2012: engaged in meetings with key stakeholders to understand their priorities and explore e nsure alignment between CR and opportunities for partnership working: and public policy: and continued to manage critical industry and r efresh CR training so our internal government affairs issues.
stakeholders are kept informed and updated.
For more information please visit our Corporate Responsibility website at www.
com responsibility and the Innovation Hotel at www.
com innovation or join us on Facebook at www.
34 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 buSIneSS RevIew continued Risk management As a business, IHG manages and takes risks every day.
However, We believe that an effective risk management system requires: we recognise that by managing risks effectively, particularly the Culture a proactive risk management culture ensuring our major risks that may affect our business plans and strategic people have the necessary knowledge and demonstrate the right objectives, we are able to protect or enhance our key assets behaviours for effective leadership and decision-making: appropriately.
Amongst our key assets, we have: Roles and responsibilities clear roles and responsibilities brands and market position: across a holistic view of risk management: and financial strength and performance: Process and framework a robust process and framework for business capability and systems including people, IT systems and managing risks that is consistently applied across the business.
ways of working: and business reputation and relationships with our stakeholders.
Risk management system Working together to embed a proactive risk management culture Consistent with our Winning Ways, IHG aims to embed a proactive at Strategy Review meetings between individual Executive risk management culture.
The development of IHGs risk Committee members and the Chief Executive and formal risk management culture and capability is a collaborative effort led by reporting to the Executive Committee, Audit Committee and Board.
the Company Secretary, supported by the Global Risk Management This tone from the top support and accountability for risk team and delivered by everyone in the business from the Board and management is then cascaded into the business.
Executive Committee to front line hotel and corporate employees.
IHGs risk management capability is continually strengthened by IHGs vision for risk management is to foster a culture that becomes learning from incidents and crises.
With a global footprint of nearly instinctive, well-informed, curious, alert, responsive, consistent 100 countries and territories, IHG navigated through numerous and accountable.
natural and man-made crises in 2011 responding to natural Risk management activity is aligned to delivering Great Hotels disasters in Japan, New Zealand and the US, and the political Guests Love and is embedded in our business decision-making events in the Middle East.
Events such as these continually processes.
This includes but is not limited to, integrating risk strengthen our risk management culture.
management into the strategic planning process and discussions Roles and responsibilities across a holistic view of risk management The model illustrates our holistic view of risks affecting the Group: Strategic and market risks risks that affect the Groups high-level strengths and weaknesses or reflect risks from the IHG external environment.
These risks are managed by senior Regions leadership teams across the regions and corporate functions, and functions with oversight provided by the Executive Committee: Strategic Tactical risks risks arising from our key initiatives and projects Project risks supporting our growth and transformation agendas.
These risks are managed by project managers and project sponsors within Tactical the relevant business functions, with oversight provided by the IHG operating system Programme Office: and Owned Operational risks risks affecting IHGs operating system and Hotels Managed our hotels.
These risks are managed by corporate functions Franchised and regional operators working collaboratively with hotel Operational management teams and owners.
Oversight is provided by the Global Operations Council.
With this approach, we believe we have clarity on ownership of risks and that clear oversight roles are in place.
Additional risk governance roles and responsibilities are included in the Major Risk Review Process which seeks to identify the most significant strategic, tactical and operational risks to the Group.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION LIKELIHOOD business review 35 Major Risk Review Process BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE Risks are continuously identified, monitored and managed by a wide range of stakeholders across each region and the corporate EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE functions, and are formally discussed twice a year with the Chief Executive.
In addition, the Risk Working Group, which is chaired by the MAJOR RISK REVIEW Company Secretary and comprises the Global Heads of Strategy, GROUP LEVEL RISKS Risk Management and Internal Audit, takes an active role in overseeing the most significant risks to the Group.
Risks identified in the regions and corporate functions are consolidated, refined and calibrated against a strategic view of risks by the Risk Working Group.
The Major Risks are discussed with the Executive Committee to gain agreement on the risk descriptions, ownership and actions, before final presentation to the Audit Committee and Board.
The Risk Working Group monitors changes to the Major Risks and the progress of actions on a quarterly basis, to ensure these risks are appropriately managed and emerging risks are identified.
RISK WORKING GROUP The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups strategy, risk management and systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
In addition, the Audit Committee annually reviews the risk management system and the overall effectiveness of the Groups risk management.
REGION AND FUNCTION RISKS Risk Management Framework The Risk Management Framework which is consistently applied to Policies and standards formal articulation of the approach, risks affecting IHG is depicted in the Manage Risk cog of the Hotel controls and actions for IHG employees when dealing with specific Safety Framework shown on page 37.
This is a pragmatic risk risks.
These set out accountability for risks, relevant roles and framework which starts with a risk profile and moves through the responsibilities and actions that are measurable or auditable: necessary considerations for effective management mitigation Ways of working practical aspects of risk management such as of risks.
tools, templates, systems, forums and behaviours which help Risk profile identification and prioritisation of risks against management bring the policies and standards to life: consistently applied assessment definitions.
This includes an Training and communication face-to-face and online learning assessment of risk before actions or controls are taken and programmes to provide appropriate skills and knowledge and after existing management actions are applied.
Where these regular communication to raise awareness: management actions are not sufficient, a further target risk Operate and control ongoing operational activities and control level is set.
The risk profile is captured in heatmaps as shown measures to comply with policies and standards and to manage risk: in the diagram below: Risk financing consideration of the financial impact of risks and ensuring that arrangements are in place usually insurance coverage or budgetary funds: and Monitor and report the collection and analysis of management G information to evaluate the effectiveness of the risk profile, policies GROSS RISK Risk level G and standards, ways of working, training and communications and with ineffective or no controls in place risk financing activities.
N The Risk Management Framework reflects the cyclical nature of N NET RISK Current risk level risk management and allows us to continuously assess the with existing controls in place environment in which we are operating, particularly as the external T risk environment is in a constant state of change.
T TARGET RISK Desired risk level to optimise investment, as required IMPACT 36 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 buSIneSS RevIew continued Managing risks in a changing environment We faced a turbulent external risk environment in 2011, seeing Safety, security and crisis management IHG places the safety changes or disruptions in political, economic, social, technological, and security of our people and guests first.
The natural and legal and environmental risks.
These external factors are expected man-made crises in 2011 acted as a stark reminder why this risk to remain unsettled for 2012 and the foreseeable future.
The cannot be underestimated.
Fortunately, IHGs safety, security and Groups wide geographic spread and fee-based model means that crisis management systems proved effective in managing a in general, events in individual countries are not expected to have a number of significant events without any direct loss of life and with material impact on the Groups results, as has been seen in 2011. minimal business interruption and damage.
Looking forward, the geopolitical and civil unrest in the Middle East and Northern Africa The following section provides insight into risks, controls and remains and as the Group continues to grow its global footprint mitigation activities for some of the risks we see as changing and expand in emerging markets, IHG may be increasingly exposed or dynamic: to safety and security incidents and major crises.
IHGs proactive, Uncertainty in the Eurozone the economic outlook for the risk-based approach to hotel safety and security is summarised Eurozone remains uncertain, however the Group is not significantly in the Managing risk in hotels and Hotel safety framework in the exposed to this region.
Less than 10% of the Groups operating next section: profit before central overheads is Euro denominated and the only Data security and payment card protection studies from credit significant asset in the region is the InterContinental Paris Le Grand card companies report that global incidents related to data security which is partly hedged from a balance sheet perspective.
The or credit card fraud in the hotel and lodging industry continue at an Group is not dependent on Euro liquidity and none of the banks in elevated level compared to other industries.
IHG takes this risk very the syndicated facility are based in the Eurozone.
The Group closely seriously and has been using risk-based methods to build capability monitors working capital and cash to minimise any negative and resilience into our systems for a number of years, as well as exposure to unexpected currency movements and is continually moving towards full compliance to Payment Card Industry Data monitoring and reacting to trading conditions in the region: Security Standards PCI-DSS.
The Group has engaged a leading Capital availability global economic conditions remained weak specialist third-party provider to support it achieving PCI-DSS with continued rebalancing in 2011, led by continued growth in compliance for core systems and is actively pursuing PCI-DSS China and other emerging markets, low level of optimism in the compliance in all managed and owned hotels.
IHG has also US and limited growth in the UK.
Capital availability remains a extended the service offering to franchised hotels.
The Group challenge for current and potential hotel owners particularly in manages data security incidents through a Data Security Task developed markets.
This has put added pressure on existing and Force and the Information Security Council continues as a potential hotel owners, impacting on the current hotel estate and governing body attended by senior executives from across the the delivery and growth of potential new IHG hotels in the pipeline.
business directly focused on containing this risk and considering In response to the market conditions, specialist teams within our innovative techniques to reduce the Groups exposure: and regional structures focused on monitoring the hotels in the pipeline Technology change, maintenance and upgrading of IT systems using a global hotel opening tool and analysing external market and platforms IHG is reliant on a number of key IT systems and conditions, supporting owners with financial difficulty and platforms which require continuous investment, maintenance reviewing financial alternatives with lenders.
In addition, and upgrades to meet changing user requirements and system development teams focused on opportunities that were less capabilities and to benefit from new technologies.
The Group capital intensive: continues to invest substantially in IT, with a number of key Distribution channels and intermediaries consumers now have initiatives rolled out in 2011.
For example, a new web-based email access to far more information through the internet: this has service leveraging cloud computing was launched globally in our resulted in increasing dependence on comparison websites and corporate offices and managed and owned hotels.
This gave end search engines.
Sales through these channels typically have high users a more powerful system that is more resilient and cost commission rates and are taking a larger share of bookings across effective for the business.
The Group also strengthened project the travel and hospitality sector.
IHG has responded well in this risk management and project governance capability to ensure area by devoting more than half of its discretionary marketing alignment of strategic projects, successful project delivery and to budget to non-traditional tools such as online search, loyalty minimise business interruption.
programmes and web and mobile applications.
The Group has also continually invested in developing IHGs own internet presence and the Group can benefit from scale when negotiating terms with online business partners.
In 2011, the Group launched the industryleading Best Price Guarantee for bookings made through IHG branded websites and has led the development of a new branded hotel search engine, roomkey.
com, in partnership with several other hotel companies and which launched in early 2012: THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION business review 37 Managing risk in hotels IHGs commitment to safety, security and crisis management in Our approach has been to enable and support hotel owners, hotels remains fundamental to its business.
We appreciate the General Managers and front line hotel staff to manage risk difference between a safe hotel and those that are poorly designed effectively.
This is accomplished by giving them a systematic or operated, and we require that all IHG hotels become compliant approach and framework to follow and by providing them with with a new set of global Brand Safety Standards launched in 2011. user-friendly tools to do the job.
This includes a comprehensive suite of risk management, safety and security training, aligned to different roles and competency levels.
Many of these offerings are accredited by the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health.
Hotel safety framework the hotel safety framework enables a consistent CRISIS & approach to managing safety and security risk in IHG SECURITY INCIDENT hotels.
the framework is illustrated by showing two mechanical cogs meshed together showing different FIRE LEISURE types of safety and security risks in the Safe Hotel SAFETY SAFETY SAFE HOTEL cog, against the actions described in the manage RISK POLICY & Risk cog.
this framework is actively managed by PROFILE STANDARDS GUEST FOOD SAFETY SAFETY IHGs risk managers around the world, working with STAFF hotels and their management teams in order to keep SAFETY REVIEW WAYS OF & REPORT WORKING hotels safe and secure.
MANAGE RISK the hotel risk profile is developed through various RISK TRAINING means including self-assessment, guest satisfaction FINANCING & COMMS surveys, design and engineering plans, incidents, OPERATE intelligence gathering, quality audits and risk & CONTROL management reviews.
IHG hotel management discuss issues at monthly safety meetings and action plans are developed.
Risks are prioritised, responsibility is assigned and improvement actions are identified, progressed and monitored.
Action plans are reviewed at appropriate levels in the organisation for issues that need to be escalated, either to drive action or to develop common solutions.
38 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 buSIneSS RevIew continued 2012 risk factors Whilst the Major Risk Review focused on a number of changing or emerging risks which represent the priorities for today, the Group is subject to a variety of inherent risks which may have an adverse impact on the business operations, cash flow, financial condition, turnover, profits, assets, liquidity and capital reserves.
The following section describes some of the main risks that could materially affect the Groups business.
The risks below are not the only ones that the Group faces.
Some risks are not yet known to IHG and some that IHG does not currently believe to be material could later turn out to be material.
The risk factors below should be considered in connection with any financial and forward-looking information in this Annual Report and the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements contained on page 129.
Strategic risks The Group is exposed to political, economic and financial market developments such as recession, the Group is exposed to inflation, availability of credit and currency fluctuations that could lower revenues and reduce income.
the risks of political and A recession reduces leisure and business travel to and from affected countries and adversely affects economic developments room rates and or occupancy levels and other income-generating activities.
This may result in deterioration of results of operations and potentially reduce the value of properties in affected economies.
The owners or potential owners of hotels franchised or managed by the Group face similar risks which could adversely impact IHGs ability to retain and secure franchise or management agreements.
More specifically, the Group is highly exposed to the US market and, accordingly, is particularly susceptible to adverse changes in the US economy.
the Group is exposed to The room rates and occupancy levels of the Group could be adversely impacted by events that reduce domestic or international travel, such as actual or threatened acts of terrorism or war, political or civil the risk of events that unrest, epidemics, travel-related accidents, travel-related industrial action, increased transportation adversely impact domestic and fuel costs and natural disasters, resulting in reduced worldwide travel or other local factors or international travel impacting individual hotels.
A decrease in the demand for hotel rooms as a result of such events may have an adverse impact on the Groups operations and financial results.
In addition, inadequate preparedness, contingency planning or recovery capability in relation to a major incident or crisis may prevent operational continuity and consequently impact the value of the brand or the reputation of the Group.
the Group is exposed to the The future operating results of the Group could be adversely affected by industry overcapacity by number of rooms and weak demand due, in part, to the cyclical nature of the hotel industry, risks of the hotel industry or other differences between planning assumptions and actual operating conditions.
Reductions supply and demand cycle in room rates and occupancy levels would adversely impact the results of Group operations.
Tactical risks the Group is exposed to a The Groups growth strategy depends on its success in identifying, securing and retaining franchise and management agreements.
This is an inherent risk for the hotel industry and franchise business variety of risks related to model.
Competition with other hotel companies may generally reduce the number of suitable identifying, securing and franchise, management and investment opportunities offered to the Group and increase the bargaining retaining franchise and position of property owners seeking to become a franchisee or engage a manager.
The terms of new management agreements franchise or management agreements may not be as favourable as current arrangements and the Group may not be able to renew existing arrangements on similarly favourable terms or at all.
There can also be no assurance that the Group will be able to identify, retain or add franchisees to the Group system or to secure management contracts.
For example, the availability of suitable sites, market saturation, planning and other local regulations or the availability and affordability of finance may all restrict the supply of suitable hotel development opportunities under franchise or management agreements.
In connection with entering into franchise or management agreements, the Group may be required to make investments in, or guarantee the obligations of, third-parties or guarantee minimum income to third-parties.
There are also risks that significant franchisees or groups of franchisees may have interests that conflict, or are not aligned, with those of the Group including, for example, the unwillingness of franchisees to support brand improvement initiatives.
This could result in franchisees exiting the system which would adversely impact overall system size.
In addition, changes in legislation or regulatory changes may be implemented that have the effect of favouring franchisees relative to brand owners.
