14 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview Our approach to risk management Our risk management framework is designed to identify and mitigate the diverse set of risks faced by our business.
International Powers principal activities are supported by our corporate head office and our network of regional offices, which carry out activities such as sales, portfolio management, trading and financial management.
FirstLight Cabot US 15 Our approach to risk management Our general approach to risk management, including In co-ordination with the annual business and strategic planning a description of the principal risks and exposures faced process, each business unit, regional management team and by the business, is set out on the following pages.
corporate functional group identifies and assesses the key risks associated with the achievement of its principal business and Risk management framework strategic objectives and their potential impact.
During the year, significant changes in the risk profile are highlighted through the Our portfolio contains all major technologies and fuel types business performance reporting process and periodic reviews with the exception of nuclear power.
Geographically the of major risks.
portfolio is diverse, having a presence in developed and developing countries with a variety of cultural, political and Review by the Board legal systems.
To reflect the profile of our business, we have developed an approach to risk management that contains both bottom-up and top-down elements which support the identification, assessment, reporting and management of risks.
Review by the Executive Team The risk management framework is aligned with that of the GDF SUEZ group.
There have been no fundamental changes Actions made to the risk management framework in 2011 and following Synthesis by risk report the Combination.
working group led by the risk management function Corporate level Policy, delegations and exposure limits are set at the corporate Risk assessment by business level, with the Board taking ultimate responsibility.
Business units, regions and functions practices, and engineering and operational standards are set centrally.
Regional level Following completion of the Group-wide risk review, updated Market and trading risks are managed regionally within the as necessary to take account of changes in the risk profile, the framework set at the corporate level.
Financial, fuel supply, risk assessments are summarised into a report that identifies country, political, regulatory, construction, staffing, human all principal risks.
The risk report is reviewed by the Executive resources and information technology risks are also managed Team and, where risks are considered to exceed the Groups regionally with support from the corporate centre.
risk appetite, the Executive Team will direct appropriate actions to be taken.
Following Executive Team review, the risk report Business units is reviewed by the Board which may designate further risk Risk assessments and mitigation action plans mainly originate mitigation actions.
The annual risk assessment and reporting from the business units.
Operating plant and health, safety, process is shown in the diagram above.
security and environmental compliance activities are also managed locally and regionally, within a central policy In order to compare risks across the Group on a systematic framework.
Local business managers are accountable for basis, we segment them into risk families or groups.
In reality, the management of risks within their areas of responsibility.
certain risk exposures interact and may apply to more than This principle also applies to the managers of our regional one segment for example, regulatory risk applies to all of our and corporate functions.
Such cross-segmental risks are assessed in each of the areas in which they occur.
There is an annual risk assessment process for identifying, evaluating, reporting and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
These activities are co-ordinated by the Executive Team.
The Chief Financial Officer CFO retains Board responsibility for Group-wide risk management.
The Executive Team has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for ensuring: the adequacy of systems for identifying and assessing significant risks that appropriate control systems and other mitigating processes are in place that residual exposures are consistent with the Groups strategy and objectives 16 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview Principal risks The principal risks below are discussed in greater detail in the following sections, along with other factors that could potentially have a material impact on our business.
Risks Impacts Mitigating factors Financial risks Liquidity risks f ewer routes to capital capital structure and headroom targets designed to address these risks reduced liquidity support provided by the strong financial position of GDF SUEZ strongly cash generative business investment grade credit rating use of non-recourse project finance to limit Group impact Credit risks bad debts the application of Group policies and procedures setting limits on trading counterparty exposures and maintenance of financial headroom at the corporate level credit screening and contractual protection Currency risks r eduction in profitability and cash flow PPA tariffs in major international currencies matched and hedged currency transactions net investment hedging Market and ma rket spreads outturn below expectations a rolling forward hedging programme typically aims to lock in trading risks margins power sales, fuel purchases and carbon certificates p rice volatility or changes in market conditions could result in exceptional trading direct access to commercial and industrial retail customers credit support requirements approximately 53% of our net power generation capacity is subject i mpairment of asset values to long-term contractual arrangements shielding Group profitability from significant volatility risk management policies and trading delegations Construction and operational risks Construction risks p roject cost overruns experienced project management teams d elays in construction timetable prudent contracting strategies and construction conditions pla nt performance shortfalls contractual liquidated damages for delay and performance long-standing relationships with all major EPC contractors insurance programmes Operational risks u nplanned availability losses experienced operations and engineering teams in the assets and the regional and corporate offices r eduction in profitability and cash flow appropriate budgeted spend on plant maintenance p otential failure to meet project loan covenants structured approach to the management of operations, engineering and site security risks o bligation to buy from the market to serve contracts insurance programmes Fuel supply risks f uel supply interruptions can impact diverse fuel supply options and robust supply infrastructures operations and related fuel supply businesses close match of fuel supply to generation and or other fuel supply requirements Country, political and financial volatility country risk assessments are carried out for each new project regulatory risks p otential loss of contracts or assets experienced staff supported by external advisers carry out ongoing risk assessments r eduction in long-term profitability which could lead to the impairment of asset values change of law protection in project agreements Health, safety, s taff, contractor and local community safety comprehensive procedures, processes and monitoring environmental and staff security maintenance of high health and safety standards security risks ongoing monitoring of security conditions and planning Environmental r eduction in operating hours, profitability plant upgrades and carbon trading processes developed to meet regulation risks and cash flow which could potentially lead new environmental legislation to impairment of asset values new-build plant uses high efficiency turbines with proven p otential failure to meet loan covenants environmental technology arising from changes in cash flows approximately 14% of net operating capacity is made up of wind i ncreased potential capital expenditure and hydro generation to ensure longer asset lives under tighter high level and active representation in industry groups legislation i ncreased trading risk 17 Our approach to risk management Financial risks During the project development phase, credit support may be required for bid bonds or short-term equity support.
This Liquidity risks support is provided in the form of parent company guarantees Access to financial resources is key for our business, however or credit support instruments issued by banks.
this could be restricted due to general economic or industrial conditions.
Our capital structure and financial headroom are In merchant markets, we are usually required to provide credit designed to address these risks.
support for our trading operations.
Fuel and electricity markets periodically experience sharp price movements and when An overarching benefit of the Combination has been the these occur there is an immediate and corresponding effect significant financing package provided to International Power by on our trading credit support requirements, which can be GDF SUEZ under the Financing Framework Agreement.
This has volatile as a consequence.
The trading credit support under significantly improved both our access to capital and its cost.
the GDF SUEZ financing package, the maintenance of corporate financial headroom and our investment grade credit The GDF SUEZ financing package comprises loans and rating offer protection against increases in trading credit facilities originally in excess of 3.1 billion 3.7 billion, which support requirements.
amongst other things have been used, and can be used, to repay more expensive and shorter-term debt at merchant At the individual business level, we continue our policy of assets and to provide credit support for trading.
Of these financing projects with non-recourse debt where appropriate, facilities 2.1 billion 2.6 billion is in place to 31 December 2013 primarily for long-term contracted power plants.
Non-recourse and has a one year rolling renewal, with 15 months notice.
project finance insulates the Group from adverse events occurring at the project level, limiting our exposure on a given In addition, our business is strongly cash generative.
We project to the loss of the equity in that project.
maintain a prudent level of headroom at the corporate level and have access to external loan facilities and credit lines.
The The Groups cash investment policy targets liquidity and actual choice of funding instrument depends on the size and protection of the invested capital, with close monitoring of nature of the transaction and market conditions at that time.
In addition to the GDF SUEZ financing package, the Group has appropriate levels Reflecting our materially improved financial position, in early of liquidity, both in cash and in confirmed undrawn credit 2011 International Powers credit rating was upgraded to facilities 7.0 billion as at December 2011. investment grade by three key ratings agencies Moodys, Standard & Poors and Fitch.
First Hydro UK 18 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview Credit risks relationship banks and cash pooling arrangements with We manage our credit exposure to trading and financial GDF SUEZ.
This results in a concentration of risk to the counterparties by establishing clearly defined limits, policies GDF SUEZ group in respect of International Powers cash and procedures.
Energy trading activities are strictly monitored balances, but the latter is to some extent offset by the and controlled through delegated authorities and procedures, borrowing positions that we hold with GDF SUEZ.
which include specific criteria for the management of credit exposures in each of our key regions.
Further information on credit risk is included in the consolidated financial statements.
Risks associated with specific PPAs are In many cases, we have long-term contractual agreements, included in the country, political and regulatory risks section such as power purchase agreements PPAs or long-term which follows.
contracts for fuel, in order to limit our exposure to fluctuations in power or fuel prices respectively.
In these instances our Notes to the consolidated financial statements financial performance is dependent on the continued ability Pages 181 to 183 of customers and suppliers to meet their obligations.
These arrangements are monitored and managed locally with Country, political and regulatory risks oversight from International Power Treasury.
Pages 22 to 23 In merchant markets we have exposure to wholesale and retail Currency risks trading counterparties.
Actions are taken and policies followed The Group is subject to the risk of currency exchange rate to minimise the impact in the unlikely event of a counterparty fluctuations.
The Group earns its income in many countries and default.
These actions and policies include careful credit currencies and, following closing of the Combination, these screening, bad debt provisions, contractual protections and currencies principally comprise the euro, sterling, US dollars, credit support, the ability to sell power under the contract to Australian dollars, the Thai baht and the Brazilian real.
The the market, counterparty diversification and regular reviews Groups exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuation results and monitoring.
from both translation exposure and transaction exposure.
We also continually review our receivable positions and In order to mitigate foreign exchange exposure within project the credit risk associated with our PPAs and we believe that companies, borrowings are normally made in the currency payment defaults remain a low risk.
In the past, a very limited of the project company revenues, which is usually the project number of PPA tariffs have been re-opened by our offtakers companys functional currency.
In countries with historically and renegotiated, but we do not currently foresee the prospect weaker currencies than those of the major economies, we of further PPA tariff renegotiations.
aim to have PPA tariffs denominated in, or indexed to, a major international currency, such as the US dollar.
This protects With respect to our treasury activities, our financial future returns against large and rapid devaluations of the counterparty credit exposure is limited to arrangements with local currency.
Tihama Saudi Arabia 19 Our approach to risk management When one of our project companies makes sales and or Market and trading risks purchases in a currency other than its functional currency, Power and commodity price exposure this gives rise to a currency transaction exposure.
We match Approximately 37% net MW of the projects and businesses transaction exposures, in advance where possible, and hedge in which we have an interest operate on a merchant basis.
any unmatched transactions as soon as they are committed.
A merchant plant normally operates without long-term offtake contracts for the majority of its output and such assets are International Power hedges its operations in foreign operations therefore subject to market forces, which determine the price by funding borrowings in the same currency as the underlying and amounts of power sold, and fuel and emissions certificates investment.
In addition the Group may utilise foreign exchange purchased.
To varying degrees, our power generation, gas derivatives to hedge the net investments in foreign operations, and LNG activities across North America, UK-Europe, Asia subject to practical and economic constraints.
Instruments and Australia operate on a merchant basis.
which could be used for hedging purposes include forwards foreign currency exchange contracts, cross-currency swaps Costs associated with the power we generate are principally and currency options.
To the extent that hedged amounts driven by fuel prices, which are subject to volatility.
Although through borrowings or derivatives do not match foreign currency PPAs generally allow us to pass costs through to offtakers, investments, this exposes our net assets to fluctuations in value.
certain costs associated with related agreements, including Similarly our Group earnings are and will remain exposed to operating and maintenance agreements, may not necessarily translation exposures on earnings from foreign operations.
be able to be passed through, resulting in a potential impact on gross margin.
With respect to a weakening of the euro, we have implemented a global risk management policy which covers financial risk, In order to limit our exposure to market movements, and including: commodity, counterparty, currency, interest rate and depending on trading conditions, we forward sell a proportion liquidity.
All of these risks are strictly monitored and policy limits of our anticipated output and forward purchase the related are conservative.
commodities and services including fuel, transmission rights, capacity and emission certificates a matched position.
For 2011 and 2010, average and year end rates of exchange We do at times run mismatched positions for liquidity or other to the euro, for major currencies which were significant to the commercial purposes.
This exposure is addressed in our risk Group were: policies, which limit the potential impact of these hedging Average Average At 31 December At 31 December strategies.
2011 2010 2011 2010 Sterling 0.87 0.86 0.84 0.86 Hedging activities US dollar 1.39 1.33 1.29 1.34 To reduce the impact of merchant market uncertainty, we Australian dollar 1.35 1.44 1.27 1.31 typically operate a rolling hedge programme under which Thai baht 42.72 42.40 41.26 40.25 we increase the proportion of output that is sold forward as the Brazilian real 2.33 2.33 2.43 2.23 production date approaches.
Whilst we generally aim to hedge a relatively high proportion of our output for the following year, Further information on market risk and foreign currency risk this strategy is dependent on market conditions.
Due to market is included in the consolidated financial statements.
liquidity considerations, we are often unable to hedge high levels of output beyond two years ahead.
Our hedging strategy Note 15.1 to the consolidated financial statements is also determined by the specific market, as hedging activities Pages 175 to 181 vary between regions.
In North America, UK-Europe and Australia, the markets are more mature, relatively liquid, and provide a variety of hedging instruments.
This compares with the other regions where long-term contracts with single or a limited number of offtakers are normal e. g. Latin America, Asia and META.
In addition to asset-backed trading, we carry out some proprietary trading trading not linked to the expected output of our power plants.
This non asset-backed trading activity has strict risk limits and controls.
20 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview Framework for trading activities Regional and global networks have been established to In order to reduce the risk of adverse hedging and trading provide a link between recognised technical specialists across outcomes, we devote significant resources to maintenance, the portfolio, supporting continuous improvement throughout oversight and development of our risk management policies and the business.
Where appropriate, these networks include procedures, through our global risk management policy, risk specialists from other business lines within GDF SUEZ.
management capabilities, and information technology systems.
In addition to providing practical support to one another with technical issues, this sharing of experiences, promotion of best Trading and forward contracting strategies are continually practices and reviewing of new technology is used to update reviewed by regional and corporate Trading and Portfolio policies and procedures and identify documentation gaps.
Management professionals to ensure they are best suited to both local market conditions and corporate risk guidelines.
In addition, we apply an engineering risk assessment to assist Group-wide oversight of our trading operations is provided by in the identification and management of the key engineering the Global Commodities Risk Committee GCRC.
The GCRC risks across the plant portfolio.
This involves the application acts under the authority of the Board, and delegates limits and of a single method of quantifying and prioritising the operational authorities to local risk committees, which have been established risks associated with the failure of plant components whilst in in each of our trading operations to oversee the management service and their potential impact on people, the environment of market, operational and credit risks arising from our marketing and the business.
The approach involves peer review, and trading activities.
Local risk committees typically include the benchmarking and further information sharing.
regional Head of Trading and Portfolio Management, Global and Local Risk Managers, Regional Directors and senior managers.
We are a minority participant in a number of projects and The International Power Board oversees International Powers cannot always set operational standards in such cases.
structure of policies and committees.
In these circumstances we provide support, and where appropriate, use our influence as an experienced plant operator Construction and operational risks to try to achieve standards that are consistent with our own.
Construction risks Fuel supply risks Our policy with regard to new-build is, wherever possible, to award major projects on a full engineering, procurement and Fuel supply security is fundamental to our business and most construction EPC basis to suitably qualified contractors.
EPC of our markets have robust fuel supply infrastructures.
Other contracts transfer the majority of the design and construction factors such as mines local to the power plant, fuel storage, risks to the contractor, and provide substantial protection dual-fuel capability and sourcing from a number of reputable through liquidated damages, in the event of failure on the part suppliers enhance our security of fuel supply.
Consequently, of the contractor to meet the contractual completion schedule or we have experienced very few fuel supply interruptions that plant performance targets.
Where there is a project-specific have had an impact on operations.
need to adopt risk sharing within the contract, this is approached on the basis of deliverable technical and We procure fuel under a variety of contractual arrangements performance metrics and with due regard to our ability ranging from long-term fuel supply agreements FSAs to to manage these risks.
Where appropriate, we also on-the-day merchant gas purchases.
The principal determinant supplement this contractual protection with insurance.
of our fuel supply activity is the need to match purchases to power sales, in terms of volume, timing and price.
We operate The environment regarding the procurement of power long-term FSAs at power plants where we have long-term PPAs plant equipment has become more competitive with new and predominantly short-term merchant supply arrangements suppliers contractors entering the international market, where plants are exposed to merchant power markets, although particularly from China.
forward sales of power enable us to forward purchase fuel and to make best use of market opportunities.
This strategy helps Our construction projects are managed by experienced project to mitigate against fuel price volatility.
The combined business management teams assisted as necessary by external owners also operates a number of LNG and gas distribution networks.
During construction we monitor progress principally by reference to four major factors: safety, timetable, cost and It is not always possible to achieve an exact match of fuel quality.
This process has been maintained for the enlarged purchases and power production.
This can be an issue for Groups construction programme to ensure that construction some of our projects with PPAs, where the associated FSAs risks continue to be effectively managed.
often have minimum fuel purchase obligations.
By structuring the purchases flexibly and incorporating appropriate force Operational risks majeure protection, we are able to mitigate this risk by ensuring, Once a plant is in operation we monitor performance by as far as possible, that the price and volume obligations reference to a number of safety and performance indicators in a PPA and FSA mirror one another.
To date, we have not including, for example, accident frequency rates AFR, technical experienced a significant financial impact due to mismatches availability, thermal efficiency and forced outage rates.
between our FSAs and PPAs.
Unplanned availability losses remain a key operational risk which can lead to a reduction in profitability and cash flows.
Plants operating under long-term PPAs or power and water purchase agreements PWPAs are generally rewarded for high levels of availability, and therefore unplanned outages can result in a loss of revenue.
For our merchant plants, unplanned outages can result in the need to buy back power which has been forward contracted.
21 Our approach to risk management Our renewable energy portfolio is also subject to fuel supply Where they exist, non-recourse debt arrangements limit our risk.
The performance of our growing wind energy portfolio financial exposure to the loss of our equity investment and is dependent upon wind conditions which may create volatility future cash flows from the project.
Thus, whilst the loss or in earnings.
Solar photovoltaic plant can operate in cloudy impairment of assets in a project company might affect the conditions as well as direct sunlight, but the total energy output financial performance of the Group, other operating companies can vary depending on the weather conditions.
The production within the Group would remain unaffected.
of our hydro plants is influenced by the annual rainfall of the region where they are located.
The Group is subject to extensive regulation in each of the countries in which it operates.
In addition to the health and Our strategy safety and environmental regulation outlined below, regulation Pages 9 to 13 that specifically applies to the Groups businesses can also cover energy markets, financial management and financial Country, political and regulatory risks reporting requirements.
A number of our projects are in countries that carry a degree of The degree of regulation to which the Group is subject varies risk due to factors such as political instability, legal uncertainty according to the country where a particular project is located and economic weakness.
Country risk assessment is an and may be materially different from one country to another.
important element of our due diligence prior to participating In the developed markets in which we operate, such as North in a project, especially in developing markets.
We consider America, UK-Europe and Australia, there are well-established a number of parameters including the need for power, the regulatory frameworks although these are still subject to magnitude of government subsidy, and the availability of political and regulatory changes.
While International Power international arbitration for resolving disputes.
International believes the business of the Group is operated in compliance Power always strives to be a good corporate citizen, with applicable laws, there can be no assurance that the supporting the local, regional and national communities introduction of new laws or other future regulatory wherever possible.
developments in countries in which it conducts its business will not have a material effect.
In addition, for the Group to continue its operations, it may, from time to time, need to renew existing governmental permits and approvals.
Melbourne Australia 22 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview Obtaining such renewals and overcoming local opposition, if Plant operating and monitoring procedures are effective any, can be a long, costly and at times unpredictable process.
in ensuring that we comply with the conditions of our environmental licences and consents.
Whilst we have However, the Group has substantial experience in managing experienced occasional breaches of our environmental regulatory uncertainty and governmental approvals and in operating limits, these have been mostly minor incidents that developing commercial agreements that support the mitigation have not posed a significant threat to the environment.
In addition to experienced in-house staff, we engage knowledgeable external resources where they Our corporate health, safety, environment and security can contribute to the management of these issues.
managers are responsible for defining the framework of corporate policies, procedures and standards across the Health, safety, environmental and security risks portfolio.
They also monitor and report on the global HS&E programme.
Regional health, safety, environment and security Collectively, operational power plants, gas transmission performance is the responsibility of our plant and business and gas distribution activities are characterised by high managers, who are supported by local and regional health, temperatures, pressures, voltages, inflammable gases and safety, environmental and security specialists.
Our construction projects also involve a broad spectrum of health, safety and environmental risks and, We continually monitor security arrangements at our sites in some countries where we construct and operate plant, and adjust these as needed to meet changing security we have specific security risks.
Providing a safe and secure requirements, and in order to ensure that the plant and people environment for people on our sites and in surrounding areas are adequately protected.
At plant level, health, safety and environmental HS&E requirements are set by corporate, regional, local, national and international standards and regulations, and individual plants operate within site-specific environmental licensing limits.
We have an ongoing HS&E audit programme to provide assurance in this area and we monitor closely the lost time AFR and breaches of environmental permits.
For 2011 the AFR and significant technical environmental non-compliance were monitored and comprised some of our non-financial KPIs.
KPIs Pages 32 to 33 Blackstone US 23 Our approach to risk management Environmental regulation risks Other areas of risk Environmental legislation is one of the key drivers of the Combination integration risks long-term development of the electricity industry.
Initiatives The integration of International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are expected to impose International presented a number of specific risk areas for the increasing commercial constraints on our ability to emit carbon combined business.
However, significant integration planning dioxide CO.
Although the majority of our fleet comprises has been carried out that built on the previous successful 2 modern gas-fired generation with relatively low CO emissions, integrations completed by both businesses.
This planning 2 and renewable generation with no CO emissions, it is has ensured that the combined companies have been well 2 expected that there will be increasing constraints on our ability managed and integrated in 2011 and has reduced future to use fossil fuels to generate power.
The impact of carbon integration risk to a minimum.
reduction measures has, to date, been most apparent at our European plants, where we are required to have sufficient External climate change events carbon certificates to support our levels of power generation.
Changing weather and wind patterns and extreme climatic events can have an impact on plant operations, market Certain of our projects have change of law protection, which demand, market pricing and supply.
This risk is mitigated by enables us to pass through any carbon costs to the offtaker.
the maintenance of a diversified portfolio in terms of location, In such cases the economic impact of carbon risk is removed.
contract type and fuel type.
In addition, we employ regulatory and legislative experts who will advocate the Groups position during any proposed Funding of pension obligations changes in environmental rules.
The Group operates a range of pension plans internationally, with the most significant defined benefit arrangements in At the global level, there is uncertainty over what will replace the UK and Brazil which are closed to new members and the Kyoto Protocol on climate change when it expires.
These schemes guarantee members retirement we expect there to be continuing pressure for such an benefits calculated by reference to their annual salary at or near agreement to be reached before the end of 2012. retirement, giving rise to a risk that the accumulated funds will not be sufficient to meet the obligations.
Following the Most governments in developed countries have introduced latest actuarial reviews of the two UK defined benefit schemes, legislation to incentivise renewable generation, to the point the two schemes recorded large deficits.
In order to repair the where growth in renewable generation may have a material deficits, recovery plans have been agreed between the Group impact on our fossil fuelled plants.
In response, we have and the two boards of pension trustees, which are designed to continued to make investments to optimise existing assets eliminate the shortfalls by early 2015.
The long-term nature of and to expand our renewable energy portfolio during 2011. the UK plans, with currently few retired members, allows any We also have dedicated resources to review policy and increased deficits to be funded through payments spread over technology trends in order to ensure that we are well positioned a number of years.
Any potential deficit increase has also been to participate in the drive towards a lower carbon environment.
mitigated by the closure of the UK plans to new entrants.
The most significant environmental regulation developments The defined benefit schemes in Brazil have less than 2% in 2011 have been in Australia, where the Australian parliament of scheme members as current employees.
As the pension passed legislation that will result in the introduction of a carbon obligations under these schemes are fulfilled on the retirement tax from 1 July 2012.
In North America the Environmental of a scheme member, through the purchase of an annuity, Protection Agency is pursuing legislation to impose tighter the overall liabilities have predominantly been met and the nitrogen oxide NOx and sulphur oxide SOx emissions limits remainder are not considered material.
and permitting requirements on power plants, but is facing legal challenges at state level and from industry groups that make Our Australian businesses sponsor three defined benefit plans, the implementation and timing of any future legislation two of which are closed to new members.
The risk of significant uncertain.
In the UK-Europe region the key change has been increases in the Groups contributions to the Australian plans is the introduction of a carbon floor price by the UK Government limited by the nature of the benefits paid that is, in lump-sum which will apply from April 2013.
All Latin American countries in form.
Both post-retirement inflation risk and longevity risk, which we operate are parties to the Kyoto Protocol.
The Clean which would apply if benefits were paid as a pension, are Development Mechanism CDM has been fundamental to the removed from consideration where benefits are paid in cash financing of renewable generation projects there.
The future as a lump sum on retirement.
development of CDM was also a key focus of discussions at the Durban Climate Change Conference in November 2011.
Note 21 of the consolidated financial statements Pages 192 to 197 There have been no significant developments in environmental regulation in Asia or META in 2011.
Further information on environmental regulation is included in the corporate social responsibility and sustainable development section.
Corporate social responsibility and sustainable development Pages 71 to 73 24 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview Information technology and information Staffing and human resources risks management risks Succession planning helps identify areas at risk, although there The management and security of information is fundamental remains a possibility that employment costs may increase in to almost all of our business activities and is delivered through order to attract and retain enough suitably skilled employees.
the considered application of information technology.
Our Succession planning also helps us to identify mobility of our use of information technology ranges from standard business key employees across the portfolio and we are working on this applications, through to bespoke systems such as trading process to ensure that the data regarding mobility is as robust and power station control systems.
To ensure that information as possible.
There remains competition for well-qualified and technology continues to support our business needs, particular experienced employees, particularly engineers, from other attention is paid to ensure suitable systems security and power companies and similar industries.
In this competitive business continuity arrangements are in place.
environment, attracting and retaining key talent can be challenging.
By offering competitive remuneration and focusing Particular attention is also given to high impact systems such on career development options within our global portfolio, we as trading and power station control systems where rigorous continue to recruit talented employees, though the talent pool processes and controls are implemented.
These include: can be limited in certain skills and geographic regions.
physical network separation and protection including, Trade unions are recognised in a number of our regions and where relevant, the use of industrial strength firewalls a few of our sites have high union representation.
We have not rigorous code control and testing for system updates been materially affected by industrial action for several years, but this remains a risk.
We maintain appropriate dialogues with maintained system documentation trade unions to ensure that we are aware of any potential issues multi-vendor anti-virus protection layers in good time to mitigate our risks.
segregation of duties across development Investment structures and contingent liabilities and production systems The capital intensive nature and global spread of our business, resilient system design together with the rapidly growing body of tax legislation, continues to make tax planning and forecasting an increasingly vendor hardware and application support complex process.
We closely monitor actual and potential highly trained and multi-disciplined internal teams changes in tax legislation in order to assess the continued effectiveness of our corporate structures and financial planning business continuity, disaster and work place recovery assumptions.
We are supported by internal and external tax programmes that are tested at least annually experts in making these assessments.
Insurance risk management International Power has a number of actual and potential Our risk management processes assist us in the identification liabilities arising from certain tax planning assumptions that of risks that can be partly or entirely mitigated through the have not yet been confirmed by the relevant fiscal authorities.
transfer of risk to the insurance market.
Risks that we insure We have appropriately provided for those sums that we believe include, inter alia, property damage and the subsequent will ultimately be payable.
business interruption loss, statutory risk and legal liabilities.
Our insurance management strategy balances the cost of retaining high probability, low impact risk events and the cost of insurance.
Regular risk reviews of insured assets are conducted with representatives of the insurers to ensure the risk is understood and correctly evaluated.
We also have procedures in place to monitor the credit rating and stability of the insurers.
Where appropriate following the Combination, insurable risk cover has been merged into a single GDF SUEZ group insurance programme to deliver optimal insurance cover and benefits.
