Principal Risks and Uncertainties internal audit and risk strategy.
In addition to the risk register, This section sets out a description of the all senior executives and their direct reports are required to principal risks and uncertainties that could complete an annual return to confirm that management controls have been effectively applied during the year.
The return covers have a material adverse effect on the operations, compliance, risk management and finance.
Intertek Groups strategy, performance, The Risk Control and Assurance Committee RCA, comprising results, financial condition and reputation.
senior Intertek executives, complements the work of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The RCA oversees the development of the internal control framework, reviews the risk matrices and risk management procedures, monitors issues and provides guidance to management.
The RCA makes recommendations to the Intertek Operations Committee where Group-wide policies Risk framework are identified and develops the Groups integrated responses The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and to changes in the regulatory environment.
oversight of the Groups risk management framework which Principal risks is described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 43 The Group is affected by a number of risk factors, some of and 44. which, including macroeconomic risks, are outside the Groups The Vice President of Risk Management and Internal Audit, control.
Some risks are particular to Interteks operations and who reports to the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit and the principal risks of which we are aware are detailed below Risk Committee, has accountability for reporting the key risks including a commentary on how the Group mitigates these risks.
that the Group faces, the controls over these risks and any These risks and uncertainties do not appear in any particular mitigating actions or controls in place.
He attends the meetings order of potential materiality or probability of occurrence.
of the Audit and Risk Committee, and meets with the members There may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded of that committee alone at least once a year.
as immaterial which could turn out to be material.
Any of Risks are formally identified and recorded in a risk register for these risks could have the potential to impact the performance each operating division and support function.
The risk register is of the Group, its assets, liquidity, capital resources and updated at least twice each year and is used to plan the Groups its reputation.
Operational Risk description Mitigation Loss of reputation The Group has in place a comprehensive suite of detailed Quality Management The risk that there is a breakdown in Systems.
Adherence to these is regularly audited and reviewed by external parties, the Groups quality standards which including accreditation bodies.
leads to a loss of confidence in the Groups standards and reputation for The Group has a well defined Code of Ethics which is communicated to all staff, who quality and safety service excellence.
The Group has a whistle blowing programme, monitored by the Audit and Risk Committee where staff are encouraged to report, without risk, The risk that unethical behaviour any fraudulent or other activity likely to adversely affect the reputation of the Group.
by employees or representatives There is a zero tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any could have an adverse impact on individual employed by the Group.
Media comments with regard to Group activities are centrally reviewed so that senior management can, where necessary, take appropriate action on a timely basis.
Dependence on accreditation The Group has extensive quality assurance procedures and controls embedded in its The Group relies on being awarded and operations to ensure that it holds and maintains the necessary accreditations and that retaining appropriate accreditations and the required operational standards are applied.
Operations are regularly subjected to affiliations around the world in order audit and review by external parties including accreditation bodies, governments, to provide its certification services.
trade affiliations, retailers, manufacturers and clients.
Failure to obtain or retain a particular accreditation could lead to a loss of business in the relevant industry and could damage the Groups reputation.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 45 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Operational risks continued Risk description Mitigation Management expertise The Group operates a thorough development and reward program to identify future The Group operates in specialised senior managers and to retain key staff.
sectors and needs to attract and retain employees with relevant experience and knowledge.
Failure to do so could impact our ability to compete effectively.
Political action The Group closely monitors any incidents of political or social unrest and where The Group operates in over 100 possible, takes mitigating action to prevent loss to the Group, including exiting the countries including some where there country if the risk is considered unacceptable.
is political instability which can result in disruption to operations and the The Group maintains close relationships with government representatives but the change or termination of contracts risk of adverse government action cannot be entirely mitigated.
In addition, changes to local tax legislation can impact the Groups effective tax rate.
Legal and regulatory Risk description Mitigation Litigation To reduce the likelihood of claims arising, the Group has extensive quality assurance From time-to-time, the Group is procedures and controls in place.
All incidents that could potentially result in a claim involved in claims and lawsuits, against the Group are immediately reported to compliance officers and logged in an incidental to its normal business, incident database so that they can be properly managed.
The Company Secretary including claims for damages, reports any risk of significant claims to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Legal counsel negligence and commercial disputes is appointed if appropriate.
and disputes with current and former employees.
There is a risk that a legal The Group mitigates the risk of financial loss arising from litigation by maintaining dispute could adversely affect the insurance cover covering potential claims although there is no certainty that this will reputation of the Group and result be sufficient to cover any ultimate loss.
Regulatory compliance The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of local legal The Group is subject to local laws and and regulatory compliance.
There are also extensive internal compliance and audit regulations in each of the countries systems to facilitate compliance.
Expert advice is taken in areas where regulations and jurisdictions in which it operates.
These cover all aspects of the Groups operations and functions including employment legislation and taxation.
com Principal Risks and Uncertainties Financial Risk description Mitigation Foreign currency risks The Groups Treasury function has responsibility for managing the Groups cash, The Group reports its financial results in debt facilities and foreign currency exposures.
The Group has established procedures sterling but a significant majority of the for managing foreign currency risk including monitoring foreign currency cash Groups revenue and operating costs balances on a daily basis and hedging foreign currency exposures on a monthly basis.
are incurred in currencies other than The Groups policy is to match the currency of external borrowings to the currency sterling.
Accordingly, the Groups profit of expected cash flows and the currency of net investments.
All overseas subsidiaries is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations.
are required to hedge all significant foreign exchange transaction exposures with Two types of risk arise as a result: Group Treasury.
i Translation risk The risk that the sterling value of net assets held in overseas subsidiaries is reduced due to exchange rate fluctuations.
ii Transaction risk The risk of adverse exchange rate fluctuations affecting the sterling value of cash flows.
Liquidity risk The Group manages its cash and borrowing facilities, ensuring sufficient liquidity The Group might be unable to meet through daily cash forecasting and by maintaining sufficient committed borrowing its growth plans or financial obligations facilities from a range of investors.
if it could not raise sufficient funding.
The Group is in regular contact with the banks and capital debt markets, as well as other potential providers of debt to ensure a proper and timely understanding of the availability and pricing of debt funding.
The Groups facilities are managed to ensure that borrowing facilities are of a mixed duration, mitigating the amount of borrowings that mature within a single period.
The Group regularly reviews its interest rate exposures and has a policy to ensure that over one third of its borrowings are on a fixed rate basis.
The Group has established financial and management controls in place to ensure Risk of financial irregularities that the Groups assets are protected from major financial risks.
The Group could suffer financial loss either through misappropriation of A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that monthly financial assets or the misrepresentation of financial results.
The Group also operates a rigorous programme of internal audits and management reviews.
Independent external auditors review the Groups half year results and audit the Groups annual financial statements.
Integration risk The Group applies a rigorous independent financial and legal due diligence process The Group may acquire entities that do to all acquisitions to identify material issues during the negotiation period prior not achieve the anticipated return on to completion.
capital, resulting in financial loss to the Group.
There is also a risk that acquired assets are overstated.
On 27 April 2011 the Group acquired The Group has a dedicated integration team and appointed external advisors to Moody International for 450m, help management ensure that the integration process is managed effectively.
which is the largest and most complex acquisition completed to date.
During 2011 we have successfully integrated Moody into our Industry & Assurance Apart from the risks noted above, division.
there is a risk that the business is not effectively integrated.
