Risks and Uncertainties Each division and global function is The Risk Committee has accountability It also monitors the mitigating actions putin required to undertake a formal review foroverseeing the risk management place by the relevant operational managers ofrisks which could impact its area of processes and procedures, and reports to to address the identified risks.
Risk registers are maintained and the Board through the Audit Committee management process is outlined below.
reviewed formally on a quarterly basis by onthe key risks facing the Group.
each division and these are consolidated on a Group basis.
Risk management process Invensys plc Board Audit Committee Risk Committee Executive directors Group crisis management team Enterprise-wide risk management Monitoring : Control : Global function input Identification Analysis Evaluation Mitigation Invensys Operations Management Invensys Rail Invensys Controls | 32 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review Responsibilities and actions Risk review process Board Identification Responsibility for determining the nature and extent of the significant Key risks are recorded in the risk registers, their likelihood and impact risks it is willing to take in achieving the strategic objectives.
This risk assessed, mitigation strategies established and risk owners identified.
appetite is largely promulgated across the Group through the Board Risks are considered against seven broad categories: strategic: Delegated Authorities.
people: financial: operational: reputational: environmental: and Ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control and reviewing compliance.
Approval of the formal review of the risk management framework Analysis andunderlying processes which take account of changes to the Risks are analysed for likelihood and impact to determine exposure UKCorporate Governance Code.
Consideration of the key risks and their disclosure in the annual report and accounts.
Evaluation Risks are reviewed and prioritised against the achievement of Audit Committee short-term and long-term business objectives.
Receives regular reports on the results of internal and external audits.
Conducts annual assessment of the Groups system of risk Mitigation management and internal control.
Actions are identified to minimise, manage or respond to the risks.
Reviews risk management activities and processes.
Monitoring and control Risk Committee Risk action plans are reviewed by the divisions at least quarterly.
Formulates strategy and policy based on risk appetite and risk Serious emerging issues are notified immediately to the Group exposure.
Receives reports from divisions, reviews risk management structures Key risks are reviewed at each Risk Committee meeting.
and compiles the Group risk register.
The Audit Committee and the Board review risk on a regular basis.
Prepares reports and recommendations for the Board through the The Invensys approach has been updated to be consistent with Audit Committee.
ISO31000, the international risk management standard.
Monitors actions to address key risks.
The Risk Committee has introduced improvements to the oversight of certain key risks for Invensys including those relating to the management of major projects.
Business operations Consider existing short-term and long-term risk.
Consider potential low-frequency, high-impact events.
Consider new and emerging risks.
Establish priorities to address and manage risk.
Regularly prepare and update the divisions risk registers.
The crisis response capability has been updated its importance emphasised by different external world events.
These plans have worked successfully in addressing potential risks to our employees and business operations in the Middle East, arising from the recent political events, and in Japan following the tragic earthquake and tsunami.
Risk appetite The Board has approved the acceptance of strategy risks which are considered appropriate to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
The degree of risk to be accepted within the business is managed on a day-to-day basis through the Board Delegated Authority levels.
These provide the framework for informed risk taking within the businesses and the route for escalating decision making up to the Board.
The Board also identifies risks which are inconsistent with the Invensys Code of Conduct and such risks are avoided.
| | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 33 Risks and Uncertainties continued Principal risks the recruitment and retention of skilled The principal risks which are specific to and Invensys operates globally in varied personnel: the impact of competition: and may impact the Group are outlined below.
markets and is affected by a number of political stability in the countries where we In addition, there may be other risks and risks inherent in its activities, not all of operate or undertake contracts.
Some of uncertainties which are unknown to the which are within its control.
Some of these these common risks and uncertainties are Group or which could become material in risks and uncertainties are common to subject to significant change, the impact of the future.
These risks may cause the other companies, for example: changes in which may be difficult to predict.
This is Groups results to vary materially from economic conditions including currency particularly relevant to Invensys with the historic and expected results.
and interest rate fluctuations: changes in economic and political uncertainty which taxation legislation: the cost of materials: exists in many countries.
Description of risk Impact Failure to maintain a competitive and technologically advanced product Failure to keep pace with technological range could reduce margins and revenue growth changes and system or application requirements in the industrial sectors may Invensys operates in highly competitive markets and the Groups products result in loss of market share and lower and services are characterised by continually evolving industry standards margins.
Furthermore, delays to development and rapidly changing technology, driven by the demands of the Groups programmes may adversely impact the customers.
As illustrations of this, Invensys Rail continues to invest in the delivery of major projects.
development of the European Rail Traffic Management System ERTMS andCommunication Based Train Control CBTC to evolve the capabilities Mitigation tomeet the needs of the Railway of Tomorrow.
Invensys Operations The Group invests in research and development to develop new technologies and Management continues to invest in enhancements to its control and safety products to sustain or improve its competitive systems, advanced applications and Enterprise Control System to optimise position.
However, all new technologies and plant performance for our global customers.
products involve business risk in terms of possible abortive expenditure including asset impairments, reputational risk and customer claims.
The Group reviews its portfolio of technologies as part of the strategic planning process.
In addition, the divisions control individual development programmes through a regular review process.
Impact The timing and frequency of substantial contract awards are uneven The timing of contract awards is uncertain anddelays in awards may result in volatility in The revenue of Invensys Rail depends on a small number of large railway the order book and the results.
Major projects operators, both in our traditional core markets in the UK, Iberia, North may also impact the business mix because a America and Australia and in new markets.
New contract awards are often substantial element of the contract may be associated with major transport infrastructure upgrades, and asaresult supplied by third parties.
In addition, the areby nature large and infrequent.
Invensys Operations Management is opportunity to develop control and safety associated with the supply of technology, software and consulting to the oil systems for the nuclear industry may lead and gas, chemical and nuclear industries.
Capital expenditure requirements toanincreased dependence on a small numberofmajor customers for Invensys from customers in these industries are often highly cyclical and linked to the Operations Management.
international supply, demand and pricing ofhydrocarbons.
Also the timing of new contract awards in the nuclear industry may be impacted if certain Mitigation nuclear programmes are subject to delay or cancellation.
The Group monitors sales activity, sales cover in its order book, expected margins and the impact of potential delays on the expected results to allow appropriate mitigating actions to be considered.
| 34 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review Description of risk Impact Undertaking large, long-term projects exposes the Group to risk of loss The Groups failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control A significant amount of the Groups business involves long-term projects delivery may reduce the profitability of such a that can take many months or even years to complete.
These projects contract or result in a loss.
maybe subject to delays and cost overruns due to delays in equipment deliveries, engineering problems, work stoppages, unanticipated cost Mitigation increases, shortages of materials or skilled labour or other unforeseen The Group has established a process with problems inherent in the nature of such projects.
An increasing number cleardelegated authorities for the approval ofprojects have been secured in new markets including Asia, South ofmajor contracts, which includes a review America and the Middle East where the execution risks may be greater.
system for the approval of bids submitted to customers.
Contracts with a large monetary value or onerous contractual terms require Board approval.
During the year certain execution issues were identified in an export contract for Invensys Rail.
This has prompted an internal review with the result thatsystems have been improved and key risk metrics have been established to monitor the execution of all the major projects.
These are subject to regular reporting to the Board.
Impact The Group may be subject to liability as a result of product liability These occurrences could result in claims, loss claims of revenue, warranty costs, costs and damages associated with product recalls, litigation, Errors and defects in the Groups products, systems or applications, which delays in market acceptance or harm to the may be used in safety-critical applications, could cause injury to persons or Groups reputation for safety and quality.
damage to property and equipment or be the subject of product recalls.
Mitigation Each division has an established quality controlfunction and, if an event occurs, thereare processes to investigate and managethe occurrence.
The Group may be exposed to liability through the actions of Impact Given the nature of the Groups business mix, consortium partners, cosource partners or its supply chain aquality or other failure in the supply chain could present a risk to safety and delivery The business activities of the Group are often conducted in conjunction which could have a material adverse effect on withconsortium, codevelopment or cosource partners whose day-to-day the Groups business, financial performance management actions are outside of the control of the Group.
element of the Groups risk profile is the delivery performance of its supply chain.
These partnerships exist across our businesses.
The Invensys Rail Mitigation high-speed line contracts are often undertaken with consortium partners Assessment, mitigation and management of and the development of wireless solutions for all divisions often rely on these risks are addressed by the divisions in localor global partnerships.
conjunction with the Legal, Supply Chain and Risk functions.
com 35 Risks and Uncertainties continued Description of risk The Group may be exposed to additional liabilities with respect to its UK Impact With respect to both the Group pension plans and US pension plans for its UK and US operations, any decline in theequity market, improvements in life The UK Main Pension Scheme has a high proportion of pensioners relative expectancy, changes in expected morbidity to its active workforce.
rates, long periods of low inflation or deflation or future decreases in interest rates could increase the funding deficit and require additional funding contributions in excess ofthose currently expected.
Mitigation The investment policy has been established toaddress the need to match the scheme assets and liabilities as far as is realistically possible.
The current UK Main Pension Scheme deficit funding contribution schedule was agreed onthe basis of a valuation undertaken at 31March2008, and anticipates deficit recovery contributions being made on a six-monthly basis until March 2017.
This UK deficit funding contribution schedule is likely tobe unchanged following the valuation undertaken at 31March2011.
There will be an increase in the funding of the US plans to meet the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ERISA requirements.
In addition to regular financial reporting under IAS 19, the Group regularly monitors the performance of the principal UK and US plans.
The Group is subject to ongoing litigation and environmental liabilities Impact All of the aforementioned liabilities are subject to a number of uncertainties, assumptions and As a consequence of the past disposal of a significant number of contingencies, and there can be no assurance businesses, the Group has certain liabilities in relation to environmental that the liabilities will not be substantially claims including the cost associated with the remediation of contaminated higher or become payable sooner than sites no longer owned by the Group, disputed taxes, litigation including anticipated, or that the provisions in the personal injury claims arising from alleged exposure to asbestos and Groups accounts in respect of any such silica, indemnity claims and other disposal costs relating to the disposed liabilities will be sufficient.
These risks have receded over time as warranties and indemnities in relation to past disposals have expired, existing disputes Mitigation have been settled and remediation work on contaminated sites has been The Group continually monitors the remaining completed.
The Group also has environmental liabilities in relation to the liabilities and has established key performance indicators to support monthly reporting to the remediation of vacant sites which it owns.
The indicators include cash spend, provisions, insurance recoveries and estimated exposures.
The Group regularly reviews the related provisions and aims in negotiations to limit the risk of future liabilities or disputes.
| 36 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Governance 38 Our Board of Directors 40 Corporate Governance 48 Remuneration Report 61 Directors Report 64 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Preparation of the Accounts Compliance The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Ernst & Young LLP has audited the contents of the Remuneration Report to the extent required by the Companies Act the tabular information on pages 57 to 60 relating to directors remuneration and directors interests in shares and all share incentive plans.
The Corporate Governance Report has been prepared in accordance with section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2008 the Combined Code.
The Corporate Governance Report, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 60, describes how the principles set out in the Combined Code have been applied.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules is shown in the Directors Report on pages 61 and 62 and is incorporated into theCorporate Governance Report by reference.
The Board has also considered, in advance of the commencement date, the principles and provisions of the new UK Corporate Governance Code the new UK Code published by the FRC in May 2010.
The Board has decided to implement certain recommendations under the new UKCode for the year under review.
The Invensys Code of Conduct which is part of the broader Compliance Programme aims to ensure the business acts with integrity and complies with all laws.
A printed copy of the Combined Code and the new UK Code can beobtained free of charge from FRC publications by telephone 44 0 20 8247 1264, email customer.
