Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Group Internal Audit Managing risk Business threats and opportunities Reporting and monitoring AMEC operates in some 40 countries globally, serving Reporting directly to the board, the risk management a broad range of markets and customers.
As such, committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets the group is subject to certain general and industryat least twice each year to: specific risks.
Where practicable, the group seeks to review risk management policies, procedures and mitigate exposure to all forms of risk through effective processes risk management and risk transfer practices.
review the AMEC plc risk register and make recommendations as appropriate Risk management process A consistently applied methodology is used at project, review, approve and make recommendations in operating company and group levels to identify the key respect of those risks which AMEC is willing to risks that could have a significant impact on the ability accept or assume in the ordinary course of business of AMEC to achieve its objectives.
These are recorded 'risk appetite' in risk registers and evaluated to determine the likely review any issues raised by other committees of impact and probability of occurring.
the board that impact on the risk profile of AMEC Control actions are developed to mitigate or eliminate review any emerging risks and any potential impact risks that are considered unacceptable.
Risk owners they may have on risk appetite are identified and given responsibility for ensuring review and consider reports on key risk issues such actions are implemented with appropriate review as new business and geographical locations for dates.
operations or projects The risk registers are reviewed and updated at least issue risk reports and make recommendations quarterly with the relevant risk owners.
Roles and responsibilities Plc Board Risk oversight - ensure appropriate risk management processes are in place - ensure management is positioned to Management teams Chief Executive Head of Risk identify and respond to risk Functional heads Risk Committee Management - ensure relevant information is raised Legacy to the appropriate level Divisions Risk manager - participate in the identification of risk Commercial Chief Operating Management teams - participate in the identification of risk Director Functional heads Officer management action plans - ensure action plans are implemented - monitor and report on risk status Business Units Presidents Management teams Business Unit Managing Functional heads Head of Commercial Directors Risk co-ordinator - ensure risk management process is followed - facilitate risk management reviews Projects - collate and issue risk management Project Project reports registers Project team Manager Risk Owners - promote learning and consistency AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 21 Managing risk continued The table shows AMECs principal business and strategic risks.
Each is specific to the group and could have a material impact on it.
Actions have been taken to mitigate these risks and these are also shown.
Other financial risks are shown on page 97.
Principal business and strategic risks Risk Mitigation Geopolitical and economic conditions AMEC seeks to maintain a balanced geographic presence, and, through AMEC operates predominately in the UK acquisitions and organic growth, will continue to increase its exposure to other and North America and is therefore attractive regions of the world.
particularly affected by political and economic conditions in those markets.
Changes in general economic conditions The risk associated with economic conditions resulting in a downturn and may influence customers decisions affecting the demand for AMECs services has been addressed, as far as on capital investment and or asset practicable, by seeking to maintain a balanced business portfolio in terms of maintenance, which could lead to volatility geographies, markets, clients and service offering business model.
in the development of AMECs order In light of current global economic uncertainties, steps have been taken to intake.
These may also lead to change assess and monitor any potential impact on AMECs business opportunities and in the customer base, competition and in address potential increased supply chain and, more broadly, counterparty risk.
the way customers procure the services Further details on our markets and sectors can be found on page 8. we provide.
Changes in commodity prices A sustained and significant reduction in This risk is mitigated by maintaining a balanced business portfolio of geographies, markets, clients and service offering.
oil and gas or commodity prices could have an adverse impact on the level of customer spending in AMECs markets and consequently represents a risk to organic growth.
Expansion of global footprint AMECs Vision 2015 strategy identified, by geography, the opportunities and AMECs strategy would be affected by a risks across the markets in which AMEC operates.
The strategy is regularly failure to expand the global footprint into reviewed for continued relevance and covers both organic growth and mergers higher growth regions and to respond to and acquisitions.
Mergers and acquisitions The Vision 2015 strategic plan includes a structured internal review of A failure to identify, complete and identified target acquisitions, followed by an established and robust due successfully integrate target acquisitions diligence and integration planning process.
Project delivery AMEC operates a system of globally applied policies and procedures.
These, Failing to maintain discipline and meet combined with comprehensive management oversight, the risk management customer expectations on project delivery process, project reviews, internal audit, peer reviews and customer feedback, could result in damage to reputation, loss mitigate the risk to successful project delivery.
of repeat business and potentially lead to litigation.
Pensions AMEC operates a number of defined This risk to AMECs pension schemes is mitigated by: benefits pension schemes, where careful n maintaining a relatively strong funding position over time judgement is required in determining n taking advice from independent qualified actuaries and other the assumptions for future salary and professional advisers pension increases, discount rate, inflation, n agreeing appropriate investment policies with the trustees investment returns and member longevity.
There is a risk of underestimating this n close monitoring of changes in the funding position, with reparatory action liability.
agreed with the trustees in the event that a sustained deficit emerges.
See note 14 on page 90 for further details on our pension schemes.
22 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Risk continued Mitigation continued In order to control risk and prevent harm, AMEC is focused on achieving the Health, safety and security highest standards of health and safety management.
This is achieved through AMEC is involved in activities and setting of an effective health and safety policy and ensuring effective leadership environments which have the potential and organisational arrangements are in place to deliver this policy.
to cause serious injury to personnel or damage to property or the environment The personal security risk to AMEC employees whilst travelling or working in and damage to our reputation.
potentially hazardous locations is mitigated by providing professional advice and support, together with appropriate contingency planning.
Health and safety performance is regularly reviewed against agreed targets to facilitate continuous improvement.
The KPIs on page 26 show details of our recent performance.
Legacy risk Litigation and business claims from The established legacy team manages these claims with internal and external divested and non-core businesses remain legal advice.
The aim is to seek cost-effective management of litigation and a risk to AMEC.
promote commercially sensible settlements where appropriate.
AMEC has made provisions for the legacy issues which are believed to be adequate and is not aware of any current issues relating to disposed businesses which are likely to have a material impact.
Managing non-core legacy assets until Specialist teams with the appropriate knowledge are brought in as required.
divestment may require skills which are not common to the rest of the company.
Information technology IT AMEC is exposed to the risks that the IT AMEC has appropriate controls in place in order to mitigate the risk of systems systems on which it relies fail and or that failure and data loss, including systems back-up procedures and disaster recovery plans and also has appropriate virus protection, network security sensitive data held by the group is lost.
controls and encryption of mobile devices.
Staff recruitment and retention This risk is mitigated with a clear Human Resources HR strategy, which is An inability to attract and retain sufficient aligned to the business strategy and focused on attracting, developing and high-calibre employees could become a retaining the best people for AMEC.
It is underpinned by an employee barrier to the continued success and growth framework which describes how we manage our people consistently.
In addition, there is a continuous review of compensation and benefits to ensure sector and geographic competitiveness and there are localised recruitment teams capable of recruiting large numbers into AMEC using common systems.
AMEC Academy delivers development activities to enhance delivery and prepare employees for more advanced roles.
AMEC has a number of measures in place across the group to mitigate this Ethical breach risk, including: A substantive ethical breach and or non-compliance with laws or regulations n embedded policies and procedures could potentially lead to damage to AMECs n Code of Business Conduct reputation, fines, litigation and claims for n segregation of duties compensation.
n management oversight n financial and operational controls n independent whistle-blowing mechanism n appointment of Ethics officers n anti-fraud and other internal audits n legal team advice n ethics training programme n oversight by the ethics committee of the board.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 23
