Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 37 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risks and uncertainties The Group identifies and monitors the key risks and uncertainties affecting the Group and runs the business in a way that minimises the impact of such risks where possible.
Operational risks Potential impact Mitigation Political uncertainty and regulatory risk The Groups business is principally carried out ITE has reduced the risk by establishing its in Russia and the CIS.
Changes in law or the business as independent Russian and CIS regulatory environment could have an effect companies fully contributing to the local on some or all of the exhibitions of the Group.
economy, and the diversity of businesses across sectors and geography provides protection for the longer-term prospects of the Group.
Economic instability reduces demand Reduced demand for exhibition space would ITE operates across a wide range of sectors for exhibition space reduce the profits of exhibitions.
and countries to minimise the exposure to any single market.
ITE, through its relationships with venues and staff has a relatively flexible cost structure, allowing it to manage its event margins in the short and medium-term.
This was clearly evidenced during the Companys performance during the recent recession.
Commercial relationships The Group has key commercial relationships These key relationships are regularly reviewed with venues which secure the Groups rights to and the Group seeks to maintain its exhibition run its exhibitions in the future.
rights for at least three years forward for significant exhibitions where possible.
Venue availability Damage to or unavailability of a particular The Group carries business interruption venue could impact the Groups short-term insurance policies which protect profits on trading position.
its largest 23 events against such an event in the short-term.
In the longer-term the Group seeks to maintain good relationships with its principal venues to ensure the continuance of availability.
Competitor risk Competition has existed in ITEs markets for In all of its overseas markets, ITE has a strong some years.
ITE faces competitive pressures position as an international organiser, achieved on a market-by-market basis.
through effective use of its international sales network and its established brands for major events.
A single exhibition or sector in a market could have its prospects curtailed by a strong competitor launch: however, the breadth of ITEs portfolio of events, with its geographic and sector diversity, reduce the risk of a competitive threat to the Groups overall business.
People ITEs employees have long-standing ITE has sought to build loyalty in its staff by relationships with customers and a unique ensuring remuneration is competitive and knowledge of the exhibitions business.
Loss through a wide distribution of the Groups of key staff could impact the short-term long-term incentive plans.
ITE has a good prospects of a specific event or sector.
record of retaining its key staff through both growth and recessionary times.
Financial risk foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to movements in The Group seeks to minimise exposure by: foreign exchange rates against Sterling for both trading transactions and for the Protecting a certain amount of Euro translation of overseas operations.
The denominated sales with forward contracts.
principal exposure is to the Euro, which forms Utilising currency overdraft and term loan the basis of invoicing and to the Ruble which facilities to hedge foreign currency balance forms the base books of the Groups Russian sheet assets.
