ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 42 Risks and Uncertainties Risk management process The Board continues to review the appropriate risk appetite for certain risk In 2011 ITV continued to develop and review types to ensure ITV is carrying an its risk management process.
Our approach acceptable level of risk.
covers risks at all levels of the organisation HILL and examines business risks on both a top risks Each strategic risk has been mapped to one of down and bottom up basis.
The approach the four key strategic priorities and, where breaks down risks into three core groups: Mapped to strategic possible, assigned key risk indicators.
Where priorities: Strategic appropriate, the key risk indicators are aligned y High Impact, Low Likelihood HILL risks risks 1 2 3 4 to our key performance indicators.
All strategic of low inherent likelihood but where risks are owned by a member of the there would be major consequences were Management Board.
The Management Board the risk to materialise: Process level has overall responsibility for the content and y Strategic risks would impact the risks operation of the risk management framework successful execution of the strategy: and and performs regular review of both strategic y Process level risks embedded into and HILL risks.
Process level risks are subject to everyday activity within the organisation.
ongoing review by internal audit.
The ITV plc Board regularly reviews the risk ITVs risk monitoring and mitigation process is management framework, its content and embedded in the running and review of the its operation.
The Board is responsible for business.
While risks are primarily controlled establishing a robust and appropriate through the risk management process in place, process, including regularly reviewing the mitigating actions are identified for each of the risks themselves.
keeps the effectiveness of the risk management process under review.
High Impact, Low Likelihood HILL risks Risk theme Risk There is a major decline in advertising revenues, or a double dip recession, significantly impacting ITVs External Economic overall financial performance.
and Political Environment ITV loses its credit status.
There is a collapse: y in investment values, leading to a material pension scheme deficit.
y of the euro impacting European trading and asset prices.
y of a major bank impacting the availability of credit.
There is a major regulatory breach that results in the loss of the Channel 3 licence, or the Channel 3 Regulatory Change licence is not renewed in 2014 and no contingency plan is in place to cover that loss.
or Breach There is a significant or unexpected change in regulation or legislation.
There is a significant loss of programme rights.
There is a sustained denial of transmission facilities at Technicolor, our third party outsourced provider, Critical Failure in or the loss of a major data centre.
Delivery Model A major incident results in ITV being unable to continue with scheduled broadcasting for a sustained Significant Physical period, or removes a number of the key management team from the business on a long-term or Incident permanent basis.
There is a major health and safety incident that results in a significant loss of human life.
There is a sustained cyber viral attack causing prolonged system denial or major reputational damage.
com Stock code: ITV 43 Strategic risks The key strategic risks are those that impact the successful execution of the strategy and as a result require regular Management Board monitoring.
All of the strategic risks identified have been mapped to the four strategic priorities of the Transformation Plan and have been grouped by key risk themes.
Create a lean, creatively dynamic Maximise audience and revenue Drive new revenue streams by Build a strong international 1 and fit-for-purpose organisation 2 share from our existing free-to-air 3 exploiting our content across content business 4 broadcast business multiple platforms, free and pay Risk theme Risk Strategic priorities ITV lacks adequate management capability and creative talent.
People 1 2 3 4 ITV employees are not sufficiently engaged in the business.
1 2 3 4 The extensive degree of change that the business will undergo will overload a 1 2 3 4 small number of key people.
The business continues to work in silos, resulting in sub-optimal decisions being Organisation, 1 2 3 4 made which impacts execution of the strategy.
structure and process A significant and high profile transmission incident or high numbers of single 1 2 point failures causes significant reputational damage to ITV.
ITV fails to identify and secure sufficient programme rights.
2 3 4 ITV fails to invest in, develop or operate international businesses effectively.
4 Late delivery of the new technology platform, and heavy reliance placed on Technology 1 2 3 legacy technologies prior to the projects completion, negatively impacts ITVs ability to achieve its strategic aims.
Current technological environment and business processes are not sufficient to 1 3 support the growth in Online services.
ITV fails to ensure appropriate business continuity planning and resilience within 1 2 3 its core systems, processes and platforms.
ITV remains over-reliant on the advertising market and is therefore heavily The market 2 3 4 exposed to the economic cycle.
The television market moves significantly towards pay television as a preferred 2 model, negatively impacting ITVs free-to-air revenues.
ITV risks losing its advertising unique selling point due to the increasing threat of 2 3 4 competition, negatively impacting ITVs Share of Broadcast.
In 2010 we identified two potential strategic risks 1 inadequate management information and 2 inadequate infrastructure which are not included in our 2011 12 risk register.
Following improvements in our management information systems we no longer deem this to be a key strategic risk, and the risk of inadequate infrastructure has been encompassed within more specific risks above.
Performance & Financials Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview
