PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FACING THE COMPANY In the course of normal business, the Company Cost increases continually assesses significant risks faced and takes Inflationary pressures on the Companys inputs pose a risk action to mitigate the potential impacts.
The Company seeks to minimise the potential effects of this risk by continuing to foster mutually The following risks, while not intended to be a beneficial and long-term relationships with its suppliers, comprehensive analysis, constitute in the opinion of the while working hard across the business to continue to board the principal risks and uncertainties currently drive down costs in all areas and achieve productivity facing the Company: gains, so as to minimise the effect of any price increases.
Regulatory risks Operational risks Regulation of the sale of alcohol Reputational risk As a result of the high level of regulation in the industry The Company is aware that, in operating in a consumerin which the Company operates, any changes to facing business, its business reputation, built over many regulation may have an impact on the business.
In years, can be damaged in a significantly shorter particular, owing to the regulatory authoritys intention to timeframe.
As such, there is an ever-present focus on increase alcohol duties over the foreseeable future, there improving controls to ensure that the Company operates is a risk that the Companys sales and margins may face its business model through focus on delivering increasing pressure.
These are, however, risks faced by the consistently high-quality service and products, within a entire industry in which the Company operates.
Health and safety Supply-chain risks It is important to provide a safe environment in which the Food and drink sales account for a significant proportion Companys employees work, as well as safe facilities for of sales: therefore, it is fundamental to our operations patrons to enjoy.
Therefore, the Company has policies to that we should be able to supply our pubs with the ensure that all reasonable standards of health and safety required goods and services to operate.
These include a process by which risks are we work closely with our third-party suppliers, producers identified in a timely manner and remedied accordingly, and supply-chain partners to ensure that our relationships including a comprehensive training programme to assist with them are positive, at all times.
Head office and distribution centre Economic and market conditions Any disasters at the Companys head office in Watford Economic outlook or its distribution centre in Daventry could seriously Since the Company operates in the retail sector, any disrupt its day-to-day operations.
Various measures have continued period of weak economic growth may affect been undertaken by the Company, including a the Companys performance.
It is for this reason that the comprehensive disaster-recovery plan, seeking to minimise Company continually assesses its customer offering, to the potential impact of any such incidents.
ensure that it delivers quality products at good value, in a welcoming environment.
In achieving this, the Company Information technology will ensure that it remains competitively placed in the The Companys daily operations are increasingly reliant on market in which it operates.
Any prolonged or significant failure of these systems could pose a risk to Property values have been affected by the economic trading.
The Company seeks to minimise this risk by downturn: this, consequently, can have an impact on the ensuring that there are policies and procedures to ensure value of the Companys assets.
However, given that the protection of hardware, software and information, by Company has not revalued freehold sites since 1999, we various means, including a disaster-recovery plan, a do not believe that there is a material difference between system of backups and external hardware and software.
the current market values and the book values held on the balance sheet.
The Companys primary focus is to Capital risk management trade from its estate successfully and to maximise the When managing capital, the Companys objectives are to profitability of its pubs.
The continuing weak property safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, in market provides the Company with further opportunities order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for to add to its estate portfolio.
This year, the Company has other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital opened 50 pubs, with a lower development cost per structure to reduce the cost of capital.
square foot than the Companys historic average.
In order to maintain or adjust debt and equity levels together referred to as capital, the Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital 42 J D WETHERSPOON PLC PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FACING THE COMPANY to shareholders, issue new shares, adjust the investment in from change in the mark to market valuation of the new properties and sell assets to reduce debt.
interest-rate swaps into which the Company has entered, calculated by a 1% shift of the market yield curve.
The The Company considers its capital to be its allotted share Company considers that a 1% movement in interest rates capital and its reserves which are disclosed on the represents a reasonable sensitivity to potential changes.
statement of changes in shareholders equity on page However, this analysis is for illustrative purposes only.
11 and monitors its capital on the basis of free cash flow per share which is disclosed in the cash flow b Credit risk statement on page 9.
In generating free cash flow, Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, the Company uses the cash to provide returns for derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks shareholders by investing in new acquisitions, to buy and financial institutions, as well as credit exposure to back shares, to pay dividends or to reduce the receivables, principally on income received from sublets Companys debt, while ensuring that the Company has and sundry income.
The Company does not have enough funds to meet its working capital requirements significant concentration of credit risk, as significantly the and to comply with its banking covenants.
All covenants majority of revenue is cash-based.
were complied with during the year under review.
At the balance sheet date, the Company was exposed to Financial risks a maximum credit risk of 4.4 million, of which 198,000 The Companys activities expose it to a variety of financial was overdue.
The Company holds no collateral for these risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk and receivables, and no impairment to receivables was interest-rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The deemed necessary at the balance sheet date.
Companys overall risk-management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to Where there are risks, the Companys policies are aimed minimise potentially adverse effects on the Companys at minimising losses.
Cash deposits with financial financial performance.
The Company uses derivative institutions and derivative transactions are permitted with financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposure.
On income received from sublets, the Company seeks to offer leases a Market risk to tenants who can demonstrate an appropriate payment i Foreign-exchange risk history and suitable credit-worthiness.
Sundry income is The Company operates only in the UK, so substantially predominantly derived from the Companys current all transactions are denominated in sterling: therefore, suppliers: so, any potential credit risks are mitigated by the Company does not suffer from significant offsetting against the liability with the supplier.
c Liquidity risk ii Interest-rate risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining The Companys policy is to manage its cost of borrowings sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability by using predominantly fixed rates, in order that the of funding through an adequate amount of committed Company not be exposed to cash flow interest-rate risks.
credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
Owing to the dynamic nature of the underlying The Company manages its cash flow interest-rate risk by business, the Company aims to maintain flexibility in using floating-to-fixed interest-rate swaps.
Such interestfunding by keeping committed credit lines available.
rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
The Management monitors rolling forecasts on the Companys Company raises long-term borrowings at floating rates liquidity reserve, on the basis of expected cash flow, and swaps them into fixed rates which are lower than through an assessment of short-, mediumand long-term those available if the Company had borrowed at the fixed forecasts.
In monitoring the cash flow, a key management rates directly.
Under the interest-rate swaps, the Company priority is to ensure that there are enough funds to meet agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified creditors, while monitoring that the Company is within its intervals, the difference between fixed contract rates and banking covenants.
floating-rate interest amounts, calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
During the year ended 24 July 2011, if the interest rates on UK-denominated borrowings had been 1% higher, with all other variables constant, pre-tax profit for the year would have been reduced by 490,000 and equity increased by 15,039,000.
The movement in equity arises ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 43
