Overview of year Operational review go online at www.
com 23 : Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of risks and uncertainties which may have an impact on the performance of the Group.
These are explained below, along with the approach to managing the risk or uncertainty.
The mitigation set out below is designed to reduce, but cannot be relied upon to eliminate, the impact of the risks identified in the following tables.
Key risk Mitigation We operate in both the oil & gas and power markets, reducing our exposure to one Operating in cyclical oil & gas particular market and power markets We seek to maintain a broad customer base and geographic spread We seek to maintain a good balance in our revenue between customers capital Potential impact expenditure capex and operating expenditure opex A cyclical downturn or a prolonged global We seek to achieve market-leading positions based on differentiated services and have recession could lead to uncertainty in our developed longer-term relationships with customers customers spending plans and decline in We manage exposure to engineering markets by seeking to maintain a split of oil & gas the demand for our services activities between the upstream, subsea & pipelines, downstream, process & industrial sectors We adjust operating strategies appropriately to reflect market conditions Our business strategies are relatively flexible and have relatively low capital intensity 2011 commentary Overall, E&P spending is estimated to have increased by more than 10% in 2011, while power markets have been relatively weak through the course of the year.
We completed the disposal of the Well Support division, which reduced the Groups exposure to the US rig count, and the acquisition of PSN, which increased the Groups estimated exposure to our customers operating expenditure opex to around 50-55% of through-cycle EBITA, from approaching 50%.
The Group Board monitors and has responsibility for HSE performance Health, Safety and Environmental HSE commitment is communicated around the Group via our Core Values, HSE HSE performance systems and guidelines, the annual Group HSE plan, newsletters and the intranet Leading and lagging safety indicators are used across the Group to measure safety Potential impact performance and guide management action plans Failure to deliver HSE excellence could Certain of our operations are subject to third party and customer audits lead to harm to our people, damage to the environment and could lead to customers no longer selecting the Group as a preferred supplier of services 2011 commentary The Groups Core Values outline Safety & Assurance as our top priority.
Details of steps taken in 2011 are outlined on page 27.
In addition, in order to guide the Safety & Assurance efforts and to help coordinate initiatives across the Group, a Safety & Assurance Committee drawn from across the Groups business units and the Group safety team was formed.
The Committee meets quarterly and is chaired by Les Thomas, Group Director.
We carry out investment reviews on potential future areas of focus for the Group Investment in new service areas We adjust investment and pricing strategies to reflect market conditions and geographic markets We carry out return assessments and due diligence reviews prior to investment We develop, execute and monitor transition and integration plans for acquisitions Potential impact The Group Board undertakes annual reviews of completed acquisitions Investment capital or operating in new services or territories may fail to generate an adequate return 2011 commentary The Group completed and has now largely integrated its largest ever acquisition PSN.
We also made further investment in developing our service offering in Wood Group GTS, through the acquisitions of Integrated Maintenance Services and Gas Turbine Efficiency see note 27 to the accounts and entering into a service agreement with Pratt & Whitney.
We are continuing to pursue other extensions to our geographic footprint, including entering into a joint venture in Angola and the acquisitions of Dar E&C and Pi-Consult in Saudi Arabia.
24 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Key risk Mitigation The quality of our people helps to secure interesting work, and this, in turn, helps to Attraction and retention attract and retain talent of key management Management have appropriate autonomy, within a Group-delegated authority structure We use market-based compensation, including both short and longer-term incentive Potential impact packages and offer career development and training Failure to attract and retain key We continue to expand our geographic footprint to provide access to skilled labour management could lead to a lack of resources necessary expertise or continuity to execute We carefully plan succession for Board members and other senior management our strategy positions to maintain an appropriate balance of skills, diversity and experience 2011 commentary We have implemented a new long-term incentive scheme for certain senior operational management to improve incentives and help drive retention.
This is outlined in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 45.
We also continue to endeavour to attract, develop and retain the best people.
Outlines of some of our key initiatives can be found on page 30.
We have a Business Ethics Committee chaired by the Group Finance Director, and Compliance with our involving senior operational and functional management from across the Group ethical standards Our Business Ethics Policy and guidelines are communicated to staff.
Training and selfcertification is undertaken by key personnel including Board members Potential impact Ethics helplines are available for employees to raise any concerns in confidence Failure to operate to high ethical standards We take action in respect of any breaches of our ethical standards could lead to damage to our reputation and regulatory impact 2011 commentary We have confirmed that our existing anti-bribery procedures are at a level consistent with or higher than the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010 which came into force in 2011.
We focus on ensuring that our training and guidance helps people to comply with the Groups Business Ethics Policy.
Further information on our initiatives can be found on page 33.
Businesses maintain quality systems appropriate to their area of activity.
These include Quality of services third party accreditation and training, and  programmes Potential impact We have a range of initiatives to help our people develop and enhance their technical expertise Failure to provide services of the required quality could lead to a requirement for work to be repeated, loss of work through damage to our reputation with customers or liability claims 2011 commentary It has been determined that the level of reporting on a range of quality metrics provided to operational management and the Board will be increased.
These reports will help in the review of trends in quality performance.
Energy Supporting Energy Operational review go online at www.
com 25 : Further reading Group performance pages 2-3 Divisional performance pages 10-15 Key risk Mitigation A significant proportion of our contracts are reimbursable Contracting strategy We have a policy covering contract terms and derogation from these terms is subject to and execution a range of approvals For EPC contracts we review scope, pricing, subcontractor management and contract Potential impact risks Inappropriate pricing, contract terms, We carry out ongoing commercial reviews of contract performance or failure to comply with those terms, could lead to losses, unacceptable risks, reputational damage, warranty claims and or financial penalties 2011 commentary In 2011, we continued to carry out the majority of our work on reimbursable contracts.
The two major EPC contracts in Wood Group GTS are progressing well, and have made a meaningful contribution to GTS EBITA in 2011.
In Wood Group PSNs Colombia business, we recorded losses on a fixed price downstream project and have made appropriate management and process changes.
We monitor and limit the capital allocation to certain countries and maintain a broad Operating in a range of geographic spread different legal, political and The Board receives presentations on specific countries in which the Group maintains a fiscal regimes significant interest We have a policy covering contract terms and derogation from these terms is subject to Potential impact a range of approvals Changes in the legal and political environment may result in financial loss or the loss of control over operations, while fiscal changes could impact on net profit 2011 commentary In 2011, we broadened our geographic presence through the acquisition of PSN, which has led to the Group expanding its operations in a range of countries and regions around the world, including Australia and Russia.
The disposal of our Well Support division led to reduced exposure to a number of countries.
