22 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Risk management Effective risk management is critical to the delivery of the Groups objectives and the achievement of shareholder value.
A number of internal and external risks could have an adverse effect on our reputation, operations and financial performance.
Responsibility Board The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that, where possible, risk is managed effectively as part of the established governance structure.
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board ensures that the Board has defined its involvement in the strategic, financial and operational issues.
Specific reports covering safety, financial and HR matters are presented to each Board meeting.
In addition, reports are presented to the Board on new and emerging risks and other issues requiring escalation to the Board.
The Board formally reviews the Groups key risk report at its meetings held in February and August each year.
Following these meetings, the Board updates the key risks as appropriate.
This review is in accordance with the revised guidance on internal controls published in October 2005 by the Turnbull Review Group.
In 2010, the Board prepared a statement of its attitude to risk, which has been updated in 2011 following the sale of Well Support and the acquisition of PSN.
The key areas covered in the statement are risks in relation to the Groups market and contracting strategy.
The results of this exercise provide a framework for the Group Directors consideration of risk.
Audit Committee The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility for the review of the effectiveness of financial risk management and the related systems and controls.
The Board receives reports from the Chairman of the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
Senior management Each division holds Quarterly Review Meetings QRMs between its senior managers and certain of the Group Directors, typically including the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Each of the QRMs includes a review of the risks relevant to the business.
Business management is responsible for the identification, evaluation, mitigation, reporting and monitoring of the risks relevant to their business.
The QRM process assists the businesses in summarising the impact of the Groups key risks on them and supports the report on risks submitted to the Board twice a year.
