Risks and Uncertainties Business Review The effective identification and management of risks and opportunities across the group is necessary to ensure the delivery of the groups strategic objectives.
The groups approach to risk management is aimed at the early identification of key risks and the taking of action to remove or reduce the likelihood of those risks occurring and their effect.
The board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is effectively managed across the group.
However, the board has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control and procedures for the identification, assessment, management and reporting of risk.
Risk Description Description Impact STRATEGIC Failure to identify new The groups existing activities are well placed to deliver good Failure to identify new business areas may impact business opportunities growth over the coming years.
New business areas could the ability of the group to continue to grow in the help to sustain the groups growth beyond that period.
Inability to deliver anticipated The groups strategy is based upon organic growth.
However, A successful acquisition requires significant management benefits from acquisitions acquisitions may help to accelerate the achievement of attention on its integration.
This diversion of management strategic goals.
The realisation of anticipated benefits depends could adversely impact the rest of the business.
In upon the performance of acquired businesses after addition, an unsuccessful integration of the acquired acquisition and their successful integration into the group.
business could result in the failure to realise the expected benefits and hence impact the groups results.
Changes to future Approximately 50% of the groups revenue is driven by A curtailment in environmental legislation around environmental legislation environmental legislation, particularly legislation over emissions the world could limit the groups growth potential from light and heavy duty vehicles.
Further tightening of and undermine profit margins.
global emissions legislation generally requires improved technological solutions and the extension of emissions legislation to new applications can create opportunities for the group.
Technological change Johnson Matthey operates in highly competitive markets in Failure to keep up with changes in the market place which technology is a key to success.
Constant product could result in a lack of competitive products and innovation is critical to maintain competitive advantage.
erosion of margins and or loss of market share.
MARKET Global political and economic The global nature of the groups business exposes it to risk A sustained period of economic weakness in our conditions arising from economic, political and legislative change in the markets could have a material adverse effect upon countries in which we operate.
The group has no influence upon changes in inflation, interest rates or other economic factors affecting its business.
In addition, the possibility of political unrest and legal or regulatory changes also exist in countries in which the group operates.
Commercial relationships The group has well established long term relationships with The group has high market shares in many of the a number of customers and suppliers.
Maintaining good markets in which it operates.
The deterioration in relationships with customers and suppliers enables the the relationship with, or ultimately the loss of, a key group to enhance the quality of service to its customers.
customer or supplier could have a material impact on the groups results.
38 The group has in place a process for the continuous review of its risks.
As part of that process, each business reviews its risks and its mitigation strategies.
Each risk is allocated an owner who has the authority and responsibility for assessing, monitoring and managing it.
The most significant risks identified are then collated into a Group Risk Register.
The Group Risk Register is reviewed by the Chief Executives Committee.
Each individual risk is considered and the status and progression of mitigation plans are monitored.
The Group Risk Register is reviewed by the board twice a year.
The table below sets out what the board believes to be the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group, the mitigating actions for each, and an update on any change in the profile of each risk during the course of 2010 11.
Changes since Mitigation 2010 Annual Report Each business prepares a ten year strategic plan to review The groups investment in R&D has increased during the year by demand in existing markets and potential new opportunities.
The group continues to invest in research for new products and technologies.
The new team has been established with the remit of identifying Following the ten year strategy review, a new team has been new business areas with significant long term growth potential that are established to review larger scale potential opportunities.
consistent with the groups existing core competencies.
The group has clearly defined criteria for suitable acquisition The only significant acquisition made during the year was the purchase targets and substantial due diligence is carried out before any of Intercat, Inc. in November 2010.
This has strengthened the groups acquisition is made.
position in the petroleum refining catalyst market and has a clear fit with A dedicated team is appointed to manage the integration process our Process Technologies business.
The integration is going well but it is and regular monitoring of the performance of newly acquired too early to assess whether the business will realise the anticipated benefits.
The group maintains a diverse product portfolio.
There has been no material change in emissions regulations in any of the Forthcoming changes in emissions regulations are well groups major markets.
understood and our products are designed to meet these increased requirements.
Profit margins can be maintained with ongoing improvements in technology to reduce the cost and improve the effectiveness of our products.
Regular reviews are undertaken to monitor areas of new potential legislation.
The group continues to invest in its products through research There has been no major change in the risk profile during the year.
There is constant innovation and development in cooperation with our key customers.
The group invests in its people to ensure that it maintains a high level of relevant scientific expertise.
The group maintains a balanced portfolio of businesses to The groups strong performance this year reflects the continuing recovery reduce the impact of a change to any one market.
of its businesses since the recession in the groups developed markets.
Management monitors the performance of our businesses across the world at both business and group level.
The political unrest in the Middle East could disrupt our Process Technologies businesses.
There has, however, been no material impact in the current year and any potential long term impact is still unknown.
Some of the groups key relationships are supported by long term No significant changes have arisen in this risk.
contracts, notably the groups relationship with Anglo Platinum.
A broad customer base is maintained to prevent the group from becoming unduly dependent on any single customer.
Industry developments and market shares are constantly monitored.
We actively manage our customer relationships at all levels to ensure a high quality of service.
Johnson Matthey 39 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Risks and Uncertainties Business Review Risk Description Description Impact FINANCIAL Movements in raw material The group uses a variety of raw materials, including precious Raw material prices can fluctuate significantly and prices metals, in its products.
In some circumstances, in the short have an impact on Johnson Mattheys results.
term it may not be possible to pass on higher raw material prices to our customers.
In addition, higher prices that are passed on to our customers could result in substitution or replacement of our products with cheaper alternatives.
Pension scheme funding The group operates a number of defined benefit pension Actuarial deficits could be adversely affected by schemes.
In some cases, the schemes actuaries have changes in interest rates, the market values of estimated that actuarial deficits exist and in those cases the investments, as well as inflation and increasing group has agreed deficit recovery plans.
longevity of the schemes members.
A further increase in actuarial deficits could result in increased costs to meet the pension schemes liabilities.
OPERATIONAL Changes to health, safety, In common with similar manufacturing companies, the group Changes made to applicable laws, regulations or environment and other operates in an environment that is subject to numerous health, standards could adversely impact the groups regulations and standards safety and environmental laws, regulations and standards.
manufacturing capability or indeed, the marketability of our products.
Availability of raw materials The group uses many raw materials within its manufacturing Disruption to the supply of raw materials, most processes.
Several raw materials are available from only a notably platinum group metals, rare earths or limited number of countries and or suppliers.
narcotic raw materials, could adversely affect the groups profit.
This may be due to increased prices or because our ability to manufacture and supply product to customers may be impacted.
Recruitment and retention The group relies upon its ability to recruit, train and develop The lack of an appropriately skilled workforce could of high quality staff employees around the world with the necessary range of adversely impact the groups ability to perform in skills and experience to meet its stated objectives.
Security On any given day the group has significant quantities of high The value of any precious metal process losses value precious metals or highly regulated substances on site could be material to the group and any loss of a and in transit, the security of which is critical.
highly regulated substance could result in the removal of our licence to operate.
In addition, in both cases there remains the possibility of theft or fraud.
Intellectual property The group operates in markets in which the generation and Failure to establish the groups intellectual property application of technology and know how can give competitive rights or to identify third parties intellectual property advantage.
The protection of that intellectual property allows rights could undermine the groups competitive that advantage to be maintained.
Alternatively, not noting the expiration of competitors intellectual property is required to ensure that patents held by third parties could mean the loss breaches of their rights are not made by the group.
40 Changes since Mitigation 2010 Annual Report The cost of precious metals that are used as raw materials The most significant change since last year concerns rare earth materials.
in the groups products is generally passed directly on to Supply constraints have resulted in price rises for these commodities, which customers and any price exposure is hedged.
have exposed the group to reduced margins on some products although Innovation that allows ongoing thrifting of precious metals in our these were not material to the groups results.
Going forward, the group products limits the impact of higher prices on our customers.
is reviewing its supply arrangements with customers to identify the most cost effective solutions for both them and Johnson Matthey.
The performance of the groups pension schemes are regularly The deficit on the groups principal defined benefit pension scheme in reviewed by both the company and the trustees of the schemes, the UK was 60.6 million in 2010 11, compared to 156.9 million last year.
taking actuarial and investment advice as applicable.
Where possible, appropriate pension scheme assets are held to match movements in the schemes liabilities.
The group carries out regular internal reviews to ensure The registration deadline for REACH phase I came into effect from compliance with group policies and applicable laws, 1st December 2010 and the group materially met the requirements for its regulations and standards.
Changes in legislation are carefully monitored and if required, the composition of our products is amended to comply with The group is also reviewing its products containing vanadium, primarily in latest legislation.
its Colour Technologies business, to identify potential alternatives in the event of any tightening of regulations in this area.
Although most of the worlds platinum is mined in South Africa, As mentioned above, the supply of rare earth materials has been constrained the group has access to world markets for platinum and other during the year although this has only had a price impact on the group and precious metals and is not dependent on any one source for has not affected our ability to manufacture.
Appropriate sourcing arrangements are in place for other key No other material changes to raw material supply have arisen.
raw materials to ensure that the group is not dependent on any one supplier.
Where possible the group enters into long term supply arrangements to limit the exposure to significant movements in raw material prices.
The group has a targeted graduate recruitment programme.
The group has a low level of voluntary employee turnover.
Global training and management development processes are in place.
A triennial review of executive remuneration has recently been completed Regular reviews of management succession plans are carried out.
to ensure that our executive remuneration packages are competitive.
Global remuneration policies are in place to ensure appropriate rewards to motivate and retain staff.
Global graduate recruitment processes are being reviewed in 2011 12.
The group has highly developed security, assay and other process There has been no evidence of any material losses in the year and the controls.
groups security processes remain robust.
Annual security audits are carried out across the group.
Insurance cover is maintained for losses from theft or fraud.
The group has established policies for registering patents and for There has been no change in the year.
monitoring its existing patent portfolio and those of third parties.
A substantial part of the groups intellectual property is know how and this is protected through non-disclosure agreements and other legal measures.
Johnson Matthey 41 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW
