38 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Business review Principal risks and uncertainties Sustaining shareholder value David Beldotti Effective management of risk and Chairman, Risk Review Committee opportunity is essential to the protection of Kentzs reputation and the achievement of sustainable shareholder value.
Regulatory risks Risk Description Mitigating factors Kentz operates in some countries which are During 2011 Kentz established a Code of Reputation perceived to have relatively high corruption Business Conduct which set out its expectations levels as rated by Transparency International.
of Directors, employees and others we work with in relation to ethical business dealings, health and safety, corporate social responsibility, human resources, information and government relations.
Kentz operates in 29 counties and is Kentz has no current activities in North Africa and Economic and political expanding to more locations.
The Middle East save for Yemen its MENA countries of operation conditions such as and North Africa MENA Region has seen have been generally stable.
Kentz monitors regime change an increase in the levels of political instability, economic indicators and political sentiments civil disturbances and labour unrest.
From and also seeks to negotiate appropriate remedies time to time other locations experience to be included in its contracts with clients which industrial unrest.
Kentz has operations in certain areas With support from corporate management, Licences, registrations, which are subject to a number of licences, the management in each area follow defined accreditations and registrations and accreditations.
procedures to keep abreast of renewals and government regulations ensure compliance with the requirements.
During 2011 all material licences and accreditations were successfully renewed.
Significant deterioration in Kentzs Safety, Safety is the number one value in Kentz and is Environment, Security, Health and Environment record or embedded into the culture of the organisation.
health and safety reputation may have an adverse impact on the Focus on Safety is driven from senior ability of the Group to secure business.
management right down to project personnel.
Kentz also has a behaviour-based programme that demonstrates the level of safe work habits its employees are exhibiting around the globe.
Kentz has leading and lagging indicators in place to monitor safety performance.
business review KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 39 Regulatory risks Risk Description Mitigating factors Kentz contracts are subject to governing laws Kentz reviews this risk as part of the tender risk Legal and outside of Western Europe and the United review process and endeavours to limit this sovereign risk States.
exposure by measures such as requesting a neutral venue or institute of repute to be identified in the contracts in the event there is a need for independent dispute resolution.
Market risks Risk Description Mitigating factors The demand for Kentzs range of services Kentzs business is a balance between Demand for oil and gas may be dependent on the wider economy geographies, blue-chip clients and industries.
and activity within the oil, gas and resource In 2011 it continued to diversify its business to industries.
provide a better overall balance and thus reducing exposure to any one region or sector.
Acquisitions may not be successfully Kentz has a defined strategy and processes Acquisitions integrated into the business and the financial in relation to acquisitions.
Internal and external results of acquired companies may fall short of resources are engaged to carry out due diligence targets.
on targets, deals are structured to ensure sellers remain actively involved and there are processes in place for post-acquisition activities.
During 2011 the RNE acquisition performed ahead of expectations.
The markets in which Kentz operates are Kentz works to develop and sustain long-term Competitors competitive.
Measures are implemented to critically evaluate tender pricing to ensure competitive offers for clients.
There are also high barriers to entry such as the need to satisfy clients regulatory, financial and health, safety and environmental criteria.
Operational risks Risk Description Mitigating factors Kentz is exposed to counterparty risk primarily Credit risk is considered as part of the tender Counterparty credit though its contracts with clients.
review process and Kentz seeks to negotiate reasonable payment terms to mitigate such exposures.
The majority of Kentz business is derived from large multinational energy and resource companies and to date Kentz has experienced a low level of bad debts.
Kentz operates its Specialist EPC and Kentz undertakes projects on a selective basis Lump sum projects Construction business on the basis of lump and tenders are subjected to a set of hierarchical sum or work unit rate contracts which are won reviews to identify risks and implement through competitive tender processes.
Controls are implemented during the execution phase so that management is alerted to any adverse trends prompting corrective actions.
At 31 December 2011, 60% of Kentzs backlog was derived from reimbursable contracts.
40 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risks Risk Description Mitigating factors Kentzs performance on projects may be Kentz follows defined procedures in the selection Reliance on joint affected by the actions of joint venture or of partners and seeks to agree cross guarantees venture consortium consortium partners.
and indemnities with partners in order to limit its partners liability for potential loss or damage.
Failure to deliver projects in the stipulated time Controls are implemented during the execution Contract and cost and within Kentzs budgeted cost could affect phase and there is regular project reporting and performance Kentzs financial performance and in certain management oversight.
There are Board briefings circumstances could potentially lead to discuss progress of the major projects.
The to disputes with clients.
Risk Committee also provides oversight on the suitability of the risk identification and mitigation process adopted on selected projects.
Kentz seeks to engage with clients to find mutually agreeable outcomes and formal dispute resolution procedures are extremely rare.
Kentz may be unable to attract and retain Kentz has successfully attracted sufficient Skilled personnel sufficient skilled personnel to meet its current personnel to date and through personal and future needs.
development measures such as skills enhancement training, further education and providing opportunities for career development Kentz has continued to meet the needs of the business.
Kentz depends on the continued service of Kentz monitors the marketplace to ensure Senior employees senior personnel, including its Directors and remuneration levels remain attractive and also senior management.
has succession planning measures in place, which are aimed at ensuring the development of its professional and management staff to provide successors, over time, for the Group's existing Directors and senior managers.
Kentz provides warranties on the projects Kentz has implemented procedures to track the Warranties it executes and in certain circumstances completion of projects to the required standards liabilities under these warranties may affect and where possible seeks to ensure suppliers the financial performance of the Company.
and sub-contractors provide similar warranties in support of the commitments made by Kentz.
Supplier risks Risk Description Mitigating factors Kentz relies on inputs from third-party Kentz evaluates the capability of potential Equipment equipment manufacturers and sub-contractors suppliers and there are procedures in place to manufacturers and for the delivery of its projects.
These parties effectively manage outsourced manufacture sub-contractors may not conform to delivery standards or of equipment along with the activities of subschedules.
Kentz also seeks to build supply chain relationships based on performance.
Kentzs supply chain may be affected by These risks are considered at tender stage and Supply chain risks supplier insolvency, strikes, weather, port monitored throughout the lifecycle of the projects.
conditions and congestion, the actions of Where possible, alternative routes or sources of customs authorities and other unforeseen supply are investigated.
Certain locations where Kentz operates have Kentz has successfully dealt with such Local content requirements to promote involvement of local requirements for many years through engagement companies and resource pools where the with local resource pools and training initiatives.
COM 41 Other risks Risk Description Mitigating factors Kentz invoices its customers in a variety of The majority of earnings and costs are in US Exchange rates currencies and similarly, its costs are incurred Dollars or currencies marked against the US Dollar.
Kentz seeks to include adequate protection in its contracts with customers and where possible, endeavours to match the revenues and cost currencies to reduce exposure.
When required, the Group also takes out foreign exchange cover with its banks to protect against foreign exchange risks.
Inaccurately There is a monthly reporting regime in place and Integrity of financial reported information may impact on its an internal audit function.
Results and forecasts controls performance and reputation.
are reviewed on a monthly basis against budgets and any significant variance is investigated and explained.
Results are also reviewed by the Board and the Management Executive Committee.
There is Board and Management Executive reporting on a quarterly basis.
An external audit is performed on the Financial Statements annually.
The list above is not exhaustive and there may be more risks, which are not known to Kentz or which we currently deem to be immaterial, which could affect performance of the business.
Kentz continues to raise awareness of Risk Management in the organisation and historically has successfully mitigated the risks encountered.
