King sher plc Annual Report Risks 26 and Accounts 2010 11 Given the scale and diversity of our businesses, the Board of Directors recognises that the nature, scope and potential impact of our key business and strategic risks is subject to constant change.
As such, the Board has implemented the necessary framework to ensure that it has suf cient visibility of the Groups key risks and the opportunity to regularly review the adequacy and effectiveness of our mitigating controls and strategies.
The Corporate governance report on pages 35 to 40 describes the systems and processes through which the directors manage and mitigate risks.
The Board considers that the principal risks to achieving its objectives are set out below.
Risk Action 1: Sustainable model for emerging markets.
In both Turkey and Poland we bene t from clear market leadership positions supported by strong management teams and robust business Although the Company has established a strong market share models.
and brand presence in our key emerging markets there is a risk that we do not develop a sustainable business model that will Our Russian business has seen a step change in leadership capabilities deliver long term opportunities for growth and the desired return and store investment programme.
We continue to focus on ensuring we on invested capital.
have the right disciplines, processes and customer offer to deliver a sustainable long-term return.
We have delivered the first phase of our turnaround in China and with continued improvements in performance we remain on track to eliminate losses during 2011 12.
2: The fragility of economic recovery continues to The Group is focused on self-help actions to manage in dif cult undermine consumer con dence and restricts economic environments.
Strong self-help measures and cash generation throughout 2010 have Uncertainty surrounding the resilience of the global economy and contributed to the robust health of our balance sheet and available funding.
the ongoing effectiveness of scal stimulus and monetary With the ongoing availability of undrawn bank facilities and the recovery measures continue to impact consumer con dence and present a of the bond markets, we are con dent that we have suf cient financial dif cult trading outlook across the retail sector, particularly in terms exibility to mitigate the impact of any worsening of the economic climate.
of delivering opportunities for growth.
3: We fail to take advantage of our combined buying power 2010 has seen a signi cant increase in our direct sourcing initiatives synergies and economies of scale.
across the Group and direct sourcing through the King sher Sourcing Organisation now totals US$1.3 billion.
There is a risk that we fail to unlock the potential to generate real A new Group Commercial Board has been set up to deliver a challenging shareholder value through the optimisation of combined purchasing and commercial synergies.
programme to drive an increased alignment of products and ranges across businesses.
Key steps within this programme will include: implementing common and own brand ranges between the UK and France from which the rest of the Group can also select continued investment in direct sourcing to support the common range and own brand development a step change in product innovation investment in uniquely developed product, available across the Group 4: Our systems and supply chain infrastructures lack the We have a programme to ensure that we focus our information exibility and capability to support the delivery of our technology resources on both maintaining or extending the useful lives of strategic plans.
our existing technologies and developing solutions that support revenue generative opportunities and productivity initiatives.
Our continued investment in delivering new and innovative products and solutions to our customers will continue to place Where possible, we are also seeking to eliminate complex or heavily increasing demands on our existing supply chain and systems bespoke technologies to reduce our running costs.
We continue to invest in our supply chain infrastructures to support our There is a risk that our infrastructure will lack the necessary growth plans.
In 2010 we made important enhancements to our supply chain capabilities and facilities in Poland, China and Turkey and, in 2011, scalability, exibility and resilience to support its successful execution.
will be making a signi cant investment in our distribution facilities in the UK.
This is particularly relevant to our operating companies in developing markets which may not yet have the necessary logistics infrastructure and capabilities in place to accommodate our ambitious direct sourcing plans.
indd 26 26 18 4 11 18 4 11 16:54:24 16:54:24 King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 27 2010 11 Risk Action 5: We fail to adapt our formats and models to meet ongoing Improving our multi-channel offer forms a core component of how we changes in consumer trends, particularly given the impact develop our customer proposition and we are investing to ensure we fully of developments in the multi-channel sphere.
exploit not only our multi-channel capabilities, but also to ensure that we stay at the forefront of how to connect and engage with our customers Across our businesses we operate in increasingly sophisticated through social media and 3G technology.
Our customers are increasingly using the internet more interactively not just to make purchases but also to We also continue to invest to improve the quality and depth of our knowledge and understanding of customer insights and market trends.
seek inspiration and ideas for their homes.
The ability to offer our customers a full and compelling multichannel offering in terms of products, ideas, delivery options and innovations is becoming increasingly important and there is a risk that if we fail to capitalise on the continued growth of the internet and invest in multi-channel technologies we will lose market share to both traditional home improvement and new online competitors.
6: Impact of a major health and safety failure affects our With 80,000 employees and six million customers visiting over 850 reputation and results in harm to our employees, penalties stores each week, robust health and safety systems are a priority.
Board is committed to creating and sustaining a safe environment for both our staff and customers and regularly review and challenge health There is a risk that repeated health and safety failures could result and safety performance, standards and targets across our businesses.
in a major incident that is directly attributable to either a systematic or institutionalised failure in our health and safety management King shers Corporate Centre is also responsible for facilitating the systems.
This would result in damage to our reputation through sharing of health and safety best practice between the Groups adverse publicity, prosecution and censure.
businesses and the development of minimum Group standards, which in some cases will be stricter than local regulatory requirements.
While regulatory requirements vary from country to country, each operating company is required to designate a director with speci c responsibility for health and safety.
This person is then responsible for ensuring that a written health and safety policy is communicated to all staff, that appropriate health and safety arrangements are in place to protect our employees and that we comply with local regulatory requirements.
The ultimate responsibility within each operating company remains with the local managing director.
7: We do not make the necessary investment in our people We continue to invest in our people across the organisation and to ensure that we have the appropriate calibre of staff, are committed to ensuring that our people are given opportunities skills and experiences across the Group.
to develop themselves to the bene t of the organisation and our customers.
Retail is a people business and there is a risk that, given economic pressures, we fail to maintain the necessary investment in our This is done through a wide range of development opportunities ranging people to ensure that we have the appropriate calibre of staff for from store-based training programmes, supported by the delivery of speci c roles and that skills and experiences are deployed in the nationally accredited and recognised quali cations and apprenticeship best interests of the individual, the operating company and schemes, to leadership academy programmes for our senior managers.
We have also introduced new elements to our share-based long-term incentive plans across our business, to ensure that senior management rewards are aligned with our targeted performance and earnings growth.
We also remain committed to the ongoing assessment and measurement of our peoples engagement with the business and engagement surveys are completed across the Group.
indd 27 27 14 4 11 14 4 11 12:57:13 12:57:13 King sher plc Annual Report Risks 28 and Accounts 2010 11 Risk Action 8: The risk of penalties or punitive damages arising from Individual operating companies, supported where necessary by the legal failure to comply with legislative or regulatory and corporate responsibility department, are responsible for ensuring that requirements.
they have access to suf cient legal and governance resource.
The geographic, political and cultural diversity of the markets in Operational management are also responsible for liaising with either local legal resources or the corporate affairs department to resolve any which we operate exposes us to wide ranging and complex legal and regulatory frameworks.
potential issues arising from new legislation or any suspected breaches of existing legislation or Group policies.
There is a danger that we do not understand the risks associated with either existing or proposed changes to legislative Where new operating companies are either acquired or created, formal requirements across the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Group-fide ned governance structures are established from the outset.
At a minimum, these provide guidance regarding Board and Audit Committee processes and procedures, the implementation of which are subject to a review by the Legal and Corporate Responsibility Director and the internal audit department.
9: The potential impact to King shers reputation, arising King sher is committed to a long-term investment in promoting ethics, from a major ethical or environmental failure.
social responsibility and environmental sustainability.
As our customers become more knowledgeable about the King shers Future Homes strategy sets out a policy and framework for integrating sustainability into the business, and includes speci c environmental and social impact of our businesses, we are increasingly being asked to provide both products and product standards and targets for all operating companies.
information that support our intent to operate an environmentally A Corporate Responsibility CR risk assessment tool has been sustainable and ethically responsible business.
As a result, the developed to help our operating companies identify and manage CR risks to our reputation, arising from a major environmental or risks and opportunities.
We also engage with key non-governmental organisations and industry forums e. g. Forum for the Future, FTSE4Good and Business in the Community to ensure that we are at the forefront of the environmental debate and assume a leadership position amongst our peers.
For more details see the Corporate Responsibility section on page 18.
We do not implement the measures and disciplines to Appropriate corporate planning processes are in place to ensure that our effectively assess the shareholder value delivered through operating company and divisional strategies are aligned and contribute the Delivering Value programme.
to the Delivering Value programme.
The successful execution of the Delivering Value programme is the basis on which we will assess our progress in delivering our key priorities of managing working capital, cash, costs, investment capital and returns to our shareholders.
There is a risk that we do not implement effective criteria against which to monitor, manage and report our progress in achieving the programmes aims and objectives.
