Business Review Business Review A view from our CEO Our markets KPIs Our business model Our strategy Risks Our people Sustainability and responsibility Our performance Risk Our risk management policy, risk exposure and risk mitigation are regularly reviewed by the Board, Audit Committee and Executive Committee.
We remain confident that we have strong overall mitigation plans and clear leadership in place against our nine Group risks.
However, the charge we recorded in relation to some of our major contracts at the end of 2011 has led us to examine the need for stronger mitigation actions in this particular area.
Review of highly controllable risks Applying increased rigour to the achievability of cost We identified nine Group level risks in 2011, with seven being transformation across the portfolio in a weaker economy assessed as high or medium priority items.
Of these, four are exposed vulnerability in an additional five contracts.
Our delivery deemed to be highly within our control.
risk management should have pinpointed these risks more Against our higher priority risks, business continuity was clearly.
As highlighted here, as well asin the Financial review and strengthened in 2011.
The actions we took to improve our Audit Committee reports, future mitigation will be through more information systems, data security and operational resilience led rigorous review of volume dependent contracts in the bidding to better risk mitigation.
We did not identify any adverse material stages as well as continuing to drive standardisation faster to impact on revenue or client satisfaction from business continuity ensure more protection against difficult economic environments.
We have established an independent contract accounting However, actions we had taken to mitigate major contractfunction and stronger delivery assurance.
related risks proved to be inadequate, resulting in contract Our strategic change programmes included productivity charges of 39 million which diluted margin by 100bps.
programmes aimed at reducing direct costs and overheads and In 2011, we performed a risk review of our top 100 contracts improving delivery effectiveness, risk and change management.
in terms of size, complexity, build up of work in progress and These were the focus of more attention in 2011 but other the status of the delivery to the client.
This included the largest, industry players also stepped up the pace and meant that pricing most complex and most challenging contracts across the Group.
pressure remained a factor in some areas.
The faster transition An analytical review of our smaller value, short-term contracts of our Infrastructure Management activities to our offshore also concluded that this portfolio of contracts was healthy.
centres and the restructuring announced in December were Our management of major contract risk relies ona robust undertaken in 2011 to offset this.
While we saw little material bidding system with clear reviews through the bidding process, change to our win rates or order intake at the bidding stage, our tiered levels of authority involving our commercial and finance ability to maintain this will rely on our continued industrialisation functions, defined project quality delivery processes and and offshoring of our Outsourcing activities, particularly around methodologies at the delivery stages and monthly business Infrastructure Management.
A significant step up in our activities reviews.
The 39 million of charges stemmed from the fact in 2012 should be a key contributor to gross and operating thatthese disciplines were not rigorously embedded everywhere.
margin improvement over the longer term.
We therefore failed to identify the impact that a worsening economic environment could have on a small number of volume dependent contracts.
30 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 High priority and highly controllable risks Risks Potential impact How we mitigate it Many of our 6,000contracts are complex We monitor all our major projects Major contract-related risks and vary in scope and length.
They may regularly through the year as part of Executive responsibility in 2012: incur penalties for non-performance or our operational reviews at Group level.
Himanshu Raja and Serge Dubrana yield contract losses if the costs to In 2011, we undertook a much more Relevant KPIs deliver exceed the revenues.
Good risk thorough review of contracts as outlined Pro forma revenue growth management control mechanisms and above.
Our risk management process Adjusted operating margin effective monitoring of delivery are considers both project and operational required.
These actions are intended risk, underpinned by a quality to limit the reputational damage and management system.
The focus for financial impact to our revenue and profit.
2012 will be establishing a more holistic framework for the systematic and consistent review and execution against contract performance across the organisation through an independent contract accounting function, stronger delivery assurance and stronger commercial support at the bidding stage.
The market is increasingly demanding As evidenced by our 2011 performance, Delivering our strategic the ability to deliver globally.
This in turn we need to continue to strengthen our change programmes to opens up the market to an increasing management of change programmes achieve operational excellence number of global players.
Serge Dubrana was appointed demonstrate global process excellence in as Chief of Operations in December 2011 and improvements in a timely manner in this environment would tofocus on this area.
The consistent operating margin result in lower win rates, lower order implementation of our global blueprint backlog and book to bill at the bidding for how we run the businessand the Executive responsibility in 2012: stage and lower revenue once in the associated tools and processes, is key Serge Dubrana delivery stage over the longer term, to mitigating this risk.
The creation Relevant KPIs leading to our inability to meet our of an Investment Council run by Outsourcing order backlog longer-term margin objectives.
Himanshu Raja and Serge Dubrana Consulting and Professional Services will also place  book to bill on return on investments.
Adjusted operating margin Strong security is essential to protecting In addition to investments in increased Business Continuity risks Logicas information and assets, and monitoring and threat protection, associated with information those of our clients.
As well as direct we continue to improve network access system and data security damage, a physical or information security controls and focus on addressing the breach would undermine the reputation risk of data being leaked outside Logica Executive responsibility in 2012: we have earned in this field.
The gross through security awareness training Serge Dubrana risks in this area continue to increase across the organisation, and tight control Relevant KPIs and so we must continue to invest to of domestic and cross-border data Client satisfaction address these.
Failure of internal support systems Infrastructure improvements and Business Continuity risks including IT services, operational investment as well as transformation of associated with operational processes, management systems our finance function is key to mitigation.
failure and information or controls could adversely affect We build in appropriate levels of resilience Logica internally or have a direct in technical infrastructure.
Business system availability impact on clients.
continuity, service continuity and disaster Executive responsibility in 2012: recovery plans are in place and tested Joe Hemming regularly.
We have strong business-asRelevant KPIs usual controls covering financial systems, Client satisfaction Treasury, supplier payments and management reporting.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 31 Business Review Business Review Business Review A view from our CEO Our markets KPIs Our business model Our strategy Risks Our people Sustainability and responsibility Review of medium controllability risks volunteering and community programmes as outlined in the The remaining three high or medium priorityrisks rely in part on responsibility and people sections.
our operational effectiveness, but also on external factors in the To ensure we can make progress in 2012 against our longermarkets in which we operate.
These are therefore less within term goals of people and client satisfaction and sustainable our control.
margin improvement over the longer term, we are more carefully In a tougher competitive environment, improving examining the prioritisation of our investmentsthrough a differentiation between Logica and our competitors was more strengthened investment review process.
This is aimed at driving of a challenge as all players stepped up their efforts to get closer the best returns.
The tough decisions we took to restructure the to clients.
We also constrained some investments in 2011 to business at the end of 2011 should provide more room to invest mitigate the short-term risk to underlying margin.
While we inour client offerings and people programmes, which are outlined maintained our market position in most of our key markets, in more detail on pages 8 to 11. our client satisfaction declined.
We made progress on people satisfaction despite a challenging environment.
We introduced High or medium priority and medium controllability risks Risks Potential impact How we mitigate it Continental or global influenza or related We continued to assess the business Business Continuity risks virus pandemic and terrorist attacks continuity plans we maintain in light of associated with external continue to be possible threats.
Our wide events in several geographies.
In 2011, events geographic presence also means we we reacted to flooding in Australia, could be exposed to political, financial, typhoons in the Philippines, hurricanes in Executive responsibility in 2012: economic and social unrest.
While the US, and the Arab Spring upheavals Serge Dubrana generally outside our control, any of in North Africa.
Our plans enabled us to Relevant KPIs these incidents affecting a large number continue without material impact on our Client satisfaction of employees or a group critical to a client operations or services to clients.
Pro forma revenue growth project could impact our operations or We have also tested our local plans Adjusted operating margin our delivery against contract obligations.
against a range of disaster scenarios.
This could affect client confidence in and satisfaction with Logica, with any resulting lost business potentially affecting revenue and profitability.
Logicas client intimacy strategy is to The client intimacy strategy depends on Improving differentiation engage with our clients in a way that choosing clients who will work well with between Logica and our drives value and deepens the business us and investing in the right offerings to competitors relationship.
Our focus is on solving drive sustained growth in our business business challenges and supporting with them.
Logica develops a strong Executive responsibility in 2012: business objectives rather than purely ecosystem through both partner and Jean-Marc Lazzari implementing technology.
Logica aims internal engagement, to provide a Relevant KPIs to develop a unique and rewarding sustainable business relationship that Outsourcing order backlog relationship that differentiates us from drives value for all parties.
We are Consulting and Professional Services the competition, supporting new orders deepening the adoption of our client book to bill and revenue growth.
The value we engagement model through Logica.
create protects us from commoditisation and drives margin improvement.
We define how we choose to deliver value for our clients through a Client Value Proposition CVP widely understood through the business.
32 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 High or medium priority and medium controllability risks Risks Potential impact How we mitigate it Our ability to meet the demands of the These risks are proactively managed Risks related to Logicas market and compete effectively with locally.
We also then monitor these People Vision and the other IT suppliers is, to a large extent, monthly in our business reviews.
Our Employee Value dependent on our ability to attract, retain, annual People Survey gives us a much develop and effectively utilise the skills more targeted view of pressure points Proposition EVP and commercial experience of our people.
in the business so that we can identify Executive responsibility in 2012: This impacts their performance mitigation items.
Our attrition has Stephen Kelly contribution and attrition.
remained at reasonably healthy levels of Relevant KPIs Attrition can be both a plus and 13-14% through 2011.
More effort has People satisfaction a minus in terms of refreshing talent been made to analyse key skill groups Attrition and enriching Company capability but to be retained in the business through Nearshore and offshore headcount it requires focus, attentive management resource planning.
Where specific skills and strong leadership.
have been required, targeted recruitment Ourability to generate speed and campaigns have been successful through agility with an appropriate balance of 2011.
We are implementing a global HR onshore, nearshore and offshore process based on Oracle 12 to address resources also affects client satisfaction.
our HR needs and manage risks via our Our nearshore and offshore headcount global shared service centre in Manila.
and employee engagement indices are key performance indicators as the long-term sustainability of our business relies heavily on the competitive sourcing of motivated and inspired people who feel proud to be part of a long-term future committed to the delivery of value to our current and future clients.
Review of other risks We have two additional risks which are reviewed at Group level in the areas of 1 compliance with standards and regulation and 2 major client dependencies and regional market sector risks.
Executive responsibility for these risks lies with Himanshu Raja and Jean-Marc Lazzari.
These are less directly controllable or regulatory areas where our management are supported by our advisers in ensuring we comply with standards and regulation or where the processes to comply are built into our underlying business processes.
In 2011, the challenging Benelux and Eurozone markets created an exposure against which we, like other companies, were required to reactand we adjusted our forecasts accordingly.
While there is little certainty that any changes to European currencies might result from the current Eurozone issues, we continue to seek advice and monitorthe impact that any might have on our contracts and reported financials.
Given that our costs and revenues are often both in local currency, we would not expect any major impact on underlying profitability.
The Groups financial risk management is also outlined in note 26 on page 122.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 33 Business Review
