[ 36 ] Internal Controls and Risk Management Where material risks have been identified within our business, we have implemented an appropriate internal control environment to endeavour to protect shareholders interests.
Internal Controls Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the As in any business, Lonmin faces risk and uncertainty internal controls has been delegated to the Audit & in everything it does.
The corporate strategy was Risk Committee.
The Committee uses information developed to exploit identified opportunities, while drawn from a number of different sources to carry out seeking to mitigate known downside risks.
Where this review: material risks have been identified within our business, Internal Audit provides objective assurance their we have implemented an appropriate internal control annual work plan is developed in conjunction with environment to endeavour to protect shareholders management and focuses on key risks and key interests.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the internal controls.
In the light of Internal Audits Groups system of internal controls and risk recommendations, management develops and management, and it discharges its duties in this implements corrective action plans, which are area by: tracked to completion by Internal Audit, with the Determining Lonmins risk appetite the risk results reported to executive management and to exposure our strategy requires us to take in the the Audit & Risk Committee: expectation of an economic return and risk Annual self-assessments completed by around tolerance the risk we are prepared to face in 76 managers in the Group each manager achieving our strategic goals : confirms whether there have been any breaches Overseeing the risk management strategy: and of the controls and if they are aware of any weaknesses in the control environment, within Ensuring management implement effective their area of the business.
The principle of systems of risk identification, assessment and individual accountability and responsibility at mitigation and internal controls.
These systems operational level is an important component in the are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Groups overall risk philosophy.
Managers are the risk of failure to achieve business objectives responsible for the identification and effective and cannot provide absolute assurance against management of all risks in their areas of material misstatement or loss.
responsibility, and these letters have a wide ranging scope: and Further objective assurance is provided by the external auditors and other external specialists.
Key features of Lonmins internal control framework include: Clear delegation Agreed ways Agreed objectives Transparency of power of working Clear accountability Charter, values and Code of Business Conduct Management reporting Schedule of Matters against budgets, plans Group Strategy, Documented policies, reserved for the and forecasts supported by Life of procedures, processes Boards decision Business Plan, resource and standards Annual management Remit and terms of database and model confirmation letters Risk management policy reference of Board Annual financial and and procedures supported by Committees technical budgets Annual audit and other Appropriate tools Delegation of authority Risk tolerance appetite external assurance including SAP, mine to each level of clearly defined providers planning, metallurgical management tracking and accounting, Internal audit and other and risk systems in-house review processes Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 37 ] Throughout the year Lonmin complied with the mitigating controls.
Each of the business areas is supported by an Operational Risk Champion who provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code on internal controls and the relevant sections of Internal co ordinates all risk management activity in that business area and ensures that actions are Control: Revised Guidance for Directors the Turnbull guidance and Guidance on Audit Committees formerly implemented appropriately.
This process ensures all risks are measured, monitored and reported on a the Smith guidance.
No significant weaknesses or material failings were identified in the annual review.
A significant portion of Lonmins risks relate to safety, Financial Reporting the environment, social development and Management is responsible for establishing and transformation.
To enhance focus in these areas, each maintaining adequate internal controls over financial business area has dedicated personnel responsible reporting, including over the Groups consolidation for managing environmental and safety matters and process.
A comprehensive strategic planning, monitoring action plans.
In this way Lonmin ensures budgeting and forecasting system is in place.
Monthly accountability remains with operational management.
financial information, including trading results and These particular risks are also reviewed by the Safety cash flow statements, are reported to the Board and & Sustainability Committee and Transformation management.
Both the Exco and the Operations Committee in addition to the Board.
Committee meet monthly to review performance against budget and forecast and senior financial Lonmins principal risks are detailed on the following managers regularly carry out Group consolidation pages together with their potential impact and reviews and analysis of material variances.
These risks have been ranked Risk Committee reviews the application of financial according to magnitude of potential impact before reporting standards and any significant accounting mitigating actions.
These risks represent a snapshot judgements made by management.
of the Companys risk profile at this time.
They are not intended to represent an exhaustive list of all risks.
Internal controls over financial reporting are designed As the macro environment changes and country and to provide reasonable assurance regarding the industry circumstances evolve, new risks may arise reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of or recede or the rankings of these risks may change financial statements for external reporting purposes.
according to severity and probability of occurrence.
For investors in Lonmin, the main risk to be aware of Risk Management is that the Company is a focused producer of PGMs Lonmin has an integrated approach to risk management and therefore, while this allows for economies through and internal controls to ensure that its review of risk is specialisation, Lonmin does not benefit from commodity used to inform the internal audit process and the diversification.
Further, since the commodities Lonmin design of internal controls.
The risk management mines are all from one geographic region, its process, which has been in place throughout the year performance is influenced by the political, social and under review and to the date of approval of the economic factors that affect South Africa.
This accounts, identifies, evaluates, manages and monitors includes significant exposure to the US Dollar Rand the risks facing the business.
Those risks that are exchange rate.
As such, volatility in metal prices and identified as significant, in addition to the associated exchange rates can have a material impact on the mitigating controls, are reviewed regularly by the Exco financial performance of the Company, which can be and then by the Board.
The Audit & Risk Committee both positive and negative.
regularly reviews the effectiveness of the risk identification process and the methodology used to evaluate and quantify the risks, in line with the Risk Tolerance guidance appended to the Code.
Risk tolerance is an indication of the amount of risk a company is willing to accept in order to meet its strategic Top-down and bottom-up risk reviews are carried objectives.
This is reflected in a Companys capacity out in each area of the business involving the Board to sustain losses and in its ability to continue to meet and Exco and operational and middle managers its obligations under different trading conditions.
All senior managers are responsible for Lonmin has a matrix scoring system in place in terms managing and monitoring risks in their area of of which risks are rated based on their likelihood and responsibility and recording these in the risk register.
This severity can be measured using It is mandatory for this process to take place at least financial, health and safety, environmental, stakeholder once a year but in practice reviews often take place or legal criteria.
As such, Lonmin measures more than more frequently.
For each risk identified, management just the potential financial impact of risks.
These assesses the root causes, consequences and scores are then used to escalate risks within the mitigating controls.
An assessment is then made of organisation as appropriate and prompt mitigating the maximum risk exposure, taking into account the actions to be taken.
probability of the risk occurring and the impact before www.
com [ 38 ] Internal Controls and Risk Management continued Lonmins Principal Risks Principal Risk Impact Mitigation Failure of safety Could result in a catastrophic loss of life, Commitment from Board and senior routines or safety severely disrupt operations and have a management towards creating a safe strategy material adverse effect on the Groups culture throughout the Group.
& Sustainability Committee monitors the implementation of the safety strategy on behalf of the Board.
Processes in place for safe production include: Employee engagement strategy and safety training standards, both of which are monitored regularly: Clearly defined safety protocols including safe behaviour observations in place: Regular third party audits and peer reviews conducted: and Balanced scorecard measures incentivise appropriate safety behaviour.
Resource Nationalism A negative outcome as a consequence Ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders of resource nationalism, which can take and government at all levels to understand many different forms, could have a and address concerns.
material adverse effect on the Groups future operational performance and financial position.
Skills shortages Lack of appropriate skills could negatively Processes for individual development impact upon safety, production and the programmes, succession planning and ability to deliver against targets.
scarce skills allowances are in place.
There is a focus on bursaries, graduate development and mentorship.
Non-delivery of Could results in deteriorating relationships We engage with all our stakeholders Transformation with stakeholders and place mineral including the South African government.
Targets are set and monitored on a regular basis by the Exco, the Safety & Sustainability Committee and the Transformation Committee.
The Balanced Scorecard incentivises delivery against certain targets.
Access to secure Could impact on the ability to run Measurement of energy usage and energy energy, electricity current operations and deliver future saving initiatives implemented.
Load and water expansion plans.
shedding and contractual agreements in place with Eskom SA energy supplier.
Likewise, measurement of water usage and water saving initiatives implemented.
Plans aligned with long term strategy.
Electricity and water supplies secured for key areas of the business.
Active participation in relevant industry bodies.
Failure to deliver on Shareholder value may not be optimised Strong capital projects department built long term capital plans over the long term.
up to implement long term capital plans.
Borehole drilling, magnetic surveys and 3D seismic surveys are conducted to ensure full understanding of the geology on Lonmin properties.
Independent peer reviews of the long term plan are carried out.
Balanced Scorecard incentivises appropriate reserve development.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 39 ] Principal Risk Impact Mitigation US Dollar metal price Significant changes in the supply and Lonmin gathers market information from and currency volatility demand of PGMs e. g. if there is product a number of sources to monitor market specifically US Dollar substitution or supply side constraints segments and trends in the industry.
SA Rand can create volatility in PGM prices making Longer term volume contracts with key long term planning difficult.
Likewise, customers mitigate off-take risk.
significant fluctuations in exchange rates Historically there has been a long term to which the Group is exposed can also correlation between US Dollar SA Rand make planning difficult and have a and PGM basket price, although this can significant effect on the Groups financial dislocate over short periods.
Access to cost The Group may not be able to obtain Headroom and key covenants in banking effective funding cost effective funding when required lines are constantly monitored through which could impact the ability of the rolling cash flow forecasts.
The current Group to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
bank debt facilities were re-negotiated during the year allowing greater flexibility.
Uncompetitive gross Could have a material adverse effect on Lonmin has a clear understanding of its or unit costs the Groups competitive position.
competitive position and required productivity improvement plans are in place.
Balanced Scorecard incentivises cost control.
Poor employee Could result in an unstable workforce A full engagement strategy with the relations due to internal that severely disrupts operations and unions and employees is in place, which and external factors has a material adverse effect on the is governed through a clearly defined that could result in Groups financial position.
Recognition strike action agreements are in place.
Poor community Civil unrest could severely disrupt A full engagement strategy with community relations due to internal operations and have a material adverse representatives, unions and employees is and external factors effect on the Groups financial position.
that could result in civil unrest.
Inadequate smelting Could severely disrupt operations and The Pyromet furnaces provide an element performance and have a material adverse effect on the of back-up capacity.
Spare capacity in back-up capacity Groups financial position.
Number One furnace currently gives some ability to catch up.
Number One furnace includes improved monitoring and fault detection technology.
The Number two furnace is currently under construction and should become operational in May 2012.
Excessive dilution and Could have a material adverse effect on Grade targets set and reported.
Technical poorly optimised plant the Groups financial position.
service function reviews management leading to recoveries information and quality control of data not in line with plan capture and measurement.
Third party audits and peer reviews conducted to guide grade target levels.
Plant maintenance programmes ensure plant stability to assist in optimising recoveries.
Further investments made to enhance metallurgical recoveries.
Experienced management teams and clear benchmarks set.
Balanced Scorecard incentivises maximisation of recoveries.
com [ 40 ] Internal Controls and Risk Management continued Lonmins Principal Risks continued Principal Risk Impact Mitigation Lack of short term ore Shareholder value not optimised over Performance measured against budget reserve development the long term.
and reported through the Exco to the planning Board.
An on shaft independent technical services function provides support to the mining teams.
Balanced Scorecard incentivises reserve development.
Impact of climate Climate change is an international Lonmin has a comprehensive Response change on the problem that could lead to devastating Strategy to Climate Change in place.
This business including the consequences which are as yet not includes operational plans to manage and impact of a carbon completely understood.
Coupled with monitor energy, electricity and water pricing system the proposed introduction of carbon efficiencies and includes participation in taxation it is likely that climate change climate change forums.
will have a financial impact upon the business.
Failure in internal Could severely disrupt operations and Lonmin has a clear organisational controls or accounting have a material adverse effect on the structure with appropriate segregation processes Groups financial position.
of duties and independent internal and external audits with follow up.
The Internal Audit work plan is closely aligned to the risk management framework and risk profile of the Group.
From an inventory evaluation perspective, grade targets are set and reported against.
Samples are analysed at the assay laboratory.
Stock counts are carried out every six months, with the oversight of external and internal auditors.
