Section 2: Performance Business review CONTINuED Principal risks and uncertainties The following represents, in the opinion of the Board, the principal risks of business.
It is not a complete list of all the risks and the priority, impact and likelihood of the risks may change over time.
eConoMiC MITIGATION factor impact zz Value focused proposition to customers.
Marstons business relies upon the zz Customers spend less on leisure.
discretionary spend of its customers.
zz Forecasting and investment returns zz Competitive offering.
Economic conditions continue to look become more uncertain.
Inflation could increase the basic of zz High standard of service and quality.
cost of living within the uK.
zz Consumer trends proving that eating out remains resilient even during recessionary risk associated objective periods.
Economic growth remains very low while zz Maximising the return on investment.
TenanTeD anD LeaSeD PubS MITIGATION factor impact zz Rollout of the Retail Agreement.
Tenanted and leased pubs are operating in a zz Declining volumes of drink and profits in zz Investment in tenanted properties.
highly competitive environment and against tenanted pubs.
zz Recruitment of high quality tenants by large managed pub operations, restaurant zz Decrease in investment in tenanted using a joint recruitment team across our chains and food retail outlets.
tenanted and managed house divisions.
zz Offering flexible agreements to our tenants risk associated objective to link rent to trading activity.
Capital raised by pub companies and zz Operating a sustainable and competitive invested in managed pubs has been used to tenanted model.
Actions to support tenants may prove insufficient given the weight of investment by other operators.
inveSTMenT PLanS MITIGATION factor impact zz In-house property development team with Increasing competition for building zz lack of available sites restricts pub proven experience in delivering new-build development sites.
zz In-depth knowledge of site availability.
zz Growth targets are not met.
zz Expert understanding of planning legislation.
risk associated objective zz Vigilance and awareness of development Investment plans do not meet targets.
The zz Maximising profit growth and development projects by our new-build team to identify availability of quality sites for investment is of a high value property estate.
There is likely to be increased zz Maintain pipeline of new sites for future competition from other operators for sites.
18 18 Marston Marstons PLC s PLC Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 w www ww.
o. u ukk 20680-04 2 12 11 Proof 6 Performance aCCounTing ConTroLS MITIGATION zz Sophisticated accounting systems.
factor impact The financial systems of the Company have to zz Financial irregularities would result in a loss zz Thorough year end audit.
handle large numbers of transactions securely of confidence.
zz Regular management accounts by and ensure that transactions are properly zz Reputation would be damaged if there operating area, in sufficient detail to recorded.
was a material mis-statement in the expose irregularities.
zz Detailed budgets and forecasts.
zz Access controls over accounting risk associated objective information.
Breakdown of internal accounting controls zz Safeguard the assets of the business.
zz levels of authority built into the approval leading to material misstatement.
zz Banking controls over the approval of payments.
finanCiaL CovenanTS MITIGATION zz Sophisticated accounting systems.
factor impact lenders to the business expect that zz Breach of covenants could result in zz Constant monitoring of financial ratios.
Marstons will repay capital and interest on additional financial operating restrictions zz Company strategy, business plans, time and operate within stated covenants.
being imposed on the business.
acquisitions and project development built zz loss of reputation and creditworthiness.
upon the preservation of corporate financial covenants.
zz Bi-annual confirmation by Marstons risk associated objective external auditors of the compliance with Breach of financial covenants.
Marstons has zz Financial security.
agreed a number of financial operating ratios zz High rating for Marstons bonds.
with lenders to the business which it cannot zz Reputation protected.
exceed without breaching the terms of its zz Business financed at rates of interest that loans.
allow profit to be generated to provide further growth in the Company.
inforMaTion TeChnoLogy MITIGATION factor impact zz Networks protected by a firewall.
Marstons is heavily reliant upon its IT network zz Significant disruption would be caused to zz Anti-virus protection.
to process transactions, conduct operations the daily trading operations of the Group.
zz Constant vigilance and monitoring threats on a ground level and report on results.
to data protection posed by hacking, breach of access controls and viruses.
zz Physical protection of servers and networks.
risk associated objective zz Backup procedures and continual External interference in the computer system.
zz Create a stable platform that allows the monitoring of backed up data integrity and Company to conduct its operations with a Compliance with the Digital Economy Act and rehearsal of recovery procedures.
high degree of efficiency and speed security of data.
Recovery of backup taking longer than zz Protect data, particularly that which is zz Backup servers capable of replicating the four hours.
commercially damaging if openly available.
live servers with no significant period of downtime.
Stock Exchange Code: MARS Stock Exchange Code: MARS 19 19 20680-04 2 12 11 Proof 6 Section 2: Performance Business review CONTINuED Principal risks and uncertainties CONTINuED CoMMuniCaTion of STra Tegy MITIGATION zz An understandable and useable strategy factor impact which allows Marstons to be differentiated Marstons must be able to effectively zz The market value of the Company may not from its competitors.
communicate its strategy in order for reflect the true value of the assets and investors to correctly evaluate the future profits.
zz Achievable plans and clear objectives.
zz Proven track record of operating in accordance with forecast plans.
risk associated objective zz Thorough understanding of the market The Company loses the confidence of zz Clear communication of business strategy and the opportunities available.
investors either through poorly understood and performance.
strategy or poor communication to the zz Growth of investor confidence.
rePuTaTion MITIGATION zz Clear understanding of consistent Group factor impact strategy and the risks to it by the Board.
Reputation of the Company is key to its zz loss in confidence amongst Marstons relationship with customers, regulatory stakeholders that corporate objectives and zz Good corporate governance.
authorities, investors and trading partners.
zz Protection of long term relationships with customers and trading partners.
risk associated objective zz Protection of all stakeholders interests in Bad reputation.
The reputation of the zz Achievement of strategy.
Company is critical to long term success.
zz Health and safety and legal compliance.
The Company has many direct interfaces with zz Credible plans, with a track record of the public where reputation is at risk.
The Watermead, Northwich 20 20 Marston Marstons PLC s PLC Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 w www ww.
