28 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 Current liabilities Financial review Current liabilities have increased by 19 million to 744 million, largely as a result of a 74 million increase in trade payables Financial position and resources partially offset by a 55 million reduction in deferred income.
Summarised balance sheet Deferred tax liabilities Years ended 31 March The net deferred tax liability decreased by 7 million to 1,817 2013 2012 million.
Refer to note 6 to the consolidated financial statements m m for further information.
Intangibles 202 237 Provisions and other non-current liabilities Property, plant and equipment 12,122 11,644 Provisions and other non-current liabilities remain at Other non-current assets 5,610 5,611 1,242 million.
Further information on provisions is provided in Current assets 418 329 note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
Current liabilities 744 725 Summarised NTS business balance sheet Net deferred tax liabilities 1,817 1,824 Years ended 31 March Provisions and other non-current liabilities 1,242 1,242 2013 2012 Net debt 8,669 7,188 m m Intangibles 45 41 Net assets 5,880 6,842 excludes amounts related to net debt and provisions reported in other Property, plant and equipment 4,064 3,987 lines Other non-current assets 1,587 1,588 198 Current assets 168 Intangibles Intangibles decreased by 35 million during 2012 13 to Current liabilities 311 267 202 million.
This reduction primarily relates to software Net deferred tax liabilities 464 469 additions of 47 million offset by amortisation of 54 million and Provisions and other non-current liabilities 182 185 transfers to property, plant and equipment of 28 million.
Net debt 3,138 2,599 Property, plant and equipment Net assets 1,799 2,264 Property, plant and equipment increased by 478 million to excludes amounts related to net debt and provisions reported 12,122 million.
This was principally due to capital expenditure in other lines of 934 million, predominantly in the extension of our regulated Intangibles networks and transfers from intangible assets of 28 million, Intangibles increased by 4 million during 2012 13 to 45 partially offset by 465 million of depreciation and net disposals million.
This increase primarily relates to software additions of of 18 million.
16 million, partly offset by amortisation of 13 million.
The table below shows capital expenditure by segment.
Property, plant and equipment Years ended 31 March Property, plant and equipment increased by 77 million to 2013 2012 4,064 million.
This was principally due to capital expenditure of m m 233 million, predominantly in the extension of our regulated 249 Gas Transmission 235 networks, partially offset by 148 million of depreciation and, Gas Distribution 666 645 net disposals of 9 million.
Other activities 66 55 Other non-current assets 981 935 Other non-current assets, which comprise the NTS business share of an interest free loan to our immediate parent company, As a result of capital expenditure in 2012 13, and after allowing National Grid Gas Holdings Limited, deceased by 1 million to for depreciation and inflation, we estimate that our regulated 1,587 million.
asset value will increase by approximately 0.6 billion.
Current assets Other non-current assets Current assets have increased by 30 million to 198 million.
Other non-current assets, which comprise an interest free loan This increase was primarily due to an increase in prepayments to our immediate parent company, National Grid Gas Holdings and accrued income of 35 million partially offset by a reduction Limited, decreased by 1 million to 5,610 million.
Current assets Current liabilities Current assets have increased by 89 million to 418 million.
Current liabilities have increased by 44 million to 311 million, This increase was primarily due to an increase in prepayments largely as a result of a 51 million increase in trade payables and accrued income of 104 million partially offset by a partially offset by a 15 million reduction in deferred income.
reduction in trade debtors and inventories.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 29 Deferred tax liabilities The NTS business share of the net deferred tax liability DN NTS Total decreased by 5 million to 464 million.
This decrease arose Business Business m m m from the deferred tax credit for the year.
Opening net debt at 1 April 2012 4,589 2,599 7,188 Provisions and other non-current liabilities Factors decreasing net debt: Provisions and other non-current liabilities decreased by 3 - Operating cash flows 1,238 592 1,830 million to 182 million.
This was primarily as a result of a Factors increasing net debt: increased restructuring provisions of 10 million and - Non-cash movements i 6 128 122 environmental provision of 15 million, partially offset by - Tax 100 88 188 utilisation of restructuring provisions of 15 million and - Dividends 1,254 646 1,900 reduction in other non-current liabilities of 13 million.
- Interest 109 59 168 Net debt - Capital expenditure & other 723 210 933 Funding and liquidity management Closing net debt at 31 March 2013 5,531 3,138 8,669 Funding and treasury risk management for National Grid Gas is carried out by the treasury function of National Grid under i Includes RPI inflation linked debt accretion 104 million 2012: policies and guidelines approved by the Finance Committees of 162 million.
the Boards of National Grid and National Grid Gas.
The Factors decreasing net debt Finance Committees are responsible for regular review and Our primary source of cash relates to operating cash flows as monitoring of treasury activity and for the approval of specific detailed separately below.
transactions, the authority for which may be further delegated.
Factors increasing net debt The primary objective of the treasury function is to manage the Our primary use of cash is for dividends which were 1,550 funding and liquidity requirements of National Grid.
We also utilised cash for capital expenditure and objective is to manage the associated financial risks, in the form other investing activities.
This has decreased by 35 million of interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, to within year on year primarily due to decreased investment in our Gas acceptable boundaries.
Further details of the management of Transmission business.
Net interest paid was 9 million lower funding and liquidity and the main risks arising from our than prior year, reflecting lower interest rates.
Tax paid was financing activities can be found in the risk factors discussion 188 million, 58 million higher than prior year primarily due to starting on page 15 and in note 25 of the consolidated financial higher taxable profits.
Non-cash movements related to statements.
increases in the value of inflation linked debt and remeasurements.
Surplus funds Investment of surplus funds, usually in short-term fixed deposits Operating cash flows or placements with money market funds that invest in highly Annual cash flows from our operations are largely stable over a liquid instruments of high credit quality, is subject to our period of years, as our gas transmission and distribution counterparty risk management policy.
operations are subject to multi-year price control agreements with Ofgem.
Composition of net debt At 31 March Cash flows from operations increased by 94 million in 2013 2012 2012 13, to 1,830 million, due to higher operating profits, m m partially offset by unfavourable working capital movements.
Cash, cash equivalents & financial investments 895 452 Borrowings Borrowings and bank overdrafts 10,154 8,139 The Finance Committees of National Grid and National Grid Derivatives 590 499 Gas control refinancing risk by limiting the amount of our debt Total net debt 8,669 7,188 maturities arising from borrowings in any one year, which is The increase in net debt of 1,481 million to 8,669 million is demonstrated by our maturity profile.
The maturity profile of our explained as follows: gross borrowings at 31 March 2013 was as follows: m Movement in net debt The following table provides an analysis of the movement in our Less than 1 year 3,219 overall net debt and of the net debt attributed to our regulatory In 1 to 2 years 126 businesses.
See Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting In 2 to 3 years - statements under IFRS, on page 41, for details of how net debt In 3 to 4 years 52 has been attributed.
In 4 to 5 years 291 In more than 5 years 6,466 10,154 30 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 As at 31 March 2013, total borrowings of 10,154 million on page 17 and in note 25 a of the consolidated financial including bonds, bank loans and other debt had increased by statements.
This increase was driven by Off-balance sheet items proceeds from new loans and debt issuance, combined with fair Pensions value increases in borrowings and accretions on RPI linked We operate pension arrangements on behalf of our employees, debt.
We expect to repay 1,108 million of our maturing bonds the majority of whom are members of the defined benefit and bank loans in the next 12 months, and that we will be able section of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme, which is to refinance this debt through the capital and money markets.
Membership of the defined contribution Further information on borrowings can be found on the debt section of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme is offered to investors section of National Grids website and in note 16 of all new employees.
Liabilities and assets of the scheme are not recognised in the Derivatives financial statements of National Grid Gas, as there is neither a At 31 March contractual arrangement, nor a stated policy under which the 2013 2012 Company is charged for the costs of providing pensions.
m m 270 Interest rate swaps 150 Other off-balance sheet arrangements Cross-currency interest rate swaps 413 470 There were no other significant off-balance sheet arrangements, other than the commitments and contingencies Forward rate agreements 3 3 shown below.
Inflation linked swaps 90 118 590 499 Commitments and contingencies We use derivative financial instruments to manage our Commitments and contingencies outstanding at 31 March 2013 exposure to risks arising from fluctuations in interest rates and and 2012 are summarised in the table below: exchange rates.
We value our derivatives by discounting all 2013 2012 future cash flows by externally sourced market yield curves at m m the balance sheet date, taking into account the credit quality of Future capital expenditure contracted but not both parties.
The increase in our derivatives of 91 million provided for 557 481 therefore represents movements as a result of underlying Total operating lease commitments 92 73 market variables and composition of the derivative portfolio.
Other commitments and contingencies 190 194 The currency exposure on our borrowings is managed through We propose to meet all of our commitments from existing cash the use of cross-currency swaps and results in a net debt profile and investments, operating cash flows, existing credit facilities, post derivatives that is almost entirely sterling.
future facilities and other financing that we reasonably expect to be able to secure in the future.
The interest rate profile of net debt is actively managed under the constraints of our interest rate risk management policy as Further information on commitments and contingencies can be approved by the Finance Committees of National Grid and found in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements, National Grid Gas.
Our interest rate exposure, and therefore together with information on litigation and claims.
profile, will change over time.
Actuarial valuation of pensions The table below shows the interest rate profile of our net debt A triennial valuation is carried out for the independent trustees before derivatives as at 31 March 2013 and the locked in of our two UK defined benefit plans by professionally qualified impact of derivatives on our net debt as at 31 March 2013 for actuaries, using the projected unit method.
The next full 2013 14 and future years.
The 2013 14 position reflects the use actuarial valuations of both the National Grid UK Pension of derivatives, including forward rate agreements to lock in Scheme and the National Grid Electricity Group of the Electricity interest rates in the short term.
The future years position Supply Pensions Scheme are to be performed as at 31 March excludes derivatives that mature within the next year.
2013 with the valuation results to be agreed by mid 2014.
PrePost derivatives derivatives Further detail on the results of the last full triennial valuations 31 March 2013 14 Future performed as at 31 March 2010 can be found in note 24 to the 2013 years consolidated financial statements.
% % % Fixed 38 26 16 Going concern Floating 21 31 40 Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that the RPI linked 41 43 44 Company and its subsidiary undertakings have adequate 100 100 100 resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis Further details on our foreign currency and interest rate risk in preparing the consolidated and individual financial management can be found in the risk factors discussion starting National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 31 statements of the Company.
More details of our financial risks, including liquidity position are provided in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
There have been no major changes to the Companys significant liquidity and solvency risks in the year.
32 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 Corporate governance statement The Company is required to include within its regulatory Board performance evaluation accounting statements a corporate governance statement The Board of the Company reviewed its performance over the which describes how the principles of good corporate year to 31 December 2012. governance have been applied and which has the same content The 2012 process, led by Nick Winser, was a formal and as the statement a quoted company is required to prepare.
rigorous evaluation of the performance of the Board and the As a wholly owned subsidiary of National Grid plc, the Directors.
Company is not subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, A positive set of results was recorded across the survey but operates within National Grids corporate governance indicating the Board is working effectively.
The following statement sets out how this governance framework has been applied to our regulatoryNTS The Directors agreed that Nick Winser, as chair, demonstrates effective leadership and performed his responsibilities well, that business.
the Board composition is appropriate, the Board operates well National Grids corporate governance policies are described in and that the Board acts in support of all the relevant its annual report and accounts.
Its Board considers that it governance documentation and National Grid policies.
complied in full with the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2012 13.
Committees The Board has established a number of committees and subGovernance framework committees which assist it in its activities.
These include the The Board of the Company is responsible for its overall Distribution Executive Committee, the Transmission Executive management and governance, and for ensuring that it complies Committee, the Compliance Committees and the Finance with all relevant laws and regulations, including compliance with Committee.
It does not have Nomination, Remuneration or its Gas Transporter Licences.
The operational and financial Audit Committees.
These functions are provided by National management of the Companys businesses is undertaken by Grid and their roles relevant to the Company are explained committees, in compliance with business separation below.
See the annual report and accounts of National Grid plc obligations.
for further information about these committees.
The Board meets around 6 times a year.
There are no Board composition and continuity independent non-executive directors.
The Board does not have The Board of the Company will make further appointments in an independent Chairman and during the year meetings were consultation with its shareholder and in accordance with normally chaired by Nick Winser.
National Grids Procedure for the Appointment of Directors to Attendance Subsidiary Companies.
During the year 2012 13, Jeremy Attendance at Board meetings during 2012 13, expressed as Bending was appointed as a Director as a result of the number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend, is implementation of the new UK Operating Model.
In accordance set out below.
with the relevant Licence conditions the Company expects to appoint two sufficiently independent directors to the Board of Attendance the Company with effect from 1 April 2014.
Jeremy Bending 3 of 4 Board remuneration Malcolm Cooper 5 of 7 The Directors of the Company are not separately remunerated Stuart Humphreys 7 of 7 in that capacity.
The remuneration of any Director, who is also a John Pettigrew 6 of 7 member of the Board of National Grid plc, is determined by the Paul Whittaker 7 of 7 Remuneration Committee of the Board of National Grid plc, as Adam Wiltshire 5 of 7 set out in its annual report and accounts.
The remuneration of Nick Winser 4 of 7 other Directors is determined in accordance with National Grids remuneration policies for employees.
As required by Section Board members are required to attend meetings regularly in 33f of the Gas Act 1986, the Company has provided to Ofgem order to ensure they are kept up to date with the business and details of the linkages between Directors remuneration and accordingly can contribute to meetings.
Directors are informed service standards.
of proposed meeting dates well in advance.
Directors are sent papers for meetings of the Board and for those committees of Audit Committee of National Grid plc which they are a member.
Guidelines are in place concerning The Audit Committee of the Board of National Grid plc is the content, timeliness and preferred presentation of papers to responsible for reviewing: the Companys financial reporting ensure Directors are briefed appropriately.
and internal controls and their effectiveness: the procedures for National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 33 the identification, assessment and reporting of risks: the Tina Sands Head of UK IS 4 of 6 appropriateness of auditors in carrying out certain non-audit Karen Clayton UK General Counsel & Company 4 of 6 Secretary work: and the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to auditors.
The Audit Committee is comprised of independent NonThe Transmission Executive Committee has a number of subexecutive Directors of National Grid plc and meets at least 4 committees dealing with matters such as investment times annually.
Management of National Grid plc and external governance and coordination of operations.
auditors are invited to attend by the Committee and would System Operator Executive Committee normally attend each meeting.
The System Operator Executive Committee acts within National Distribution Executive Committee Grids overall corporate governance framework and delegated Details of the Distribution Executive Committee are provided in authorities and is responsible for the strategic direction of Great the DN Regulatory Accounting Statements.
Britain SO activities Gas and Electricity combined and RIIO incentive and output performance measures.
The System Gas Transmission Executive Committee Operator Executive Committee was set up following the The Gas Transmission Executive Committee acts within implementation of the new UK Operating Model in September National Grids overall corporate governance framework and 2012.
Membership of this committee, which comprises delegated authorities and is responsible for the operational and Directors of the Company, senior managers of the Transmission financial management of the Gas Transmission business.
business and certain other senior managers, and their Membership of this committee, which comprises at least two attendance at meetings during 2012 13 is set out below.
Directors of the Company, senior managers of the Gas Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out Transmission business and certain other senior managers, and of number eligible to attend, and includes attendance by a their attendance at meetings during 2012 13, is set out below.
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend, and includes attendance by a Attendance nominated deputy.
Nick Winser Company Director and Executive 3 of 3 Chair Director of National Grid Attendance Mike Calviou Director of UK Transmission Network 3 of 3 John Pettigrew Company Director 6 of 6 Services Chair Chris Train Director of Market Operations - UK 3 of 3 Stuart Humphreys Company Director and UK Finance 6 of 6 Transmission Director Nicola Pitts Head of Process Operate the System 3 of 3 Paul Whittaker Company Director and UK Director of 5 of 6 Stuart Humphreys Company Director and UK Finance 3 of 3 Regulation Director Mike Calviou Director of UK Transmission Network 6 of 6 Services Paul Whittaker Company Director and UK Director of 2 of 3 Regulation Colin Barbour Head of UK Audit 3 of 6 Karen Clayton UK General Counsel & Company 3 of 3 Dan Davies Head of Process Maintain 6 of 6 Secretary Chris Train Director of Market Operations - UK 5 of 6 Transmission The System Operator SO Executive Committee has a number Neil Pullen Director of Gas Transmission Asset 5 of 6 of sub-committees dealing with matters such as SO specific Management investments and SO incentive risk management.
Jon Carlton Director of Metering and Grain 3 of 6 Clive Bairsto Global Head of Business Resilience 3 of 3 In addition to these matters, a committee accountable for and Continuity commercial and regulatory framework matter is jointly Chris Bennett Head of RIIO Delivery 6 of 6 accountable to SOEC and GTEC.
From October 2012 Compliance Committees Helen Barratt Head of UK Shared Services 2 of 6 The Compliance Committees of the Board are responsible for Helen Turner Transmission Financial Controller 6 of 6 overseeing the duties and tasks of the Business Separation Nicola Pitts Head of Process Operate the System 6 of 6 Compliance Officer and for overseeing compliance with the Nikki Spaul HR Business Partner 6 of 6 business separation licence conditions see page 34.
There Sara Habib Head of Process Emergency 4 of 6 are separate Compliance Committees to deal with DN and NTS Response & Repair licence obligations.
Ian Galloway Director of Capital Delivery 6 of 6 Finance Committee Maeve Chappell Head of UK Employee 5 of 6 The Finance Committee of the Board is responsible for setting Communications policy and grants authority for financing decisions, bank Pauline Director of Process Network 3 of 6 McCracken Development accounts, credit exposure, control mechanisms for hedging and Robert Douglas Head of UK Procurement 5 of 6 foreign exchange transactions, guarantees and indemnities and 34 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 approves, or if appropriate, recommends to the Board other Grid.
The Audit Committee also approves the National Grid treasury, tax, pensions and insurance strategies.
audit plan, which is primarily risk led.
During 2012 13 the areas of focus of the Audit Committee of most relevance to the Group holding company Company were data assurance processes, review of business During the year Nick Winser was also an Executive Director of conduct and ethics matters, environmental provisions, National Grid plc.
Through his participation at the Boards of pensions, whistle blowing procedures, reviews of internal both companies, the Board of National Grid Gas is well placed corporate audit and overseeing the independence of the to identify and facilitate understanding of the views of its external auditor.
Auditor independence and objectivity Risk management and internal control As highlighted in National Grid plc's Annual Report & Accounts The Board of National Grid plc takes overall responsibility for for 2012 13 auditor independence and objectivity is safeguarded by limiting the nature and value of non-audit internal control throughout its group operations and in particular services performed by the external auditors, ensuring that the in monitoring its effectiveness within its subsidiary companies.
employees of the external auditors who have worked on the The system of internal control, and in particular our risk audit in the last two years are not appointed to senior positions management policies, has been designed to manage rather within National Grid plc, and the rotation of the lead than eliminate risks to the achievement of our strategic and engagement partner at least every five years.
The current lead business objectives.
engagement partner has held the position for three years.
The Board of the Company receives six monthly reports upon Business separation the Companys key risks and compliance matters.
Special Condition C20 of our NTS gas transporter licence Risk management requires that the Company maintains managerial and The Company has embedded risk management into its operational systems such that: business decision making process.
This risk management the DN businesses do not gain unfair commercial process continues to be based on both bottom-up and top-down advantage by reason of the way the Company conducts its assessments of operational, including safety, financial and NTS business, as required by Standard Special Condition other business or project risks.
From the bottom-up, business A6: and units prepare and maintain risk registers that capture their key cross-subsidy between the NTS business and the DN risks and the actions being taken to manage them.
These risk businesses is avoided, as required by Standard Special registers are regularly reviewed and discussed by the executive Condition A35.
committees for those business units.
Directors and other senior Our policy on business separation is set out in the Companys management are involved at critical stages in the review Compliance Statement.
Their review and debate of the outputs of the bottomup assessment against their top-down views produce an overall We have taken the following specific actions to comply with the evaluation of the risks that are faced by the Company.
In requirements of Special Condition C20: addition, the Executive and the Audit Committees of National established separate management committees for the gas Grid plc review National Grids overall risk profile and any transmission and gas distribution businesses, as changes.
The Audit Committee also reviews the overall risk described above: management process.
appointed separate Compliance Committees for each of the gas transmission business and the gas distribution Compliance management business, as described above.
Each Compliance Compliance management is undertaken on a National Grid Committee reports directly to the Board of National Grid wide basis.
This process provides assurance to Directors and Gas and also to the Audit Committee of National Grid: and senior management on the effectiveness of control frameworks appointed a Business Separation Compliance Officer, who to manage key internal and external obligations and also reports to the Compliance Committees and twice yearly to highlights instances of significant non-compliance with these the Audit Committee of National Grid.
External obligations are driven primarily by key legal and regulatory requirements whereas internal obligations focus more on compliance with National Grids own corporate policies and procedures, which included regulatory compliance policies.
The compliance management process is consistent with and complimentary to the risk management process.
Internal audit The Company does not have a separate internal audit function.
This function is provided by National Grid's corporate audit function, which acts on a group wide basis and whose activities are monitored and reviewed by the Audit Committee of National
