Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 19 Delivering solid results Operational performance review Persimmon delivered a strong performance Persimmon in 2013 as the Group focused on capturing Our Persimmon business delivered 6,830 new the benefits of improving rates of sale whilst homes in 2013, an increase of 16% on the prior opening new outlets in excellent locations of year 2012: 5,883 new homes.
Total revenues proven housing demand.
of 1.25bn increased by 22% year on year.
From 1 January 2013 the Group was Persimmon is focused on the sale of traditional reorganised to support the delivery of family housing, on developments which further operational improvements across the typically provide the widest choice of house country, from strategic land identification types in a single location, to cater for the needs and promotion, through to construction of first-time buyers and customers looking programming and house type design.
for larger homes to accommodate growing Our operational management teams have the family needs.
Operational objectives opportunity to learn from their combined The average selling price of a Persimmon experience in markets to further improve target strong performance.
home in 2013 was 182,899, 4.9% ahead year performance.
There is a good balance to the on year due to the sales mix moving towards distribution of the operational footprint across Mike Killoran a slightly greater proportion of larger homes the regions with our 24 separate housebuilding Group Finance Director being sold.
The financial performance of the Group benefits from this spread of operations Our regional markets within the North which mitigates market risk.
delivered 57% of Persimmons total sales in 2013 2012: 56% at an average selling price During 2013 the Group continued to make of 161,188 2012: 161,896.
Selling prices substantial investments in high quality have been influenced by the usual regional replacement land across the country, the total market factors and we have been pleased with consented landbank increasing by 9% over the the levels of demand we have experienced year to reach 74,407 plots owned and under on opening up new developments across control at 31 December 2013. the country.
The average selling price The financial results for 2013, together with for our regional markets in the South was the financial position of the business at the 211,523 2012: 190,345.
The highest year-end, demonstrate the strong progress average selling price was achieved by our the Group has made.
These results also point Shires region for the second year running, at to the exciting opportunities available to the 228,619 2012: 204,545 with significant Groups four brands, Persimmon and Charles sales contributions coming from larger Church in the private sale market, Westbury homes sold from sites at Oxford and Bushey, Partnerships in the Housing Association Hertfordshire.
The lowest average selling market place, and our Space4 business, price was for our Yorkshire region at 153,973 which is the largest automated timber frame 2012: 152,879 with good levels of sales from manufacturer in the UK.
developments at Hull and Scunthorpe.
Stated before fair value charges on shared equity sales.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 20 Operational performance review continued Persimmon sales volumes increased success in converting our high quality strategic significantly in the second half of the year over land across the UK.
In our Essex region we 390 the first half supported by the introduction successfully gained planning consent for 333 of the Governments Help to Buy scheme plots at Harlow and in our North Midlands Average site numbers and increased availability of mortgage credit.
region we secured consent for a 110 unit More notable increases were secured in our scheme at Market Harborough, Leicestershire.
2012: 375 Scottish and Yorkshire regions, 63% and In addition, we were successful with planning 44% up respectively and in our Shires and for a 150 unit development at Brundall, East Wales regions which were 39% and 34% up Anglia and for 44 plots at a site at Easingwold respectively.
These significant increases in in North Yorkshire.
These further examples of legal completion volumes were only secured successful strategic land delivery demonstrate through the rapid response of all management the benefits of our planning capabilities teams in increasing production rates.
and skills in contributing high value land in Whilst programming and resourcing this support of the delivery of superior shareholder increase in build activity has been challenging returns over the long term.
This also requires we are pleased with the progress the business continued identification and investment in achieved in 2013. new strategic land for future conversion.
The Persimmon forward consented landbank We have sustained our investment in our at 31 December 2013 totalled 49,232 plots strategic land operations and over the last five owned and under control, representing 7.2 years have successfully converted over 23,000 years of forward supply at 2013 consumption plots from our strategic land portfolio into our rates.
This forward supply has shortened forward consented landbank.
This represents through the year from 7.6 years at December c. 43% of all land replacement acquired over 2012 due to the strong increase in the rate this period and will support superior future of sales and land usage and despite robust cash generation from our operations.
land replacement in the year.
We have Our joint operations with St. Modwen acquired 11,447 plots of new land in 2013. continued to grow in 2013.
We delivered 150 The anticipated future growth in Persimmon new home legal completions from the existing sales volumes will continue to deliver seven active sites spread from Sunderland in improvements in asset efficiency which will the North East to Llandarcy in Wales and support strong liquidity and increased returns Uxbridge in the South East, up from 56 in on capital.
We continue to work with St. Modwen to Whilst we have continued to be active in the identify potential new locations which will open land market we have enjoyed significant secure appropriate investments for the Group.
Right: Persimmon Homes, Argyll View, Greenock, Inverclyde.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 21 2.05bn Net assets 2012: 1.99bn Right: Meadow Brook, Stotfold, Bedfordshire, Charles Church.
At the end of December 2013 Charles Church Charles Church held 4.2 years of consented forward land at Total revenues from sales of Charles Church 2013 levels of sales, being 10,715 plots owned new homes increased by 15% to 637.5m and under control.
Whilst the number of plots 2012: 555.7m.
We experienced good held increased by 7% year on year, forward levels of demand across the regions for our years cover shortened slightly from the 4.3 Charles Church house types, which typically years held in December 2012 due to the offer larger accommodation in high quality strong increase in legal completions in 2013. locations.
Legal completions increased by 10% The anticipated further growth of Charles year on year to 2,577 new homes 2012: 2,334 Church volumes will continue to improve new homes.
Legal completion volumes in the the asset efficiency of the business in line second half of 1,437 new homes grew strongly, with overall Group strategy.
The length of being 26% higher than in the first half of the Charles Church landbank is deliberately the year.
shorter than that for Persimmon to compensate for the generally slower rate of sale There is a broad geographic spread to our of Charles Church homes, which reflects its Charles Church site network with two thirds higher selling prices.
This policy ensures that of total legal completion volumes being the return on capital employed in the business delivered in southern markets.
We tailor the is maximised.
delivery of the Charles Church product to local markets where our research and experience Strategic land support is a key feature of the has identified strong customer demand for Charles Church business.
In addition, by introducing both of new land introduced into the business the Charles Church and Persimmon brands in 2013 over 40% was sourced from the jointly onto appropriate developments we can successful conversion of previously held maximise our sales rates and asset turn whilst strategic land, including consent for 180 plots providing a compelling offer to the broadest at Rothley north of Leicester and for a 480 unit cross-section of customers helping to mitigate development at Burgess Hill north of Brighton.
For example, we expect Charles Charles Church now holds c. 41% of its forward Church to deliver strong sales from Harlow in consented landbank from ex-strategic sources, Essex, one of the large strategic land successes which will provide further strong support to in the year.
the business over coming years.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 22 Operational performance review continued Westbury Partnerships also leads the Groups Westbury Partnerships engagement in the Governments Affordable Our Westbury Partnerships business has 2, 121 Housing Programme AHP which is very strong relationships with the Homes & focused on the construction of low cost Community Agency HCA in England Westbury Partnerships homes across the regions.
Through close and the Housing Agencies in Scotland and consultation with the HCA, the Group has homes sold Wales, and is working hard to support greater agreed a commitment to construct 378 2012: 1,686 access to the housing market for their local homes supported by funding of 4.0m as communities.
We believe that by delivering part of the AHP.
During 2013, 94 new homes healthy increases in the volume of newly were delivered from sites at East Trowbridge built homes across the UK mainland we are near Bath, Walton-le-Dale near Preston and providing a meaningful contribution to the Victoria Park in Stockton-on-Tees, 77 of which rehabilitation of the broader UK economy.
are to be made available at lower assisted rental During 2013, 528 legal completions were levels with 17 homes for shared ownership.
delivered with support from the Governments In 2014 we anticipate over 150 additional new FirstBuy scheme.
This was replaced by the homes will be delivered under this scheme introduction of the Help to Buy shared equity across 8 separate sites.
Under the Help to The Group also participates in the Buy scheme 2,203 new homes were legally Governments Delivery Partner Panels completed in 2013 with over 2,050 homes DPPs which are the primary route through reserved and exchanged for future delivery.
which the Government is seeking to dispose A specific focus of our Partnerships of public land.
The Partnerships management management team is to work closely team leads our participation under the DPPs with housing associations to deliver well and we anticipate that the Group will secure a designed affordable housing to the benefit number of opportunities as the Government of lower income occupiers.
Our Westbury pushes ahead with its disposal plans.
Partnerships business delivered 2,121 new homes 2012: 1,686 new homes to our Space4 housing association partners during 2013.
Space4 is the Groups closed-panel timber This is an increase of 26% on the prior year frame manufacturing business.
Timber frames and represents c. 18% of the Groups total manufactured by Space4 are sold into the output in 2013 2012: c. 17%.
By capturing Groups housebuilding businesses for the these opportunities our Westbury business construction of new homes in both the plays a key part in the delivery of sustainable private sale and housing association markets.
residential development across the country This modern method of construction achieves in line with the objectives of the National very high levels of thermal efficiency with its Planning Policy Framework.
A key strength of fabric first approach, making it ideal to meet the Partnership business is the visibility of new the more demanding construction standards outlet openings that our regional management being required of residential developers as teams continue to secure through the local building regulations are improved to support planning processes across the regions.
the delivery of zero carbon objectives for all This allows the Partnership management newly built homes over the medium term.
team to promote the sale of the affordable housing element of each development to our Space4 increased its output by c. 27% year on housing association partners at an early stage.
year to over 4,200 new home kits 2012: 3,310 We believe that our well designed affordable kits in response to the sharp increase housing will continue to attract strong interest in demand experienced from Q2 2013. across all tenures.
Westbury Partnerships The Groups housebuilding businesses are will lead the further development of the continuing to use Space4 product in increasing Groups participation in this very important volumes to capture the build efficiencies market area.
available on site through the utilisation Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 23 4,204 Homes built with Space4 timber frames 2012: 3,310 Right: Manufactured Space4 panels ready fordistribution.
The system The Group experienced strong liquidity allows the swift delivery of the finished through 2013 reflecting the active home through improvements in resource management of the timing of key cash flows.
planning, supporting both shorter customer Utilisation of the Groups revolving credit lead times and a more rapid asset turn in our facilities was limited to periods of peak housebuilding operations.
working capital requirement, particularly during the second half of the year following The Space4 management team, in conjunction the payment of the first Capital Return Plan with the Groups housebuilding experts, payment of 227.9m on 28 June 2013. continue to trial and test alternative materials and processes to secure additional The Group generated 231m of free cash manufacturing efficiencies and performance, flow before the Capital Return in the year.
as well as working with our logistics Average cash balances for the first half of the partners to optimise the all-in cost to our year were c. 100m with average borrowings development sites.
The payment of the first Capital Return of surplus capital We are encouraged by the responsiveness of during the year reflects the capital discipline the Space4 factory to our higher build volumes which lies at the core of the Groups long and anticipate further increases in Space4 term strategy.
This discipline will continue to output to support the Groups growth over the prioritise a secure financial position for the coming years.
The Space4 facility currently Group, the appropriate level of reinvestment has capacity to produce c. 8,000 timber in the business to support future return frame kits annually, which offers significant generation, and superior cash returns to future potential.
The Group ended the year with 204m of cash balances.
Net finance costs, cash flow and funding Net finance cost for 2013 was 3.5m 2012: 1.0m as restated.
The increase of 2.5m year on year is primarily from the interest charge on the financial liability to the Groups pension scheme resulting from the asset backed funding transaction undertaken on 21 December 2012.
This charge totalled 2.9m for the year.
Restated for amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
