Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Financial statements 108 109 Financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows Consolidated statement of changes in equity Year ended Number of Polymetal Treasury Total 31 December International Stated Share-based shares Share equity Non- 31 December 2012 purchase Retained attributable controlling 1 shares capital compensation in JSC Translation 2013 restated outstanding account reserve Polymetal reserve obligation earnings to the parent interest Total equity Notes US$000 US$000 Notes Balance at Net cash generated by operating activities 36 461,667 540,840 1 January Cash flows from investing activities 2012 382,685,782 1,566,386 59,239 395 151,029 561,659 753,572 1,666,114 148,484 1,814,598 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 19 319,448 397,076 Total Consideration for acquisitions 4 11,934 20,797 comprehensive income 101,533 421,197 522,730 17,149 539,879 Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary 25,000 Amortisation Convertible loan repaid by advanced to Polygon Gold 21 10,000 10,000 of bonus Other investing activities 3,681 4,559 received from Interest received 1,965 5,686 depositary 1,258 1,258 1,258 Contingent consideration paid 30 1,329 1,227 Share based compensation 53,515 53,515 764 54,279 Net cash used in investing activities 324,427 402,973 Issue of shares Cash flows from financing activities in exchange for Borrowings obtained 26 3,099,855 1,236,036 assets 520,422 9,737 9,737 9,737 Repayments of borrowings 26 2,887,041 1,384,913 Dividends 267,880 267,880 267,880 MTO and squeeze-out obligation repayment 568,837 Acquisition of Dividends paid 17 316,429 76,537 non-controlling interest under Net cash used in financing activities 103,615 794,251 MTO and Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 33,625 656,384 Squeeze-out 6,537 395 3,765 561,659 398,429 166,397 166,397 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 25 18,622 658,795 Balance at Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 13,320 16,211 31 December 1 2012 restated 383,206,204 1,576,123 119,291 53,261 509,718 2,151,871 2,151,871 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 25 65,567 18,622 Total 1 Restated following adopting IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine.
Refer to Note 35. comprehensive income 153,575 198,037 351,612 351,612 Sales of property, plant and equipment in 2013 for consideration of US$11.3 million resulting in a loss on disposal Share based of US$9.0 million were on deferred payment terms with $nil cash received in the current year.
Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Financial statements 110 111 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General New and amended standards adopted by the entity Corporate information IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine Polymetal Group is a leading gold and silver mining group, operating in Russia and Kazakhstan.
In October 2011, the IASB issued IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine.
IFRIC 20 provides guidance on the accounting for the costs of stripping activities during the production phase of a mine.
When the benefit from Polymetal International plc the Company is the ultimate parent entity of Polymetal Group.
The Company was incorporated the stripping activity is the improved access to a component of the ore body in future periods, the stripping costs in excess on 29 July 2010 as a public limited company under Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Its shares are traded on the London of the average ore to waste ratio for the life of mine of that component are recognised as a non-current asset.
After initial and Moscow stock exchanges.
recognition, the stripping activity asset is depreciated on a systematic basis unit-of-production method over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body made accessible as a result of the stripping activity.
Significant subsidiaries At 31 December 2013, the Company held an effective 100% interest in JSC Polymetal, an entity incorporated in Russia.
The Group has adopted IFRIC 20 retrospectively according to the transitional provisions, and the 2012 results have been Through this subsidiary, the Company held the following significant mining and production subsidiaries: restated accordingly.
Prior to adoption of IFRIC 20, the Groups accounting policy was to expense all the production stripping costs as incurred therefore at 1 January 2012 there were no deferred stripping assets on the Groups balance sheet, and Effective interest held by JSC Polymetal, % no restatement was required at that date.
Country of 31 December 31 December Deposits incorporation 2013 2012 Name of subsidiary The adoption of IFRIC 20 has resulted in capitalisation of certain waste stripping costs within property, plant and equipment CJSC Gold of Northern Urals Vorontsovskoye Russia 100 100 and a reduction in cost of sales and metal inventories in the year ended 31 December 2012.
For further detail of the effect on the Group financial statements the year ended 31 December 2012 please refer to Note 35.
LLC Okhotskaya Mining and Exploration Company Khakandjinskoye Russia Yurievskoye Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Avlayakan The amendments to IAS 1 impact the Groups statement of comprehensive income by requiring the grouping of items Ozernoye 100 100 presented in other comprehensive income based on whether or not they will be reclassified to profit or loss in future.
CJSC Magadan Silver Dukat Russia Adoption of the amendment did not impact earnings per share.
Lunnoye Arylakh Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities The amendments to IFRS 7 require entities to disclose information about rights of offset and related agreements for financial Goltsovoye 100 100 instruments under an enforceable master netting agreement or similar arrangements.
Mayskoye Gold Mining Company LLC Mayskoye Russia 100 100 Omolon Gold Mining Company LLC Kubaka Russia IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Birkachan IFRS 13 establishes a single framework for measuring fair value when such measurements are required or permitted Tsokol by other standards.
The application of IFRS 13 has not materially affected the fair value measurements carried out by the Danleye Group.
IFRS 13 also requires specific disclosures on fair values, some of which replace existing disclosure requirements Sopka Kvartsevaya 100 100 in other standards, including IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The additional disclosure requirements are reflected within the relevant notes to the financial statements.
Albazino Resources Ltd Albazino Russia 100 100 Amursk Hydrometallurgical Plant LLC NA Russia 100 100 Changes in accounting estimates JSC Varvarinskoye Varvarinskoye Kazakhstan 100 100 From 1 January 2013, the Group began to use JORC as opposed to GKZ reserves as the basis for the unit-of-production depreciation calculations as management believes this revised basis better reflects the long-term mine plans which are Going concern also being prepared based on JORC reserves estimates.
The impact on the total depreciation charge for the year ended In assessing its going concern status, the Group has taken account of its financial position, anticipated future trading performance, 31 December 2013 was an increase of US$40 million.
its borrowings and other available credit facilities, and its forecast compliance with covenants on those borrowings and its capital expenditure commitments and plans.
As at 31 December 2013, the Group held US$66 million of cash and had net debt Standards and Interpretations in issue not yet adopted of US$1,045 million, with US$1,324 million of undrawn but committed facilities available subject to the Net debt Adjusted EBITDA The following new, amended or revised IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted are not expected covenant compliance.
to have a significant impact on the Group: The Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts and projections, having taken account of reasonably possible changes in trading IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements performance, show that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months that addresses accounting for consolidated financial statements and SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
from the date of this report and that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial IFRS 10 provides a single basis for consolidation with a new definition of control.
The standard applies to annual periods statements for the year ended 31 December 2013. beginning on or after 1 January 2014 for companies reporting under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Basis of presentation IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities Non-monetary The Groups annual consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 are prepared in accordance Contributions by Venturers.
Under IFRS 11 a joint arrangement is classified as either a joint operation or a joint venture, and with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have the option to proportionately consolidate joint ventures has been removed.
Interests in joint ventures must be equity accounted.
been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments and share-based payments which are This standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 for companies reporting under IFRS as adopted measured at fair value.
The accounting policies set out in Note 2 have been applied in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Financial statements 112 113 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
General continued Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition may include an asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities will accompany IFRS 10 and IFRS 11.
This standard combines the disclosure arrangement.
Contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration requirements previously covered by IAS 27, related to consolidated financial statements, IAS 31 Interest in Joint Ventures and transferred in a business combination.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition IAS 28 Investments in Associates, as well as including additional disclosure requirements.
This standard applies to annual retrospectively with the corresponding adjustment against goodwill where they qualify as measurement period adjustments.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 for companies reporting under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the measurement period about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The measurement period may not exceed one Amendments have been made to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and it has been reissued year from the effective date of the acquisition.
The subsequent accounting for contingent consideration that does not qualify as IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements.
The revised standard prescribes the accounting and disclosure requirements for as a measurement period adjustment is based on how the contingent consideration is classified.
Contingent consideration for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates when an entity prepares separate financial statements.
that is classified as equity is not subsequently remeasured.
Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or liability The accounting and disclosure requirements for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in consolidated is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent financial statements are prescribed by IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12.
The revised standard is to be applied for annual Assets or IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement with the corresponding amount being recognised periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 for companies reporting under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Amendments have been made to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and it has been reissued as IAS 28 Investments The identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: in Associates and Joint Ventures.
The revised standard prescribes the application of the equity method when accounting deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised for investments in associates and joint ventures.
The revised standard is to be applied for annual periods beginning and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits, respectively: on or after 1 January 2014 for companies reporting under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share-based payment arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments Presentation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment at the acquisition date: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale 2.
Significant accounting policies and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured The consolidated financial statements of the Group include the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiaries and, to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised if applicable, special purpose entities, from the date that control effectively commenced until the date that control effectively in the consolidated income statement.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have ceased.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity previously been recognised in equity are reclassified to profit or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated income Goodwill and goodwill impairment statement from the effective date of acquisition and up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the into line with those used by other members of the Group.
acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
All intra-group balances, transactions and any unrealised profits or losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated If the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, on consolidation.
the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
Changes to the Groups ownership interests that do not result in a loss of control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amount of the Groups interests and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the change Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cashand the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Parent.
generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on the disposal is calculated as the difference between the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other 1 the aggregated fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and 2 the previous assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and non-controlling interests.
for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
of the fair values of net assets recognised at acquisition.
Thereafter, a share of the profit or loss for the financial year and other movements in the net assets or liabilities of the subsidiary is attributed to the non-controlling interests as shown in the income Acquisition of mining licences statement and balance sheet.
The acquisition of mining licences is often effected through a non-operating corporate entity.
As these entities do not represent a business, it is considered that the transactions do not meet the definition of a business combination and, accordingly, Business combinations the transaction is accounted for as the acquisition of an asset.
The net assets acquired are accounted for at cost.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations applies to a transaction or other event that meets the definition of a business combination.
When acquiring new entities or assets, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the assets acquired and liabilities Investments in associates assumed constitute an integrated set of activities, whether the integrated set is capable of being conducted and managed An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint as a business by a market participant, and thus whether the transaction constitutes a business combination, using the guidance venture.
Significant influence constitutes the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee provided in the standard.
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for but does not extend to a control or joint control over the enactment of those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred of associates are incorporated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Transaction costs incurred in connection with the business combination are expensed.
Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Financial statements 114 115 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Exchange rates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements were as follows: Equity method of accounting 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Under the equity method, an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity investee is initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss and other Russian Rouble US Dollar comprehensive income of the investee.
When the Groups share of the losses of an associate exceeds the Groups interest Year end 32.73 30.37 in that entity, the Group ceases to recognise its share of further losses.
Additional losses are recognised only to the extent Average for the year 31.85 30.09 that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Kazakh Tenge US Dollar Year end 153.61 150.74 Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and Average for the year 152.14 149.11 contingent liabilities of an investee at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The Russian Rouble and Kazakh Tenge are not freely convertible currencies outside the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan and, accordingly, any translation of Russian Rouble and Kazakh Tenge denominated assets and liabilities into US Dollar for the The requirements of IAS 39 are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any impairment loss with respect purpose of the presentation of consolidated financial statements does not imply that the Group could or will in the future realise to the Groups investments.
Where an indicator of impairment exists or the carrying value of the asset contains goodwill with or settle in US Dollars the translated values of these assets and liabilities.
an indefinite useful life, the entire carrying amount of the investment including goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets IAS 36 as a single cash generating unit through the comparison of its recoverable amount Foreign currency transactions the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell with its carrying amount.
Any impairment loss recognised forms Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currencies foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rates part of the carrying amount of the investment.
Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with IAS 36. prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
All monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Non monetary items carried at historical cost are translated at the When a Group entity transacts with its investees, profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the investee are exchange rate prevailing on the date of transaction.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value are translated at the exchange recognised in the Groups consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the associate that are not related rate prevailing on the date on which the most recent fair value was determined.
Exchange differences arising from changes to the Group.
in exchange rates are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Functional and presentation currency Property, plant and equipment The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment Mining assets in which it operates.
For all Russian entities the functional currency is the Russian Rouble RUB, as well as for the investment Mining assets and leases include the cost of acquiring and developing mining assets and mineral rights.
Mining assets are holding companies, including Polymetal International plc.
The functional currency of the Groups entity located in Kazakhstan depreciated to their residual values using the unit-of-production method based on proven and probable ore reserves according JSC Varvarinskoye and operating with significant degree of autonomy is the Kazakh Tenge KZT.
to the JORC Code, which is the basis on which the Groups mine plans are prepared.
Changes in proven and probable reserves are dealt with prospectively.
Depreciation is charged on new mining ventures from the date that the mining asset is capable The Group has chosen to present its consolidated financial statements in US Dollars US$, as management believes of commercial production.
In respect of those mining assets whose useful lives are expected to be less than the life of the mine, it is a more convenient presentation currency for international users of the consolidated financial statements of the Group depreciation over the period of the assets useful life is applied.
as it is a common presentation currency in the mining industry.
The translation of the financial statements of the Group entities from their functional currencies to the presentation currency is performed as follows: Capital  assets are measured at cost less any recognised impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Mineral exploration and evaluation costs, including geophysical, topographical, all assets and liabilities are translated at closing exchange rates at each reporting period end date: geological and similar types of costs, are capitalised if management concludes that future economic benefits are likely all income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the periods presented, except for significant to be realised and determines that economically viable extraction operation can be established as a result of exploration transactions that are translated at rates on the date of such transactions: activities and internal assessment of mineral resources.
resulting exchange differences are included in equity and presented as movements relating to the effect of translation to the Groups presentation currency within the Translation reserve: and Non-mining assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
When parts in the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash balances at the beginning and end of each reporting period presented of an item of property, plant and equipment are considered to have different useful lives, they are accounted for and depreciated are translated using exchange rates prevalent at those respective dates.
All cash flows in the period are translated at the separately.
Depreciation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at least annually.
average exchange rates for the periods presented, except for significant transactions that are translated at rates on the date of transaction.
Estimated useful lives are as set out below: Machinery and equipment Up to 20 years On the disposal of a foreign operation i. e. a disposal of the Groups entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving Transportation and other assets Up to 10 years loss of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, a disposal involving loss of joint control over a jointly controlled entity that includes a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of significant influence over an associate that includes Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
a foreign operation, all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the owners of the Company are reclassified to profit or loss.
Gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the assets carrying amount at the date.
The gain or loss arising is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
In the case of a partial disposal that does not result in the Group losing control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are re-attributed to non-controlling interests and are not recognised Stripping costs in the consolidated income statement.
For all other partial disposals i. e. reductions in the Groups ownership interest in associates When it has been determined that a mining asset can be economically developed as a result of established proven and probable or jointly controlled entities that do not result in the Group losing significant influence or joint control, the proportionate share reserves, the costs to remove any overburden and other waste materials to initially expose the ore body, referred to as stripping of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to the consolidated income statement.
costs, are capitalised as a part of mining assets.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets and liabilities acquired arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation During the production phase of a mine when the benefit from the stripping activity is the improved access to a component are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of each of the ore body in future periods, the stripping costs in excess of the average ore to waste ratio for the life of mine of that reporting period.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in equity.
component are recognised as a non-current asset.
After initial recognition, the stripping activity asset is depreciated on a systematic basis unit-of-production method over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body made accessible as a result of the stripping activity.
Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Financial statements 116 117 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Financial instruments Estimated ore reserves Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions Estimated proven and probable ore reserves reflect the economically recoverable quantities which can be legally of the instrument.
recovered in the future from known mineral deposits.
The Groups reserves are estimated in accordance with JORC Code.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable Leases to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value Finance leases through profit or loss are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, Leases under which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair Assets subject to finance leases are capitalised as property, plant and equipment at the lower of fair value or present value value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
of future minimum lease payments at the date of acquisition, with the related lease obligation recognised at the same value.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their estimated economic useful lives or over the term of the lease, Financial Instruments Designated as Fair Value Through Profit and Loss FVTPL if shorter.
If there is reasonable certainty that the lessee will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the period A financial instrument other than a financial instrument held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: of expected use is useful life of the asset.
such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or Finance lease payments are calculated using the effective interest rate method, and allocated between the lease finance cost, the financial instrument forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its which is included in finance cost, and the capital repayment, which reduces the related lease liability payable to the lessor.
performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis: or Operating leases it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Financial instruments at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit Impairment of property, plant and equipment or loss.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 30.
An impairment review of property, plant and equipment is carried out when there is an indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the carrying amount of the asset is compared to the estimated recoverable Effective interest rate method amount of the asset in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where it is not possible to estimate the The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial instrument and of allocating interest recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which income or expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash receipts the asset belongs.
or payments including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Financial assets If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying Non-derivative financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: FVTPL, available for sale AFS financial amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised assets and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and as an expense immediately in the consolidated income statement.
is determined at the time of initial recognition.
No financial instruments have been classified as available for sale.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for financial instruments other than those financial assets classified to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed as at FVTPL.
the original carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods.
Loans and receivables A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement immediately.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
Inventories Interest income is determined by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition Metal inventories of interest would be immaterial.
Inventories including refined metals, metals in concentrate and in process, dor and ore stock piles are stated at the lower of production cost or net realisable value.
Production cost is determined as the sum of the applicable expenditures and AFS financial assets expenses incurred directly or indirectly in bringing inventories to their existing condition and location.
Refined metals are valued Investments other than those classified as held for trading, held-to-maturity or loans and receivables are classified as available at the average total cost of production per saleable unit of metal.
Work in-process, metal concentrate and dor are valued for sale financial assets.
These assets are subsequently measured at fair value and unrealised gains and losses are recognised at the average total production costs at each assets relevant stage of production.
Ore stock piles are valued at the average in equity until the investment is disposed or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity cost of mining that ore. Where ore stock piles are not expected to be processed within 12 months, those inventories are is included in the consolidated income statement.
Impairment of financial assets Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for that product based on prevailing spot metal prices, less estimated Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period.
costs to complete production and selling costs.
Financial assets are considered to be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
Consumables and spare parts For equity investments classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost Consumables and spare parts are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the weighted average is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
The portion of consumables and spare parts not reasonably expected to be used within one year is classified as a long-term asset in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include: less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation: or the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties.
Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Financial statements 118 119 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognised is the difference between the at the reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
Environmental obligations The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable by the development or ongoing production of mining assets.
Such costs arising from the decommissioning of plant and other is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written site preparation work, discounted to their net present value using a risk-free rate applicable to the future cash flows, are provided off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the for and capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are recognised consolidated income statement.
in the consolidated income statement over the life of the operation, through the depreciation of the asset in the cost of sales line and the unwinding of the discount on the provision in the finance costs line.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage For financial assets measured at amortised cost, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and which is created on an ongoing basis during production are provided for at their net present values and recognised in the the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised consolidated income statement as extraction progresses.
impairment loss is reversed through the consolidated income statement to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work that result from not been recognised.
changes in the estimated timing or amount of the cash flow or a change in the discount rate, are added to or deducted from the cost of the related asset in the current period.
If a decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess Derecognition of financial assets is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group The provision for closure cost obligations is remeasured at the end of each reporting period for changes in estimates and neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, circumstances.
Changes in estimates and circumstances include changes in legal or regulatory requirements, increased the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group obligations arising from additional mining and exploration activities, changes to cost estimates and changes to the risk free retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise interest rate.
the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Employee benefit obligations Financial liabilities Remuneration paid to employees in respect of services rendered during a reporting period is recognised as an expense in that Other financial liabilities reporting period.
The Group pays mandatory contributions to the state social funds, including the Pension Fund of the Russian Other financial liabilities including borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest Federation and Kazakhstan, which are expensed as incurred.
Taxation Derecognition of financial liabilities Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Income taxes are computed The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they in accordance with the laws of countries where the Group operates.
The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Current tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated Derivative financial instruments income statement because of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods The Group may enter into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to certain risks.
Further details and items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 30. been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the derivative contracts are entered into and are subsequently Deferred tax remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated income statement immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are timing of the recognition in the consolidated income statement depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics temporary differences can be utilised.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the hybrid contracts are not measured at FVTPL.
arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
to reverse in the foreseeable future.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, cash deposits and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability months or fewer, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow Provisions from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable of its assets and liabilities.
that the Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Financial statements 120 121 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations see below, that management has current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
recognised in consolidated financial statements.
Current and deferred tax Production start date Current and deferred tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, except when they relate to items that are The Group assesses the stage of each mine or plant construction project to determine when an asset moves into the recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred commercial production stage.
The criteria used to assess the start date are determined by the unique nature of each tax also recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
Where current construction project and include factors such as the complexity of a plant and its location.
tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.
The Group considers various relevant criteria to assess when the mine is substantially complete and ready for its intended use and moves into the production stage.
Criteria considered but are not limited to the following: Revenue recognition the level of capital expenditure incurred compared to the construction cost estimates: Revenue is derived principally from the sale of gold and silver bullions and copper, gold and silver concentrate and is measured the completion of a sufficient level of testing on the mine plant and equipment: at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts.
the ability to produce gold, silver or copper in saleable form within specifications : and Revenue from the sale of gold and silver bullion and sale of copper, gold and silver concentrate is recognised when the risks and the ability to sustain ongoing commercial levels of production.
rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer, the Group retains neither a continuing degree of involvement nor control over the goods sold, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with When a construction project moves into the commercial production stage and depreciation commences, the capitalisation the transaction will flow to the Group.
Revenue from the sale of gold and silver bullion represents the invoiced value of metal of certain mine construction costs and interest ceases and costs are either regarded as inventory or expensed, except shipped to the buyer, net of value added tax VAT.
for capitalisable costs related to mining asset additions or improvements, underground mine development or ore reserve development.
Sale of gold and silver bullion The Group processes dor produced in the Russian Federation at Dukat, Khakanja, Voro, Omolon, and Amursk-Albazino The Omolon Merrill-Crowe plant achieved commercial production in April 2012. into London Good Delivery Bars prior to sale.
This final stage of processing is carried out on a toll-treatment basis at four state-owned refineries.
The Group sells gold and silver bullion to banks through long-term agreements.
The sales price, Amursk POX achieved commercial production in November 2012. as determined in the agreement, may be variable based upon the London Bullion Market Association LBMA spot price or fixed.
But the Groups policy is not to enter into fixed price contracts.
For domestic sales, title passes from the Group to the The Mayskoye plant and underground mine reached commercial production in April 2013. purchaser at the refinery gate with revenue recognised at that point.
For export sales, once the gold and or silver bars have been approved for export by Russian customs, they are then transported to the vault of the purchaser, which is typically located Acquisitions in London.
Title passes and revenue is recognised at the point when the gold and or silver bars are received by the purchaser.
When acquiring new entities or assets, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the assets acquired and liabilities Sales of copper, gold and silver concentrate assumed constitute an integrated set of activities and thus whether the transaction constitutes a business combination, The Group sells copper, gold and silver concentrate under pricing arrangements where final prices are determined by quoted using the guidance provided in the standard.
In making this determination, management evaluates the inputs, processes market prices in a period subsequent to the date of sale.
Concentrate sales are initially recorded based on forward prices and outputs of the asset or entity acquired.
for the expected date of final settlement.
Revenue is recorded at the time of shipment, which is also when risks and rewards pass to the buyer.
Revenue is calculated based on the copper, gold and silver content in the concentrate and using the forward As a result of this evaluation process, management has determined that its 2012 acquisitions of Olcha, Semchenskoye and London Bullion Market Association LMBA or London Metal Exchange LME price to the estimated final pricing date, adjusted Svetlobor did not meet the definition of a business combination and as such the Group has accounted for these transactions for the specific terms of the relevant agreement.
Until final settlement occurs, adjustments to revenue are made to take into as asset acquisitions see Note 4. account the changes in metal quantities upon receipt of new information and assay.
Revenue is presented net of refining and treatment charges which are subtracted in calculating the amount to be invoiced Key sources of estimation uncertainty Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make estimates and The Groups sales of copper, gold and silver concentrate are based on a provisional price and as such, contain an embedded assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the derivative that is required to be separated from the host contract for accounting purposes.
The host contract is the receivable date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
from the sale of the concentrate at the forward exchange price at the time of sale.
The embedded derivative, which does not The determination of estimates requires judgements which are based on historical experience, current and expected economic qualify for hedge accounting, is measured at FVTPL with changes in its fair value recognised within revenue in the consolidated conditions, and all other available information.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
income statement for each period prior to the final settlement.
The following are the key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end Share-based compensation of the reporting period that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and The Group applies IFRS 2 Share-based Payments to its accounting for share-based compensation.
IFRS 2 requires companies liabilities within the next financial period.
to recognise compensation costs for share-based payments to employees based on the grant-date fair value of the award.
The most significant areas requiring the use of management estimates and assumptions relate to: The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments awarded in 2010 was calculated by the Group at the grant date using fair value of net assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations: the two-stage Monte-Carlo simulation model.
The expense is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period ore reserve estimates: of the awards.
No other share based payment awards were issued by the Group during the year ended 31 December 2013. depreciation: The fair value of the awards granted is recognised as a general, administrative and selling expense over the vesting period with impairment of goodwill, mining assets and other property, plant and equipment: a corresponding increase in the share-based compensation reserve.
Upon the exercise of the awards, the proceeds received, stock piles and work in-process: net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to the stated capital account, and the amounts recognised within share-based compensation: the share-based compensation reserve transferred to retained earnings.
environmental obligations: Earnings per share contingencies: and Earnings per share calculations are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated using the treasury stock method, whereby the proceeds from the potential exercise of dilutive stock options with exercise prices that are below the average market price of the underlying shares are assumed to be used in purchasing the Companys common shares at their average market price for the period.
Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Financial statements 122 123 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued properties, costs to sell the mining properties and the appropriate post-tax discount rate.
Reductions in metal price forecasts, Fair value of net assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations increases in estimated future costs of production, increases in estimated future capital costs, reductions in the amount In accordance with the Groups policy, the Group allocates the cost of the acquired entity to the assets acquired and liabilities of recoverable reserves and resources and or adverse current economics can result in a write-down of the carrying amounts assumed based on their fair values as estimated on the date of acquisition.
Any difference between the cost of the acquired of the Groups goodwill, mining assets or other property, plant and equipment.
entity and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill.
The Group exercises significant judgement in the process of identifying tangible and intangible assets and liabilities, valuing these assets and liabilities, and In making the assessment for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash inflows are allocated to an appropriate estimating their remaining useful lives.
The valuation of these assets and liabilities is based on assumptions and criteria that, cash-generating unit.
Management necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets that do not generate independent in some cases, include managements estimates of discounted future cash flows.
cash inflows to appropriate cash-generating units, and also in estimating the timing and value of underlying cash flows within the value-in-use calculation.
Subsequent changes to the cash-generating unit allocation or to the timing of cash flows could If actual results are not consistent with estimates and assumptions considered, the Group may have to adjust its estimates of the impact the carrying value of the respective assets.
fair values of assets and liabilities recognised and the goodwill balance during the measurement period.
Such a remeasurement could have an impact on the amounts reported in the consolidated income statement in current and future periods.
Stock piles and work in-process In determining mine operating costs recognised in the consolidated income statement, the Groups management makes Ore reserve estimates estimates of quantities of ore stacked on leach pads and in process and the recoverable gold and silver in this material An ore reserve estimate is an estimate of the amount of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the Groups to determine the average costs of finished goods sold during the period.
Changes in these estimates can result in a change properties.
Ore reserve estimates are used by the Group in the calculation of: depletion of mining assets using the units-ofin mine operating costs of future periods and carrying amounts of inventories.
At 31 December 2013 the carrying value production method: impairment charges and in forecasting the timing of the payment of decommissioning and land restoration of the ore stock piles was US$194 million and work in-process was US$78 million.
Also, for the purpose of impairment review and the assessment of the timing of the payment of decommissioning and land restoration costs, management may take into account mineral resources in addition to ore reserves where there is a high degree Share-based compensation of confidence that such resources will be extracted.
In November 2010, the Group issued equity-settled share appreciation rights to certain employees.
Equity-settled share appreciation rights are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
In order to calculate ore reserves, estimates and assumptions are required about geological, technical and economic factors, The fair value determined at the grant date of the awards is expensed as services are rendered over the vesting period, based including quantities, grades, production techniques, recovery rates, production costs, transport costs, commodity demand, on the Groups estimate of the rights that will eventually vest.
commodity prices, discount rates and exchange rates.
Estimating the quantity and or grade of ore reserves requires the size, shape and depth of ore bodies to be determined by analysing geological data such as the logging and assaying of drill samples.
The fair value of share-based compensation was measured using the Monte-Carlo two-stage simulation model.
The expected This process may require complex and difficult geological judgements and calculations to interpret the data.
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioral considerations.
The awards include an option, exercisable at the discretion of the participant, Ore reserve estimates may change from period to period as additional geological data becomes available during the course to defer the measurement period by one year from June 2013 to June 2014.
For further details see Note 33. of operations or if there are changes in any of the aforementioned assumptions.
Such changes in estimated reserves may affect the Groups financial results and financial position in a number of ways, including the following: As at 31 December 2013, all options issued are fully vested and no unrecognised share-based compensation expense remains.
No other share based payment awards were issued by the Group during the year ended 31 December 2013. asset carrying values due to changes in estimated future cash flows: depletion charged in the consolidated income statement where such charges are determined by using the Environmental obligations units-of-production method: The Groups mining and exploration activities are subject to various laws and regulations governing the protection of the provisions for decommissioning and land restoration costs where changes in estimated reserves affect expectations environment.
The Groups provision for future decommissioning and land restoration cost represents managements best about the timing of the payment of such costs: and estimate of the present value of the future cash outflows required to settle the liability which reflects estimates of future costs, inflation, movements in foreign exchange rates and assumptions of risks associated with the future cash outflows: and the carrying value of deferred tax assets and liabilities where changes in estimated reserves affect the carrying value of the relevant assets and liabilities.
applicable interest rate for discounting the future cash outflows.
Actual costs incurred in future periods could differ materially from the estimates.
Additionally, future changes to environmental laws and regulations, life of mine estimates and discount Depreciation rates could affect the carrying amount of this provision.
Mining assets are depreciated using the units-of-production method except where the useful lives of the assets are shorter than the life of mine.
The units-of-production depreciation calculations are based on proved and probable reserves under Contingencies By their nature, contingencies will only be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment the JORC Code JORC, which is the basis on which the Groups mine plans are prepared as the useful lives of these assets are considered to be limited to the life of the relevant mine.
For other property, plant and equipment, the straight-line method of such contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgements and estimates of the outcome of future events.
is applied over the estimated useful life of the asset which does not exceed the estimated mine life.
Income Taxes and Mining Taxes The Group is subject to income tax and mining taxes in the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan.
Mining taxes do not meet The calculation of the units-of-production rate of depreciation could be impacted to the extent that actual production in the future is different from current forecast production based on proved and probable ore reserves.
This would generally the definition of a tax under IAS 12 Income taxes.
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for these taxes due to the complexity of legislation.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination arise when there are significant changes in any of the factors or assumptions used in estimating ore reserves.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes, penalties and interest will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially Impairment of goodwill, mining assets and other property, plant and equipment The Group considers both external and internal sources of information in assessing whether there are any indications that recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
goodwill, mining assets or other property, plant and equipment owned by the Group are impaired.
External sources of information the Group considers include: changes in the market and economic and legal environment in which the Group Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient operates, that are not within its control and that affect the recoverable amount of goodwill, mining assets or other property, taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
The estimation of that probability includes plant and equipment.
judgements based on the expected performance.
Various factors are considered in order to assess the probability of the future utilisation of deferred tax assets, including past operating results, operational plan, expiration of tax losses carried forward, Internal sources of information the Group considers include the manner in which mining properties, plant and equipment are and tax planning strategies.
If actual results differ from these estimates or if these estimates must be adjusted in future periods, being used or expected to be used and indications of economic performance of the assets.
In determining the recoverable the financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected.
amounts of the Groups mining assets and other property, plant and equipment, the Groups management determines the fair value less costs to sell by estimating the discounted future after-tax cash flows expected to be derived from the Groups mining Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Financial statements 124 125 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Acquisitions and disposals Svetlobor a Business combinations and asset acquisitions On 17 December 2012, the Group acquired 24.99% interest in JSC Nevyansk Group NG, a Russian legal entity whose Olymp Ltd. wholly-owned subsidiary holds a mining and exploration licence for the Svetlobor area.
The Group issued consideration On 24 January 2013 the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of Olymp Ltd. a Russian legal entity holding the mining in the form of 130,053 new ordinary shares in the Company.
Simultaneously, CJSC VTB Capital VTB purchased a 75.01% and exploration licence for the Olcha gold-silver deposit in exchange for 775,000 new ordinary shares in Polymetal.
stake in NG in exchange for 390,369 new Polymetal ordinary shares, which were subscribed for by a subsidiary of VTB for a total cash consideration of US$6.9 million.
Olymp Ltd. does not meet the definition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 2008 thus it is accounted for as an acquisition of a group of assets.
The Group purchased mineral rights at cost of US$13.4 million and other current liabilities of $ 0.01 million.
The Group also entered into legally binding agreement to acquire the 75.01% stake in NG from VTB, as soon as this transaction is approved by the Government Commission on Monitoring of Foreign Investments, for cash consideration of US$6.9 million, ZAO Maminskaya Gornorudnaya kompania plus any interest accrued on this amount at a rate of 7.25% per annum.
On 20 February 2013 the Group entered into a binding memorandum of understanding with Vitalex Investments Ltd and Arrowline Investments Ltd to acquire a 100% interest in ZAO Maminskaya Gornorudnaya kompania MGK, which holds The Group determined 17 December 2012 to be the date when it obtained control over NG, and consolidated the acquiree from an exploration and mining licence for the Maminskoye gold mining field Maminskoye.
The cash received from VTB has been accounted for as a loan and included within borrowings Note 26.
NG does not meet the definition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 2008 and this transaction has been treated as an acquisition of assets.
On 9 April 2013 the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the ordinary share capital and debt in MGK.
The consideration The allocation of the consideration paid to the assets acquired was as follows: for the equity investment was US$3.9 million payable in cash and 5,491,661 of Polymetals ordinary shares valued at the US$000 acquisition date at US$74.6 million.
The debt investment in MGK was acquired for consideration payable in cash and equalling Net assets acquired its carrying value of US$8.0 million.
Mineral rights 9,449 Other assets 299 MGK meets the definition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 2008 thus it was accounted for at fair value using the Other liabilities 11 acquisition method.
Net assets acquired 9,737 The allocation of the purchase price based on the consideration paid and the fair value of the assets acquired was as follows: Consideration: US$000 Fair value of shares issued 9,737 Net assets acquired Mineral rights 115,127 b Disposal of subsidiary Habarovsk Exploration Company LLC Property, plant and equipment 2,952 On 22 October 2013 the Group sold its subsidiary Habarovsk Exploration Company LLC for US$3.5 million in deferred cash Non-current liabilities 9,896 consideration to an unrelated party.
The loss on disposal was calculated as follows: Deferred tax liability 23,025 US$000 Other assets, net 1,400 Property, plant and equipment 7,124 Net assets acquired 86,558 Other non-current assets 1,395 Consideration: Current assets 4,374 Fair value of shares issued in Polymetal International plc 74,624 Current liabilities 598 Cash consideration for equity investment 3,900 Non-current liabilities 10,121 Cash consideration for debt investment 8,034 Net assets disposed of 2,174 Total consideration 86,558 Consideration receivable 3,475 Intercompany debt assigned to acquirer 10,047 In the prior year, the following transactions took place: Loss on disposal 8,746 Veduga On 7 February 2012 the Group completed the acquisition from AngloGold Ashanti Holdings PLC AngloGold of AngloGolds In the prior year, the Group disposed of the following minor subsidiaries: Uralskoye GRP LLC, Severno-Uralskoye GRP LLC 50% interest in various companies held in joint venture with Polymetal comprising the AngloGold Ashanti Polymetal Strategic and JSC Aurum.
For further information on the partial disposal of Amikan Holding Limited, which owns the Veduga gold Alliance for US$20 million.
It subsequently entered into a series of transactions with new investors unrelated parties, retaining deposits, see Note 21. a 42.65% economic interest in the principal asset the Veduga licence.
See Note 21 for further information.
SevernoUralskoye Uralskoye Aurum Amikan Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Semchenskoye Zoloto On 22 August 2012 the Group acquired 100% interest in Semchenskoye Zoloto LLC Semchenskoye Zoloto from Suntsov V. A.
Net assets disposed of: 25% interest and Polister Limited 75% interest, both unrelated parties.
Semchenskoye Zoloto holds the exploration licence Property, plant and equipment 295 2,749 127 67,842 71,013 for Semchenskoye field in Karelia.
The Group paid cash consideration of US$0.8 million: in addition, a contingent consideration Other non-current assets 1,388 2,317 3,577 7,282 of US$0.5 million is payable by the Group in case the exploration of the licence area proves to be successful and the mining Current assets 1,848 1,688 230 3,766 licence for the new gold deposit is received before 25 December 2014.
Another US$1.2 million is payable depending on the level Current liabilities 549 17 1,278 1,844 of proved and probable ore reserves of the new deposit.
Non-current liabilities 3,572 17,995 21,567 2,982 848 1,166 53,654 58,650 After evaluation of the possible outcome of the contingency, the Group estimated fair value of the contingent consideration to be US$0.1 million.
Consideration receivable 1,593 1,475 3 28,000 31,071 Fair value of interest in associate undertaking acquired 20,201 20,201 Semchenskoye Zoloto does not meet the definition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 2008, thus it was accounted Intercompany debt assigned to acquirer 3,331 3,331 for as an acquisition of a group of assets.
The Group purchased mineral rights of US$0.8 million and other current liabilities Loss Gain on disposal 1,389 627 1,163 8,784 10,709 of US$0.024 million.
Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Financial statements 126 127 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Segment information The segment Adjusted EBITDA reconciles to the profit before income tax as follows: The Group has seven reportable segments: Intersegment Total Corporate operations Voro CJSC Gold of Northern Urals : Amursk reportable and and For the year ended Voro Khakanja Dukat Omolon Varvara Albazino Mayskoye segments other balances Total 31 December 2013 $000 Khakanja LLC Okhotskaya Mining and Exploration Company : Revenue from external customers 214,712 202,641 531,587 222,795 189,527 293,778 49,547 1,704,587 2,010 1,706,597 Dukat CJSC Magadan Silver: Olymp LLC : Intersegment revenue 1,298 760 605 2,663 411,786 414,449 Omolon Omolon Gold Mining Company LLC : Cost of sales, excluding depreciation, depletion and Varvara JSC Varvarinskoye : write-down of inventory to net realisable value 69,174 102,168 270,576 134,967 106,748 172,194 40,612 896,789 298,092 316,984 877,897 Amursk-Albazino Albazino Resources Ltd, Amursk Hydrometallurgical Plant LLC : and Cost of sales 86,437 126,345 330,341 188,623 123,465 231,933 56,409 1,143,553 297,227 316,984 1,123,796 Mayskoye Mayskoye Gold Mining Company LLC.
Depreciation included in Cost of sales 16,990 23,627 60,666 43,154 16,392 59,673 13,177 233,679 233,679 Write-down of non-metal Reportable segments are determined based on the Groups internal management reports and are separated based on the inventory to net realisable value 166 435 1,847 10,005 325 117 2,594 11,561 865 10,696 Groups geographical structure.
Minor companies and activities management, exploration, purchasing and other companies Rehabilitation expenses 107 115 596 497 183 26 1,524 1,524 which do not meet the reportable segment criteria are disclosed within corporate and other segment.
Each segment is engaged General, administrative and selling expenses, excluding depreciation, in gold, silver or copper mining and related activities, including exploration, extraction, processing and reclamation.
The Groups amortization and share based segments are all based in the Russian Federation, except for Varvara which is based in Kazakhstan.
compensation 8,086 9,459 13,469 11,495 5,074 9,536 10,255 67,374 99,476 26,805 140,045 General, administrative and selling expenses 19,776 16,497 24,976 17,876 5,555 12,630 12,362 109,672 127,384 68,924 168,132 The measure which management and the Chief Operating Decision Maker the CODM use to evaluate the performance of the Group is segment Adjusted EBITDA, which is defined as profit for the period adjusted for depreciation and amortization, Intercompany management services 10,780 6,799 10,737 6,232 302 2,927 1,882 39,659 2,460 42,119 impairment of non-current assets, write-downs of inventory to net realisable value, share-based compensation expenses, Depreciation included in SGA 910 239 770 149 179 167 225 2,639 1,215 3,854 rehabilitation expenses, gains or losses arising on acquisition or disposal of subsidiaries, foreign exchange gains or losses, Share based compensation 24,233 24,233 changes in the fair value of contingent consideration, finance income, finance costs, income tax expenses and other tax Other operating expenses excluding additional tax charges 7,325 6,056 18,221 14,334 4,368 9,342 2,971 62,617 19,630 5,577 87,824 exposure accrued within other operating expenses.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are consistent Other operating expenses 7,325 6,056 18,622 14,334 4,629 9,342 2,971 63,279 19,630 5,577 88,486 with those of the Groups accounting policies under IFRS as described in Note 2.
Mining taxes, penalties and accrued interest 401 261 662 662 Revenue shown as corporate and other comprises, principally, intersegment revenue relating to the supply of inventories, Share of loss of associates spare parts and fixed assets, and rendering management services to the Groups production entities.
Intersegment revenue and joint ventures 2,340 2,340 is recognised based on costs incurred plus a fixed margin basis.
External revenue shown within corporate and other represents Adjusted EBITDA 130,127 84,958 228,971 63,297 74,097 103,311 4,291 680,470 5,742 76,237 598,491 revenue from services provided to third parties by the Groups non-mining subsidiaries.
Depreciation expense 17,900 23,866 61,436 43,303 16,571 59,840 13,402 236,318 1,215 237,533 Rehabilitation expenses 107 115 596 497 183 26 1,524 1,524 Business segment current assets and liabilities, other than current inventory, are not reviewed by the CODM and therefore Write-down of non-metal inventory to net realisable value 166 435 1,847 10,005 325 117 2,594 11,561 865 10,696 are not disclosed in these consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Revenue analysed by geographical regions of customers is presented below: Intersegment Total operations Year ended Amursk reportable Corporate and For the year ended Voro Khakanja Dukat Omolon Varvara Albazino Mayskoye segments and other balances Total 31 December 2012 $000 restated 31 December 31 December Revenue from external customers 268,427 302,482 672,881 295,748 215,241 99,182 1,853,961 104 1,854,065 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Intersegment revenue 183 674 9,730 10,587 480,432 491,019 Sales within the Russian Federation 1,060,935 1,055,569 Cost of sales, excluding depreciation, depletion and Sales to Kazakhstan 170,178 396,543 write-down of inventory to net realisable value 72,346 101,595 262,198 150,294 103,533 51,240 1 741,207 366,971 399,281 708,897 Sales to Europe 151,970 219,546 Cost of sales 90,417 131,963 294,120 187,494 117,147 66,370 3,362 884,149 366,971 399,281 851,839 Sales to China 165,368 178,059 Depreciation included in Cost of sales 17,673 29,486 31,698 31,008 13,883 14,041 137,789 137,789 Sales to Korea 90,512 1,429 Write-down of non-metal inventory to Sales to Japan 65,183 1,066 net realisable value 4 71 5,836 269 206 3,363 2,343 2,343 Rehabilitation expenses 398 878 295 356 883 2,810 2,810 Total metal sales 1,704,146 1,852,212 General, administrative and selling Other sales 2,451 1,853 expenses, excluding depreciation, Total 1,706,597 1,854,065 amortization and share based compensation 7,823 8,833 12,487 9,279 4,329 10,297 8,779 61,827 99,428 38,323 122,932 General, administrative and selling Metal sales to related parties sales to Nomos-Bank are disclosed in Note 34. expenses 20,085 15,842 23,197 15,581 5,342 11,669 9,088 100,804 157,389 76,545 181,648 Intercompany management services 10,322 6,545 10,211 6,219 858 1,161 147 35,463 2,759 38,222 Included in revenues for the year ended 31 December 2013 are revenues which arose from sales to three of the Groups Depreciation included in SGA 1,940 464 499 83 155 211 162 3,514 923 4,437 largest customers amounting to US$391 million, US$273 million and US$175 million, respectively 2012: US$357 million, Share based compensation 54,279 54,279 US$340 million and US$234 million, respectively.
No other customers individually account for more than 10% of the Other operating expenses excl additional tax charges 6,358 14,535 20,038 7,335 6,471 11,946 2,868 69,551 17,659 734 87,944 Groups revenues.
Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Financial statements 130 131 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Cost of sales excluding write-downs of metal inventories to net realisable value continued 12.
Other expenses Mining tax is a royalty payable in Russian Federation and Kazakhstan which is calculated based on the value of the precious Year ended metals extracted in the period.
This value is usually determined based on the realised selling price of precious metals or, in case 31 December 31 December if there were no sales during the period, cost of sales of metals extracted Russian Federation or the average market price 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Kazakhstan during the period.
Mining taxes, penalties and accrued interest Note 16 662 65,911 Mining tax in respect of the metal inventories produced during the year is recognised within cost of sales, while the additional Exploration expenses 24,144 32,908 mining tax accruals in respect of various disputes with tax authorities are recognised within other expenses see Note 12.
On-mine costs Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 9,503 9,325 Year ended Housing and communal services 6,547 7,860 31 December Bad debt allowance 1,089 267 31 December 2012 2013 restated Other expenses 14,668 12,835 US$000 US$000 Total 88,486 153,855 Consumables and spare parts 114,679 121,366 Services 165,936 146,876 Mining taxes, penalties and accrued interest have been accrued in respect of various disputes with the Russian and Kazakh Labour 109,475 90,760 tax authorities.
The background to these cases and their impact on the results of the Group has been set out in more detail Taxes, other than income tax 609 1,115 within Note 16.
Employee costs The weighted average number of employees during the year ended 31 December 2013 was: Year ended 9.
Depletion and depreciation of operating assets Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 31 December 2012 2013 restated 2013 restated US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 On-mine 159,218 117,504 Wages and salaries 281,316 252,152 Smelting 86,265 60,913 Social security costs 64,557 53,963 Total Note 7 245,483 178,417 Share based payments expense 24,233 54,279 Total payroll costs 370,106 360,394 Depreciation on operating assets excludes depreciation relating to non-operating assets included in general, administrative Reconciliation: and selling expenses and depreciation related to assets employed in development projects where the charge is capitalised.
Less: employee costs capitalised 52,003 53,831 Depreciation expense, which is excluded from the Groups calculation of Adjusted EBITDA see Note 5, also excludes amounts Less: employee costs absorbed into unsold metal inventory balances 13,815 23,176 absorbed into unsold metal inventory balances.
Employee costs included in operating costs 304,288 283,387 11.
General, administrative and selling expenses Year ended Compensation for key management personnel is disclosed within Note 34.
31 December 31 December 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 Labour 106,952 92,429 Services 18,739 18,430 Share-based compensation 24,233 54,279 Depreciation 3,854 4,437 Other 14,354 12,073 Total 168,132 181,648 Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Financial statements 132 133 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Auditors remuneration The actual tax expense differs from the amount which would have been determined by applying the statutory rate of 20% Year ended for the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan to profit before income tax as a result of the application of relevant jurisdictional tax 31 December 31 December regulations, which disallow certain deductions which are included in the determination of accounting profit.
These deductions 2013 2012 include share-based payment expenses, social related expenditures and other non-production costs, certain general and US$000 US$000 administrative expenses, financing expenses, foreign exchange related and other costs.
Fees payable to the auditor and their associates for the audit of the Companys Annual Report United Kingdom 353 254 In the normal course of business, the Group is subject to examination by tax authorities throughout the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan.
Out of the large operating companies of the Group, tax authorities have audited CJSC Gold of Northern Urals Overseas 595 588 up to 2011, Omolon Gold Mining Company LLC, LLC Okhotskaya Mining and Exploration Company CJSC and Mayskoye Gold Total audit fees 948 842 Mining Company LLC up to 2010, CJSC Magadan Silver for the period up to 2009, JSC Varvarinskoye for the period up to 2010.
Audit-related assurance services half year review 527 355 According to Russian and Kazakhstan tax legislation, previously conducted audits do not fully exclude subsequent claims Total audit and half-year review fees 1,475 1,197 relating to the audited period.
Taxation compliance services i. e. related to assistance with corporate tax returns 16 99 Capital project consulting services 394 Income tax and other expenses arising in respect of lost litigation Other non-audit services 10 10 At 31 December 2012 During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group provided for certain expenses and tax exposures in respect Total non-audit services excluding half-year review 420 109 of lost litigation.
Total fees 1,895 1,306 The additional income tax charges incurred in respect of litigations during the year ended 31 December 2012 total 15.
Finance costs US$27.5 million and comprised US$14.5 million paid out in respect of a case concerning Magadan Silver sales to ABN AMRO Year ended in 2007 and US$13.0 million in respect of cases relating to the deductibility of transportation and processing expenses and 31 December 31 December of foreign exchange losses in Varvara.
Including US$5.1 million of additional income tax exposures provided for and 2013 2012 US$17.1 million excess profit tax in Kazakhstan recognised for the first time in 2012, a total additional income tax US$000 US$000 expense of US$49.6 million was recognised in the year ended 31 December 2012.
Interest expense on borrowings 29,972 18,523 Unwinding discount on borrowings 9,070 4,643 The Group also recognised mining taxes, interest and penalties totalling US$65.9 million which were recognised within Unwinding of discount on environmental obligations 3,693 3,621 Other Operating Expenses see Note 12.
These expenses comprised US$15.0 million paid out in respect of the Magadan Total 42,735 26,787 Silver ABN AMRO case, US$9.2 million provided for in respect of the Magadan Silver Mineral Extraction Tax case, US$10.1 million paid out in respect of Varvara litigation and US$31.6 million in respect of other exposures.
Interest expense on borrowings excludes borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets of US$6,1 million At 31 December 2013 and US$14.7 million during the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012, respectively.
These amounts were calculated During the year ended 31 December 2013 the Group paid US$8.3 million of mining taxes, interest and penalties in respect based on the Groups general borrowing pool and by applying an effective interest rate of 2.99% and 3.06%, respectively, of the Magadan Silver Mineral Extraction Tax case, US$17.1 million of Varvara Excess Profits Tax provided for in 2012 and to cumulative expenditure on such assets.
US$7.3 million of various Varvara exposures.
Income tax In respect of the year ended 31 December 2013, no additional significant income tax and mining tax exposures have The income tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2013 is as follows: been provided for.
Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 Other exposures considered possible but not probable and therefore not provided for total to US$22.3 million 2013 restated 31 December 2012: US$3 million and are described in Note 29.
US$000 US$000 Current income taxes 105,096 174,444 Deferred taxation Excess profit taxes payable in Kazakhstan 8,313 17,111 Deferred taxation is attributable to the temporary differences that exist between the carrying amounts of assets Income tax expense arising in respect of lost litigation 27,475 and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes.
Deferred income taxes 72,992 3,838 The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during 40,417 222,868 the reporting period.
Property, Trade A reconciliation between the reported amount of income tax expense attributable to loss profit before income tax for the year Environmental plant, and and other ended 31 December 2013 is as follows: obligation Inventories equipment payables Tax losses Loan Other Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December At 1 January 2013 restated 13,343 18,637 90,154 6,078 57,621 1,834 8,847 24,736 31 December 2012 Credit to income statement 709 11,555 16,086 5,767 32,229 1,749 4,898 72,993 2013 restated US$000 US$000 Acquisition 23,025 353 595 556 22,633 Loss Profit before income tax 157,620 651,091 Disposal 587 484 160 37 6 100 Statutory income tax expense at the tax rate of 20% 31,524 130,218 Exchange differences 980 1,014 6,323 601 5,036 85 930 125 At 31 December 2013 13,072 5,481 91,254 11,437 85,372 12,253 25,399 Loss incurred in tax-free jurisdictions 8,309 4,336 Share-based compensation 4,720 10,856 Excess profit taxes payable in Kazakhstan 8,313 17,111 Effect of income tax rate adjustment Income tax arising in respect of lost litigation 27,475 Income tax provision in respect of other exposures 5,055 Tax effect of non-deductible expenses and other permanent differences 50,599 36,489 Total income tax expense 40,417 222,868 Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Financial statements 134 135 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Dividends Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following analysis A final dividend has been proposed in relation to the year of 8 cents per share giving a total expected dividend shows deferred tax balances presented for financial reporting purposes: of US$31.2 million.
This is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has therefore not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 On 23 September 2013 an interim dividend of 1 cent per share was paid to shareholders by the Company resulting in cash 2013 restated outflows of US$3.9 million.
US$000 US$000 Deferred tax liabilities 63,085 82,760 On 17 June 2013 a final dividend for 2012 of 31 cents per share was paid to shareholders by the Company resulting in cash Deferred tax assets 88,484 58,024 outflows of US$121.2 million.
On 16 January 2013, a special dividend of 50 cents per share was paid to shareholders by the Company resulting in cash outflows of US$191.3 million.
Total 25,399 24,736 On 14 June 2012 a final dividend for 2011 of 20 cents per share was paid to shareholders by the Company resulting in cash Tax losses carried forward represent amounts available for offset against future taxable income generated by JSC Omolon Gold outflows of US$76.5 million.
Mining Company, ZK Mayskoye LLC, Albazino Resources LLC, Amursk Hydrometallurgy Plant LLC and the Company during the period up to 2023.
Each legal entity within the Group represents a separate tax-paying component for income tax purposes.
Impairment losses The tax losses of one entity cannot be used to reduce taxable income of other entities of the Group.
As at 31 December 2013 At 30 June 2013, due to significant decline in gold, silver and copper market prices in first quarter 2013, the Group carried and 31 December 2012 the aggregate tax losses carried forward were US$426.8 million RUB13.9 billion and US$288.1 million out an impairment review of its property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other non-current assets.
As a result of this review, RUB 8.8 billion, respectively.
total impairment charges of US$199.1 million were recognised as at 30 June 2013.
The Group believes that recoverability of the recognized deferred tax asset DTA of US$88.5 million at 31 December 2013 During second half of the year ended 31 December 2013 there was a stabilisation in gold, silver and copper market prices.
is more likely than not based upon expectations of future taxable income in the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan and Therefore, the impairment review was performed only for the Omolon cash generating unit, where individual impairment available tax planning strategies.
indicators exist due to downgrades in reserves and changes in the life of mine plan.
As a result, a further impairment of US$12 million was recognised as at 31 December 2013.
Losses incurred in certain taxable entities in recent years have created a history of losses as of 31 December 2013.
The Group has concluded that there is sufficient evidence to overcome the recent history of losses based on forecasts of sufficient taxable In the view of management there are no indicators of impairment or impairment reversal for other cash generating units income in the carry-forward period.
as at 31 December 2013 and no further impairment as at 31 December 2013 was recognised.
The Groups estimate of future taxable income is based on established proven and probable reserves which can be Total impairment charges of US$213.4 million 2012: nil recognised during the year ended 31 December 2013 comprise economically developed.
The related detailed mine plans and forecasts provide sufficient supporting evidence that the the following: Group will generate taxable earnings to be able to fully realise its net DTA even under various stressed scenarios.
The amount Year ended 31 December 2013 of the DTA considered realisable, however, could be reduced in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during Total the carry forward period are reduced due to delays in production start dates, decreases in ore reserve estimates, increases operating Corporate in environmental obligations, or reductions in precious metal prices.
31 December 2018 25,059 31 December 2019 19,939 Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment 31 December 2020 22,272 Each cash generating unit is determined on the basis of Groups geographical structure and equals to the Groups reporting segments refer to Note 5.
The carrying amount of cash generating units excludes certain exploration assets included within 31 December 2021 67,575 the segment assets which are currently under development and have not reached a stage where there is enough information 31 December 2022 90,698 to estimate the future cash flows that might be eventually generated by the project.
The following amounts are excluded from 31 December 2023 176,034 cash generating units carrying amounts: US$36.7 million.
These were assessed for impairment separately.
Total loss carried forward for tax purposes 426,858 The carrying amounts of all the cash-generating units were assessed against their recoverable amounts determined based The deferred tax liabilities for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Group subsidiaries have on a fair value less costs to sell calculation.
Fair value is based on the application of the Discounted Cash Flow Method DCF not been recognised as the Group has determined that the undistributed profit of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the using post-tax cash flows.
The DCF method is attributable to the development of proved and probable reserves and certain foreseeable future.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, for which deferred tax liabilities have resources where a relevant resource-to-reserve conversion ratio can be reasonably applied.
not been recognised, amount to US$1,802 million 2012: US$1,712 million.
The Group used a post-tax real discount rate of 7.1% 2012: 7.1% in the DCF calculations which is equal to its nominal weighted average cost of capital of 9% 2012: 9% translated into real terms.
The DCF method used is based on the following key assumptions: Commodity prices Commodity prices are based on latest internal forecasts, benchmarked against external sources of information.
In the impairment tests performed, the flat real long-term gold, silver and copper prices of US$1,200 per ounce, US$18 per ounce and US$7,000 per tonne, respectively, have been used to estimate future revenues.
