11 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Review The Directors present the Groups annual report andaudited financial statements for the year ended31May 2013.
This years highlights Revenues and operating profits in Profit before tax and Europewere higher despite tough trading Financial performance overview conditions.
Growth was achieved in both the exceptional items rose Operating profits increased 16.1% versus UK and Poland, whilst revenue in Greece was 16.5%to 107.5 million the prior year driven by revenue growth of lower due to the macroeconomic situation.
2012:92.3 million 2.8%, a return to profit of the Australian The launch costs of Cussons Mum & Me were business, lower raw material costs and incurred in the UK during the year.
Revenue up 2.8% to 883.2 margin improvement initiatives.
This increase was achieved despite tough trading million 2012: 858.9 million The overall impact of exchange rate conditions and fragile consumer sentiment movements in the year resulted in a decrease Adjusted earnings per in Europe, high wage inflation in Indonesia in Group revenue and profitability of circa and continuing unrest in the north of sharerose 12.8% to 16.62p 7million and 1 million respectively.
In addition, launch costs of the new 2012: 14.74p Cussons Mum & Me brand were incurred during the year together with startup costs Financial position overview Exceptional costs of 12.7 relating to the joint venture with Wilmar.
million incurred in the year The Groups balance sheet remains strong and returned to a small net funds position of 2012: 43.8 million mainly Within Africa, Nigeria continues to 3.4 million at the year end following 119.2 representover 80% of revenue and related to the completion million of cash generated from operations operating profits with the balance coming ofthe supply chain through tight control of working capital.
from the businesses in Ghana and Kenya.
optimisation project Revenues inthe first half of the year in Underlying capital expenditure continues Nigeria were slightly lower year on year due Net funds of 3.4 million torun close to depreciation levels.
Other to consumers adjusting to higher fuel prices, key cash outflows during the year included 2012:17.9 million net debt severe flooding in large parts of the country 15.0 million for shares purchased for the and the impact of unrest in the north.
Recommended total dividend Employee Share Option Trust ESOT, During the second half, whilst trade in the 13.0million relating to the supply chain north continued to be difficult, the trading of 7.39 pence per share, a 10% optimisation project, and 9.5 million for environment in the south was more robust increase on prior year thepurchase of additional shares in the resulting in revenue growth year on year, Nigerian listed subsidiary.
and therefore for the full year an overall flatrevenue position.
Full year operating profits for Africa increased 11.6% as a Major projects resultof improved margins from margin improvement projects and lower raw Supply chain optimisation project material costs, and against a prior year A major supply chain optimisation project which included the negative effects of was announced in March 2012 with the thenationwide general strike that took objective of significantly reducing the place inJanuary 2012. overhead footprint of the Groups manufacturing activities.
The project The increase in Asia revenues was involved the closure of the Groups predominantly from Indonesia which marked manufacturing facilities in Australia another consecutive year of double digit andGhana as well as other optimisation growth.
The significant increase in Asia projectsin Africa and Asia.
profits came from Australia which returned to profitability from a loss position last year.
This was achieved by restructuring the business including closing the manufacturing facility to move to a variable cost model.
12 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Review continued Raffertys Garden is Australias leading Outlook This project is now almost complete, is onbudget and is already benefiting margins premium nutritious baby food brand with While we face difficult trading environments approximately 40% share of the wet baby in most of the geographies in which we in the current financial year.
In line with theannouncement last year, the total food market, as well as growing shares in operate our focus remains on driving theinfant dry and snacks market.
An revenue and profit growth through brand exceptional charge for the project is 38.4 million of which 19.9 million are cash items.
exportbusiness is in the early stages of innovation and renovation, and a continuing development to countries such as Indonesia process of margin improvement.
Of the total cost of 38.4 million, 27.5 million was charged last year, 8.9 million and Thailand.
All manufacturing is outsourced to third parties.
With the supply chain optimisation project inthe year to 31 May 2013 and the balance of 2.0 million will fall in the year to 31 May almost complete we are about to commence Revenue and EBITDA for the year ended a Group structure and systems project 2014.
Of the total cash outlay of 19.9 million, 3.0 million fell into last year, 13.0 30June 2012 were 22.5 million and 3.5 whichwill realign the nonmanufacturing million in the year to 31 May 2013 and the million respectively with growth of 10% organisation design and, through balance of 3.9 million will fall in the year estimated for the year to 30 June 2013. investment in the latest systems technology, to31 May 2014.
Asat 30 June 2012, Raffertys Garden ensure the business remains well placed to hadgross assets of 12.5 million.
continue to grow successfully with further Group structure and systems project improvements in margins, which in turn will The supply chain optimisation project which is The business was acquired on a cash and facilitate further investment in new product nearing completion will ensure that the Groups debt free basis from cash and existing development and brand support.
manufacturing footprint is fit for purpose.
A facilities and is expected to be earnings Group structure and systems project is now enhancing in the current financial year.
The Wilmar joint venture and the acquisition under way to realign the nonmanufacturing of Raffertys Garden will both make a organisation design, and to invest in the latest Exceptional items contribution to growth in the new financial systems technology.
A net exceptional charge of 12.7 million year, and with a strong balance sheet, before tax was recorded during the year weremain well placed to pursue further The project will be completed by May 2016 2012: 43.8 million.
The exceptional opportunities as they arise.
and will result in a more effective Group chargerelates to the cost of the supply operating model structured around three chain optimisation project 8.9 million The overall performance of the Group since the core principles: andtheexit from the boutique spas year end has been in line with expectations.
First an endtoend supply chain structured independently from the Taxation The effective tax rate before exceptional commercial organisation: Secondly a category focused approach to items was 26.5% 2012: 27.0% and is lower principally due to decreased UK corporation brand development and innovation: and Thirdly commercial teams focussed on tax rates.
Dividend The Group aims to pay an attractive, As part of this project the Group will be sustainable and growing dividend.
The substantially upgrading its IT systems Board is recommending a final dividend including a move to a new core system.
of5.04p 2012: 4.487p per share making atotal of 7.39p 2012: 6.717p per share The result of the project will be a more forthe year, a 10% increase and the 40th efficient structure to enable faster decision successive year of dividend increases.
making and speed to market.
The overall dividend remains some 2.2 times The total cost of the project will be covered by earnings per share before 40million, of which the capital cost will exceptional items.
Subject to approval at be30million and the project cost will be theAnnual General Meeting AGM, the final 10million.
The capital costs will be front dividend will be paid on 1 October 2013 to weighted over the life of the project.
The shareholders on the register at the close project element will be spread over the ofbusiness on 16 August 2013. three years and will be treated as an exceptional cost.
Post year end acquisition On 4 July 2013, the Group completed the acquisition of Australian baby food brand Raffertys Garden.
The entire issued share capital of Raffertys Garden Pty Ltd was acquired from Australian private equity firmAnacacia for 42.2 million in cash.
13 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Supply Chain Optimisation Last year the supply chain optimisation project was initiated to reduce the manufacturing footprint of the Groups manufacturing activity.
This has involved the closure of the Groups Australian andGhana manufacturing facilities inaddition to a number of further optimisation projects.
The project is almost complete and has benefited margin in the current year.
