UK Services Delivering measurable value Case study: Weapons UK Services delivered a strong performance with underlying operating profit increasing 40% to 85.8m 2012: 61.3m on What we do relatively flat revenues of 597.3m 2012: 610.1m.
The resulting Technical assurance based on data generated by experiments, underlying margin of 14.4% 2012: 10.0% reflects improved trials, modelling and research underpinned by three long-term alignment with customer needs, plus a more competitive cost base contracts and processes for better project execution.
The divisions performance also benefited from short-term demand in certain areas driving higher levels of utilisation, and the completion of final milestones on certain projects.
In February, the division successfully completed the five-yearly periodic re-pricing of the Long Term Our competitive advantage Partnering Agreement LTPA, agreeing terms with the MOD for the Over 1,100 employees specialising in weapons expertise provision of core test and evaluation and training support services and range testing through to March 2018.
Complex safety critical test and evaluation Organic-Plus update Training support at ten sites specifically licensed to work UK Services core business combines world-leading expertise with with energetic materials unique facilities to provide technical assurance, test and evaluation, and training and simulation services.
These capabilities are delivered mainly under long-term managed services contracts, which provide strong predictable cash flows and are the target for future sustainable expansion.
The successful re-pricing of the 25-year LTPA contract, the key underpinning contract for the divisions Air, Our people Weapons and Maritime businesses, represents an endorsement by the customer of the LTPA model as a vehicle for building once using multiple times and delivering more for less.
In addition, 60% 40% UK Services is a market leader in the provision of shorter-cycle Range Weapons technical and information services in C4ISR, acquisition services engineers systems and cyber security.
experts QinetiQs Air business fide-risks complex aviation programmes by testing military aircraft and equipment, evaluating the risks and assuring safety.
Its long-standing relationships with key customers have been enhanced by integrated working and new contracts for test and evaluation that are delivering efficiencies and value.
Where we operate The Air business is also working to build on its strong track record 19 Future opportunities in the provision of Unmanned Air System UAS services developed 18 include building on 20 through the delivery of turn-key surveillance solutions to NATO 17 presence in Australia forces operating in Afghanistan.
and Scandinavia to deliver international range capability and 16 aerial target services 15 14 1.
Tain Extensive testing by QinetiQ saw the introduction of the new sidearm, Glock 17 9mm, into the British Armed Forces.
14QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview B Bu us si in ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Revenue Underlying operating profit Underlying operating margin 597.3m 85.8m 14.4% 2013 597.3m 2013 85.8m 2013 14.4% 2012 610.1m 2012 61.3m 2012 10.0% Case study: Maritime What we do Enable the frontline to deliver naval advantage and effective capability Our competitive advantage A specialist body of maritime knowledge: platform design, performance and optimisation, maritime structural analysis and technical advice, through-life command information systems, integrated stealth and ranges and maritime safety Working with Lloyds Register and Strathclyde University, QinetiQ examined Technical breadth and depth of domain expertise the future shape of the marine industry in its Global Marine Trends 2030 report.
Specialist testing facilities Focus on delivering through-life cost savings The Weapons business provides technical assurance based on data generated by experiments, trials, modelling and research, principally at the twenty strategically located ranges it operates and manages Our people on behalf of the MOD.
Shortly after year end, it was awarded a four-year contract for the management of the joint MOD industry 35% 35% Weapons Science and Technology Centre and delivery of 8m per Naval Command annum research into complex weapons, munitions and energetics.
engineers system Weapons is exploring medium-term opportunities presented by QinetiQs ability to support the MOD in its defence transformation specialists programme and is working with the customer on the assessment of its future options for munitions management.
The business also 20% 10% operates ranges in Scandinavia and provides range control and Trials Software safety systems in Australia.
The pipeline includes opportunities engineers developers to expand the provision of test and evaluation services to other international customers.
and specialists QinetiQs Maritime business enables the frontline to deliver naval advantage and cost-effective capability.
During the year, the Where we operate business successfully completed the MODs first five-year review of the 15-year Maritime Strategic Capability Agreement MSCA, Operating strategic assets reaffirming its role in maintaining expertise and strategic maritime across the UK including 10 11 capabilities.
As such, the business has successfully negotiated the Haslar, Portsdown and 12 renewal of its three long-term underpinning contracts over the past Rosyth 18 months.
In addition, the business was awarded a five-year 7m 15 1314 The business operates three contract for the operational signature services that it delivers key strategic programmes to the Royal Navy for the measurement and optimisation of ship with the UK MOD and submarine stealth characteristics.
Long Term Partnering Agreement Naval Combat System Integration Support 17 Services 1 16 Maritime Strategic Capabilities Agreement 6 7 8 9 5 3 4 2 1.
Loch Goil Note: Year references 2013 and 2012 relate to the year ended 31 March.
Rosneath Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary 7.
Malvern IAS 19 revised Employee benefits has been adopted for 2013 and the 2012 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201315 UK Services continued Case study: C4ISR QinetiQs core C4ISR business manages and delivers significant enabling research contracts on behalf of the MOD.
The deep domain What we do expertise of its employees was reflected by the continued stream of Use research in information management and sensor systems research tasks delivered under contracts for electronic surveillance, to provide expert technical advice, research and solutions secure information infrastructure and battlespace management, Capabilities include: and the award of a new 6m framework contract.
Communications and Information Infrastructure moving QinetiQ is a leading supplier of client-side technical services, data through all forms of radio and fixed communications providing advice to many of the operating centres within the MODs linked to data management techniques procurement agency fide&S, principally through its Acquisition Command and Control Systems uses interoperability Services business.
While the proposal to introduce a GoCo model techniques to support system integration at all levels for fide&S is creating some short-term uncertainty, over the medium Surveillance Systems exploits the full spectrum of sensor term it presents potential opportunities for QinetiQ.
There is also demand for advice on the procurement of complex systems from sources to feed data to any communication and information management system in an open and interoperable manner international and non-defence customers, and during the year Acquisition Services extended its reach into the adjacent rail market Survival offers the latest techniques in saving life and with the award of a new contract with Transport for London.
minimising infrastructure damage in military operations and civil crisis management At the beginning of the year, a new leadership team was appointed for the managed services business in Australia, which reports into the UK Services division.
The teams initial focus was on integrating Our competitive advantage the business, strengthening governance, building competitiveness A heritage of UK government research in information and creating conditions for growth.
The business is now management and sensor systems demonstrating both revenue and margin progression, and changes in the political landscape resulting from the forthcoming federal Joined-up thinking focused on unlocking the benefits election may present further opportunities.
During the year the of meeting current and imminent technical challenges business won an AU$8m contract with the Australian Directorate Largest supplier of C4ISR research to UK MOD General of Technical Airworthiness which underpins much of the core aerospace revenue, and AU$1m of contracts in the rail industry representing an entry point into a new adjacent market.
Our people The expertise of our teams covers: Communication system design and operation The efficient management of big data Optimising human interaction with information handling systems Design and prototyping of new sensor systems and techniques Design and implementation of open standard C4ISR networks that enable existing and new systems to be made interoperable Enabling the survival of people in extreme environments and dangers Technical and commercial customer advice in support of complex C4ISR or survival-based procurement programmes 35% 25% Engineers Consultants 25% 15% R&D Specialists Project managers QinetiQ is a world leader in developing applications for information management and exploitation in the intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance space.
16QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview B Bu us si in ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Case study: Security What we do Consultancy services including bespoke Cyber Vigilance Managed security services covering Cyber Defence  COTS products in our SyBard range enabling secure information exchange Cyber crime threat and risk assessments including Strategic risk assessments Risk management structure and risk mitigation process development Incident reporting, reaction and recovery processes Technical supply chain management and due diligence Secure hosting provides 24 7 52 critical services.
Within the Explore category, the Group is investing in key capabilities to supplement the underlying growth rates of the Core Our competitive advantage business.
A key opportunity is the Training and Simulation Services A unique 50-year heritage of acting as strategic advisor TSS business, which uses  COTS to the UK Government at critical national security levels technology to reduce the cost of training.
TSS has grown its UK Technical expertise across a broad span of technical domains business through an 18-month, 7m extension to its flagship Distributed Synthetic Air Land Training DSALT programme at RAF Independent of industry suppliers Waddington, and a 4m enhancement to the pre-deployment Secure operations centre providing 24 7 protective monitoring training it delivers to the British Army.
The US market is key to A founding member of the Cyber Security Challenge UK realising the potential of TSS, building on its position on the In year achieved accreditation by the Cabinet Office under approved companies list for a $2bn IDIQ indefinite delivery the GPG13 standards the first time a private sector company indefinite quantity contract under which the US Navy is able to has achieved this landmark accreditation procure training and simulation services.
The business is focused on the provision of modelling, simulation and training for the US Army, Navy and Marine Corps, with a new Orlando office due to open in June 2013.
QinetiQs UK Security business protects critical national Our people infrastructure and high-value commercial enterprises through the provision of consultancy, managed security services, secure information exchange, and threat and risk assessments.
The ability 100% to monitor and identify incidents on IT networks is a key customer Cyber concern and the business is investing to scale its protective specialists monitoring solution which this year was accredited by the Cabinet Office under its GPG13 standards the first time a private sector company has achieved this landmark accreditation.
Our customers Strong relationships with UK, Australian and Canadian governments Leading the Enabling Secure Information Infrastructure ESII consortium for supply to MODs Defence Science and Technology Laboratory Supplier to numerous blue chip customers QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201317 US Services Facing up to tough markets Case study: Cyveillance Revenue declined 12% on an organic basis at constant currency, impacted by continued budget uncertainty and reduced federal What we do services spending.
Customers continued to defer decisions, leading People, processes and technology for early warning of threats to the delay of new and incremental orders, the fide-scoping of some from internet and social media across the globe existing work, and the cancellation of some re-competes with Cyber intelligence required to protect information, shorter-term extensions being awarded in their place.
Some work infrastructure and employees was also switched to small business set-aside contracts.
Actions, principally in US Services, to place the US cost base on a more Integrated, agile, open-source, service-orientated architecture competitive footing resulted in an exceptional charge of $26.1m.
and off-the-shelf solutions In the annual year-end assessment of the carrying value of goodwill, the impact of current market conditions resulted in a non-cash impairment charge of 255.8m.
Underlying operating profit was 21.9m 2012: 32.1m and the underlying margin was 4.6% 2012: 6.0%, as a result of the Our competitive advantage reduction in volume and the more competitive trading environment.
Ability to combine physical and virtual security threats into In addition there was a change in revenue mix as lower margin NASA an overall threat landscape work replaced higher margin sales.
Global social media analysis to discover near real-time threats A strategic review has been initiated to determine the route to and predictors maximum value in US Services.
This division possesses some strong Multi-lingual analysts analyse and prioritise predominant capabilities and market positions, but the Group needs to determine languages on the internet the best way to maximise its performance and potential.
Organic-Plus update US Services has a broad customer base both within and beyond 21% 25% defence.
Its core business supports customers across the US federal Cyber analysts Intelligence marketplace, delivering mission assurance, engineering, data analysts analysis, software and systems integration, cyber solutions, modelling, training and simulation, logistics, managed services and field support.
Key sources of competitive advantage include the divisions skilled employees, almost all of whom possess high levels 22% 32% of security clearance, and the fact that these businesses enjoy Technical Other long-standing customer relationships and attractive, longer-term analysts contract vehicles.
Due to the cost-plus nature of most federal services contracts, overhead costs have a significant impact on competitiveness, particularly in an environment where government budgets are under pressure.
Restructuring was undertaken by QinetiQ North America during the year to reduce its cost base and maintain competitive Current customer base rates.
The majority of these cost reductions, which resulted in an exceptional charge of $26.1m, were in US Services and were focused Financial Services 37% on cutting property and infrastructure costs, as well as reducing Technology 14% Energy 8% Government 8% Insurance 8% Education 7% Other 18% Cyveillance provides early warning of internet and social media threats.
18QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview B Bu us si in ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Revenue Underlying operating profit Underlying operating margin 475.6m 21.9m 4.6% 2013 475.6m 2013 21.9m 2013 4.6% 2012 534.5m 2012 32.1m 2012 6.0% Case study: Mission Solutions What we do Cyber intelligence protecting customers against cyber attack Design, integrate, install and operate enterprise solutions including IT and operational systems Our competitive advantage Leading industry experts Mission Solutions designs, integrates, installs and operates enterprise IT solutions.
Key client relationships Proven track record of best value performance management layers.
The focus was on reducing indirect costs while Trusted by Government to architect and secure networks maintaining bid and proposal activity.
Despite current budget in an increasingly hostile cyber environment pressures, the US Government contracting market remains large, and the DoD is committed to protecting investments in areas such as C4ISR, space, cyberspace and unmanned systems, in which QinetiQ 32% 19% possesses deep domain expertise.
At the year end, US Services had Engineers Technical over 100 proposals pending decision by federal customers at year experts end, with a total contract value of more than $1bn.
Lifecycle Solutions provides engineering services and helps customers manage their fleets and supply chains.
New contracts included a $17m award for condition-based maintenance from the 6% 9% US Armys Tank Automotive Command and contracts for technical Scientists IT specialists and logistics support from the US Armys Aviation and Missile Command.
Condition-based maintenance facilitates greater automation of current processes and QinetiQs track record with the US Army presents a number of future opportunities.
34% The Software and Systems Engineering business supports the Other delivery of C4ISR and combat systems, and provides advice on procurement programmes and equipment lifecycles.
The US Governments increased focus on the Asia-Pacific region represents a resource shift to naval markets, and Software and Systems Engineering is working to build on its good base of support contracts in the maritime domain.
During the year the business was awarded Where we operate an $80m contract by Naval Air Systems Command for Tomahawk Command and Control work.
It was also selected for a five-year blanket purchase agreement with a total ceiling value of $27m by the US Coast Guard National Pollution Funds Center.
Washington DC Region Note: Year references 2013 and 2012 relate to the year ended 31 March.
Reston VA Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 116.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201319
