Financial review Gold sales of US$1 267 million were almost in line with those of the previous year on the back of a 16% rise in ounces sold to 920 248oz, but with a 17% decrease in the average gold price received to US$1 376 oz.
Total cash cost per ounce for the year decreased by 3% from the previous year to US$715 oz, as a result of higher grades and increased production.
Following the introduction of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, the group was required to change its accounting policy on joint ventures from 1 January 2013, with prior periods restated accordingly.
Revenue, which excludes gold sales from joint ventures, was 4% lower than the prior year, reflecting the higher number of ounces sold across the groups subsidiaries but offset by a significantly lower average gold price received.
Mining costs were slightly higher during the year, especially at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex due to the increased throughput and increased underground mining costs, including costs associated with the backfill strategy.
The increase in share of profits of equity accounted joint ventures reflected the commissioning of Kibali, which started commercial production and sales in October, together with profits from Morila, which were lower than the previous year due to lower gold production and sales.
Notwithstanding the increase in costs, total cash cost per ounce for the group was US$715 oz, being 3% lower than the prior year, thanks to the significant increase in ounces sold, the higher grades, the increased contribution from the Loulo-Gounkoto complex and the low cost production of the newly commissioned Kibali mine.
Total cash cost per ounce at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex decreased by 5%, due to the increased plant throughput at the complex and the higher average grade of ore milled from both Loulo and Gounkoto, resulting in increased gold production.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 13 that had previously been proportionately consolidated Rising cost of production in the gold industry previously shown on each line of the statement of financial position at 1 January 2011, excluding minorities, together Per ounce costing prices US$ Cash operating margin % with the groups subsequent share of profits and losses of the 1 800 35 joint ventures, its share of other comprehensive income 1 600 30 and expense, additional investment funding less joint 1 400 venture dividends.
25 1 200 20 The groups cash position at year end was US$38.2 million 1 000 31 December 2012: US$373.9 million with no debt, 800 15 notwithstanding the substantial investments made in 600 growth projects during the year, including significant 10 400 joint venture related expenditure at Kibali.
This included 5 200 capitalised expenditure of US$245.2 million at Loulo, predominantly on the Yalea and Gara underground 0 0 mine developments as well as the paste backfill project, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 HFO plant and the CIL additions in the processing plant.
Gold price Capital expenditures US$23.5 million was invested at Tongon, primarily in the Cash margin Cash operating costs metallurgical plant mill recovery circuit and crusher upgrade, Source: CIBC Equity Research and US$11.1 million at the Gounkoto site, mostly on the underground feasibility project.
Capitalised expenditure on the Massawa feasibility study and further exploration At Morila, the stockpile treatment operation continued amounted to US$9.6 million.
Other cash outflows included successfully and total cash cost per ounce, was in line with the additional investments in joint ventures US$424.9 million, prior year, albeit production was significantly lower due to lower mostly to fund the groups share of capital expenditure at throughput.
At Tongon, total cash cost per ounce of production Kibali as well as working capital, dividends paid to shareholders was negatively impacted by a number of operational challenges, US$46.1 million, and the State of Malis portion of the including access to grid power, metallurgical recoveries and the Gounkoto dividends US$27.2 million which were paid slightly lower ore grade processed, but increased throughput during the year.
The strong cash flows generated by the resulted in more ounces produced.
operations have been invested in the groups programme of capital projects.
Expenditure on exploration and corporate costs increased by US$10.5 million to US$49.5 million mainly as a result The company has entered into a US$200.0 million unsecured of continued investment in exploration activities.
Drilling revolving credit facility with HSBC and three other banks which programmes were undertaken across the companys matures in May 2016 and is at present undrawn.
Based on greenfields exploration targets, together with exploration the companys current cash resources and available facilities, work on feasibility stage projects, including those at Kibali, projected operating cash flows and capital expenditure, we are Massawa, Loulo and Gounkoto, which were capitalised to confident the company will be able to meet its obligations at property, plant and equipment.
Since the company was the present gold price.
first listed in 1997, it has discovered approximately 29 million reserve ounces which, when divided by the exploration and Long term ore stockpiles of US$142.0 million relate to the corporate costs expensed over this period, equates to less portion of ore stockpiles at Loulo, Gounkoto and Tongon which than US$18 oz of gold.
are expected to be processed after more than one year, in line with the updated respective Life of Mine plans.
Gounkotos corporate tax holiday ended in June 2013, which contributed to an increased tax charge of US$76.7 million Investments in equity accounted joint ventures reflect the compared to US$37.1 million the previous year.
Tongon will groups share of its equity accounted investments, primarily benefit from its exoneration from corporate tax for five years at Kibali as well as Morila and the groups asset leasing joint until the end of 2015. ventures.
The increase of US$459.8 million in total investments in joint ventures mainly reflects funds advanced to Kibali during Profit for the year of US$325.7 million represents a decrease the year for the construction of the mine which is substantially of 36% compared to the previous year, mainly reflecting the included in the joint ventures underlying balance sheet as drop in the average gold price received, increased depreciation property, plant and equipment US$917.2 million, cash, working in respect of assets brought into use, increased cash costs, capital and stockpiles US$131.3 million.
Refer to note 10 on and higher tax charges as highlighted above.
Similarly, basic page 203 of this annual report for the full balance sheet of earnings per share of US$3.02 decreased by 36% over the Kibali Jersey Limited.
Kibali reached commercial production previous year, as a result of lower profits in the year.
in October 2013 and activities on site during the year included the construction of the metallurgical plant, work on the decline As stated above, the group was required to change its and shaft underground projects, site infrastructure, the accounting policy on joint ventures from 1 January 2013, hydroelectricity plant, open pit mining, road construction and with prior periods restated accordingly.
As such, the groups the village relocation project.
share of its joint ventures has been disclosed as a single line item as total investments in joint ventures measured at the In total property, plant and equipment increased by aggregate of the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities US$293.3 million, excluding depreciation, year on year.
14 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources The rise in the accumulated depreciation charge year on year Oil price and US$ exchange rate of US$130.6 million reflects the increase in production activity Brent crude oil US$ barrel US$ exchange rate across the mines in the group and the assets brought into use.
140 1.40 The increase of US$49.8 million in inventories and ore stockpiles including the allocation of a portion to non-current 120 is largely the result of the increase in ore stockpiles at Loulo, Gounkoto and Tongon.
100 1.30 The increase in trade and other receivables including the allocation of a portion to non-current of US$32.9 million 80 since 31 December 2012 is substantially due to an increase in recoverable value added tax TVA balances at Loulo, as well as 60 increases in gold debtor balances at Loulo due to the timing of shipments at year end.
40 1.20 The total outstanding TVA receivables in Mali across Jan 2012 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 subsidiaries and equity accounted joint ventures, amounted to US$130.0 million 31 December 2012: US$84.0 million Brent crude US$ barrel US$ exchange rate including 100% of the Loulo and Gounkoto TVA receivables Source: Bloomberg and the attributable 40% portion of the Morila TVA receivable.
Even though Morila, Loulo and Gounkoto have the legally following the cessation of the tax holiday on 1 June 2013, as enforceable right under the terms of their respective mining well as an increase in the corporate tax liability at Loulo year on conventions to offset other taxes payable to the Malian State year due to the absence of tax deductions for stripping costs against the TVA receivables, the balances have increased related to the Yalea pushback in 2013. substantially during the year.
The reasons for this include the lower amounts of taxes available for offset due to the subdued Looking forward to 2014, total cash cost per ounce for the group gold price and a substantial increase in TVA paid resulting is forecast in a range of US$650-700 oz, assuming current from expenditure on capital programmes during the year.
The oil prices, euro dollar exchange rates and other inputs which portion of the outstanding TVA balances which is not expected have a significant impact on operating costs.
Given Randgolds to be recovered within a one year time frame, amounting to commitment to growing through discovery and development, US$49.0 million, is shown in the non-current receivables.
We the company will continue to invest significantly in exploration, continue to pursue cash settlement of these TVA balances.
with corporate and exploration expenses of approximately US$60 million anticipated in 2014.
Although lower than The group has received claims for various taxes from the 2013, significant capital expenditure will be incurred across State of Mali at subsidiaries and equity accounted joint the group during the year to support the planned continued ventures totalling US$123.1 million 31 December 2012: growth in production, especially at Kibali, of approximately US$86.2 million, in respect of the Loulo, Gounkoto and Morila US$310 million 100% of project, and the ongoing develop- 40% mines and the Kankou Moussa gold operation.
Having ment of the underground mines at Loulo, including the paste taken professional advice, the group considers the claims backfill plant, where total capital at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex to be wholly without merit or foundation and is strongly is forecast at US$140 million.
Project and sustaining capital at defending its position, including following the appropriate legal Tongon, including the flotation circuit expansion, is estimated at process for disputes within Mali.
Loulo, Gounkoto and Morila US$25 million, and US$20 million will be spent at Morila 100% have legally binding mining conventions which guarantee of the project, including US$10 million of preproduction costs fiscal stability, govern the taxes applicable to the companies in respect of the Pit 4S pushback.
Consequently, total group and allow for international arbitration if a dispute cannot be capital expenditure for 2014 is expected to be approximately resolved in the country.
We continue to engage with the Malian US$340 million attributable portion.
authorities at the highest level to resolve these issues.
During the third quarter, Loulo submitted a request for arbitration Randgolds board has proposed a final dividend of at the International Court of the Settlement of Investment 50 US cents per share US$46.2 million for the period ending Disputes against the State of Mali in relation to certain of the 31 December 2013, at the same level as that paid for the disputed tax claims.
The appointment of arbitrators has been previous year, and an optional scrip dividend alternative will finalised and the first procedural hearing took place during also be put to shareholders at the companys next annual February 2014. general meeting on 6 May 2014.
The decrease in the rehabilitation provisions of US$3.4 million since 31 December 2012 reflects a decrease in the estimated mine closure costs at Loulo and at Gounkoto as a result of changes in the estimates.
The increase in trade and other payables of US$41.0 million since 31 December 2012 is the result of the additional contractors and accruals at the LouloGounkoto complex and at Tongon, which reflects the increased production and mining activity.
Current tax payable of Graham Shuttleworth US$63.7 million increased by US$51.1 million and includes a corporate tax provision of US$40.6 million related to Gounkoto, Financial director and chief financial officer Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 15
