Financial review capital management and development opportunities that are consistent with Group Finance the Groups strategy.
Overview of the Group Finance functions The chief financial officer leads a multidisciplinary team tasked with 2013 performance highlights delivering and implementing Group financial strategy, in addition to providing The key metrics for Group financial management and planning are summarised decision-making support and guidance to the Groups key management and below.
More detailed information, including reconciliation to the appropriate its operating business units.
Separate specialist functions are established statutory financial statement measures, is included in the additional financial with responsibility for: financial reporting, management reporting, economic information section of the Directors report on pages 47 to 52. analysis, investor relations, taxation, treasury, assurance, business development, and project evaluation.
Specialists in tax, financial reporting and 2013 2012 2011 treasury monitor regulatory compliance and financial developments, frequently US$ million US$ million US$ million engaging with industry-wide discussion groups and regulatory bodies.
These a Underlying earnings 10,217 9,269 15,572 specialists work across the disciplines to evaluate the impact of changes in a Net earnings loss 3,665 3,028 5,835 regulatory, fiscal, economic, and other business conditions on planning and Cash flows from operations 20,131 16,521 27,609 forecasting, financial reporting, key decision-making within the organisation, and on external stakeholders.
The Exploration group also reports to the Net debt 18,055 19,192 8,342 chief financial officer.
Total capital 71,557 76,932 67,226 The Groups operating model also includes the use of shared services for a Underlying earnings is the key financial performance indicator which management supporting the business in process delivery.
Shared services are focused on uses internally to assess performance.
It is presented here as a measure of earnings to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of the Group.
efficient and effective delivery of transactional, professional or specialised Items excluded from net earnings to arrive at underlying earnings are explained in services to our entire business.
Shared services work relates to business note 2 to the financial statements.
Both net earnings and underlying earnings deal processes which are not unique to Rio Tinto, allowing value improvements with amounts attributable to the owners of Rio Tinto.
However, EU IFRS requires that through outsourcing.
These support services report to the Group executive, the profit for the year reported in the income statement should also include earnings attributable to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries.
Comparative information has Organisational Resources and have responsibility for transactional aspects of been restated to reflect a number of new accounting standards: see note 2 to the financial management and reporting, human resources, information systems financial statements.
and technology, procurement and group property.
Increased underlying earnings reflect the favourable impact of operating Role of the Group Finance function in 2013 cash cost improvements including exploration and evaluation savings, improved sales volumes and overall strengthening of the US dollar against With market conditions remaining volatile, the Finance function has played local currencies.
This was offset by lower prices in all of the Groups main a key role in helping the business to reduce costs, improve capital allocation, commodities other than iron ore, inflation, and increased tax charges and strengthen the balance sheet.
During 2013, the Group raised a total of primarily attributable to utilisation of Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT US$3 billion of fixed and floating rate bonds.
The Finance function was closely involved with supporting the implementation Net earnings of US$3.7 billion reflect non-cash exchange losses of and monitoring of cost reduction initiatives.
The Group achieved a US$2.3 US$2.9 billion and impairments of US$3.4 billion, including impairment of billion improvement in operating cash costs for 2013, exceeding the target previous years non-cash accounting uplifts on initial consolidation of certain of US$2 billion.
This, in conjunction with a US$1,023 million reduction in Turquoise Hill assets including Oyu Tolgoi, a significant project cost overrun exploration and evaluation costs exceeding the reduction target of US$750 at Kitimat and of the Gove alumina refinery following an announcement to million, demonstrates that the Group has made strong progress to sustainably curtail production.
reduce its operating cost base and realise productivity gains across its portfolio.
These initiatives were supported by the expanded use of the shared services Cash flows from operations, which include dividends from equity accounted operating model to streamline process delivery.
units, at 22 per cent above 2012, reflect the positive impact of higher volumes and cost reduction initiatives.
Furthermore, the function has been instrumental in enhancing the Groups capital allocation process.
It has provided strategic support and guidance to Net debt decreased from US$19.2 billion at 31 December 2012 to US$18.1 senior management, with evaluation and analysis that allows decision makers billion at 31 December 2013 as operating cash inflows and divestment proceeds to prioritise only the highest-returning projects.
Capital expenditure is expected fully offset the outflows relating to capital expenditure and the increased to almost halve from a peak of US$17.6 billion in 2012 to around US$8.0 billion dividend payment.
Net debt to total capital was 25 per cent at 31 December in 2015, in the pursuit of maximising returns to shareholders whilst 2013 and interest cover was 13 times, both unchanged from the prior year.
The boards objective when managing capital is to safeguard the business as a going concern whilst maximising returns for the Groups shareholders.
In further support of the Groups 2013 priorities, the Finance team worked In practice, this involves regular reviews by the board and senior management.
on reshaping the portfolio by selling non-core assets.
Divestments totalling These reviews take into account the Groups strategic priorities, economic and US$3.5 billion were announced or completed in 2013, with proceeds of business conditions, and opportunities that are identified to invest across all US$2.5 billion received during the year.
points of the commodities cycle.
The resulting capital structure provides the Group with a high degree of financial flexibility at a low cost of capital.
In addition, in 2013 the Group published its third comprehensive Taxes Paid report, which covered the year ended 31 December 2012.
The report provided detailed analysis of Rio Tintos US$11.6 billion contribution in global tax payments.
During 2014, Rio Tintos Finance function will continue its focus on supporting senior management and product groups to achieve the target of US$3 billion in operating cash cost improvements compared with 2012, and leveraging opportunities to re-shape the portfolio.
The Finance function will remain focused on providing high-quality financial strategy and decision-making support, together with compliant and informative reporting, whilst pursuing 38 38 riotinto.
