Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 24 Financial review In 2013 we achieved record levels of order intake, revenue and profit and delivered an improved adjusted operating margin.
Over the last ten-year period, compound annual organic revenue growth has now risen to 13.3%, or 15.6% including acquisitions.
Jonathan Davis Finance Director Headline revenue grew by 13.0%, or 66.7m, The net finance expense increased from Revenue growth of 13.0% to 578.4m, or by 6.3% on an organic 0.3m in 2012 to 1.3m mainly as a result of Operating profit margin increased constant currency basis.
Our growth the introduction of the revised IAS19.
The net to 26.2% benefited from sterling weakening against interest charge in respect of the pension Effective tax rate reduced from most of the currencies important to Rotork, scheme liabilities increased by 0.8m in the 28.1% to 27.9% with 9.1m of the revenue increase the result year to 1.2m.
We have updated the Return on capital employed of 59.1% of currency although this tailwind was presentation of the 2012 expense but not significantly reduced in the second half of the restated the comparatives.
Acquisitions were a further contributor the cost would have been 0.6m higher at to growth, with the four acquisitions made 1.0m and the increase in the year reduced during 2013 and a full year contribution from to 0.2m.
Soldo, acquired in November 2012, adding 25.2m to revenue.
Acquisitions Rotork has grown through a combination of Adjusted operating profit stated before the organic expansion and acquisitions.
amortisation of intangible assets grew Acquisitions are made on the basis that they marginally ahead of the rate of revenue, will provide a product we currently dont increasing 14.8% to 151.4m, and delivering have, improve our access to a geographic or a margin of 26.2% compared with 25.8% in end user market or some combination of 2012 with all divisions reporting improved these objectives.
During the year we margins.
This 40 basis point improvement completed four acquisitions for a total was the result of a 130 basis point consideration of 48.0m.
Schischek, acquired improvement in margins in Fluid Systems, the in January 2013 for 35.0m, was the largest division which grew revenue by the largest of these with the three other mid-year amount organically.
Fluid Systems is our acquisitions of Flowco, GTA and Renfro lowest margin division so this introduced a costing a combined 13.0m.
Taking all four small divisional mix headwind but this was acquisitions together, 24.2m of the small compared with the improvement in consideration was attributed to intangible Fluid Systems margins, as well as a small assets which will be amortised and 24.9m is improvement in Controls and Gears organic goodwill which will be subject to an annual constant currency margins.
acquisitions, predominantly influenced by Schischek, were accretive to margins but the currency impact was dilutive, so removing the effect of both left Group margins slightly higher at 26.3%.
The increased number and value of the US dollar moving from 3% stronger than Return on capital employed ROCE acquisitions this year led to a rise in the sterling in the first half compared with 2012 Our asset-light business model and high amortisation charge related to acquired to only 1% stronger in the second half.
The profit margins mean Rotork generates high intangible assets to 12.1m 2012: 7.4m.
euro remained 4% stronger in both halves of ROCE.
Our definition of ROCE is based on With the acquisitions taking place throughout the year and with a greater euroadjusted operating profit as a return on the the year, and Soldo acquired in November denominated sales base, Fluid Systems and average net assets excluding net cash and the 2012, in order to adjust the income Gears therefore benefited from the positive pension scheme liability net of the related statement to show a like-for-like period for currency in the second half which Controls deferred tax.
This means that as we make each acquisition, 2013 revenue has to be and Instruments did not.
acquisitions our capital base grows with reduced by 25.2m and adjusted operating intangible assets and goodwill being profit by 7.3m.
The profit margin in the These currency impacts were a mix of both recognised.
During the year intangibles and acquired business was slightly accretive in translation and transaction and the 1.0m goodwill increased by 37.2m in total which, aggregate, at 28.9%, with Schischek the key increase in operating profit was net of any after allowing for the related deferred tax, contributor to this.
cost benefit of sourcing components from accounts for approximately half of the outside the respective factories home increase in capital employed which rose Currency country.
Whilst we manufacture and sell from 21.4% to 281.0m.
As a result of this, ROCE The weakness of sterling in 2013 compared offices based in 34 countries, with 19 reduced to 59.1% despite the improved profit with 2012 resulted in a significant tailwind for different currencies, and source components margin and growth in revenue this year.
The tailwind was very much from a wide geographic footprint, the Group stronger in the first half of the year but is still a net seller of euros and US dollars.
It is Taxation sterling strengthened appreciably in the the net sale of these currencies which we The Groups effective tax rate fell from 28.1% second half, particularly against the principally address through our hedging to 27.9%.
This is a blended rate from the 25 Australian dollar, Indian rupee and South policy, covering up to 75% of trading countries in which we currently pay tax and is African rand.
Looking at the constant transactions in the next 12 months and up to affected by the mix of where our taxable currency adjustment to revenue, of the 9.1m 50% between 12 and 24 months.
profits are generated, as well as changes to full year impact, 7.2m was felt in the first the tax rates within those jurisdictions.
We half with only the remaining 1.9m in the In order to estimate the impact of currency, continue to see a general reduction in the second half of the year.
US dollar and related at the current exchange rates we consider the rate of corporation tax in a number of currencies represented around 40% of Group effect of a 1 cent movement versus sterling.
jurisdictions where we operate, including the sales and are our largest non-sterling For the euro a 1 cent movement now results UK.
Our approach to tax continues to be to currency flows.
The largest influence on the in a 325,000 adjustment to profit and for operate on the basis of full disclosure and reduced second half currency tailwind was the US dollar a 450,000 adjustment.
co-operation with all tax authorities and, where possible, to mitigate the burden of tax within the local legislation.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 26 Financial review continued Cash generation Credit management 11.7% increase in total dividend The cash balance finished the year at The Groups credit risk is primarily Dividend cover of 2.4 68.9m, 9.0m higher than the start of the attributable to trade receivables, with the risk Control of working capital increases year.
The three largest categories of cash spread over a large number of countries and cash generation to 99.6% expenditure were: 43.2m on acquisitions, customers, and no significant concentration 43.2m cash outflow on acquisitions 39.9m of tax paid and 38.7m of dividends of risk.
Credit worthiness checks are paid.
These were all higher than the previous undertaken before entering into contracts or year but the higher value of acquisitions, commencing trade with new customers.
The more than double the 20.7m spent in 2012, majority of our trade receivables are insured, represented the largest increase.
Capital so the authorisation process operates in expenditure of 10.4m was 2.2m lower conjunction with the insurer, taking than the prior year, partly due to rescheduling advantage of their market intelligence.
of the investment in the new Leeds factory, Where appropriate, we use trade finance with the majority of the fit out spend instruments such as letters of credit to deferred to 2014. mitigate any identified risk.
Our cash generation key performance Treasury indicator, which compares operating cash The Group operates a centralised treasury generation with adjusted operating profit, function managed by a Treasury Committee improved again this year to 99.6% 2012: chaired by me and also comprising the Chief 95.4%.
Control of working capital is key to Executive, Group Legal Director, Group improving this measure and working capital Financial Controller and Group Treasurer.
has reduced as a function of revenue in the The Committee meets regularly to consider year despite a weighting of revenue to the foreign currency exposure, control over fourth quarter.
Inventory, trade receivables deposits, funding requirements and cash and trade payables have all reduced as a management.
The Group Treasurer monitors function of revenue with net working capital compliance with the treasury policies and is as a whole falling from 25.5% of revenue to responsible for overseeing all the Groups 24.7%.
We measure our performance for banking relationships.
A Subsidiary Treasury trade receivable collections using days sales Policy restricts the actions subsidiaries can outstanding and have reduced this a further take and the Group Treasury Policy and Terms day this year to 56 days.
of Reference define the responsibilities of the Group Treasurer and Treasury Committee.
Strategic Report 01-41 27 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 Financial review continued 30.0p final dividend The Group uses financial instruments where Dividends The most recent triennial valuation for the UK The Board is proposing a 12.8% increase in scheme took place as at 31 March 2013 and appropriate to hedge significant currency transactions, principally forward exchange the final dividend to 30.0p per share.
When was adversely affected by the lower yield on taken together with the 18.05p interim long-dated gilts at that date, which is the key contracts and swaps.
These financial instruments are used to reduce volatility dividend paid in September, this represents a driver behind the value of the schemes 11.7% increase in dividends over the prior liabilities.
As a result, despite better than which might affect the Groups cash or income statement.
In assessing the level of year.
This gives dividend cover of 2.4 times expected investment returns and the agreed 2012: 2.4 times.
Our dividend policy is to past deficit contributions, the funding level cash flows to hedge with forward exchange contracts, the maximum cover taken is 75% grow the core dividends generally in line with was lower than at the previous valuation.
earnings and supplement core dividends with A recovery plan has been agreed with the of forecast flows.
The Board receives monthly treasury reports which summarise the additional dividends when the Board Trustees which will see past service considers it appropriate to do so.
contributions from the Company of 5.2m Groups foreign currency hedging position, distribution of cash balances and any during 2014, 5.5m in 2015 and 5.5m in Retirement benefits 2016, at which time the next valuation will significant changes to banking relationships.
The Group accounts for post-retirement take place.
benefits in accordance with IAS19, Employee In January 2013 we established a 15m one year committed facility in order to partBenefits.
The balance sheet reflects the net At 31 December 2013, some of the adverse deficit on these schemes at 31 December impact of the lower gilt yields had reversed.
finance the acquisition of Schischek and in January 2014 extended this for a further 2013 based on the market value of the assets As a consequence the IAS19 deficit was at that date, and the valuation of liabilities 20.2m, an 87% funding level which twelve months.
This facility is in place to provide flexibility regarding the location of using year end AA corporate bond yields.
We compares with an 81% funding level at the have closed both the main defined benefit start of the financial year.
cash deposits and timing of receipts, and is in addition to uncommitted overdraft facilities pension schemes to new entrants: the UK References to adjusted profit throughout this document scheme in 2003 and the US one in 2009, in the Group has in a number of countries.
are defined as the IFRS profit, whether operating profit order to reduce the risk of volatility of the or profit before tax, with 12.1m 2012: 7.4m of Groups liabilities.
amortisation of acquired intangibles added back.
