Operating and Financial Review 2.1 Introduction The Directors are pleased to present their report on the Group for the year ended 30 April 2013.
This section contains the Operating and Financial Review, which includes the information that the Group is required to produce to meet the need for a business review in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Operating and Financial Review also provides significant information over and above the statutory minimum.
Biographies of each director are contained in section 3 of this Annual Report and the remainder of the Directors report is set out in section 4.
The Operating and Financial Review that follows is intended largely to reflect the recommendations of the Accounting Standards Boards reporting statement of best practice on the Operating and Financial Review.
2.2 Cautionary statement The Operating and Financial Review has been prepared for the shareholders of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Its purpose is to assist shareholders of the Company to assess the strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed and for no other purpose.
This Operating and Financial Review contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this Operating and Financial Review will be realised.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation.
1 Overview of the Stagecoach Group Stagecoach Group is a leading international public transportation group, with extensive operations in the UK, United States and Canada.
The Group employs around 36,000 people, and operates bus, coach, train and tram services.
The Group has four main divisions UK Bus regional operations, UK Bus London, North America and UK Rail.
We are committed to conducting business in a socially responsible way and we believe this to be consistent with our business objectives and strategy.
Indeed, by taking a responsible approach towards the environment and the wider community, we believe we will enhance our objective to deliver organic growth.
Stagecoach Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in Scotland.
Its ordinary shares are publicly traded and it is not under the control of any single shareholder.
Throughout this Annual Report, Stagecoach Group plc is referred to as the Company and the group headed by it is referred to as Stagecoach and or the Group.
In the remaining parts of this section 2.3, we: Section Summarise the Groups business objectives and long-term strategy 2.3.
2 Describe each of the Groups business segments, their regulatory environments, their strategy, the market opportunities, the competitive position and likely future market developments 2.3.
3 Summarise how we aim to create value, by providing an overview of the Groups business model 2.3.
4 Discuss the key resources and relationships, including contractual relationships, that underpin the Groups business and strategy 2.3.
5 Set out the principal risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives and strategy 2.3.
6 Describe how we measure and monitor progress against our objectives and strategy, and how we are performing 2.3.
2 What we look to achieve business objectives and long-term strategy Group strategy The key elements of Stagecoach Groups business strategy to deliver long-term shareholder value are: To deliver organic growth across all of the Groups operations: To acquire businesses that are complementary to the Groups existing operations, in areas where the Groups management has proven expertise and which offer prospective returns on capital in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital: In addition to organic and acquisition growth, to maintain and grow the Groups Rail business by bidding for selected rail franchises and to seek to secure new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment UK Bus regional operations Description The UK Bus regional operations Division connects communities in more than 100 towns and cities across the UK on bus networks stretching from the Highlands of Scotland to south west England.
These include major city bus operations in Liverpool, Newcastle, Hull, Manchester, Oxford, Sheffield, Cambridge and Exeter.
The UK Bus regional operations Division operates a fleet of around 6,900 buses and coaches across a number of regional operating units.
Each regional operating unit is managed independently and is led by a managing director.
In addition to local bus services in towns and cities, Stagecoach operates interurban services linking major towns within its regional operating company areas.
The Group also runs the budget inter-city coach service, megabus.
Our local and express bus and coach services carry an average of around 2 million passengers each weekday.
In Scotland, Stagecoach has a joint venture Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited with international transport group, ComfortDelGro, to operate the Scottish Citylink express network and megabus.
com branded services to, from and within Scotland.
Stagecoach owns 35% of the share capital of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited and ComfortDelGro owns the remaining 65%.
The joint venture is the leading provider of express coach services in Scotland.
Stagecoach is responsible for the day-to-day operational management of the business, which is overseen by a joint board.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued UK Bus regional operations continued Regulatory environment The current structure of the bus market in Great Britain outside London was established by the Transport Act 1985.
This is essentially a deregulated structure: any holder of a Public Service Vehicle operators license may operate bus services, having first registered various details with the relevant traffic commissioner.
The traffic commissioners are responsible for enforcing compliance with these registered details, including standards of maintenance, reliability and punctuality.
The UK Bus regional operations bus and coach services are operated on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
The Division also operates tendered services, including schools contracts, on behalf of local authorities.
Around 10% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is receivable from local authorities in respect of such tendered and school services.
Around 24% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is earned from statutory concessionary fare schemes, whereby the Group is reimbursed by public authorities for carrying the elderly and disabled free of charge.
Strategy The strategy of the UK Bus regional operations is to deliver organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes.
This may be supplemented by acquiring businesses where appropriate opportunities arise.
Market opportunity The Group has around 20% of the UK Bus market excluding London.
The UK Department for Transports 2011 National Travel Survey NTS is a household survey of personal travel in Great Britain.
The NTS found that in 2011, there was an average of 958 trips per person per year.
Trips by car or van accounted for 79% of distance travelled, bus trips accounted for 5%, rail trips accounted for 8% and walking, cycling and other modes accounted for 8%.
There therefore remains significant market opportunity to stimulate modal shift from car to bus.
Macroeconomic factors The UK Bus regional operations have performed well during more challenging macroeconomic conditions.
Although revenue is not immune to macroeconomic changes, it is less exposed than in many other types of business.
In addition, the Group can adjust the pricing and frequency of the majority of its services and is therefore well placed to respond to any changes in demand for particular services.
Around 70% of the costs vary with operating miles.
Competition The UK Bus regional operations face competition for customers not only from other operators of coaches and buses but also from other modes of transport.
The Group regards its primary competitor as the private car and aims to encourage modal shift from car to public transport.
The other major groups that operate buses in the UK outside of London are three other groups publically quoted on the London Stock Exchange FirstGroup, National Express Group, and Go-Ahead Group and Arriva, which is owned by Deutsche Bahn.
Future market The level of Government support in the UK Bus Industry has come under pressure in recent years with reductions in Bus developments Services Operators Grant a rebate of fuel tax and constraints on the payments made by Government to bus operators for carrying the elderly and disabled free of charge to the passenger.
Funding of tendered services by local government has also reduced.
The Group is therefore gradually becoming less reliant on Government and a greater proportion of its revenue is coming directly from passengers.
There are positive long-term conditions for further growth in demand for UK Bus services created by rising road congestion, rising car operating costs, supportive government policy and public concerns for the environment, which augur well for the future of the Division.
UK Bus London Description In October 2010, the Group re-entered the London bus market through the acquisition of the bus business formerly owned by East London Bus Group Limited in administration, acquiring four companies that together operate the business.
We operated a successful and profitable bus business in London for several years and were pleased to re-enter the London bus market at an attractive price.
The Group is the third largest operator in the London bus market, with an estimated 14% share of that market.
The business operates from 9 depots and has a fleet of around 1,100 buses serving routes in and around east and south-east London.
Regulatory environment The UK Bus London business operates bus services under contract to Transport for London, receiving a fixed fee subject to adjustment for certain inflation indices and taking the cost and capital risk.
Bus operators tender to win contracts and each contract is typically for a five-year period with the potential for it to be extended by two years.
Strategy We undertook a full review of the business prior to and following its acquisition in 2010 and identified a significant opportunity to add value through a turnaround of the under-performing business and through synergies with the rest of Stagecoach.
The UK Bus London strategy was initially focused on addressing the structurally high cost base at the acquired business and on bidding for contracts that will earn a realistic return.
We have now achieved our aspirations for mid to upper single-digit operating margins and our focus will now be on maintaining tight control of costs while seeking to bid competitively for new contracts.
Market opportunity The Group operates approximately 14% of the bus operating mileage contracted by Transport for London to bus operators.
The Group does not seek to gain market share for its own sake and remains disciplined in ensuring that its bids for new contracts offer an acceptable trade-off of risk and reward.
Macroeconomic factors The UK Bus London operations are not especially exposed to short-term changes in macroeconomic conditions because it receives a fee from Transport for London for operating services irrespective of the passenger volumes on those services.
Its costs and in particular, labour costs, can vary due to macroeconomic changes and also, in the longer term, the level of services that Transport for London offers for tender might be affected by the macroeconomy.
Competition UK Bus London faces competition to win contracts from Transport for London from other bus operators, the largest of which are Go-Ahead Group, Arriva, Metroline, RATP and Abellio.
Future market In light of the pressures on Government finances, we do not expect to see Transport for London significantly increase the level of developments bus operating mileage in the next few years and so any revenue growth will come from inflationary price increases, retaining work on tender but at higher rates and or winning contracts from other operators.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 5 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 6 Operating and Financial Review 2.3.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued North America Description The North America Division provides transport services in the United States and Canada.
Our businesses include commuter transit services, inter-city services, tour and charter, sightseeing and to a small extent, school bus operations.
com, a low cost inter-city coach operator that sells its services principally via the Internet, is the fastest growing part of the North American business.
Our main North American school bus interests were disposed of in November 2011.
The North America business is headed by a Chief Operating Officer.
Stagecoach excluding its joint ventures currently operates approximately 2,800 vehicles in the United States and Canada.
The July 2012 acquisition of businesses and assets from Coach America further extended the Groups business in North America, and further details are provided in section 2.5.
In addition to its wholly-owned operations in North America, Stagecoach has a joint venture, Twin America LLC, with CitySights NY.
The joint venture principally operates sightseeing services in New York under both the Gray Line and CitySights brands.
The Group holds 60% of the economic rights and 50% of the voting rights in the joint venture.
Twin America LLC is headed by a Chief Executive and is overseen by a joint Board.
Regulatory environment The North America business operates on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
It also operates some tendered services for local authorities.
Strategy The strategy of the North America Division is to deliver organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes.
This may be supplemented by acquiring businesses where appropriate opportunities arise for example, in July 2012, we acquired businesses and assets from Coach America and further details on this are provided in section 2.5.
A core short to medium-term objective in delivering this strategy is the expansion of the fast growing megabus.
Market opportunity The Group estimates it has less than 4% of the bus and coach market in North America and is growing this through innovative new services such as megabus.
The US Department of Transportations Bureau of Transportation Statistics show that in 2011 some 86% of transportation to work was by car, compared with only 5% by public transport.
The opportunity to stimulate modal shift from car to bus and coach is substantial and megabus.
com has been successful in doing this.
Macroeconomic factors The North American operations are more exposed to macroeconomic factors than the UK Bus operations as a greater proportion of their revenue is derived from customers using its services for leisure purposes, including its charter, tour and sightseeing services.
It nevertheless has similar flexibility to UK Bus over pricing and supply, enabling it to effectively respond to changes in macroeconomic conditions.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other operators of coaches and buses but also from other modes of transport.
com faces competition from the car but also from airlines and train operators.
FirstGroup and National Express Group are also major operators of coach and bus services in North America.
Future market The Group has taken a leading role in the development of bus and coach travel in North America through its megabus.
The market for inter-city coach travel, such as that provided by megabus.
com, is growing rapidly and we expect that to continue and present significant opportunities to the Group.
UK Rail Description Stagecoach Group has major rail operations in the UK.
Our principal wholly-owned rail businesses are South West Trains and East Midlands Trains.
South West Trains runs around 1,700 train services a day in south west England out of London Waterloo railway station, and operates Island Line services on the Isle of Wight.
The South West franchise is contracted to run until February 2017 and the UK Government plans to extend it to April 2019.
From 11 November 2007, we have operated the East Midlands Trains franchise.
The franchise comprises main line train services running to London St Pancras, regional rail services in the East Midlands area and inter-regional services between Norwich and Liverpool.
The East Midlands Trains franchise is contracted to run until April 2015 and the UK Government plans to extend it to October 2017.
We also operate Supertram, a 28km light rail network incorporating three routes in the city of Sheffield, on a concession running until 2024.
Stagecoach Group has a 49% shareholding in a joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, which operates the West Coast Trains rail franchise.
The current West Coast Trains rail franchise runs until November 2014 and the UK Government plans to extend it to April 2017.
The other shareholder in Virgin Rail Group is the Virgin Group of Companies.
South West Trains, East Midlands Trains and the tram operations each have a managing director, who report to the Chief Executive.
Stagecoachs Chief Executive is Joint Chairman of Virgin Rail Group.
Virgin Rail Group has a Chief Executive, who reports to the Virgin Rail Group board, which includes Stagecoach Group and Virgin Group representatives.
Regulatory environment The UK train operating market is split into a number of separate franchises, which are awarded by the Government for set time periods to a specification set by the Department for Transport DfT on the basis of competitive bids.
Train operating companies operate passenger trains on the UK rail network.
The UK railway infrastructure is owned and operated by Network Rail, a not for dividend company that invests any profits into improving the railway.
Network Rail runs, maintains and develops tracks, signalling systems, bridges, tunnels, level crossings and key stations.
Strategy In rail, we seek to deliver organic growth across all of our existing operations and to maintain and grow the business by bidding for selected new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
Market opportunity The market opportunity in rail arises from the potential to retain existing and or win new franchises, and also, from the potential to attract increased use of the Groups rail services.
With a number of franchises expected to be tendered within the next few years, there is scope to grow the Groups share of the rail market.
Macroeconomic factors The Rail operations are exposed to macroeconomic factors with passenger revenue correlated to Gross Domestic Product and employment levels.
The exposure is further increased by the relatively fixed cost base of the business which restricts the scope to reduce costs in response to reduced demand.
The Groups existing franchises have significant protection against macroeconomic risks due to the receipt of revenue support from Government whereby Government pays the Group a proportion of the shortfall of actual revenue to the revenue expected when the Group bid for the franchise.
On bids for new franchises, however, the Groups evaluation of macroeconomic risks is a key component of the bid process.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other train operators but also from other modes of transport.
The main competitors that bid against the Group for UK rail franchises are FirstGroup, National Express Group, Go Ahead Group, Arriva, MTR, Keolis, SNCF and Abellio.
Future market The UK Government is reviewing the basis for rail franchising in the UK and changes to franchising model are likely.
The Group is developments at the forefront of changes to the UK Rail market in its ground breaking Alliance with Network Rail see section 2.5.
4 How we create value the business model The Groups overall business model is illustrated below.
Stagecoach factors driving demand for public transport Other drivers of Safe and Advertising Value for Cost factors Investment Design of reliable and money growth in services services transport marketing pricing Flexible cost Contract base franchise in bus bids Economic returns Strong Acquisitions Group-wide cost control External factors driving demand for public transport Increasing Rising Supportive Long-term Rising car Lower cost Contract road environmental government economic running rail business management congestion awareness policy growth costs model The right environment Decentralised Emphasis on Sustainable, efficient Short chains of Environment to to underpin the management operational long-term capital command support innovation business model structure performance structure The business model varies to some extent by division.
The business model is intended to deliver the business objectives and long-term strategy explained above in that it is designed to preserve and add value through organic growth, targeted acquisitions and rail franchise wins.
The overall model of the Group is based on a relatively decentralised management structure with short chains of command and close monitoring and direction from the centre.
Across the Group, there is an emphasis on achieving strong operational performance as an underpin of strong financial performance.
The business model for the Groups UK Bus regional operations and North America Divisions is designed to be sufficiently flexible to respond to developments in the markets in which they operate and to changes in demand.
The key features of this business model are: A decentralised management structure enabling local management to quickly identify and respond to developments in each local market: An emphasis on lightly regulated bus operations enabling management to vary prices, operating schedules and timetables in response to developments in each local market without significant hindrance from regulation: A flexible cost base whereby operating mileage and operating costs can be flexed in response to changes in demand.
The business model of the UK Bus London and UK Rail Divisions is different.
The businesses are more highly regulated and their cost base is less flexible so there is greater management focus on agreeing the right contractual arrangements, including appropriate risk-sharing arrangements, and ensuring these are appropriately managed for the duration of each contract.
5 What we need to do what we do resources and relationships Stagecoach Group has a range of resources and relationships, including contractual relationships, that underpin its business and support its strategy.
These assist in giving the Group a competitive advantage in the markets in which it operates.
Customers Millions of people use our services and our relationship with our customers is important to us.
To deliver organic growth in revenue, a key element of our strategy, we need to provide services that people want to use.
We conduct customer research to monitor our performance and to determine how we can improve the delivery and accessibility of our services.
We are passionate about providing good customer service and indeed, the theme of our 2012 Group-wide management conference was customer service.
Our businesses have a regular and ongoing dialogue with bus and rail user groups.
This includes presentations from managers on detailed aspects of our service as well as consultation and information sharing on particular issues.
An important element of the Groups success in growing its customer base lies in its record of product innovation and new ideas on developing effective public transport systems.
The Group has an ongoing programme of market research.
We have a dedicated telemarketing unit in the UK that communicates with current customers and non-users to build a detailed profile of what attracts people to use our services.
Employees Human resources are key to the Groups business and the Groups relationship with its employees is therefore fundamental to achieving its objectives.
We seek to recruit and retain the best employees in our sector, offering an excellent package of benefits, which allows us to deliver good customer service to our passengers.
The Groups individual divisions invest significantly in the training and development of our people and we operate a successful graduate training scheme which provides one source of training for the managers of the future.
We have established strong working relationships with trade unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues, including training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other employee benefits.
We also communicate with our people face to face and through a number of internal publications.
The financial community Our shareholders and lenders are critical to our business success.
We have a regular programme of meetings with investors and provide frequent updates to the markets and financial community on our performance.
We have contractual arrangements with banks and other finance providers for the provision of funds and financial products to the Group.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 7 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 8 Operating and Financial Review 2.3.
5 What we need to do what we do resources and relationships continued Government and regulatory bodies Our managers have ongoing relationships with national and local government in all our countries of operation to ensure the effective delivery of government transport policy and to assist in meeting wider objectives.
We work with local authorities, including passenger transport executives, regional transport committees and transit authorities, in the delivery and planning of bus and rail services.
Many of our businesses have partnership agreements in place to improve the delivery of public transport in their areas.
In the UK, we work closely with the DfT, the Scottish Executive, Transport Scotland, the Welsh Assembly, and Transport for London.
We contract with local authorities, government bodies and other parties for the supply of bus services on a contracted or tendered basis.
We have franchise agreements with the DfT governing the supply of franchised rail services in the UK.
We have constructive dialogue with organisations such as the Commission for Integrated Transport, which provides advice to the UK Government, and lobbying groups such as the Campaign for Better Transport.
Suppliers We rely on a range of suppliers to provide goods and services linked to our bus and rail operations.
All of our businesses have various contractual relationships with suppliers including purchase contracts with fuel suppliers, vehicle suppliers, IT companies and spare part suppliers.
The operation of our rail franchises depends upon a number of contractual relationships with suppliers, including contracts with Network Rail governing station and track access arrangements, leases with rolling stock companies for the lease of trains and maintenance contracts for the maintenance of trains.
Information technology is increasingly important to effectively operate our services and to meet our customer expectations.
Significant investment, internal management resource and external supplier input is made in developing and operating IT systems.
Corporate reputation, brand strength, and market position Stagecoach is one of the best-known public transport operators in the UK and is consistently rated highly for the quality of its services in research by Government and other independent organisations.
We value our reputation, both as a public transport provider and as a key part of the communities in which we operate.
Stagecoach has a strong set of brands that support our strategy of organic growth in our business and that help maintain our leading market position.
Natural resources and manufacturing technology Operating our bus and rail services requires considerable use of natural resources, including diesel and electricity.
We have arrangements in place to ensure that these resources are sourced as efficiently as possible and that our supplies are maintained to ensure the smooth functioning of our business.
A number of experienced manufacturers supply our buses, coaches, trains and trams, which are produced to detailed specifications relevant to the individual markets in which they are required.
Licences Various licences are held by Stagecoach giving authority to operate our public transport services and these are maintained up to date as required.
Transport and Industry Representation Groups We are active members of industry groups, such as the Confederation of Passenger Transport UK which covers buses and light rail, the Association of Train Operating Companies and the American Bus Association.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties Like most businesses, there are a range of risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the matters described below are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all possible risks and uncertainties.
Generally, the Group is subject to risk factors both internal and external to its businesses.
External risks include global political and economic conditions, competitive developments, supply interruption, regulatory changes, foreign exchange, materials and consumables including fuel prices, pensions funding, environmental risks, industrial action, litigation and the risk of terrorism.
Internal risks include risks related to capital expenditure, acquisitions, regulatory compliance and failure of internal controls.
The focus below is on those specific risks and uncertainties that the Directors believe are the most significant to the Group, taking account of the likelihood of occurrence of each risk and the potential effect on the Group.
Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2013 Annual Report Catastrophic events There is a risk that the Group is The Group has a proactive culture that No significant matters to report.
involved directly or indirectly in a puts health and safety at the top of its major operational incident resulting in agenda in order to mitigate the significant human injuries or damage potential for major incidents.
This could have a unlikely event that a major incident significant impact on claims against did occur, the Group has procedures in the Group, the reputation of the Group place to respond.
The Group and its chances of winning and periodically rehearses its response to a retaining contracts or franchises.
Terrorism There have been multiple acts of The Group has plans in place designed No significant matters to report.
terrorism on public transport systems to reduce the financial impact of a and other terrorist attacks that whilst terrorist incident and these plans take not directly targeting public transport account of the Groups experience of have discouraged travel.
There is a risk managing the North American that the demand for the Groups business during the period of services could be adversely affected by depressed demand following the a significant terrorist incident.
Such a major terrorist attack on 11 September fall in demand would have a negative 2001. effect on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2013 Annual Report Economy The economic environment in the Management monitors actual and From November 2011, East Midlands 2.5.
4 geographic areas in which the Group projected economic trends in order to Trains became entitled to revenue operates affects the demand for the match capacity to demand and where support from Government hence Groups bus and rail services.
In possible, minimise the impact of significantly reducing its exposure to particular, the revenue of the Groups adverse economic trends on the macroeconomic changes.
All three of UK rail operations is historically Group.
External forecasts of economic the rail franchises in which the Group correlated with factors such as UK trends form part of the Groups has an interest in are now entitled to Gross Domestic Product and Central assessment and management of revenue support from Government.
As part of its ongoing review of the 2.5.
4 America, a greater proportion of the In bidding for new rail franchises, the system of UK Rail franchising, the UK revenue is derived from tour, charter evaluation of macroeconomic risks is a Government is assessing how the and sightseeing services than in the UK key element of the bid process.
exposure to macroeconomic risks and these services tend to be more should be allocated between Further information on the relevance susceptible to economic changes.
The Government and train operators in of macroeconomic factors to each revenue and profit of the Group could respect of new rail franchises.
business segment is provided in therefore be positively or negatively section 2.3.
3. affected by changes in the economy.
Rail cost base A substantial element of the cost base The Group looks to achieve sensible As described above, the in the Groups UK Rail Division is risk sharing arrangements in its rail entitlement to revenue support essentially fixed because under its UK franchise agreements and franchise reduces the UK Rail Divisions rail franchise agreements, the Group is bids are designed to deliver an exposure to economic risks.
obliged to provide a minimum level of acceptable risk-reward trade-off.
As train services and is therefore unable described above, economic and to flex supply in response to shortterrorism risks are closely managed.
In term changes in demand.
In addition, addition, the Group remains focussed a significant part of the cost base is on controlling costs in the UK Rail comprised of payments to the Division and in recent years, has infrastructure provider, Network Rail, achieved considerable controllable and payments under train operating cost savings.
leases which are committed and do not vary with revenue.
Accordingly, a significant proportion of any change in revenue for example, arising as a result of the risks described above in respect of terrorism and the economy will impact profit from the UK Rail Division.
Sustainability of rail profit A significant element of the Groups In order to manage the risks, the Virgin Rail Groups West Coast 2.5.
4 revenue and profit is generated by UK Group has devoted significant franchise has been extended to rail franchises.
There is a risk that the management resource and financial November 2014 and the UK Groups revenue and profit could be investment to bidding for new rail Government has confirmed planned significantly affected either positively franchises.
extensions to all three rail franchises or negatively as a result of the Group in which the Group has an interest.
Appropriately experienced personnel winning new franchises or failing to are retained to work on rail bids and The Group is shortlisted for a further 2.5.
third party consultants are engaged to two rail franchises, Thameslink and provide additional expertise.
Board approves the overall rail bidding Further rail franchises expected to be 2.5.
4 strategy and the key parameters for tendered over the next few years.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 9 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 10 Operating and Financial Review 2.3.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2013 Annual Report Breach of franchise The Group is required to comply with Our UK Rail businesses are subject to No significant matters to report.
certain conditions as part of its rail complex contractual arrangements.
If it fails to Contractual management is an comply with these conditions, it may important part of our rail activities be liable to penalties including the because the way in which contracts are potential termination of one or more managed can be a significant of the rail franchise agreements.
This determinant of financial performance.
would result in the Group losing the Compliance with franchise conditions right to continue operating the is closely managed and monitored and affected operations and consequently, procedures are in place to minimise the related revenues and cash flows.
The Group may also lose some or all of The Group maintains an overview of the amounts set aside as security for Virgin Rail Groups business risk the shareholder loan facilities, the management process through performance bonds and the season representation on its board and audit ticket bonds.
The Group can do more committee.
to prevent breaches of franchise where it has sole control than where it has joint control.
As the holder of a 49% joint venture interest in Virgin Rail Group, the Group has less control over the joint ventures operations and that means the Groups management may be less able to prevent a breach of the Virgin Rail Group franchise agreement.
Pension scheme funding The Group participates in a number of Decisions on pension scheme funding, Pension scheme liabilities have 2.6.
asset allocation and benefit promises moved during the year due to There is a risk that the cash are taken by management and or market changes.
contributions required to these pension scheme trustees in schemes increases or decreases due to consultation with trade unions and changes in factors such as investment suitably qualified advisors.
A Pensions performance, the rates used to Oversight Committee has been discount liabilities and life established comprising the Finance expectancies.
Any increase in Director, a Non-Executive Director and contributions will reduce the Groups other senior executives, to oversee the cash flows.
The Board participates in major decisions on the funding and design of pension schemes.
Insurance and claims environment The Group receives claims in respect of The Group has a proactive culture that Insurance and claims costs in our 2.5.
2 traffic incidents and employee claims.
puts health and safety at the top of its UK Bus London and North and The Group protects itself against the agenda and this helps mitigate the America divisions decreased in the 2.5.
3 cost of such claims through third party potential for claims arising.
Where year as a proportion of revenue.
An element of the claims do arise, they are managed by claims is not insured as a result of the dedicated insurance and claims excess on insurance policies.
specialists in order to minimise the cost to the Group.
Where appropriate, There is a risk that the number or legal advice is obtained from magnitude of claims are not as appropriately qualified advisors.
The expected and that the cost to the balance between insured and retained Group of settling these claims is risks is re-evaluated at least once a significantly higher or lower than year and insurance and claims activity expected.
In the US, in particular, there is monitored closely.
is a risk that given the size of the excess, that a small number of largevalue claims could have a material impact on the Groups financial performance and or financial position.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2013 Annual Report Regulatory changes and availability of public funding Public transport is subject to varying Management closely monitors Decline in tendered and school 2.5.
1 degrees of regulation across the relevant proposals for changes in the revenue in UK Bus regional locations in which the Group operates.
5.2 There is a risk that changes to the communicates the Groups views to Litigation in respect of Twin regulatory environment could impact key decision makers and bodies.
Group actively participates in various Continuing UK Government industry and national trade bodies Similarly, many of the Groups review of rail franchising in light along with domestic and international businesses benefit from some form of of the cancellation of the West government forums.
The Group seeks financial support from government Coast rail franchise completion.
to maintain good, co-operative including direct financial support, the relationships with all levels of provision of equipment, government government, by developing and contracts and concessionary fare promoting ideas that offer cost schemes.
There is a risk that the effective ways of improving public availability of sufficient government transport.
financial support changes due to regulatory or other reasons.
The new UK Governments stated policy to reduce spending has increased the likelihood of this risk crystallising.
Management and Board succession The Group values the continued Succession planning for the Directors Changes to Board during year and 1 services of its senior employees, and senior management is an from 1 May 2013. including its directors and important issue and as such is New UK Bus Managing Director management who have operational, considered by the Nomination appointed.
marketing, engineering, technical, Committee as described in section project management, financial and 7.4 and the Board.
The appropriate administrative skills that are important level of management deals with to the operation of the Groups recruitment and retention of other business.
Disease There have been concerns in recent The Group has plans in place to No significant matters to report.
years about the risk of a swine flu respond to any significant outbreak of pandemic, which follows previous disease.
concerns over bird flu and SARS.
There is a risk that demand for the Groups services could be adversely affected by a significant outbreak of disease.
Such a fall in demand would have a negative impact on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 11 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 12 Operating and Financial Review 2.3.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2013 Annual Report Information technology The Group is reliant on information The Group is continually investing in New website and associated technology for sales, operations and its information technology systems, systems developed in-house for back office functions.
Information people and suppliers to ensure the megabus.
com and other activities technology failures or interruptions robustness of its information resulting in improved resilience could adversely affect the Group.
It is developing new and scaleability.
New systems Internet sales platforms and continues launched in May 2012.
An increasing proportion of the to look to ensure that it secures Group's sales are made via the reliable service provision.
There is a risk that the Group's capability to make Internet sales either fails or cannot meet levels of demand and the time taken to implement restorative actions is unacceptably long due to insufficient resource being available and or over reliance on a small number of service providers.
This risk could result in significant levels of lost revenue at a time when the Group is investing in megabus.
com coach operations in North America, of which Internet sales is a fundamental part.
com website failure could severely affect the megabus.
com brand and also give a competitor an advantage during the time of the failure.
Treasury risks Details of the Groups treasury risks are discussed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements, and include the risks arising from movements in fuel prices.
7 How we measure our performance key performance indicators The Group uses a wide range of key performance indicators KPIs across its various businesses and at a Group level to measure the Groups progress in achieving its objectives.
The most important of these KPIs at a Group level focus on four key areas: Profitability Organic growth Safety Service delivery KPI 1 profitability The overall strategy of the Group is intended to promote the success of the Group and create long-term value to shareholders.
In the shorter term, we measure progress towards this overall aspiration by monitoring growth in adjusted earnings per share.
KPI 2 organic growth To create long-term value, we aim to deliver organic growth in revenue.
We measure progress on this by division, looking at like-for-like growth in passenger volumes and or revenue as we consider most appropriate for the particular division.
KPIs 3 and 4 safety and service delivery To deliver organic growth in revenue, we aim to provide safe and reliable transport services that passengers want to use.
We measure safety and service delivery by division using a range of measures appropriate for each business.
Further details on how we calculate these key performance indicators, our targets and our recent performance is summarised below.
7 How we measure our performance key performance indicators continued Profitability Adjusted earnings per share is earnings per share before exceptional items and intangible asset expenses Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted EPS is calculated based on the profit attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangible asset expenses divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the relevant period.
Adjusted EPS was as follows: Year ended 30 April 2013 2012 2011 pence pence pence Target Adjusted EPS To increase in excess of inflation 30.2p 25.4p 23.8 Organic growth Organic growth KPIs are not reported for businesses acquired or disposed of in the year or the previous year.
The following measures of organic growth are monitored: UK Bus regional operations growth in passenger journeys measured as the percentage increase in the number of passenger journeys relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
Rail growth in passenger miles measured as the percentage increase in the number of miles travelled by passengers relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
UK Bus London and North America growth in constant currency revenue from continuing operations measured as the percentage increase in revenue relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
The measures vary by division reflecting differences in the underlying businesses for example, a significant proportion of the revenue in North America is not determined on a per passenger basis.
Throughout this Annual Report, references to passenger volume growth for UK Bus or Rail businesses mean growth determined on the basis set out here.
All of these growth KPIs involve a degree of estimation in respect of passenger volumes and are normalised to exclude businesses that have not been held by the Group for the whole of both periods.
Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 April 2013 30 April 2012 30 April 2011 Target Growth % Growth % Growth % UK Bus regional operations passenger journeys 0.4 % 1.9% 0.9% UK Bus London revenue 1.0% n a n a UK Rail passenger miles Positive growth South West Trains ultimate target is zero 1.8% 4.1% 4.1% each year East Midlands Trains 2.7% 3.6% 6.9% Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 0.9% 4.6% 9.3% North America revenue 8.9% 14.0% 8.5% The decline in passenger journeys at UK Bus regional operations in the year ended 30 April 2013 is due to fewer journeys by concessionary passengers that we believe is largely attributable to poorer weather.
Journeys by fare-paying passengers increased during the year.
Safety Safety is monitored in various ways, including through a range of KPIs.
Businesses acquired or disposed of in the year are excluded from the safety KPIs.
Six of the more important safety KPIs are reported below: Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 April 2013 30 April 2012 30 April 2011 Target UK Bus regional operations number of blameworthy 19.3 20.6 21.4 accidents per 1 million miles travelled UK Bus London number of blameworthy 27.9 25.0 n a accidents per 1 million miles travelled ultimate target is zero US number of blameworthy accidents per To decrease each year To decrease each year 4.8 5.2 7.3 1 million miles travelled ultimate target is zero ultimate target is zero South West Trains workforce lost time injuries 1.5 1.8 1.8 per 1,000 staff East Midlands Trains workforce lost time injuries 1.4 1.6 1.5 per 1,000 staff Virgin Rail Group West Coast workforce lost time 1.4 1.5 2.1 injuries per 1,000 staff Stagecoach Group plc | page 13 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 14 Operating and Financial Review 2.3.
7 How we measure our performance key performance indicators continued Service delivery Our measures of service delivery include: UK Bus regional operations and UK Bus London reliability measured as the percentage of planned miles to be operated that were operated.
Rail punctuality measured on the basis of the DfTs Public Performance Measure moving annual average being the percentage of trains that arrive at their final destination within 5 minutes or 10 minutes for inter-city services of their scheduled arrival time having called at all scheduled stations.
References to rail punctuality throughout this Annual Report refer to punctuality calculated on this basis.
Due to the nature of the North American business, there is no single measure of service delivery for the North American division as a whole.
Service delivery KPIs are not reported for businesses acquired or disposed of in the year.
The service delivery KPIs were as follows: Year ended 30 April 2013 2012 2011 % % % Target UK Bus regional operations reliability 99.0% 99.3% 99.5% 99.1% UK Bus London reliability 99.0% 97.8% 97.9% n a UK Rail punctuality South West Trains 90.0% 91.5% 92.2% 93.3% East Midlands Trains 85.0% 92.3% 93.7% 92.0% Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 85.0% 83.5% 86.0% 86.3% 2.4 Overview of financial results Stagecoach Group has achieved continued strong financial and operational performance for the year ended 30 April 2013.
Revenue by division is summarised below: REVENUE YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2013 2012 2013 2012 Functional Functional currency Growth m currency m % Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 966.7 909.7 966.7 909.7 6.3% UK Bus London 232.7 230.5 232.7 230.5 1.0% North America 407.2 312.6 US$ 641.2 498.0 28.8% UK Rail 1,201.3 1,140.7 1,201.3 1,140.7 5.3%% Intra-Group revenue 3.1 2.8 3.1 2.8 10.7% Group revenue 2,804.8 2,590.7 Operating profit by division is summarised below: OPERATING PROFIT YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2013 2012 2013 2012 % % Functional Functional currency m margin m margin currency m Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 165.0 17.1% 162.7 17.9% 165.0 162.7 UK Bus London 21.9 9.4% 13.5 5.9% 21.9 13.5 North America 13.3 3.3% 19.7 6.3% US$ 21.0 31.4 UK Rail 49.9 4.2% 27.1 2.4% 49.9 27.1 Group overheads 14.9 11.1 Restructuring costs 1.7 2.3 Total operating profit from continuing Group operations 233.5 209.6 Joint ventures share of profit after tax Virgin Rail Group 9.8 15.9 Citylink 1.3 2.0 Twin America 11.7 9.7 Total operating profit before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 256.3 237.2 Intangible asset expenses 16.1 12.3 Exceptional items 4.8 38.0 Total operating profit: Group operating profit and share of joint ventures profit after taxation 235.4 262.9 page 14 | Stagecoach Group plc 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 15 To support the continued provision of good-value bus services to customers, 2.5 Divisional Performance bus operators receive a rebate of a proportion of the fuel duty which they pay.
1 UK Bus regional operations This fuel duty rebate is also referred to as Bus Service Operators Grant Financial performance BSOG.
The rate of BSOG paid to bus operators was cut in April 2012 in The financial performance of the UK Bus regional operations division for the each of England, Scotland and Wales.
The effect of this cut contributed to an year ended 30 April 2013 is summarised below: overall increase of around 22m in the divisions fuel costs.
Notwithstanding this and increases in other costs, operating profit grew in 2012 13 as a result of the strong growth in commercial revenue and the contribution to profit from Year to 30 April 2013 2012 the Olympics contracts, each referred to earlier.
m m Change Revenue 966.7 909.7 6.3% Local bus networks Like-for-like revenue 938.4 908.1 3.3% We are continuing to deliver sector-leading profit margins through our value Operating profit 165.0 162.7 1.4% fares strategy, continued investment in our fleet and the roll-out of new technology solutions to make travel easier for our customers.
Over the past six Operating margin 17.1% 17.9% 80 bp years, we have invested several hundred million pounds in more than 3,000 new vehicles for local communities and for our inter-city coach services, The financial results for the year ended 30 April 2013 include revenue of including 75m already committed for 2013 14.
This year, we took delivery of a 18.8m and operating profit of around 4m arising from the successful further 59 hybrid-electric vehicles for our operations, cementing our place as delivery of contracts to provide transport for the media and athletes at the the UK bus industrys leading investor in this technology, which produce up to London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
This transport operation, which 30% fewer carbon emissions than standard vehicles.
We now have a total of showcased Stagecoachs management expertise, was widely praised by around 240 hybrid buses in our fleet.
organisers and made a significant contribution to the success of these global sporting events.
This additional revenue of 18.8m is excluded from the likeOur bus fleet across the UK is equipped to accept smartcards and we continue for-like revenue figures shown above.
to explore ways to further develop commercial opportunities related to smart card use.
More than 136 million commercial and concessionary smartcard Passenger and revenue growth transactions were made on our buses in the UK in 2012 13.
We are also Like-for-like revenue was built up as follows: working on integrated bus-rail smart ticketing and taking part in the UKs first trial of near-field communications technology using mobile phones for Year to 30 April 2013 2012 ticketing on public transport.
m m Change Commercial on and off bus revenue 569.9 541.9 5.2% Our strong partnerships with transport authorities around the country are working well.
In Oxford, we are part of a successful multi-operator smart Concessionary revenue 229.1 225.3 1.7% Tendered and school revenue 98.5 101.3 2.8 % ticketing partnership, which was highlighted last year by the UKs Transport Select Committee as it endorsed partnership working as key to delivering Contract revenue 35.6 34.2 4.1% Hires and excursions 5.3 5.4 1.9 % service improvements.
In South Yorkshire, passengers are also benefitting from a partnership agreement which is delivering affordable fares, smarter multiLike-for-like revenue 938.4 908.1 3.3% operator ticketing, and newer, greener low-floor buses.
Sheffield has become one of the DfTs first Better Bus Areas and will benefit from increased funding The overall like-for-like revenue growth for the year of 3.3% is slightly below to further improve bus services and bus-related infrastructure.
the equivalent rate of 3.6% that we previously reported for the forty eight The Tyne and Wear Integrated Transport Authority, with the support of the five weeks ended 31 March 2013.
While the timing of Easter contributed to councils in Tyne and Wear, is continuing to explore the respective benefits of a stronger growth in April 2013, this was more than offset by the timing of new Voluntary Partnership Agreement with bus companies, and a Quality settlements on concessionary and scholar revenue schemes that were higher Contracts Scheme, in which bus services would be offered under franchise by a in April 2012 than in April 2013. single public body.
Stagecoach is firmly opposed to Quality Contracts and there Over the year, we have delivered further revenue growth at our UK Bus is no evidence of market failure in Tyne and Wear where bus passenger regional operations and vehicle miles operated were broadly consistent with satisfaction is among the highest in the UK.
We will vigorously resist any previous years on a likefor-like basis.
Our focus on commercial revenue, proposals to introduce Quality Contracts in the areas where we currently where we have greater flexibility to manage pricing, service patterns and operate.
We believe the highly centralised, inflexible and bureaucratic approach frequencies, is reflected in the like-for-like revenue growth of over 5% reported of Quality Contracts would result in poorer value for money for taxpayers, for that category.
The lower rate of growth in concessionary revenue reflects inefficient bus operations and a worse service for customers.
reduced passenger volumes partly due to poorer weather and pressure from Stagecoach Gold, our premium bus brand designed to attract car users, has local authorities to minimise concessionary reimbursement rates in light of the been further expanded to routes in the south of England and now covers more budgetary pressures that they face, which has also resulted in reduced revenue than 20 towns and cities in the UK.
It offers vehicles with luxury leather from tendered and school services.
We expect these trends to continue in the interiors and free Wi-Fi, as well as customer service guarantees and a moneyshort-term with commercial revenue continuing to grow faster than the other back promise for significant delays.
Customers have responded positively to our products, pricing and The decrease in operating margin was built up as follows: performance.
Independent research by Passenger Focus, published in March Operating margin 2011 12 17.9% 2013, found Stagecoach had the highest customer satisfaction of any national Effect of Olympics contracts 0.1% bus operator.
The study found that 86% of Stagecoach bus passengers in Change in: England were satisfied with their service, with only 5% dissatisfied.
This has Staff costs 1.1% followed other independent studies which have assessed Stagecoach as Fuel costs 1.7 % offering the lowest fares of any major bus operator in the UK.
Other 0.3 % Cost control Operating margin 2012 13 17.1% We have taken successful steps to manage the impact of cuts in public sector Staff costs have fallen as a proportion of revenue principally as a result of lower spending, including the reductions in BSOG.
Measured fares changes and pension expenses.
adjustments to our bus networks have protected services and ensured they See definitions in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements Stagecoach Group plc | page 15 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 16 Operating and Financial Review remain good value.
These developments have also made our business less Operating margin 2011 12 5.9% dependent on Government spending.
We have been actively engaged with Change in: local authorities in England and the devolved administrations in Scotland and Staff costs 3.4% Wales to press for the full and proper reimbursement of the costs of our Fuel costs 0.8 % participation in concessionary fare schemes.
Insurance and claims costs 1.7% Investment in improved energy management systems, eco driving technology Depreciation 0.9% and intelligent lighting systems are also helping control our fleet and buildings Lease costs 1.2 % costs, as well as cut our carbon emissions.
Other 0.5 % Operating margin 2012 13 9.4% Acquisitions We continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities in the UK Bus market.
In common with the regional UK Bus operations, the London Bus operations Such opportunities tend to be small relative to the size of our existing experienced a reduction in the rate of BSOG from April 2012, partly offset by operations, reflecting the stability in ownership of the majority of UK Bus underlying fuel costs reducing as a percentage of revenue during the year.
operators and the approach taken by the UK competition authorities.
Insurance and claims costs have reduced as we remain focussed on minimising During the year, we expanded our business further with acquisitions in Wigan, claims and as a result of reassessing the level of insurance provisions.
Lease North Manchester and Chester and Birkenhead, helping us to deliver our costs have increased as a percentage of revenue as a higher proportion of the fleet is held on operating lease and this is partly offset by a reduction in good value, reliable bus services to even more customers.
These acquisitions have all been cleared by the Office of Fair Trading.
depreciation as a proportion of revenue.
Outlook Outlook We have achieved the profit margin aspirations we set when we acquired the UK We expect government finances to remain under pressure and we do not Bus London business in October 2010.
We now aim to maintain a mid to therefore expect significant growth in concessionary or tendered revenue over upper single digit operating margin.
In the short-term, maintaining and the next year.
We expect BSOG rates to remain stable over the next year, in line improving a 9.4% margin will be challenging given the continuing strong with Government promises.
We will continue to work hard to control costs and competition for contracts in the London bus market.
Our focus will be on we aim to deliver sufficient growth in commercial revenue to offset expected maintaining tight control of costs while seeking to bid competitively for increases in costs and the non-recurrence of the 2012 13 profit contribution contracts.
Our commercial bus fares have recently been increased by an average of around 3.5% and this should contribute to the continued growth in commercial revenue.
3 North America Financial performance Our bus operations in the UK have shown their strength in recent times.
They The financial performance of the North America division for the year ended have continued to perform well during weak macroeconomic conditions and a 30 April 2013 is summarised below: period of downward pressure on Government spending.
As conditions improve, Year to 30 April 2013 2012 Change we believe the division is well placed to grow further by capitalising on rising US$m US$m % motoring costs, worsening road traffic congestion, and public policy and consumer opinion focused on greener lifestyles.
2 UK Bus London Operating margin 3.3% 6.3% 300 bp Financial performance The significant increase in revenue reflects the July 2012 acquisition of The financial performance of the UK Bus London division for the year ended businesses explained below and further growth in like-for-like revenue, 30 April 2013 is summarised below: analysed as follows: Year to 30 April 2013 2012 Year to 30 April 2013 2012 Change m m Change US$m US$m % Revenue 232.7 230.5 1.0% Megabus 152.8 115.9 31.8% Operating profit 21.9 13.5 62.2% Scheduled service and commuter 214.4 208.9 2.6% Operating margin 9.4% 5.9% 350bp Charter 80.1 79.3 1.0% Sightseeing and tour 21.5 21.1 1.9% The number of contracts being operated by us for Transport for London at Contract 42.3 43.7 3.2 % 30 April 2013 was consistent with the previous year at 81.
During the year, we School bus 6.9 7.0 1.4 % lost two contracts on re-tender but won nine new contracts and will begin to benefit from these wins in the year ahead.
Like-for-like revenue 518.0 475.9 8.8% We acquired the UK Bus London business in October 2010 and in our interim The timing of Easter meant that revenue growth at megabus.
com in the results report for the six months ended 31 October 2010, we stated in respect month of April 2013 was below the growth rate of the preceding relevant of the business that our long-term aspirations are for mid to upper singlemonths.
com remains the fastest growing part of the digit operating margins and we are confident that we can apply our expertise North American business, reflecting further strong revenue and passenger in managing UK bus businesses to create value from a turnaround situation.
volume growth on our existing networks as well as the revenue from the We have achieved those aspirations during the year ended 30 April 2013, networks launched in Texas and California during the year.
transforming what was a loss-making business in 2010 into one that reported The operating profit of the North America division fell short of the an operating margin of 9.4%.
expectations we set at the start of the financial year, albeit this shortfall was Although the competitive environment remains challenging, we are keeping more than offset by the financial performance of other parts of the Group such tight control of costs to ensure we can compete effectively for contracts.
that overall adjusted earnings per share exceeded expectations.
As we The financial effect of the positive steps taken to turnaround the business and continued to quickly expand megabus.
com and grow its market share, we reduce unit staff costs and other costs is reflected in the improvement in experienced some growing pains.
In the year, profit at megabus.
com was operating margin, which was built up as follows: adversely affected by: page 16 | Stagecoach Group plc 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 17 Canada as we continue to succeed in attracting people out of their cars.
Since As expected, losses from newer services, including the new Texas and launching in May 2006, we have grown to cover more than 100 locations.
com services tend to be loss making for Megabus.
com has also created more than 1,000 jobs in North America since a period of time before profitability improves as demand and yields 2006 and has boosted tourism by bringing millions of visitors to key increase.
com brand has also been recognised as the Unusually severe weather conditions.
For example, from January to March greenest operator in the bus industry by the United Motorcoach Association.
com trips due to bad weather compared During the 2012 13 financial year, we have used the depot infrastructure of to none whatsoever from January to March 2012.
The poor weather also our acquired Coach America operations to expand our megabus.
com network had some effect on the other parts of the North America division.
more quickly and efficiently, retaining direct operational control and avoiding Substantial year-on-year price reductions by competitors on certain routes.
the need to pay a sub-contract profit margin in these locations.
We launched our Texas network in June 2012 and our California network started running Preventive measures to enhance our industry-leading safety systems, as services in December 2012. explained in our interim results report for the six months ended 31 October 2012.
We remain excited by the long-term prospects as we continue to develop the business and the megabus.
We also endorse the US Department The reduction in operating margin was built up as follows: of Transportation crackdown against illegal and unsafe motorcoach Operating margin 2011 12 6.3% companies, which we believe is in the long-term interests of passengers and Change in: high-quality operators.
Fuel costs 2.2 % Outlook Insurance and claims costs 0.9% For the year ending 30 April 2014, we aim to deliver a sizeable step up in the Other 1.7 % operating profit of North America, from driving up the financial performance Operating margin 2012 13 3.3% of megabus.
com, the full year effect on profit of the businesses acquired from Coach America in July 2012 and the non-recurrence of vehicle maintenance Unit fuel costs have risen in North America and have in part been offset by and other costs incurred in integrating the acquired business to the Group.
revenue growing faster than the rate of change in insurance and claims costs.
Unlike in recent years, we do not intend to add significant new operating Other costs have grown disproportionately to revenue reflecting start up costs mileage to the megabus.
com business and we will instead focus on for new megabus.
com routes, increased toll costs for megabus.
com services consolidating and improving the profitability of the existing megabus.
com and increases in direct tour costs as a proportion of revenue, reflecting a services, and the development of selected new products for the North change in the mix of business following the July 2012 acquisition explained American market.
We do still see significant opportunities to add operating below.
mileage to that business and intend to revisit that in due course.
We are not anticipating a significant change in the competitive environment or in Acquisitions and traditional operations competitors pricing policies over the next year.
In July 2012, we completed the acquisition of nine businesses and related The longer term prospects for the North America division are excellent, assets from Coach America for a cash consideration of around US$134m.
particularly in the growing inter-city market where the launch of Stagecoach also acquired a further 79 vehicles from Coach America for a cash megabus.
com in 2006 sparked a market transformation.
The businesses we acquired include contract, line-run, charter and sightseeing operations.
They extended our footprint into Texas, California, Georgia, Ohio, Wyoming, Nevada, Maryland and Oregon.
The integration of these businesses into our existing operations in 2.5.
4 UK Rail the United States has progressed well.
Financial performance The financial performance of the UK Rail division for the year ended 30 April Our traditional transportation business in North America is operated through 2013 is summarised below: 25 independently managed local bus carriers, who have been integral to their communities for many years.
We have achieved growth in like-for-like Year to 30 April 2013 2012 revenue over the past year, despite the impact of severe weather during the m m Change year.
In particular, we are pleased with the passenger growth on our Revenue 1,201.3 1,140.7 5.3% commuter services linking New Jersey with Manhattan.
Like-for-like revenue excluding tram 1,185.6 1,119.1 5.9% Operating profit 49.9 27.1 84.1% In March 2013, we announced an investment of more than US$20m in a fleet of 51 new greener high-specification coaches for businesses based in Operating margin 4.2% 2.4% 180bp Ohio, Wisconsin and New Jersey.
Equipped with wheelchair lifts, Wi-Fi, power outlets and a package of safety features, the coaches will all be in service by The increase in margin was built up as follows: July 2013.
Operating margin 2011 12 2.4% Our companies and employees in the North East of the United States Change in: provided transportation and other assistance to local communities at the Amounts paid to from DfT 1.9% time of the Hurricane Sandy storm in autumn 2012.
As well as assisting with Other operating income 0.8 % the evacuation, we operated emergency shuttle services on behalf of New Other 0.7% Jersey Transit and for many banks and financial services companies.
This Operating margin 2012 13 4.2% helped keep commuters moving after the storm damaged the New Jersey Transit rail system and impacted the New York City subway, the Holland Certain rail franchises are eligible to receive revenue support from the DfT tunnel between New York and New Jersey and a number of rail and bus to partly offset the extent to which actual revenue falls short of the revenue maintenance facilities.
that was forecast as part of the successful bid for the relevant franchise.
In the year ended 30 April 2012, East Midlands Trains was eligible for revenue Megabus.
com support for only the latter part of the year.
Its revenue for that year was below We have seen strong passenger growth at megabus.
com in North America the levels anticipated in the bid for that franchise and accordingly East over the past year.
In April 2013, we reached the milestone of having Midlands Trains incurred a significant operating loss in the prior year.
East completed 25 million passenger journeys across the United States and Midlands Trains was eligible for revenue support for the full term of the year Stagecoach Group plc | page 17 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 18 Operating and Financial Review ended 30 April 2013.
This returned it to profitability and the improvement in train refurbishment programme at East Midlands Trains, fully completed in summer 2012, has delivered improvements to the fleet of nearly 100 trains.
the profitability of the UK Rail Division in the year ended 30 April 2013 is largely due to that factor.
Partly offsetting the increased revenue support Customers now have access to on-board Wi-Fi and work has also started on income was an increase in the premia payments payable to Government in the delivery of free Wi-Fi at 30 key stations.
Improved mobile phone coverage accordance with the relevant franchise agreements.
on trains has been delivered through a joint initiative with Vodafone UK.
East Midlands Trains is also investing 10m to enhance stations - with major Other operating income fell because of a number of one-off sources of station improvement schemes completed at Loughborough, Leicester and income in the previous year.
Derby - and we have installed 30 new collection-only ticket machines at key stations.
Smartcard technology is also being rolled out across the network, Rail franchising now covering around 30 stations.
This combined investment has helped East There have been several significant developments during the year affecting Midlands Trains to achieve the best scores in the country for passenger the UK rail franchising market in general and Stagecoachs rail interests satisfaction with stations.
While some of these developments have resulted in a delay to the South West Trains has recently completed a major 35m station original planned franchising timetable, we believe the collective focus of all improvement programme, providing significantly better facilities for stakeholders with an interest in the future of the UK rail network can deliver passengers.
Further work is also underway under the National Station an improved franchising model that is in the long-term interests of Improvement Programme at other key locations.
Investment in our train fleet passengers, taxpayers and investors.
at South West Trains includes a 60m upgrade of trains to improve reliability, In August 2012, the DfT confirmed that East Midlands Trains had fulfilled the deliver environmental benefits and make the fleet fully accessible for disabled criteria to ensure the automatic extension of its franchise, as expected, customers.
Work is well underway on the delivery of more than 100 extra through to April 2015.
Similar confirmation was received from the DfT in carriages between this summer and the end of 2013.
More than 130 November 2012 that South West Trains had met the criteria for its franchise platforms are being extended to accommodate longer trains.
Work is also to be automatically extended to February 2017. being carried out to bring Platform 20 at the former Waterloo International station back into use for the first time in over five years.
We have also The DfT made a significant announcement in March 2013, setting out its invested in measures to improve passenger information, including social plans, timetable and investment programme for UK rail franchising following media where South West Trains has one of the UK rail industrys most popular the publication of the results of two major independent rail reviews.
The DfT Twitter feeds with more than 40,000 followers.
announcement included planned extensions or direct award contracts in relation to the three franchises in which Stagecoach has an involvement: Looking ahead, our passengers at South West Trains and East Midlands Trains will benefit from Network Rails strategic investment programme for 2014 to The Stagecoach South Western Trains franchise, scheduled to run until 2019 Control Period 5.
More than 1 billion will be spent on signalling, February 2017, is to be extended to April 2019, the end of Network Rails power supply and capacity improvements on the South West Trains network.
We are working closely with the DfT and Network Rail to deliver extra The East Midlands Trains franchise, scheduled to run until April 2015, is to capacity.
Initial discussions have taken place with the DfT and Network Rail be extended to October 2017. around procuring extra trains and bringing the remaining Waterloo International platforms back into use.
Combined with associated The West Coast franchise, operated by our joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, infrastructure schemes, these measures could deliver up to 35% extra capacity and which was last year extended to November 2014, is now planned to by the end of 2024.
Long-term plans for the East Midlands route include run to April 2017. electrification of the Midland Main line, platform extensions and line We are pleased the Government has brought greater clarity and confidence in remodelling work.
the future of UK rail and we have had initial discussions with the DfT about its planned extensions on franchises in which we have an interest.
Despite the Efficiency and cost control difficulties of the past year, the core franchising model works for passengers, In April 2012, South West Trains and Network Rail announced the formation Government and investors.
It has delivered record passenger growth, huge of a ground-breaking alliance under a single management team to deliver investment in trains and stations and a more efficient system for taxpayers.
It better and more efficient rail services in the south and south-west of is critical the momentum is maintained, with the delivery of a flow of England.
We have improved the management of the railway infrastructure franchise competitions to maintain investor confidence.
We will continue to and the train service.
The efficiency of track maintenance work has increased work closely with the DfT and its newly established Franchise Advisory Panel by 25%, while delay minutes per incident have reduced by 11%.
In the shortto help deliver an improved franchising system.
term, we do not expect to realise significant financial savings, but we Stagecoach Group will continue to bid for rail franchise opportunities we continue to see opportunities for longer term financial savings as we develop believe can add shareholder value.
The Thameslink franchise competition has the Alliance further.
We are exploring how we can support Network Rail to resumed and the Group is progressing its bid.
An invitation to tender will be achieve savings from its capital investment programme and deliver financial issued to existing shortlisted bidders in September 2013, with the franchise benefits to both South West Trains and Network Rail.
expected to be awarded by May 2014.
The Group is also shortlisted for the The Office of Rail Regulation reported last year that East Midlands Trains and Docklands Light Railway franchise, which is being awarded by Transport for South West Trains were both in the list of only four train operating companies London.
Along with our partner, Virgin, we are also considering closely the whose costs were consistently on or below the average for three measures opportunities in the InterCity East Coast franchise competition, the first of used to compare costs across different UK train operators.
the contracts to be tendered under the DfT's new franchising model.
In January 2013, the DfT cancelled the competition for a new Great Western Light rail rail franchise, for which the Group was shortlisted.
We were disappointed by Sheffield Supertram has had another strong year, carrying more than 14 this decision, but we look forward to the franchise being re-tendered in due million customers.
The DfT has confirmed that a two-year tram train pilot will course.
run from 2015, delivering a new public transport link between Sheffield and Rotherham.
Sheffield Supertram will operate the new trams once the project, Investment in trains, stations and customer service funded by the DfT and South Yorkshire Passenger Transport Executive Passengers are continuing to benefit from an ongoing programme of SYPTE, is completed.
Sheffield Supertram has also reached agreement investment to deliver improvements in every area of our business.
A 30m with SYPTE for a multi-million pound investment programme to replace page 18 | Stagecoach Group plc 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 19 tram rails across the network.
The five-year project, which starts this summer, franchising more widely.
VRG has recovered the majority of the costs it will protect the future efficient operation of tram services in Sheffield.
incurred in bidding for the long-term West Coast rail franchise.
The Groups share of these refunds has been recorded as exceptional income.
The Outlook independent Laidlaw report into the way the West Coast franchise While few associated with the UK Rail industry would have wanted to see the competition was managed has confirmed our long-standing concerns about failures in the franchising system that have emerged over the last year, we the process, technical failures and inconsistencies in how bids were treated.
now see substantial opportunities ahead: Nevertheless, we remain clear that VRGs bid was both robust and deliverable.
We will work with the DfT and as appropriate, Virgin, to agree a sensible In December 2012, VRG agreed a contract with the DfT for the continued balance of risk and reward on the three franchises with which we are operation of the West Coast rail franchise until November 2014.
Under the agreement, VRG initially earns a fee equivalent to 1% of revenue with the DfT currently involved.
Together, the planned extensions should secure a taking the risk that revenue and or costs differ from those expected.
further nine franchise years of earnings and cash flows compared to where However, VRG and the DfT have also agreed to seek to negotiate revised we were a year ago over two more years at each of South West Trains and commercial terms that would see VRG take greater revenue and cost risk for East Midlands Trains, and almost five more years at West Coast Trains.
the period to April 2017 for a commensurate financial return.
The planned extension to the South West Trains franchise aligns the VRG has achieved further passenger volume growth during the past year and franchise end date with that of Network Rails next five-year regulatory is continuing to invest in improvements at stations and on board its trains.
control period, providing a great opportunity to fully develop the alliance Discussions have taken place with the DfT around further opportunities to between South West Trains and Network Rail with a view to proving the improve services and a major television marketing campaign was launched in concept as a model for future rail franchises.
VRG remains a significant net financial contributor to the DfT.
We are already shortlisted for two other rail opportunities Thameslink and VRG remains concerned at the sustained poor performance by Network Rail Docklands Light Railway, both franchises that are due to start in 2014 with on the West Coast mainline.
The Office of Rail Regulation has also criticised the chance to bid for others such as East Coast.
Network Rail for failing to meet punctuality targets on long-distance routes We are encouraged by the progress the DfT is making on a new basis for in general.
Punctuality on West Coast has suffered in recent months and UK rail franchising.
We are hopeful that for future franchises, there will be Network Rail has failed to meet most of its targets over the last two years.
a more appropriate allocation of risk between the DfT and train operators This has deterred some passengers from travelling and directly affected and the prospect of reasonable financial returns for operators accepting customers' experience and perception of rail travel.
As a result, VRG risks that they have some ability to manage.
confirmed in June 2013 that it is preparing enforcement action against Notwithstanding that we expect to incur higher rail bid costs in the year Network Rail for breach of contract.
ending 30 April 2014, our UK Rail Division should continue to deliver a VRG has operated the West Coast rail franchise since 1997, transforming it satisfactory profit and the availability of revenue support from the DfT means from a heavily loss-making operation into one that makes significant that short-term profit is less exposed to variations in revenue.
Passenger journeys have more than doubled since 2005 to over 30 million a year and the franchise has the highest customer satisfaction of any major long distance operator.
5 Joint Ventures bidding for the long-term franchise under an improved process when it is re- 2.5.
5.1 Virgin Rail Group tendered in due course.
Financial performance The financial performance of the Groups Virgin Rail joint venture for the year 2.5.
5.2 Twin America ended 30 April 2013 is summarised below: Financial performance Year to 30 April 2013 2012 The financial performance of the Groups Twin America joint venture for the 49% share m m Change year ended 30 April 2013 is summarised below: Revenue 441.5 429.5 2.8% Year to 30 April 2013 2012 Like-for-like revenue 440.9 425.8 3.5% 60% share US$m US$m Change Operating profit 12.8 21.5 40.5 % Revenue 88.7 80.6 10.0% Net finance income 0.2 0.3 33.3 % Operating profit 19.3 16.2 19.1% Taxation 3.2 5.9 45.8 % Taxation 0.8 0.8 Profit after tax 9.8 15.9 38.4 % Profit after tax 18.5 15.4 20.1% Operating margin 2.9% 5.0% 210 bp Operating margin 21.8% 20.1% 170bp Virgin Rail Group VRG operated the West Coast rail franchise under an Although the business was affected by the severe storms in New York in eight-month extension from April 2012 until 8 December 2012.
During this autumn and winter 2012 13, which resulted in it suspending its New York time, VRG successfully delivered services for the period of the London 2012 sightseeing services for several days, Twin America grew profit in the year Olympics and managed the introduction of more than 100 new Pendolino ended 30 April 2013 by continuing to offer good-value fares and high train carriages, which will increase standard class capacity by more than 40%.
Stagecoach Groups share of VRG's profit after tax for the extension period In December 2012, the United States Department of Justice DoJ and the reflects the relatively low revenue risk.
Attorney General of the State of New York NYAG initiated legal In August 2012, the DfT announced that VRG had not been awarded the new proceedings against Twin America, Stagecoach subsidiaries and others West Coast Trains rail franchise.
VRG subsequently commenced Court alleging that the formation of Twin America in 2009 was anticompetitive.
We proceedings seeking a review of the decision by the DfT to award the contract fundamentally disagree with their allegations and their assessment of the to a subsidiary of FirstGroup plc.
In October 2012, the DfT announced that joint venture.
Several private actions have also been filed in relation to this the competition for the West Coast franchise had been cancelled and matter.
We remain in dialogue with the DoJ and the NYAG regarding the Twin launched two independent reviews into both the specific franchise and rail America joint venture and we are seeking to reach a settlement of the Stagecoach Group plc | page 19 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 20 Operating and Financial Review matters raised.
We will, however, take action as necessary to defend our A 0.1m pre-tax gain in respect of adjustments to past acquisitions and position and have recorded an exceptional loss for the estimated legal costs disposals is also reported within non-operating exceptional items.
3 Net finance costs Net finance costs for the year ended 30 April 2013 were 37.4m 2012: 2.5.
5.3 Scottish Citylink 34.7m and can be further analysed as follows: The Scottish Citylink joint venture, operated in partnership with international Year to 30 April 2013 2012 transport group ComfortDelGro, has continued to deliver good revenue m m growth as a result of its investment in new products and expanded services.
Scotlands leading coach operator introduced a number of timetable Finance costs enhancements for passengers during the year, offering more direct journeys Interest payable and other facility costs on bank loans, to key locations such as Edinburgh and Aberdeen.
loan notes, overdrafts and trade finance 6.2 5.6 Citylink Gold, the expresss luxury coach service linking Glasgow with Hire purchase and finance lease interest payable 5.2 6.2 Aberdeen and Inverness, has grown strongly and this summer see the launch Interest payable and other finance costs on bonds 26.2 23.7 of a major network of Megabus Gold overnight sleepercoach services linking Unwinding of discount on provisions 3.9 2.7 London with 11 locations in Scotland.
The specially-designed vehicles have a 41.5 38.2 clever interior layout that allows the leather seats on daytime services to be converted into beds on overnight trips.
The service which offers free Wi-Fi, free refreshments and at-seat service builds on the success of the pilot Finance income sleepercoach services running between Glasgow and London.
Interest receivable on cash 2.5 2.0 Effect of interest rate swaps 1.6 1.5 4.1 3.5 2.6 Other financial matters 2.6.
1 Depreciation and intangible asset expenses 37.4 34.7 Earnings from continuing operations before interest, taxation, depreciation, intangible asset expenses and exceptional items pre-exceptional EBITDA 2.6.
Pre-exceptional EBITDA can be The effective tax rate for the year ended 30 April 2013, excluding exceptional reconciled to the condensed financial statements as follows: items, was 21.7% 2012: 22.9%.
The effective rate is lower than the standard rate of UK corporation tax for the year of 23.9% due primarily to the Year to 30 April 2013 2012 utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses and the impact of the m m reduction in the rate at which deferred tax is calculated following the Total operating profit before reduction in the corporation tax rate from 24% to 23%.
The tax charge for intangible asset expenses and continuing operations can be analysed as follows: exceptional items 256.3 237.2 Depreciation 110.0 99.9 Year to 30 April 2013 Pre-tax profit Tax Rate Add back joint venture m m % finance income & tax 4.0 6.8 Excluding intangible asset expenses 223.1 49.7 22.3% and exceptional items Pre-exceptional EBITDA 370.3 343.9 Intangible asset expenses 16.1 4.7 29.2% The income statement charge for intangible assets increased from 12.3m to 207.0 45.0 21.7% 16.1m principally due to amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions in the year ended 30 April 2013.
Of the charge, 1.0m 2012: 3.2m Exceptional items 5.7 2.5 43.9% related to joint ventures.
201.3 42.5 21.1% Reclassify joint venture taxation for 2.6.
2 Exceptional items reporting purposes 5.5 5.5 The following exceptional items were recognised in the year ended 30 April Reported in income statement 195.8 37.0 18.9% 2013: Virgin Rail Group received 11.3m from the DfT during the year ended 30 April 2013 in respect of the refund of costs incurred on bidding for a new 2.6.
5 Fuel Costs long-term West Coast rail franchise as described earlier in the section The Groups operations as at 30 April 2013 consume approximately 381.5m headed Virgin Rail Group.
The Groups 5.5m share of this is included litres of diesel fuel per annum.
As a result, the Groups profit is exposed to within the share of profit of joint ventures as is the related 1.3m tax movements in the underlying price of fuel.
The Groups fuel costs include the charge in respect of the refund.
costs of delivery and duty as well as the costs of the underlying product.
Accordingly, not all of the cost varies with movements in oil prices.
The share of profit of joint ventures also includes a pre-tax charge of 9.0m for the share of legal costs incurred by Twin America in the year The proportion of the Groups projected fuel usage that is now hedged using ended 30 April 2013 and an estimate of further legal costs that it expects fuel swaps is as follows: to incur in relation to its defence of the legal proceedings described earlier Year ending 30 April 2014 2015 2016 2017 in the section headed Twin America.
Total Group 83% 39% 3% 1% 2.3m of pre-tax costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of businesses during the year ended 30 April 2013 are reported within nonoperating exceptional items.
The Group has no fuel hedges in place for periods beyond 30 April 2017. page 20 | Stagecoach Group plc 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 21 The net impact of purchases of property, plant and equipment for the year on 2.6.
This primarily related to Net cash from operating activities before tax for the year ended 30 April 2013 expenditure on passenger service vehicles, and comprised cash outflows of was 329.2m 2012: 279.2m and can be further analysed as follows: 181.9m 2012: 176.1m and new hire purchase and finance lease debt of Year to 30 April 2013 2012 26.8m 2012: 35.3m.
In addition, 53.4 2012: 65.4m cash was m m received from disposals of property, plant and equipment.
EBITDA of Group companies before exceptional items 343.5 309.5 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 2.0 0.6 2.6.
9 Liquidity Equity-settled share based payment expense 2.6 3.0 Working capital movements 27.9 0.2 There is no change in the Groups financial strategy following the change of Net interest paid 35.2 30.8 Finance Director.
The Groups financial position remains strong and is Dividends from joint ventures 24.9 25.8 evidenced by: Net cash from operating activities before The ratio of net debt at 30 April 2013 to pre-exceptional EBITDA for the excess pension contributions 365.7 307.9 year ended 30 April 2013 was 1.5 times 2012: 1.5 times.
Despite Pension contributions in excess of pension costs 36.5 28.7 significant investment in capital expenditure and acquiring businesses in the year, the ratio has remained stable.
Net cash flows from operating activities before taxation 329.2 279.2 Pre-exceptional EBITDA for the year ended 30 April 2013 was 10.0 times The net working capital inflow for the year ended 30 April 2013 of 27.9m 2012: 10.0 times net finance charges including joint venture net finance 2012: outflow of 0.2m was better than previously expected, principally due income.
to active management of working capital to maximise cash conversion.
Undrawn, committed bank facilities of 303.8m at 30 April 2013 2012: Net cash from operating activities before tax was 329.2m 2012: 279.2m 265.3m were available to be drawn as bank loans with further amounts and after tax was 313.1m 2012: 257.5m.
Net cash outflows from available only for non-cash utilisation.
In addition, the Group continues to investing activities were 241.1m 2012: 75.6m, which included 106.7m have available asset finance lines.
2012: 2.3m in relation to the acquisition of businesses and net cash used The three main credit rating agencies continue to assign investment grade in financing activities was 52.4m 2012: 299.4m, which in the prior year credit ratings to the Group.
includes the part of the return of cash to shareholders that was funded from The Groups main bank facilities are committed through to 2016. excess cash.
During the year, we issued US$150m of 10-year Notes to US investors, re- 2.6.
7 Return of cash financing the acquisitions from Coach America while diversifying the Groups sources of finance and extending the average maturity of its debt.
A return of cash to shareholders of approximately 340m was completed in October 2011.
This equated to 47p per ordinary share.
The return of cash was approved by shareholders at a general meeting on 7 October 2011.
10 Capital expenditure 27 to the consolidated financial statements includes further information on Additions to property, plant and equipment for the year were: the return of cash.
8 Net debt UK Bus regional operations 90.0 89.9 Net debt as analysed in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements UK Bus London 13.3 32.3 increased from 523.8m at 30 April 2012 to 538.0m at 30 April 2013, North America 68.3 50.0 primarily due to the 107.0m acquisition of businesses in the year being UK Rail 33.7 42.4 largely offset by continued strong cash generation.
The Groups net debt at Other 0.4 0.1 30 April 2013 is further analysed below: 205.7 214.7 Fixed Floating Total rate rate The differences between the amounts shown above and the impact of capital m m m expenditure on net debt arose from movements in fixed asset deposits and Unrestricted cash 46.4 46.4 creditors.
Cash held within train operating companies 196.6 196.6 2.6.
11 Net liabilities Restricted cash 19.2 19.2 Net liabilities at 30 April 2013 were 23.8m 2012: 57.3m with the change Total cash and cash equivalents 262.2 262.2 primarily reflecting the actuarial losses on Group defined benefit pension US Notes 96.0 96.0 schemes of 57.2m after tax and after-tax movements on Group cash flow Sterling bond 398.9 398.9 hedges of 22.6m, more than offset by strong results for the year.
Sterling hire purchase and finance leases 6.2 102.5 108.7 US dollar hire purchase and 2.6.
12 Retirement benefits finance leases 54.7 54.7 The reported net liabilities of 23.8m 2012: 57.3m that are shown on the Loan notes 20.5 20.5 consolidated balance sheet are after taking account of net pre-tax retirement Bank loans 121.4 121.4 benefit liabilities of 157.8m 2012 restated: 122.1m, and associated Net debt 459.8 78.2 538.0 deferred tax assets of 36.3m 2012: 29.8m.
The split between fixed and floating rate debt shown above takes account of The Group recognised pre-tax actuarial losses of 72.1m in the year ended 30 the effect of interest rate swaps in place as at 30 April 2013.
April 2013 2012: 93.7m on Group defined benefit schemes.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 21 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 22 Operating and Financial Review 2.6.
15 Critical accounting policies and estimates The Groups material accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the The Group regards its capital as comprising its equity, cash, gross debt and consolidated financial statements.
As at 30 April 2013, the Groups capital comprised: Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with As at 30 April 2013 2012 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the m m European Union requires directors to make estimates and assumptions that Market value of ordinary shares in issue 1,771.5 1,428.7 affect the reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
Actual outcomes could differ from those estimated.
The Cash 262.2 241.0 Directors believe that the accounting policies and estimation techniques Gross debt 800.2 764.8 discussed below represent those that require the greatest exercise of Net debt see section 2.6.
The Directors have used their best judgement in determining the estimates and assumptions used in these areas but a different set of The Group manages its capital centrally.
Its objective in managing capital is to judgements could result in material changes to the Group's reported financial optimise the returns to its shareholders whilst safeguarding the Groups performance and or financial position.
The discussion below should be read in ability to continue as a going concern and as such its ability to continue to conjunction with the full statement of accounting policies.
generate returns for its shareholders.
The Group also takes account of the interests of other stakeholders when making decisions on its capital structure.
Taxation The capital structure of the Group is kept under regular review and will be The Groups tax charge is based on the pre-tax profit for the year and tax rates adjusted from time to time to take account of changes in the size or structure in force.
Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment to be made of the of the Group, economic developments and other changes in the Groups risk potential tax consequences of certain items that will only be resolved when profile.
The Group will adjust its capital structure from time to time by any of agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
Assessment of the likely outcome is the following: issue of new shares, dividends, return of value to shareholders based on historical experience, professional advice from external advisors, and and borrowing repayment of debt.
There are a number of factors that the the current status of any judgmental issues.
However, the final tax cost to the Group considers in evaluating capital structure.
The Directors principal focus Group may differ from the estimates.
is on maintaining an investment grade credit rating.
As well as considering the measures applied by credit rating agencies, the other principal ratios that Acquired customer contracts and onerous contracts the Directors consider are 1 Net Debt to EBITDA, 2 EBITDA to interest and The Group has a number of contractual commitments most significantly in 3 Net Debt to market capitalisation.
It is a matter of judgement as to what respect of its rail franchises and its London bus business.
In certain the optimal levels are for these ratios.
circumstances, IFRS requires a provision to be recorded for a contract that is onerous or when acquired as part of a business combination, that is unfavourable to market terms.
A contract is considered onerous where it is 2.6.
14 Treasury policies and objectives probable that the future economic benefits to be derived from the contract Risk management is carried out by a treasury committee and a central are less than the unavoidable costs under the contract.
Determining the treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the amount of any contract provision necessitates forecasting future cash flows Board.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in coand applying an appropriate discount rate to determine a net present value.
operation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written There is uncertainty over future cash flows.
Estimates of cash flows are principles for overall treasury risk management, as well as written policies consistent with managements plans and forecasts.
The estimate of future covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit cash flows and the discount rate involves a significant degree of judgment.
risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investing excess liquidity.
Actual results can differ from those assumed and there can be no absolute The funding policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of bank, lease assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
and hire purchase debt, capital markets issues and cash generated by the business.
Goodwill and impairment See note 26 to the consolidated financial statements, for details of In certain circumstances, IFRS requires property, plant, equipment and the Groups exposure to financial risks: intangible assets to be reviewed for impairment.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the Groups treasury risk management: the net present value of the expected future cash flows of the relevant cash the Groups management of interest rate risk: generating unit CGU or net realisable value, if higher.
The discount rate the Groups fuel hedging: applied in determining the present value of future cash flows is based on the Groups estimated weighted average cost of capital with appropriate the Groups management of foreign currency risk: and adjustments made to reflect the specific risks associated with the CGU.
the Groups management of credit risk.
Estimates of cash flows are consistent with managements plans and forecasts.
The estimation of future cash flows and the discount rate involves a significant Major financing transactions degree of judgement.
Actual results can differ from those assumed and there During the year, the Group entered into various hire purchase and finance can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
lease arrangements for new assets as described in note 30 d to the consolidated financial statements.
Insurance The following new financing arrangements were put in place during the year The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee ended 30 April 2013 and subsequently: incidents.
The Group protects against the cost of such claims through third party insurance policies.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of In October 2012, US$150m of 4.36% US Private Placement notes were the excess or deductible on insurance policies.
Provision is made for the issued which mature in October 2022. estimated cost to the Group net of insurance recoveries to settle claims for In February 2013, two new one-year rail bonding arrangements of c. 73m incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The estimation of the and c. 8m were entered into to replace two arrangements that were due balance sheet insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected to expire in March 2013. settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that The Group sold vehicles to banks during the year ended 30 April 2013 for will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date 17.1m and leased them back on operating leases.
but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
The eventual In May 2013, a new c. 31m three-year rail bonding arrangement was settlements on such claims may differ from the amounts provided for at the agreed to replace an arrangement that was due to expire in November balance sheet date.
This is of greater risk in younger operations with a 2013. shorter claims history from which to make informed estimates of provisions.
page 22 | Stagecoach Group plc 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 23 Pensions the following link: http: www.
This section includes a just small number of examples of our work to demonstrate The determination of the Groups pension benefit obligation and expense for the steps we are taking to meet our responsibilities.
defined benefit pension plans is dependent on the selection by the Directors of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts.
Those Stagecoach Group plays a vital role within communities in the UK and North assumptions include the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on America, providing crucial public transport services and significant plan assets, annual rate of increase in future salary levels and mortality rates.
People and partnerships are central to our A portion of the plan assets is invested in equity securities.
Equity markets success and our focus is on continuing to grow our business in a sustainable have experienced volatility, which has affected the value of the pension plan way, enhancing the communities in which we operate, delivering value to our assets.
This volatility may make it difficult to estimate the long-term rate of shareholders and playing our part in meeting the global challenge of climate return on plan assets.
The Directors assumptions are based on actual change.
historical experience and external data.
While we believe that the The Group is consistently ranked highly against the other major transport assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or groups in the UK in comparative studies examining social, environmental and significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the pension ethical policies and performance.
Stagecoach has achieved the FTSE4Good obligation and future expense global corporate responsibility standard for the 12th consecutive year.
Constituents in the FTSE4Good Index Series have been independently Property, plant and equipment assessed as meeting stringent environmental, social and governance criteria.
Property, plant and equipment, other than land, are depreciated on a straightline basis to write off the cost or valuation less estimated residual value of Stagecoach is the highest rated listed public transport group for carbon each asset over their estimated useful lives.
Useful lives are estimated based disclosure, according to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP FTSE 350 on a number of factors, including the expected usage of the asset, expected Climate Change Report 2012, which looks at how companies are measuring deterioration and technological obsolescence.
If another depreciation and disclosing the impact of their businesses.
In addition, figures compiled as method for example, reducing balance was used or different useful lives or part of the Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy residual values were applied, this could have a material effect on the Groups Efficiency Scheme show that Stagecoach Group is among the top 10% of depreciation charge and net profit.
large companies in the UK for its performance in reducing the carbon emissions from its business.
Stagecoach was ranked 157th out of nearly 2,100 Rail contractual positions organisations covered by the scheme, ahead of many leading brands and The UK Rail industry is subject to a complex matrix of contractual organisations and jumping 142 places from our creditable position of 299th relationships.
The Groups train operating companies are party to contractual in 2010 11. relationships with, amongst others, the DfT, Network Rail and rolling stock We have consistently been rated well ahead of our bus and rail group peers in lessors.
The nature of these contracts is such that there can be uncertainty Management Todays annual review of Britains top companies.
Stagecoach and or disagreement as to amounts receivable or payable by the Group in was voted the top public transport group in the Britains Most Admired accordance with the contracts.
The Group makes estimates of the amounts Companies 2012 survey.
receivable or payable taking account of the available, relevant information.
The way we look after our customers has also been highlighted in the results Actual outcomes can differ from the estimates made by the Group and there of independent research.
In March 2013, a Passenger Focus survey showed can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions made by the Group will that Stagecoach bus passengers were more satisfied than customers using hold true.
other major bus operators in the UK.
Our sustainability strategy focuses on a number of specific key areas: 2.7 Current trading and outlook Our people and our customers The Group has made a good start to its financial year ending 30 April 2014 Safety and security and overall trading is in line with our expectations.
Accessibility and affordability We believe the public transport market has long-term fundamental strengths Environmental stewardship and performance and there is a positive outlook in the markets in which we operate.
The Building community relationships private sector has transformed bus and rail travel in recent decades, reducing costs for taxpayers and making a huge positive contribution to our economy, Corporate governance our communities and our environment, even in challenging economic times.
Many stakeholders are involved in the success of our business and we work Stagecoach has secured a leading position in a range of growing markets in hard to maintain and build strong relationships with the organisations and the UK and North America.
Rising road congestion, increasing environmental people we work with.
awareness and higher car operating costs are all positive drivers for further During the past year we have implemented further measures to improve our organic growth through modal shift from the car.
contribution to many of the above areas.
The information below provides Our strong track-record of innovation can deliver further profitable growth in just a few highlights of our commitment in action.
the commercial, deregulated bus and coach market in the UK and North America.
We are helping government to deliver a new, improved franchise 2.8.
1 Code of Business Conduct model and are optimistic about the future of the UK rail market.
Stagecoach Group has a set of core values and policies across a number of Our overall emphasis remains on providing safe, reliable, high quality, good areas of our business.
These are the values and principles that underpin the value bus, train and tram services, which in turn we believe can generate way we do business and they apply to every director and employee at all of significant returns for our shareholders.
our companies within the Group.
The Board of Directors remains committed to ensuring the correct processes, 2.8 Sustainability controls, governance and culture exists to support the maintenance of these values and behaviours.
Sustainable growth and responsible business are at the heart of what we do day in, day out.
It is a key part of our Group ethos, from the principles that Our Group Code of Conduct sets out these key principles and provides underpin our business to the way we support our employees and the steps we practical examples and guidance to help shape employees corporate take to engage with our stakeholders.
It includes information on the Groups anti-corruption policy and We have published separate documents setting out our sustainability strategy programme, which is supported by the Board of Directors and overseen by and our approach to corporate social responsibility.
These documents and the Company Secretary.
The Board of Directors does not tolerate bribery or comprehensive information on our initiatives can be found on our website at corruption and the risk of bribery and corruption is assessed periodically.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 23 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 24 Operating and Financial Review The Code of Conduct is subject to periodic review by the Group Compliance this area of the business and monitors a range of performance indicators, Committee and the Audit Committee.
We are currently developing updated reporting to the Board on these matters.
We expect our suppliers and and expanded guidance for our employees on the rapidly expanding and contractors to have the same commitment as our employees to complying important area of social media.
Regular communications are issued to with appropriate health and safety regulations.
remind our people of the importance of living up to the Groups values.
At our UK Bus businesses we have in place an engineering regime which is A copy of our Code of Conduct can be found at the following link: stricter than legally required.
This is bolstered by a robust rolling programme of operational and engineering audits at our depots and garages.
com media Files S Stagecoachreceive comprehensive training, and refresher training, in the area of health Group Attachments media  codeand safety and are encouraged to report any concerns.
pdf meeting regulations around noise, vibration, display screen equipment and Working Time Directive regulations.
Performance is reviewed at operating 2.8.
2 Supporting and recognising our people company level, in addition to audits and review of civil liabilities claims to Our business is built on our people and we have a diverse, high-quality team help address policy and working procedures.
of around 36,000 employees across the Group.
By investing in their skills Our managers also regularly contribute to health and safety lessons at local and talent, we can better serve our customers.
schools within their communities, providing safety advice and information The Group makes a major commitment each year to employee training and to assist young people when using public transport.
The vast majority of our development.
Our UK Bus division has one of the best vocational training buses are fitted with CCTV for the safety of our drivers and our customers, programmes of any bus operator, backed up by mentoring programmes and and we liaise closely with police where required on promoting road safety other initiatives to recruit and retain staff.
In UK Rail, our initiatives include a and dealing with local issues.
In addition, our local managers often work centralised recruitment centre, operations training facility, open learning alongside local authority officials in providing guidance on local transport programmes, customer service academy, support for managers and decisions, for example around bus station safety or road layout options.
Our North America business has a year, Stagecoach worked with Cycle Training UK CTUK to develop the UKs centralised driver training school, which has improved the quality and first in-house cycle awareness programme, which aims to help bus drivers consistency of training.
We have also created a  minimise the risk around sharing road space with cyclists.
At our UK rail operations, we continue to work closely with industry partners We also believe it is vital that we contribute to the health and well-being of and the Samaritans on measures to reduce the level of suicides on rail our people.
At our UK Bus division, employees are offered free eye tests networks.
There are now 103 stations on the South West Trains-Network through a partnership arrangement with Tesco Opticians.
Many of our Rail Alliance network that have Secure Station status, awarded by the British businesses run staff wellness days during which staff can obtain a Transport Police, as well as 36 stations on East Midlands Trains which have confidential and independent health assessment.
More than 1,500 of achieved the same mark.
East Midlands Trains also works closely with the Stagecoachs bus drivers and support staff in the UK have taken, advantage British Transport Police to identify trends in crime data, thereby allowing of the companys cycle to work scheme.
This allows them to pay for a new resources to be focused on risk areas.
bike through monthly pre-tax installments from their salary.
We also have a In North America, we have a regular safety programme focusing on key comprehensive occupational health programme at our UK Bus division, issues such as pedestrian awareness, lane changing, speed, driver fatigue, carrying out more than 4,300 assessments each year, and all managers and sleep management.
Our computer-based screening system determines receive training on stress management and awareness.
whether candidates for driving positions can progress to our training school.
In 2012, Stagecoachs East Midlands Trains and South West Trains franchises Our safety executives in the United States have assisted with a number of both achieved Investors in People status for their work to develop federal policy reviews covering bus industry regulation, including areas such employees and improve performance through effective management.
Both as hours of service and compliance enforcement.
At our operations in rail companies have also been awarded five stars by the British Quality Canada, we can track and monitor speed, location, departures and hard Foundation in the Recognised for Excellence programme.
The South West stops through recent WebTech satellite fleet management enhancements.
Trains-Network Rail Alliance introduced a screening programme this year in Night drivers also use sleep prevention devices called Nap Zappers to association with charity Beating Bowel Cancer for employees aged between further protect the safety of our customers.
East Midlands Trains offers staff a free third-party helpline they can use to seek advice if they dont feel they can turn to anyone at home or 2.8.
4 Accessible and affordable travel at work.
Making travel more accessible and more affordable is central to driving We believe it is important to recognise the excellent work our employees do modal shift from the private car to greener, smarter public transport.
Stagecoach has twice been independently confirmed as Britains best value across our operations in the UK and North America.
Our Stagecoach Champions Awards annually reward excellence in the areas of safety, bus operator.
Our own internal study has revealed that commuters could save an average of 150 by taking the bus instead of commuting by car.
community, health, customer service, environment and innovation.
This year, Stagecoach became the first UK bus operator to introduce a long- 2.8.
3 Promoting safety term nationwide discounted travel scheme for jobseekers.
The initiative Safety is at the heart of everything we do across all of our operations.
We are means that holders of a Jobcentreplus Travel Discount Card will qualify for committed to delivering the highest standards of health and safety for our half-price single and return tickets on Stagecoachs buses in the UK outside employees and customers.
Public transport remains the safest way to travel London.
Stagecoach is already part of a Transport for London scheme which and we have a good safety record.
We have a proactive culture across the offers reduced bus, tram and train travel rates for jobseekers in the capital.
Group that ensures health and safety is our top priority.
We have continued to expand our budget coach service, megabus.
com, both The Groups Strategic Safety Framework outlines our overarching approach in the UK and the US.
A major new network of overnight sleeper services to safety, including governance, management processes, use of key using specially-designed coaches with lie-flat beds is set to operate performance indicators and associated actions.
At our bus and rail between Scotland and London this summer in conjunction with our joint operations in the UK and North America we have a strong focus on venture, Scottish Citylink.
com services in the UK and Europe employee training, accident reduction, regulatory compliance and security continue to be extremely popular with passengers looking for low-cost, preparedness.
Health and safety processes and performance are monitored reliable travel.
In North America, our megabus.
com network has expanded and reported on across the Group with action taken should there be a need significantly in the past year, including new services in Texas, California and to address issues within our procedures.
Our Health, Safety and Nevada.
More than 100 destinations are now covered by megabus.
com in Environmental Committee, chaired by a non-executive director, considers the United States and Canada.
page 24 | Stagecoach Group plc 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 25 Passengers can use our discounted rail service, www.
com, to a multi-million-pound investment in new buses and coaches with travel for as little as 1 plus 50p booking fee to around 30 locations in the greener engines, while also increasing the use of biofuels.
UK on the South West Trains, East Midlands Trains and Virgin Trains improving energy management systems and lighting at facilities.
com, an integrated coach-rail service between the north of England and London.
implementing new contracts for waste and recycling.
cutting gas and energy consumption at major stations.
In UK Rail, we have held a number of promotional events over the past year on our rail networks, including Rainbow Days on South West Trains which Stagecoach Group is working with industry partners and the UK Government offer journeys across the network for a special return fare for one day, to on climate change issues, including contributing to the development of encourage people to try the train.
policies on adapting infrastructure to mitigate the impacts of climate At our UK Bus Division we are continuing to invest in hundreds of low-floor change.
Stagecoach also works with the Confederation of Passenger vehicles every year to help our services become more accessible to Transport and campaign group, Greener Journeys wheelchair, mobility scooter users and parents with buggies.
com to seek more pro-bus and coach policies.
We signed up to the Confederation of Passenger Transport Mobility Scooter have also highlighted to the UK Government the need to tackle energy Code which put in place standardised procedures for operators and mobility security risks through our involvement in the UK Industry taskforce on Peak scooter users to ensure they are able to use bus services more easily and Oil and Energy Security.
We have received independent recognition over the past year for our East Midlands Trains invested 360,000 on accessibility improvements at its environmental initiatives.
In April 2013, we won the Sustainability category stations in 2012 13 while the South West Trains-Network Rail Alliance has for the second consecutive year at the Scotland Plc Awards.
introduced the UKs first guided pavements and Braille signage at Clapham Junction.
6 Supporting our communities and the economy Stagecoach Group is a major employer and our investment in improving our 2.8.
5 Environmental stewardship transport services also supports thousands of other jobs through the supply Our businesses in the UK and North America are focused on reducing our chain.
local environmental impacts, improving energy efficiency, increasing recycling and conserving water.
The Groups five-year Sustainability Strategy We share our success with local people and communities by investing part of has achieved our overall fleet and buildings carbon reduction goals ahead of our profits in good causes.
During the year ended 30 April 2013, 0.7m schedule.
2012: 0.5m was donated by Stagecoach Group to help a number of We have cut the carbon intensity kg CO2 per of revenue of our charities and to support fundraising events and vital services.
Among many businesses in the UK and North America by more than 20% in the past four other donations, the Group has pledged 100,000 over the next five years to years.
We are investing 11m in a range of measures to reduce the carbon Scotlands first charity air ambulance and already has a four-year agreement footprint of our businesses, with specific targets set around fleet and to donate 100,000 in total to the London Air Ambulance service.
As well as ensuring we meet our regulatory obligations, Stagecoach also provides support in other ways, including sponsorship of we believe our initiatives can help improve efficiency, cut costs and charity initiatives and local groups, as well as providing buses and coaches contribute to the growth and success of our business.
The measures put in place are being supported by a network of green teams at our operating for various local and national events.
Our rail companies often take part in companies.
train naming events to support local organisations.
Many of our employees also regularly join in national fundraising events such as Children in Need In addition to improving energy efficiency and reducing the impact of our and Comic Relief.
During the 2012 London Olympic and Paralympic Games, own operations on the environment, our focus is on attracting more people Stagecoach handed out thousands of free ice lollies to spectators.
We also on to public transport services.
We believe this can play a key role in reducing overall emissions from the transport sector and help address the global support a number of bus and rail industry charities and events each year.
In Canada, we have helped fund a new womens shelter in the local In May 2013, we held our fifth annual Group-wide Green Week to continue community and a team of Coach Canada employees participate in a project driving forward awareness of environmental issues among our people and each year to help build a new home in the area.
our customers in the UK and North America.
A week-long programme of Many of the Groups employees carry out their own fundraising activities in events demonstrated the steps we are taking to become a greener business their spare time, and Stagecoach often offers match funding to complement as well as highlighting the environmental and financial benefits of using their efforts.
The Group has also contributed significant in-kind support by public transport.
Roadshows, competitions and eco-giveaways took place seconding staff to good causes overseas as well as getting involved with across our operations and regional teams got involved in local events and local events in the UK and North America.
Employees were given the opportunity to propose their own green suggestions.
Our businesses also took part in carbon reduction drives during the week.
7 Corporate Governance Every year, Stagecoach reports on its carbon emissions through its corporate Stagecoach Group is committed to the principles of good corporate website, www.
We also provide information on our global governance as described in section 5. carbon footprint to the Carbon Disclosure Project, the worlds largest Growth and sustainability are at the heart of our strategy and our values.
Its corporate greenhouse gas emissions database.
We have twice been awarded right for our business, our customers, our people and our planet.
the prestigious Carbon Trust Standard in recognition of our action on carbon Fairness, respect and a strong commitment to equal opportunities are reduction.
central to our values and how we work.
Our customers come first and our Stagecoach Group has made further progress in reducing the impact of its focus is on new ideas and making things happen.
We also believe in helping businesses on the environment by: our people develop their skills and rewarding them for their performance.
completing the roll-out of a hi-tech eco-driving system at its regional bus Every day, we help around 3 million people lead more sustainable lives.
we are working together to become even more efficient and cut our continuing as the UK bus industrys leading investor in new hybrid electric business impact on the environment.
buses, which deliver a 30% reduction in carbon emissions compared to We pride ourselves on being a good partner to work with and we continue standard vehicles.
The Group now has more hybrid electric buses in service across the UK than any other operator.
to share our success with the communities where we work.
