20 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Financial review As we adapt to ensure we deliver on our objective to be the best multichannel retailer for our customers, we are realistic in our approach to growth and returns.
We can therefore offer clarity to shareholders about how we intend to deliver an appropriate balance of growth and returns in the years ahead.
Group results 2012 13 on a continuing operations basis Growth actual Growth constant 52 weeks ended 23 February 2013 2012 13 exchange rates exchange rates Group sales inc. VAT 72,363m 1.3% 2.5% Sales growth exc.
VAT, inc. IFRIC 13 Group trading profit 3,453m 13.0 % 12.3 % UK 2,272m 8.3 % 8.3 % Asia 661m 10.3 % 9.8 % Laurie McIlwee Chief Financial Officer Europe 329m 37.8 % 33.3 % Tesco Bank 191m 15.1 % 15.1 % Underlying profit before tax 3,549m 14.5 % 14.0 % Underlying diluted earnings 35.97p 14.0 % n a 72.4bn per share Group sales ROCE adjusted for one-off items 12.7% 200 bp n a Capex 3.0bn down down 19.0% 18.1% Statutory profit before tax includes the following one-off items: UK property write-down 804 m 3.5bn Goodwill impairment Poland, Czech Republic, Turkey 495 m Increased provision for PPI Tesco Bank inc. H1 30 m 115 m Group trading profit Statutory profit before tax 1,960m 51.5 % n a United States treated as discontinued, with restructuring and other one-off costs of 1.0 billion.
Group sales inc. VAT exclude the accounting impact of IFRIC 13.
Underlying diluted EPS growth calculated on a constant tax rate basis: 10.8 % 35.97p at actual tax rates.
Underlying diluted earnings per share Group results and strategic update It has been a year in which we have taken decisive action to focus our efforts on those markets where we can have a leadership position.
We exited Japan and launched our strategic review of the United States, while at the same time taking a more measured approach 14.76p to our growth in China.
We also set an appropriate pace of migration for the Bank, keeping it focused on the needs of our most loyal Full year dividend per customers.
Most importantly, we have begun the essential process share maintained of getting the UK business back on track, making sure we protect and build on one of the most important leadership positions we have.
Group trading profit declined by 13.0 %, reflecting our investment in the UK, the impact of regulatory changes in South Korea and the challenging economic conditions in Europe.
This trading performance coupled with reduced JV income and higher net finance costs led to a decline in Group underlying profit before tax of 14.5 %.
com ar2013 to hear more from Laurie McIlwee and other members of the leadership team.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 21 Group statutory profit before tax declined by 51.5 % to 1,960 Asia million due to the impact of three main one-off charges: Our Asia performance was in line with expectations and was dominated by the South Korean regulatory changes concerning UK property write-down of 804 million, following an in-depth trading hours.
These changes held back headline numbers, and the review of our property pipeline in the context of our fundamentally impact on trading profit was broadly in line with our 100 million different approach to new space and our announcement in April guidance, with significant levels of Sunday store closures throughout 2012 that we would be reducing the level of new space growth in the second half and considerable uncertainty in the market about the UK going forward: exactly which stores would be closed and when, impacting operations Goodwill impairment of 495 million, reflecting the impact even when stores were able to open.
Following the passing of the of differing growth prospects in todays environment for the legislation in January this year, the situation seems more certain, businesses we acquired in Poland, the Czech Republic and Turkey with more consistent store closures expected on alternate Sundays.
in the mid 1990s to early 2000s: and As such, we expect the full-year effect of the regulations, combined with the extension of 24-hour trading restrictions to between Increase of 115 million in our provision for potential Payment midnight and 10am, to lead to an incremental impact of around Protection Insurance claims against Tesco Bank.
Based on our progress so far with our strategic review of Fresh & Easy, we have confirmed that the outcome of the review will be Asia results 2012 13 an exit from the United States.
The results of our business there, Actual rates Constant rates in addition to those of our business in Japan, have been classified m % growth % growth as discontinued operations in these results.
impact of IFRIC 13 Asia trading profit 661m 10.3 % 9.8 % UK It is a year since we unveiled our six-part plan to get the UK business Trading margin trading profit revenue 5.76% 105 bp 102 bp back on top form.
The UK is absolutely fundamental to the success Exc.
of the Group, which is why this was our number one priority for the year, and Im pleased to say the plan is very much on track.
In Thailand, like-for-like sales grew by 3.1% and we continued to gain market share.
We benefited from a strong opening programme, We have made the investment as planned and it has led to a clear including almost 300 Express stores and we launched our first improvement in performance, both in absolute terms and relative to dotcom grocery operation in Bangkok in February.
Total sales rose by 2.6% excluding petrol, and like-forlike performance improved during the course of the year, with a We have adopted a more cautious stance in China.
We still see particularly encouraging result at Christmas.
an excess amount of new space being opened in the market ahead of customer demand and we have moderated our pace of UK results 2012 13 development accordingly, opening just 12 new stores this year and m % growth closing five underperforming stores as part of our increased focus on our three strongest regions.
impact of IFRIC 13 43,579m 1.8% Europe Whilst our markets in Europe remain fundamentally attractive, UK revenue exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 2.6% our performance this year was disappointing.
UK trading profit 2,272m 8.3 % Clearly, we faced significant headwinds throughout the year, as Trading margin trading profit revenue 5.21% 58 bp macroeconomic uncertainties continued to impact businesses.
This had a particularly marked impact on our general merchandise When we laid out our plans last year, we described the impact of businesses across the region, holding back our overall like-for-like the investment in terms of a rebasing of our trading margin to 5.2% sales performance.
and the progress we have made in the UK has been achieved whilst delivering a margin absolutely in line with these expectations.
Europe results 2012 13 The most important judge of progress is the customer and we Actual rates Constant rates introduced a new way of measuring customer perceptions back m % growth % growth in July our customer viewpoint.
This measures real customer Europe sales 10,809m 4.9 % 2.1% feedback in all of our stores on a regular and frequent basis, across Europe revenue 9,319m 5.5 % 1.4% 12 aspects of their shopping trip.
Pleasingly, every one of these exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 aspects improved throughout the second half of the year.
This Europe trading profit 329m 37.8 % 33.3 % underpins our confidence that the underlying improvement we have seen in our trading performance is driven by the changes Trading margin trading profit revenue 3.53% 183 bp 183 bp we have made for customers.
While there are a number of drivers that could enable us to improve overall UK margins, we believe the new base of 5.2% is appropriate for the foreseeable future and any outperformance will be reinvested in driving additional improvements in our customer offer.
22 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Financial review continued Our performance in Hungary and Slovakia, where we enjoy two Group balance sheet of our strongest positions, has proved more resilient to the economic Net debt reduced by 0.2 billion year-on-year, despite the trading headwinds.
While our profits in Hungary continued to be held back profit impact and increased working capital, mainly due to by the crisis tax this year, this will no longer be applied from the start significantly reduced capital expenditure and a small increase of our new financial year.
The working capital increase was largely as a result of regulatory impacts in a number of markets and the In some markets such as the Czech Republic and Poland, we saw shortening of order lead times for general merchandise which increased competitive activity, with those retailers focused on reduced our creditor days.
discount small formats faring much better than those like us with a greater proportion of larger stores.
Our own smaller format stores Our return on capital employed, on a continuing operations basis have performed better than the business as a whole, and our dotcom and prior to the impact of one-off charges, is 12.7%.
This is a 200 operations now in 13 cities in these markets alone have grown basis point decline on returns calculated on a similar basis for last strongly since launch.
year, mainly reflecting the trading profit performance.
We have faced particularly intense competition in Turkey, in a year We continued to see strong investor demand for our property in which we have retrenched from our strategy of pursuing large during the year.
We launched the Tesco Lotus Retail Growth Freehold store expansion to the east of our existing business.
Like many other and Leasehold Property Fund along with a number of transactions businesses in the country, we faced intense cost-price inflation and in the UK and South Korea, contributing to profits arising on propertythe impact of this was exacerbated by a number of one-off, historic related items of 370 million.
The market value of our property issues.
The resulting losses contributed to our shortfall versus across the Group currently exceeds 38 billion.
Since becoming Chief Financial Officer I have made it a priority All of our businesses undertake a value in use test each year to justify to improve our debt metrics.
Resetting the UK margin, regulatory the carrying value of goodwill.
Those businesses acquired in Europe challenges in South Korea and a disappointing profit performance in the 1990s and early 2000s unfortunately face a more difficult in Europe have stalled the improvements we have made to date.
market today and different growth prospects as a result.
This led It is a high priority for the Group to maintain a strong investment to a write-down in the value of acquired goodwill for our businesses grade credit rating.
Our target on net indebtedness remains in Poland, the Czech Republic and Turkey.
unchanged and it should be achieved within the next couple of years.
Our priority in all of these markets is to get the businesses focused Fixed charge cover is more challenging because our gross debt on driving underlying performance and it is for this reason that we will has long maturity periods.
We have 2 billion of debt that we can only open 400,000 sq ft of net new selling space in the year ahead.
potentially retire over the next three years.
Our lower level of sale and Tesco Bank leasebacks will help slow down the rising rent bill.
Both of these will We were pleased to complete the final stages of migration of Tesco benefit fixed charge cover.
Our improved cash flow growth will help Bank early in the financial year and to be able to get back to focusing improve retained cash flow to adjusted net debt, a key credit rating on marketing our existing products.
Our programme of new products measure, underpinning our commitment to maintain a strong resumed in August with mortgages and more recently, our ISA range.
We made progress through the year in banking products, with good Looking forward our approach to growth and returns growth in both customer accounts and balances.
Our insurance The actions we have taken over the last two years have removed business was held back by a very challenging market, with strong a number of significant barriers to progress and underpin our more downward price pressure in motor insurance.
Throughout this period, disciplined approach to capital allocation.
we focused on ensuring we offer the best products and prices to our As we adapt to ensure we deliver on our objective to be the best loyal Clubcard customers.
multichannel retailer for our customers, we are realistic in our approach to growth and returns.
We can therefore offer clarity to Tesco Bank results 2012 13 shareholders about how we intend to deliver an appropriate balance m % growth of growth and returns in the years ahead.
impact of IFRIC 13 1,021m 2.2 % We are managing the business in order to: Tesco Bank trading profit 191m 15.1 % Generate positive free cash flow Trading margin trading profit revenue 18.71% 284 bp Ensure a disciplined allocation of capital within a range of 3.5% to 4% of sales In recent years, the Banks profit has been impacted by a couple of Maintain a strong investment grade credit rating non-trading factors the first, fair value releases and the second, the We are therefore allocating our capital to achieve three clear run-off of our legacy insurance agreement with Direct Line Group.
priorities: Before these, profits grew well and are up 13% with a particularly pleasing performance in customer lending.
Continuing to invest in a strong UK business 2.
Establishing multichannel leadership in all of our markets In line with the rest of the industry, we have been proactively 3.
Pursuing disciplined international growth consulting more widely with our customers on PPI.
In light of this contact, it has become necessary to increase our provision for compensation by 85 million in the second half.
In addition to the 30 million provision in the first half, this takes us to a 115 million one-off charge.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 23 This means that, in the current economic environment, investors We will tightly control our capex.
There will likely be a very small can expect us to deliver: increase in 2013 14, as we push on at pace with our refresh plans in the UK.
Following this, we will move quickly into and then down Mid-single digit trading profit growth through the range we have set out of 4% down to 3.5% of sales.
Return on capital employed within a range of 12% to 15% Importantly this will enable us to move to a position where we Dividend growth, broadly in line with underlying earnings, can produce free cash flow without the historic requirement for with a target cover of more than 2 times property proceeds.
This is clearly a significant change from our historic cash flow shape.
Our approach to growth and returns For a number of years, we relied on property proceeds to fund our investment, as capex exceeded available cash.
We are getting close to a position where capex is broadly equivalent to available cash, Financial disciplines Guiderails removing our reliance on these proceeds.
From then on, available Trading profit growth Generate positive free cash grows and exceeds capex, giving us much greater flexibility Mid-single digit cash flow from a cash point of view.
Protecting our strong position in the UK is still one of our highest Sustainable ROCE Allocate capital within range priorities.
The best returns now are from refreshing our existing 12% to 15% range of 4% down to 3.5% of sales stores and investing in the broader multichannel opportunities of convenience and online.
We will not invest in those large-store Dividend growth Maintain a strong investment schemes where we see unacceptable returns.
We will, of course, In line with underlying EPS grade credit rating Target cover of more than 2 times continue our process of making our existing large stores even more compelling destinations with the repurposing of space.
We will update on our progress in the context of these objectives Our next priority is Asia where modern retail is still very as part of our future results announcements.
We will continue to strengthen our positions in Thailand, Malaysia and South Korea.
In China, we still see As we described earlier, the fundamental change in our approach a huge opportunity, although our approach going forward is more to new space also has implications for our sale and leaseback measured, focused on stand-alone retail sites in the three regions programme.
Two years ago, we reviewed the programme and where we have critical mass and good margins.
We will build out the announced a steady reduction in the level of divestments, in order to remaining 13 Lifespace malls, but are not committing capital to any ensure that any property profits released were matched to the level new freehold investments beyond these.
of new profit created by development activities.
Given that we have Finally, in Europe, our large-store networks are largely complete and significantly reduced the amount of these activities going forward, we believe that it is appropriate to accelerate the scaling back of the we are effectively at a maintenance level of capex.
Specific capital investments will be considered, but these will be about improving sale and leaseback programme, such that it is unlikely to make a material contribution after the next few years.
the assets we have and expanding in low capital formats such as the internet and convenience.
Our reported underlying profit measure currently includes these property profits and related items, and therefore its growth over More of our capital will be going into already high-returning the next few years would be held back by this accelerated reduction.
businesses and into driving forward returns in our immature We will therefore disclose and adjust for this impact when using businesses.
underlying earnings per share as the basis for our dividend policy.
This allocation will enable us to produce a steady improvement in In doing so, we will better align dividend growth to the key targeted return on capital employed from the current base, within a range profit performance measure for the business.
Growth has always been a central part of the investment case The approach I have laid out above provides appropriate and realistic for Tesco.
To be clear, it is still at the core of the investment case, objectives for the business.
As we deliver our objective of being the but it is now a sustainable level of growth a growth that enables leading multichannel retailer, we are determined to do even better us to deliver improving returns and a much stronger level of for customers and for shareholders.
The guidance we are sharing is for mid-single digit trading profit growth.
This takes into account the structurally changing retailing environment and the lower growth outlook for economies and consumer spending around the world.
We are determined to achieve this growth in a balanced way and we see the application of our financial disciplines as an important Laurie McIlwee Chief Financial Officer part of ensuring it is delivered in a way that supports strong, sustainable and attractive returns going forward.
