Financial review robust trading and a good second half Victrex delivered a robust performance this year, with sales volumes ahead, margins remaining strong and progress across our markets.
Revenue Gross profit Profit before tax 1% 1% 0% 12 13 12 13 12 13 2013 2012 Change m m % Revenue 221.9 219.8 1% Gross profit 147.8 145.7 1% Profit before tax 94.6 94.5 0% A world leader in high performance sales mix has been driven by strong sales polymer solutions growth in VPS from our speciality products, Victrex delivered a robust performance this dominated by our Aptiv Film business.
year, despite challenging market conditions.
In our Invibio business, full year revenue was We have continued to invest in our business marginally ahead of the prior year at 50.8m to accelerate and underpin our future growth 2012: 50.5m.
This predominantly reflects and have maintained our financial performance steady improvement in sales to the spine with strong profitability and margins and market during the second half, with revenue record cash generation.
10% ahead of the first half, as inventory Steve Barrow levels in the industry appear to have Group financial results Finance Director stabilised.
Second half revenue in Invibio Group revenue for the year was 1% ahead was also ahead of the prior year at 26.6m of the prior year reflecting a robust Group H2 2012: 25.0m.
performance and stronger underlying average selling price, resulting from Full year Group gross margin remained favourable sales mix, offset by an adverse strong at 66.6% 2012: 66.3% with the foreign currency impact.
favourable sales mix in VPS offset by the impact of adverse currency and, as indicated Full year sales volume was slightly ahead of last in previous communications, some increased year at 2,920 tonnes FY 2012: 2,904 tonnes costs within cost of manufacture impacting following a robust second half performance, the second half.
The resulting second half with sales volume approximately 10% ahead gross margin was 66.0%.
Group sales volume of 1,528 tonnes for the second half was in line We remain cognisant of the challenging with the strong prior year performance economic environment we are currently H22012: 1,527 tonnes, with good progress operating in, but have continued to Return on capital employed: across our industrial and transport markets, selectively invest in resources to drive our Profit after tax net assets offset by lower sales in the electronics key growth programmes, including the Operating cash conversion: market following the non-recurrence of last technical and regulatory functions, with Cash generated from operations years strong product launch related sales total indirect overheads increasing by 4%.
operating profit into consumer electronics.
The favourable Our investments in technical facilities in the UK and Japan last year have been well 10 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com 219.8m 221.9m 145.7m 147.8m 94.5m 94.6m Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Investment: Our new PEEK manufacturing plant is taking shape Our new PEEK manufacturing plant is taking shape and is a key enabler to support our future growth received by customers, end users and to 51.1m 2012: 48.6m.
This reflects a of90m, increasing our production employees.
As well as purchasing our number of special grade products produced capacityfrom 4,250 tonnes to in excess products, our customers and end users during the year which we manufacture on of7,000 tonnes.
wantproactive technical solutions and aperiodic basis together with the slight Taxation paid during the year was 21.7m support, including working with us on increase in cost of manufacture noted 2012: 24.4m, reflecting the reduction joint development programmes, reflecting previously.
Trade receivables are in line with inthe UK corporation tax rate, in addition the long-term development and investment the prior year, with receivables which are toamounts received relating to the closure periods associated with many of our either current or less than 30 days overdue of prior year computations by HMRC.
Trade payables reflect to work with our customers on innovative consistent creditor days with the prior year, Total dividends paid during the year solutions for the challenges they face in their with our commitment to our suppliers that increased to 32.7m 2012: 28.0m, respective industries is reflected in the we pay within agreed terms to maintain a reflecting the increased final dividend for increased investment in research and strong working and strategic relationship.
last year and the 15% increase in the interim development expenditure, of which dividend this year.
Return on capital employed has fallen approximately 85% relates to market and from26.5% in 2012 to 23.2% in 2013 As a result, the closing Group cash balance customer related product and application following a strategic decision to maintain as at 30 September 2013 was 91.6m with development, which increased to 14.6m astrong balance during a period of high nodebt 2012: 83.9m and no debt.
this year 2012: 13.1m, representing 7% capital expenditure.
Proposed dividend Cash flow Victrex remains committed to a progressive Resulting Group profit before tax of Victrex continues to see strong cash andsustainable dividend policy which takes 94.6m 2012: 94.5m reflects the robust generation and delivered a record account of cash generation and use of capital, performance of the business this year and performance this year.
Cash generated from including for potential acquisitions as well as basic earnings per share of 86.5p per share operations was 100.9m 2012: 89.9m reflecting our underlying confidence in the 2012: 85.7p per share also reflects the representing an operating cash conversion growth programmes and prospects for expected improvement in the effective of 107% 2012: 96%.
ourbusiness, despite the wider economic taxrate to 22.9% 2012: 23.9% largely challenges.
Following an increase in the interim reflecting the lower UK corporation tax rate.
Capital expenditure payments significantly dividend by 15% to 10.35p 2012: 9.0p, the increased on the prior year, as we have Balance sheet Group is proposing an increase of 15% inthe previously communicated, to 40.7m Victrex continues to maintain a strong balance final dividend to 32.65p 2012: 28.4p, resulting 2012:27.0m, mainly as a result of sheet, supporting our ability to invest to drive in a full year dividend increase of 15% to 43.0p investment in BDF production capacity the future growth.
Net assets at 30 September 2013 2012: 37.4p per ordinary share.
Dividend main raw material for PEEK which is nearing totalled 313.7m 2012: 271.1m.
completion and the construction of our third Our working capital management reflects PEEKplant which will underpin our future how Victrex continues to differentiate growth, enabling us and our customers through product leadership and security of tohave confidence that capacity will be supply for both existing and future potential inplace tosupport long-term applications.
Steve Barrow customers and end users.
Our inventory Finance Director The PEEK plant project remains on plan, levels, whilst reduced from the half-year 9 December 2013 forcompletion during 2015, and budget position, have increased slightly year on year www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 11 Performance review: Victrex Polymer Solutions Victrex Polymer Solutions Victrex Polymer Solutions VPS is focused on developing our major industrial markets.
We work with customers and end users to provide innovative and technical solutions that help them meet .
 from the unique combination of properties and forms that our range of products provide.
2013 2012 Change m m % Revenue 171.1 169.3 1% Gross profit 103.1 101.1 2% Operating profit 68.6 68.5 0% VPS generated revenue slightly ahead of devices and electronics leading to increased theprior year of 171.1m 2012: 169.3m, volatility in demand for applications and reflecting a higher average selling price slightly softer sales in the oil and gas sector.
driven by product mix and continued success Second half sales volume of 382 tonnes in our Speciality Products business.
Gross wasbroadly in line with the first half margin improved to 60.3% 2012: 59.7%.
In Asia, sales volume of 513 tonnes was broadly in line with the prior Sales, marketing and administrative expenses year 521 tonnes with strong growth increased by 1.9m to 34.5m 2012: 32.6m inindustrial and transport applications tim Cooper with continued investment to develop our offset by slower sales into semiconductor organisational infrastructure and capabilities Managing Director applications.
Year on year sales volume to drive our future growth initiatives.
Victrex Polymer Solutions outside of Japan grew by 12% and represents The resulting operating profit of 68.6m more than half of oursales in the region.
remained in line with the previous year Second half sales volume of 276 tonnes was 2012: 68.5m.
16% ahead of the first half 237 tonnes with an encouraging recovery in Japan.
Core market overview Industrial sales volume at 1,125 tonnes was Sales volume in Europe of 1,637 tonnes broadly in line with 2012, with increased was12% ahead of the prior year demand for industrial machinery and 2012:1,457 tonnes driven by significant equipment offset by lower sales into the growth in all key markets.
The second half oiland gas sector, largely in the US, due to was particularly strong with record sales slightly reduced drilling activity.
Second half volume of 870 tonnes being 13% ahead sales volume of 601 tonnes was 15% ahead ofthe first half 767 tonnes.
In the US, sales of the first half 524 tonnes principally driven volumes of 770 tonnes was 17% below the by industrial machinery and equipment.
prior year 2012: 926 tonnes with the trend towards shorter product lifecycles in mobile 12 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Delivering solutions to our customers Transport sales volume increased 7% to 799 ofnatural resource exploration play to the non-organic means in delivering solutions tonnes 2012: 744 tonnes with strong sales strengths of our products.
New materials, into automotive and aerospace.
The increase new applications, new forms and new The development pipeline remains strong in automotive sales reflects the trend towards geographies will all play a part in our and diverse, with new opportunities being highly durable and weight saving materials.
identified and driven across all our markets.
We also saw continued success from new With our portfolio management approach, applications in aerospace.
Second half sales Aerospace we are driving a more value focused view volume of 419 tonnes was 10% ahead of Victrex materials can deliver weight onour development pipeline, rather than the first half 380 tonnes.
reductions of up to 70% in aerospace just the volume of opportunities.
Fuel has risen to be the single Electronics sales decreased 12% to 628 30September 2013 it contained 1,600 largest cost component in the operation tonnes 2012: 714 tonnes due to a slower potential developments 30 September ofan airliner and this has driven airlines year in semiconductor sales and increased 2012: 1,908 with an estimated mature tosubstitute new for old aircraft in pursuit volatility in consumer electronics applications.
annualised volume MAV of 2,064 tonnes offuel savings.
Many manufacturers have Second half sales volume of 316 tonnes 30 September 2012: 2,212 tonnes upgraded their 20 year growth forecasts remained broadly in line with the first half ifallofthe developments were foraircraft production, which offers growth 312 tonnes.
potential for Victrex in the years ahead.
This year saw Boeing 787 production ramp up Product and market development Growth drivers and the maiden flight of the Airbus A350, We continue to move downstream, launching Our industries continue to be challenged to which is expected to see production ramp new product solutions where anopportunity achieve higher performance with less: less up from 2014, as well as qualification of exists to accelerate growth, access new material, less energy, less waste, less noise, anew grade of VICTREX PEEK withAirbus.
Our speciality less time, less cost.
This drives the need for Whether it be brackets or increasingly in products business, driven predominantly by innovative designs using our materials and other parts of the aeroplane, we have a our Aptiv Film business used in many acoustic expertise to bring them to market.
The number of short and long-term opportunities applications, delivered another good unique combination of properties and under development, expanding the use of performance this year.
Our other existing physical forms of Victrex materials help PEEK based materials.
With Boeing projecting speciality product platforms are coating, pipes customers deliver against these challenges.
ademand for more than 35,000 new and composites.
We continue to explore We continue to see good growth potential aeroplanes over the next 20 years valued organic and non-organic platforms for future forour business, reflected by our strong atnearly $5 trillion and forecasting the investment, which will broaden our portfolio development pipeline, as well as opportunities world fleet to double over thenext two and capture the high value in this area.
to target further market penetration or decades, we believe the growth potential 2013 saw further success in closing new geographies through strategic marketing.
applications across all our markets as the Alongside this, continued investment in talent, megatrends of lightweighting for fuel technology and new capacity means that we efficiency, miniaturisation and complexity are well placed to take advantage of growth opportunities whether organic or through www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 13 Performance review: Victrex Polymer Solutions continued Focus on oil and gas Delivering durable materials for extreme environments NORSOK Norsk Sokkels Konkurranseposisjon standards are now recognised as the industry standard in oil and gas.
The Norwegian petroleum industry has developed many amendments that have become vital to oil service companies materials specification decisions.
They raise thebar on the assessment of materials durability in the extreme environments that exist in oil and gas exploration and production.
This is a vital stepto ensure safe and reliable operation, without incident.
Victrexs commitment to the oil and gas industry can be seen in the investment in NORSOK compliance testing of VICTREX PEEK 450G.
VICTREX PEEK 450G is the reference high performance polymer in the oil and gas industry, and has now been extensively tested to ensure compliance with NORSOK standards and in particular, ageing in a multiphase sour fluid.
Ourmaterial suffered so little impact in the industry standard test that we repeated the test under far more extreme conditions at ten times the acid gas concentration.
Despite this, our material passed with flying colours, demonstrating the outstanding durability of VICTREX PEEK insour oil and gas environments.
Automotive acoustic film, despite the smaller size lifetime has also increased.
For example Durability, cost, fuel and weight reduction ofmany consumer electronic devices.
seaflooring has meant equipment is remain key trends in the global car industry.
Providingour customers with innovative nowexpected to last 25 years rather Major improvement in vehicle energy efficiency solutions which also deliver competitive thanfiveyears, meaning less downtime is only going to be possible through the advantage remains key.
Despite a slower andless costly intervention.
Alongside development of powertrain and transmission market in semiconductors this year, the ourpioneering work on VICTREX pipes technologies.
VICTREX PEEK enables reliable market continues to show long-term growth, another example of how we are moving solutions to these challenges.
Our materials with growth concentrated in logic chips, further downstream in our Speciality enable reduction of the wear associated losses driven by the boom in mobile connectivity.
Products business we also continued and create design freedom to reduce overall Market statistics suggest that smartphone toprogress our partnership with Magma vehicle weight.
The production of passenger growth was up nearly 50% during the first inusing our materials in oil and gas risers, cars increased globally by 6.4% in 2012, half of 2013, with more traditional PC and anopportunity which offers significant toover70 million cars.
Europe, the US and standard mobile deviceslosing ground.
Asia remain important geographic centres for car production and Victrex remains at the Energy Future capacity forefront of working with major manufacturers Global oil and gas capital expenditure Whilst technological excellence remains key, and their suppliers.
As an example of our wasup over 18% globally, but as an the construction of our third PEEK plant innovation, during the year we secured indicator of current drilling activity, US rig inthe UK, which is on plan and is due for anumber of awards including the Ringier count was down and the short-term outlook completion in 2015, is an important enabler Innovation Award2013 for VICTREX remains softer.
However, sustained high to support and deliver our future growth Premium WearGradeWG Polymers.
energy prices and a strong demand outlook programmes across our markets.
combined with technology trends such Electronics ashigher pressure, higher temperature Devices such as smartphones and tablets anddeeper water, mean that long-term continue to reach an ever increasing opportunities remain attractive.
Key drivers percentage of the population.
The challenge for the industry remain durability and increased of higher functionality in an ever thinner, yield the ability to recover moreenergy lighter, more durable device is supported by particularly given oil and gasreserves the adoption of high performance materials inthe future will be recovered from more such as VICTREX PEEK.
Examples of the extreme environments.
As explorers applications using our materials include andproducers operate in these areas, the small space acoustics, ensuring high quality demand and expectation on equipment sound and durability from our Aptiv 14 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Performance review: Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Invibio provides versatile PEEK based polymers to address the unmet needs of the long-term implantable medical device market.
Our materials are extensively used across a number of applications including spinal fusion and motion preservation, arthroscopy, joint replacement, trauma, cardio-neuro and cranio-maxillo facial implants.
2013 2012 Change m m % Revenue 50.8 50.5 1% Gross profit 44.7 44.6 0% Operating profit 29.3 29.2 0% Invibio generated revenue of 50.8m, emerging opportunities.
Our growth strategy anincrease of 1% over 2012 50.5m.
in Asia continues, with revenues up 14% to Thisreflected a steady recovery in our spine 4.1m 2012: 3.6m.
business 3% up on 2012 during the second Our developing markets outside of spine half year, following the effects of fide-stocking reduced by 7% in 2013, principally as a and lower inventory levels amongst our result of the arthroscopy market where customers during the first half year.
despite the demand for more radical Gross margins remained strong at 88.0% solutions, several commercial opportunities Martin Court 2012: 88.3%.
Managing Director Sales, marketing and administrative Product and market development Invibio Biomaterial Solutions expenses remained in line with prior Healthcare remains high up the news yearat15.4m, resulting in an operating agenda and we expect it to remain so.
key area of focus in recent years has been the quality of materials and devices used Core market overview totreat patients.
Our priority at Invibio has The spine market generated sales of always been and will continue to be about 39.3m, an increase of 1.1m 3% on safe, consistent and high quality biomaterials theprior year.
This recovery was fuelled for our customers and for patients.
bysales improvement in the second half of the year due to a combination of We focus on growth opportunities around continued global expansion and recovery three horizons, 1, 2 and 3 short term, following thede-stocking that impacted medium term and long term.
ourbusiness in the second half of 2012 andthe first half of 2013.
Emerging markets continue to be attractive for us, particularly China in dental and other www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 15 Performance review: Invibio Biomaterial Solutions continued bone on-growth on all sides of the device PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced couldbe more effective.
Invibio has invested in Spine companies are actively looking for ways this new grade that offers the same advantages todifferentiate their interbody product offering.
of PEEK-OPTIMA and additionally a superior Despite the fact that new clinical results continue solutionfor bone apposition.
With HA available to support PEEK performance in traditional spinal across the whole device the opportunity for bone fusion cages, surgeons are interested in methods on-growth is virtually unmatched with alternative to enhance direct bone apposition.
These are bone apposition technologies, such as coatings.
challenging times, however, and the industry In addition the PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced product needs to consider its desire to differentiate.
In omits the extra processing time and expense September 2013 Invibio launched its PEEK-OPTIMA ofalternative bone on-growth technologies.
Surgeon feedback had indicated that a version of PEEK that enhances Invibio is the proven market leader in providing We have continued to strengthen our inlarge diameter hip implants, have made versatile and high performance PEEK based regulatory expertise globally, for example news around the world.
Growing safety polymer solutions to the medical device market.
inAsia, where many of our customers are concerns and regulatory scrutiny present With a strong track record and unrivalled looking to penetrate and capture projected bothchallenges and opportunities for Invibio.
expertise, our materials are used extensively strong growth rates over the coming years, Our activities in emerging markets this year across a number of core applications such as many Western geographies are forecast were driven by JUVORA, our dedicated dental asspinal fusion and arthroscopy, as well as to have steadier growth.
brand, which offers a certified dental disc, inthe newer and emerging opportunities Spine providing our customers and their patients with suchas dental, trauma and knee.
Long-term incremental growth in the an effective metal-free dentures solution, with To succeed in the healthcare environment spinemarket remains attractive, despite improved comfort and fit.
During the year, we today, companies like Invibio need to provide therelative maturity of core spine and started to gain traction for our JUVORA brand much more than just biomaterials.
At Invibio salesvolumes beingimpacted through across geographies, with over 30 agreements weare focused on working with surgeons to fide-stocking of inventories bymany medical in place with customers and 60 labs passing really understand their needs and the problems device companies last year.
Spinal implant through our certified training programme.
The that they are trying to solve.
By ensuring that procedures are forecast togrow in the years trends for the denture market are extremely we focus on the areas where our materials ahead, reflecting an ageing population and encouraging and we believe that the JUVORA canprovide real clinical benefits in terms of the need for innovative materials.
product is well positioned to be the material successful performance outcomes we can ofchoice for a significant patient population besure that what we are providing will Geographical focus that could reach as many as 1.5 million beattractive to medical device companies, In some geographies, spine remains a dentureapplications per year.
With developing market and with our strong Beyond our existing application portfolio, we theseareas identified, our expertise in regulatory knowledge and expertise, there have a strong pipeline of opportunities which manufacturing products and our talent isanincreased pace of regulatory approvals we continue to focus on, using our regulatory intheregulatory arena help ensure that fornewer spinal applications.
Given that expertise, market insight and technology Invibioremains the partner of choice.
theapplication of PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced leadership, to ensure we can capture real is new tosurgeons in these geographies, we In Trauma, we are focused on addressing valuefrom these markets including trauma have focused on education programmes problems in relation to device fatigue life Horizon 2 and knee Horizon 3, where our incollaboration with our customers and with andthe ability to accelerate healing.
The materials can deliver superior performance and European spine surgeons, reaching more than useofcomposite materials to do this is an accelerate healing, as well as offering 1,500 surgeons in China alone in the last year.
Composite device durability and less complexity than many manufacturing represents new challenges incumbent solutions.
We also believe that Emerging markets anda new technology for the medical device incertain markets knee, for example In recent years, well publicised issues with industry, however, and this has prompted us thedemand for more radical solutions metal on metal applications, for example todevelop the ability to manufacture prototype offersusreal opportunities.
parts to accelerate evaluation and adoption.
Focus on dental JUVORA With the edentulous population increasing, strong During the year, Invibio continued to drive lifestyle demand and willingness to pay, the growth itsoffering to the removable denture market.
opportunities for JUVORA are significant.
The dental Aseparate business, JUVORA, was created to disc device also aligns with digital equipment that is targetthis 5 billion market.
The first product, sweeping into the dental sector.
This allows our lab theJUVORA Dental Disc, was released at the customers to evolve from the traditional methods of worlds largest dental show.
It marked an important making metal denture frameworks, to personalised, milestone for the business, since the disc is actually comfortable and easily machined dental discs.
The classified as a medical device and has required market opportunities remain significant, not just in European regulatory clearance CE Mark, which typical geographies such as the US or Europe, but Invibio has strong expertise in.
inemerging market opportunities like China, where dental patients are increasingly willing to pay based Since its release, over 60 dental laboratory on lifestyle demand and for a durable product.
customers from across the world have committed Find out more at www.
to being JUVORA certified partners.
These customers are being trained to use, market and offer dentures made using the JUVORA Dental Disc.
16 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
