William Hill PLC 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A look At ouR business reTail uk reTail markeT share by number of lbos reTail revenue sPliT by ProduCT Other 14% Gaming machines 48% William Hill 26% Horseracing 24% Betfred 15% UK Retail Retail revenue market share split by product Football 13% Gala Coral 20% Greyhounds 9% Ladbrokes 25% Others 6% Source: Gambling Commission Industry Statistics, April 2012 March 2013.
Strategic priorities Greater multi-channel usage Performance review It is estimated that more than half of 1 We believe that LBO customers are Retail net revenue was 8% higher or flat online customers also gamble in LBOs.
looking for an entertaining and engaging on an underlying basis.
We are using new technology to create experience, ranking convenience as their an engaging betting and gaming OTC net revenue was up 1%, benefiting main reason to bet in LBOs per se and experience, and encourage customers to from a strong gross win margin of location and customer service as key use different channels through cross- 19.4% 2012: 18.2%.
The main driver reasons for choosing a particular LBO.
channel promotions, particularly around of margin growth was improved results Given the current market share of the gaming launches.
from UK horseracing and football.
Retail business, competition rules would Amounts wagered was 6% lower: the We increased the number of self-service be likely to prevent us from growing first half saw the brunt of weather-related betting terminals in the estate to around through significant acquisitions.
We, fixture cancellations in Q1 and a weaker 700 during 2013, giving customers access therefore, aim to expand Retail organically football calendar in Q2.
The excellent to more betting opportunities.
Video walls, through new shop openings, expanding weather in July also impacted progression now in 270 shops, are a significant our LBO estate on a net basis by around in the third quarter.
differentiator, particularly when coupled 1% per annum and continuing to beat with our new 1m broadcast studio in Gaming machine net revenue increased our internal hurdle rate for returns Leeds, giving us our own high quality by 18% in the period, or -1% after adjusting on new opening.
We seek to further 1 broadcast proposition.
Gross win per increase our market share through the machine per week declined from 911 to competitiveness of our product offering Our new shop design is now in 200 shops.
897 and the average number of gaming and the attractiveness of our in-shop We continue to open new shops in areas machines increased to 9,431: with a 2% experience, particularly through the where we are under-represented and plan increase in machine density to 3.93 per development of technology and the quality to open a further 50 during the coming shop and a 1% increase in the average of customer service.
We intend to invest around 30m in number of shops.
the shop estate in 2014, the majority on Wider product offering new licenses and refurbishments, with a We continue to invest in expanding and We believe our Retail business has target average return on new shop capex enhancing the estate.
We increased the successfully stayed relevant to todays of 20%.
In the last five years, we have Retail estate by a net 40 shops to 2,432, younger generation of gamblers by opened 242 new licences, increasing our opening 59 new licences and closing 19 evolving our product range over time, estate by about 5%.
A further 14 shops were particularly in relation to football betting re-sited.
There was an average of 2,401 and gaming machines.
In this way, Retail shops in the period, around 1% higher has proven relatively resilient to the recent than the prior year.
global economic downturn and to the advent of online and mobile gambling.
William Hill PLC 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 invesTing in seCuriTy We have high standards for the safety and security of our shops, our customers and our colleagues.
Our longstanding and award-winning Counter Plan initiative focuses on training our colleagues in careful cash management.
We have also invested in incident management systems such as safe havens and StaffSafe, as well as high definition CCTV in every shop.
Crime in our shops fell yet again in 2013, with robberies down 25%, cash-in-transit incidents down 34% and burglaries down 43%.
We have invested in high definition CCTV in every shop Cost of sales and operating costs were 48% and 4% higher, respectively.
Both of these were impacted by the change to MGD from VAT and Amusement Machine Licence Duty in February.
Additional operating costs included c3.5m ofadditional repair and maintenance costs, higher content costs and higher staff costs from increased shop opening hours and the introduction of pension auto-enrolment.
This was partially mitigated by savings in Retail and Group staff incentives.
Looking ahead, our guidance for Retail operating cost growth for 2014 is around 3-4%.
The Retail business delivered 196.3m 2 of Operating profit, 15.2m down on the prior year.
eCliPse Comes To reTail In 2013, we started rolling out the new generation machine, Eclipse.
This brings customers a more interactive gaming experience with a more intuitive menu system and vastly improved sound.
Paired with our new Bonus Club marketing and rewards card, this is one of the tools we are developing to enable a fully integrated multi-channel approach 1 Retail net revenue growth is flattened by the transition in half the estate.
Underlying growth rates adjust the prior year from the date of introduction of MGD to reflect the current tax regime.
Eclipse brings a more 2 Operating profit loss is defined as pre-exceptional interactive experience profit loss before interest and tax before the amortisation of specific identified intangible assets for customers recognised onacquisitions.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
