28 Performance review Emergency Management Agency FEMA contract for disaster inspections, which prOfESSIONal iscontracted through to January 2019.
This is the fourth consecutive multi-year contract awarded to the business dating back to 1995.
SErvICES Performance of our US power business was lower relative to 2012 due to lower than planned volumes as a number of projects were delayed into 2014.
There was good progress on the joint venture EPC contract we won in January 2013 todesign and build the Garrison Energy Center, a 309MW combined cycle gas-fired power plant in Delaware.
Wehave completed the integration of Subsurface Group, which weacquired at the end of 2012, although its performance was somewhat below decline in underlying profit from expectations in a subdued market.
hIGhLIGhts operations for the division to 54 million Order book increases in the US and 2012: 98 million.
Our architectural and buildings business Middle East offset by the impact performed below our expectations The 2012 order book was restated during ofAustralia and minor movement following the settlement of a long running the year, following the reallocation of work inthe UK business legal dispute for US$8 million.
packages within our internal joint venture Profitability impacted by significantly with the Support Services division.
In Canada, our largest sector structural lower volumes in Australia work for buildings has remained flat.
oPeRAtIonAL PeRFoRMAnCe However, we have seen some success in Ongoing strength in core US Americas our strategic objective of expanding into transportation and market In the US, where approximately 75% the transportation sector.
We have made development in key markets ofactivity is in the transportation sector, good progress on transit programmes in including Middle East and Canada funding of projects by both the federal and the City of Toronto and for the Regional expected in 2014. state departments of transportation is Municipality of Waterloo.
In addition, crucial to our business.
The authorisation weare pursuing several other major of the Transportation Bill in July 2012 for % oF totAL ReVenue opportunities in the province of Ontario.
aperiod of two years effective from We have also been aiming to grow in the September 2012 helped the transportation power market, but as in the US, we saw business deliver a good performance in adelay in the award of new projects in 2013.
In addition to good performance thepower market in 2013: however, onmajor design-build projects, there was wecontinue to see future opportunities 16% also an increase in traditional design work.
inareas such as storage caverns and Furthermore, the short term US Federal injection well projects related to new total revenue Government shutdown in Autumn 2013 work in oil sands.
does not appear to have had a lasting impact on existing work or the pipeline of opportunities.
As a result, we saw a good performance in US transportation with Good performance in Read more on p2 revenue up 7% year-on-year, whilst the US transportation order book remained at 2012 levels.
FInAnCIAL PeRFoRMAnCe with revenue up 7% Newawards and extensions on existing The Professional Services order book year-on-year.
projects including the two-year contract ended the year at 1.5 billion, in line with extension for programme management the previous year.
The order book services on the California High-Speed Rail increased in the Americas and the Middle project remained at a healthy level.
In 2012 we launched a cost efficiency East but saw a small reduction in the UK We are currently at various stages on programme, when we announced the and a more notable decline in Australia, numerous US transportation design-build transfer of many of our support functions resulting from the significant market project opportunities.
During the year from New York City to Lancaster, deterioration experienced throughout we created a core team of senior Pennsylvania.
Revenue remained stable at 1.7 transportation executives to focus on the commenced operations in March 2013 billion 2012: 1.7 billion, with increases pursuit, management and performance and is now in full operation and performing in the Americas and the Middle East of major design-build projects.
Building on that success, a number offsetting lower volumes in Australia.
We of other support functions, such as billing indicated that profitability would be lower Other ongoing major projects the Dallas and certain human resource operations, in Australia in 2013 due to 2012 benefiting Horseshoe project: the Illiana Expressway were also moved to the shared service from good final settlements on some which runs between Illinois and Indiana: centre, from elsewhere in the US.
profitable alliance and at-risk contracts: the Midtown Tunnel project in Norfolk, however this was compounded by the Virginia: the Westside Subway Extension We continue to progress the settlement significantly deteriorating trading in Los Angeles: and the Second Avenue of the previously highlighted longstanding conditions.
Despite taking swift cost Subway in New York City are all contract dispute.
A negotiated settlement reduction measures in Australia and progressing well.
now seems unlikely, but the arbitration operating at or above expected levels process is well advanced and we expect During 2013, our Federal business was in other regions, this led to a substantial itto achieve a positive outcome in 2014. successful on the re-bid of the Federal Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 29 europe, Middle east Our operations in Asia, notably Singapore and northern Africa and Greater China, have continued to The UK remains an extremely competitive increase their workload and perform well.
$87m market with margins remaining under In Singapore, we secured 21 million Contract to provide pressure despite volumes improving in the S$44 million in contracts to support the consulting services for highways and rail sectors.
Our operations Land Transport Authority for the Eastern Qatar Expressway in highways and rail have been successful Regional Line Depot and Stations.
Programme in securing improved levels of workload Development of our structural capabilities and have improved billability levels.
in China is expected to provide avenues Weare currently delivering aspects of the for additional growth in that market.
preliminary design of the railway systems As in 2012, activities in South Africa packages for the UKs High Speed continued to show positive results during projectas well as all three packages 2013.
Our programme management role forTransport for Londons structures at the Medupi Power Station in South andtunnels portfolio.
Africa continues to progress as we also The UK power business remains look to pursue further opportunities in challenged for domestic workload as theregion.
newprojects continue to be delayed.
volume and pricing risks remain, we LooKInG FoRWARD Expanding export services to other expect the business to improve on its geographies has been a key focus for We expect to see ongoing strength in 2013 performance and deliver a broadly thisoperation in order to supplement ourcore US transportation market, new breakeven result in 2014. thelow level of domestic opportunities.
opportunities in a number of our other Overall therefore, excluding any benefit keymarkets including the Middle East, We had excellent growth in the order ofthe longstanding contract dispute, UKand Canada, and increasing power book and revenue from the Middle East, weexpect to make progress in 2014 opportunities in the US and South Africa.
particularly in Qatar and Saudi Arabia.
In across thebusiness, with margins June we won an $87 million contract with In Australia we have worked diligently to improving progressively as the losses Ashghal to provide consulting services right size the business in line with current in Australia are eliminated.
forthe Qatar Expressway Programme, and projected market conditions.
Whilst supplementing the significant programme we are already working on for the Local Roads and Drainage and Qatar Rail projects.
In July we were awarded the role of Programme Management Office Consultant on the prestigious Makkah Public Transport Programme in Saudi Arabia by the Development Commission of Makkah and Mashaaer.
Asia, Australia-Pacific and southern Africa Our business in Australia has been significantly impacted by the sudden cancellation of capital projects across the resources sector, which has also had a subsequent impact on public revenues and spending plans of Australian states and municipalities.
We have taken swift action in response to this by significantly restructuring the business, including appropriate reduction of the Australian workforce.
However despite this, cost reductions inevitably lagged revenue declines.
Whilst the run rate at the end ofthe year was broadly break even, the business was loss making for 2013 as awhole and 40 million below the level achieved in 2012.
We continue to perform work onthe Roy Hill iron ore mining project for which we were appointed programme manager in March 2013.
Theproject is expected to secure the WOrldS fIrST INTErCONTINENTal TUNNEl OpENS remaining elements of financing during A rail tunnel under the Bosphorus Strait in Istanbul opened in 2013, the 2014.
Thetransportation sector has also culmination of more than two decades of planning and design work by Parsons experienced delays in new awards due Brinckerhoff a 150 year dream to link Asiaand Europe via an underwater toongoing funding uncertainty although crossing.
Known as the Marmaray Project, it involved an upgrade of a 47 mile there are some signs that this may commuter rail line from Gebzeon the Asian side of the Bosphorus to Halkali on improve in 2014.
Despite this market the European side.
The tunnel can accommodate 75,000 passengers per hour or turmoil we were successful in securing an estimated 1.5 million people daily, reducing traffic congestion and travel time.
akey rail contract in Melbourne with Victorias Road Authority.
com bosphorus Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 30 Performance review business and closed regional delivery units with weak future prospects.
CONSTrUCTION The management team reviewed all operational contracts, and have subsequently taken steps to improve key disciplines such as tendering, SErvICES estimating and commercial governance.
The actions we have put in place to strengthen the leadership and performance of the UK construction business are taking effect, and contributed to a stronger second half performance.
Whilst we have seen a better than anticipated turnaround in the regional business, there was weaker financial performance on selected major projects in the building sector.
In our mechanical and electrical engineering business, where we predominantly act as Underlying profit from continuing a subcontractor, financial performance in hIGhLIGhts operations reduced to 21 million from the final quarter was adversely impacted Poor performance in UK 119 million in 2012, with the decline by increasingly difficult market conditions.
construction business addressed mostly due to the performance of the UK The impact of these further deteriorations through management and business.
Whilst there was an expectation resulted in an overall 60 million reduction operational changes of reduced profitability at the start of in profitability versus expectations at the theyear, in light of a declining market, Significant increase in US order start of the year.
weannounced a shortfall of approximately book, albeit from a lowbase 50 million in April, resulting from further The UK order book has remained stable, Good order book growth in rest of deterioration inthe external environment albeit there continues to be a shift in the world, driven by wins in Hong Kong.
combined with the impact of an ongoing mix of work from the major projects internal reorganisation.
Whilst the UK business to regional construction due business broadly performed in line with to the impact of the strengthening of the % oF totAL ReVenue these reduced expectations, a further UK residential market and fewer major deterioration at the end of the year projects being brought to the market.
We resulted in an actual profit shortfall won a number of contracts in the student of 60 million.
accommodation sector including the University of Aberystwyth, University of oPeRAtIonAL PeRFoRMAnCe Birmingham and an 80 million project for 65% uK Urbanest in central London.
In the London total revenue The UK construction market has been a commercial sector we were successful challenging environment in which to win in securing some substantial awards, and execute work, allowing clients to including the 110million Providence impose increasingly stringent conditions Tower and a 121million hotel contract for onto contractors, and as a result, placing Grove Developments.
Whilst there were subcontractors under significant financial fewer major infrastructure projects up Read more on p3 pressure.
In addition, the business for award, important wins included the underwent a major reorganisation during 321million design and construction joint FInAnCIAL PeRFoRMAnCe 2012 and 2013.
In January 2013, the venture contract to upgrade sections of The Construction Services order book operations were streamlined into three the M25 London orbital motorway for the from continuing operations improved in the business units consisting of: Highways Agency.
We also announced year to 7.7 billion, up 5% from a year ago.
the 154 million contract to carry out Major projects: focused on complex Following a year of very strong order intake the full transformation works to the projects in key market sectors in the US, our US order book increased by London 2012 Olympic Stadium, which such as energy, transportation 10% despite significant revenue growth.
incorporates enhancements to the stadium and heavy infrastructure It is now over 20% larger than our UK roof contract we were awarded in2013.
order book, which itself decreased by Regional: civil engineering and building, The performance of our UK Rail business 3% in 2013 with growth in the regional private and public, including work in was impacted by operational issues on a business not completely offsetting partnerships and frameworks to provide small number of projects.
However, we reductions inmajor projects and customers with locally delivered, continue to believe that the UK rail sector mechanical & engineering services.
flexible and fully integrated civil and will generate major programmes which We also saw strong growth in the rest building services we are well placed to address with our ofthe world order book which increased Mechanical and electrical engineering: range of capabilities.
by 10%, driven by wins inHong Kong.
us Revenue from continuing operations Following the identification of the profits In the US building market, which accounts increased by 1% during the year to shortfall highlighted above we re-focused for 80% of our business, federal and state 6,573million.
US revenues were up attention on operational improvements spending remain at low levels, whilst 12%for the year, driven by a 20% and tighter governance.
At the end of April private investment from large corporates increase inthe second half versus the we made changes to the leadership of the is gradually improving.
Inaddition, revenue in the rest business, appointing Nicholas Pollard as of the world increased by 16%, partially Over the past few years, we have taken CEO of Construction Services UK.
We offset bya 12% reduction in the UK.
significant steps to ensure that we are also undertook a review of the regional well placed to benefit from a market Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 31 recovery in the building sector.
Focusing In civil infrastructure we are seeing our acquisition strategy on particular opportunities although competition sectors and geographies has enabled us remains strong.
9 5% to broaden our footprint and harness new Student Following the approval of the Order book relationships.
Streamlining the business accommodation Transportation Bill in 2012, a number of improvements from five to three regions, and the contracts civil infrastructure projects have moved establishment of a national capability totender stage.
An increasing proportion centre, has ensured that we drive of civil and rail projects are being let on a innovation, develop best practice, share PPP or design build basis, which allows us knowledge and deploy talent across the business to Strukton Rail BV, with the to demonstrate our experience, expertise business nationally.
This drove a 54% disposal completing in January 2014. and innovation in this area.
In December, increase in order intake in 2013 versus we announced the award of a $343 million In Germany, trading has been very 2012, gaining market share.
joint venture contract for the Regional disappointing which resulted in an Building market segments where we Transportation District in Denver to initiate underlying loss from operations of haveseen significant opportunities and the first phase of design and construction 26million mainly due to three complex those offering further potential into 2014 on the North Metro Rail Lineproject.
joint venture projects with operational and include mission critical data centres, stakeholder issues, and continued low International commercial corporate facilities, student levels of activity.
We have made progress In Hong Kong, 2013 was a busy tendering accommodation, multifamily housing to divest our interests in the business, period for our joint venture, Gammon andhealthcare.
completing a management buyout of the Construction, which ended the period small signalling manufacturing capability Our buildings business continues witha strong order book.
The market and closing down the switches and to benefit from working with our hasexperienced a strong programme crossing manufacturing capability.
Investments business, not only in the ofgovernment spending on both Discussions with a number of potential military housing area, but increasingly transportation infrastructure and public buyers for the remaining parts of the inother markets.
In June, Gammon was awarded German operation are ongoing.
At the brought to our construction business a contract worth 720 million HK$8.66 halfyear, having reviewed the likely sales from our investments business include billion to design and build a major strategic proceeds achievable on disposal, we the Air Force Northern Group project road.
The HKSAR Highways contract to wrote down the 38 million of goodwill a six-year project for the design, construct the Southern Connection within our German business to nil.
construction and or renovation of 4,500 Viaduct section of Tuen Mun Chek Lap homes, valued at approximately $442 Kok Link in Hong Kong is the largest solo LooKInG FoRWARD million and new graduate and family civil engineering contract ever awarded Whilst the environment is still challenging student housing project at the University toGammon.
In November Gammon in the UK, we have taken steps to improve of Nevada, Reno.
Preferred bidder status wontwo significant rail contracts for operational delivery.
We continue to was achieved on a number of other acombined value of approximately expect the mix of our order book to shift schemes including the $500 million 150million S$315 million in Singapore: towards the regional business, as the University of West Florida student the design and construction of the ongoing recovery in the housing market accommodation project.
Mayflower Station on the Thomson Line, stimulates work for the regional business.
and a sleeper replacement programme The number of new major infrastructure onthe existing North-South Line.
projects to be awarded in the short term is Our joint venture in Dubai performed in expected to be low, with a small number line with our expectations with stable of significant opportunities expected to revenues in 2013.
Our overall UK strategy remains to was down on 2012 as a result of exploit our market leading position, and to favourable bad debt and claim settlements continue to drive efficiency and build our in 2012.
Looking into 2014, the business skills and depth of capability in construction environment is improving, and we would to capitalise on a gradual recovery.
expect a return to somewhat modest volume growth for our main contracting In the US building market we expect business, whereas our subcontract tosee a continued steady improvement mechanical and electrical engineering inmarket conditions and tender business is currently operating in opportunities.
We expect the strong moredifficult market conditions, orderintake we have achieved in 2013 much like theUK.
tolead tovolume improvements in 2014, and we anticipate that a broader market HOUSTON CONvENTION Discontinued operations growth will lead to improving bid margins Following the completion of the CENTEr on work for execution in 2015 and beyond.
operational and strategic review of our Our strategy in US building is to leverage RIDA Development Corporation selected mainland European rail businesses we our world class processes, sector Balfour Beatty Construction US as a joint concluded that maintaining a rail presence expertise and innovation on a national venture partner with WELBRO Building in Mainland Europe was not consistent basis, targeting growth sectors.
In US Corporation to build the new 207 with our strategy of building a strong local infrastructure we have significant US$344 million 30-storey Houston presence in a number of market sectors.
headroom to grow, especially as the Convention Center Hotel in downtown In Mainland Europe we essentially only market moves towards greater private Houston.
This new project will add more operate in rail, and therefore in March investment and design and build projects.
than 1,800 construction jobs and 700 2013 we announced our intention to permanent jobs to the Houston divest these operations.
In March 2013 Overall, whilst margins are expected to hospitality industry.
we sold the Spanish business to its remain under pressure, we anticipate management, and in December we improved profitability in 2014, with partial SUSTaINaBIlITy Healthy Communities announced the sale of the Scandinavian recovery in margins.
com houstonconvention Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 32 Performance review SUppOrT SErvICES settlement of multi-year commercial contract worth a potential 1.5 billion with hIGhLIGhts issues in the water sector.
While the 23-month early Revenue 10% as a result of strong contractor involvement is in our order Transportation also had a good performance in UK power and book 10 million, the vast majority of performance with improved performances gassectors thiswork is yet to be booked.
Also under across Highway services, Local Authority AMP6, Yorkshire Water extended our Strong underlying profit from roads and rail renewals.
existing contract to 2020 which is worth continuing operations with The 2012 order book for power was 70 million.
improved operating margin restated during the year following the In transportation, we were successful in Executed in line with strategic reallocation of work packages with our winning important highways work for local objectives the disposal of internal joint venture with the Professional authorities.
At the start of 2013 we added WorkPlace for 155million.
the 150 million Wiltshire Highways contract to our order book.
The contract oPeRAtIonAL PeRFoRMAnCe commenced work in May 2013 and since % oF totAL ReVenue The power sector, a key growth sector then we have been working progressively for the Group, now accounts for over a with the client to resolve a number of third of our support services activities.
We won a 200 million We continue to develop our power contract with Herefordshire Council in July business in both overhead line and cabling and thisproject has mobilised in line with capabilities, whilst helping clients maintain 13% ourexpectations.
Other contracts in our their significant asset base.
On overhead portfolio, including West Sussex and the total revenue lines we made excellent progress on the street lighting portfolio, performed well.
Beauly-Denny replacement electricity For the Highways Agency, the Area 10 transmission line contract for Scottish and contract to operate, maintain and improve Southern Energy.
This contract involves over 500km of motorway and trunk roads the development, design and construction in the Northwest fully mobilised during Read more on p3 of a 200km overhead line and associated the year and there was excellent civil works.
In cabling we continued to performance on the M25 contract.
FInAnCIAL PeRFoRMAnCe make progress on the delivery of the Through our Connect Plus Services joint Humber Gateway offshore cabling The Support Services order book for venture we manage the operation and contract for E. ON.
In the US there was continuing operations finished the year maintenance of 250 miles of road critical good performance on our New Energy at 4.1 billion, down 11% from a year ago to the UKs transport network.
As expected, the order book has declined in the power sector as The Gas Distribution Strategic Partnership we have completed the first year of the contracts with National Grid to replace 1.1 billion contract with National Grid to ageing networks in the Northwest and upgrade the UKs gas distribution network.
West Midlands are fully mobilised and are The order book has reduced in the water performing well.
We also made progress sector as the AMP5 regulatory water cycle on our joint venture contract in the nears completion in 2015.
Revenue for the Republic of Ireland to replace and extend year was up 10% at 1,265 million, as a the gas network on behalf of state result of strong performance in the power operator Bord Gais.
9 sector up 18% on 2012. contracts in the In the water market, we continued to Underlying profit from continuing UK Highway perform well on our AMP5 water operations increased to 55 million Maintenance arena contracts.
As the AMP5 regulatory water 2012:30 million, resulting in an cycle draws to a close, we are working underlying operating margin of 4.3% with a number of water companies to compared with 2.6% in 2012.
There manage a smooth transition to the AMP6 wasaparticularly strong performance, cycle without unnecessary changeover accompanied by better than expected disruption.
As water companies choose high volumes on power transmission in their partners for the next cycle, we have the fourth quarter, as well as a small already won a three-way joint venture Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 33 4.3% Operating margin In the rail renewals market we continued to work with Network Rail and London Underground to renew and improve service levels across the rail network.
Discontinued operations In December, we completed the sale of our UK facilities management business toGDF Suez Energy Services for 155million in cash.
This sale represents an important step in our evolution as we intensify our focus on the creation and management of infrastructure assets.
Thebusiness contributed 19 million to underlying profit from operations up tothe date of disposal.
LooKInG FoRWARD We work for clients across the regulated and public sector, all of whom need tomanage financial pressures, whilst improving the quality of the infrastructure that facilitates our daily lives.
This will continue to provide opportunities for us, as clients look to outsource work, and WOrkING INNOvaTIvEly seek innovative solutions in the provision of that work, but also presents challenges WITH NaTIONal GrId in an increasingly competitive environment.
In a joint venture with M. J.
Electric we formed an alliance In the near term, we see growth coming withNational Grid.
This New Energy Alliance NEA provides from the water and local authority sectors.
innovative ways for National Grid to deliver design, build and In the water sector, we are actively programme management of substations and transmission lines bidding for AMP6 contracts with a across New England, US.
The outcome has been 28 varied and number of the major water companies challenging projects, with a total value of 300 US$499 million, with a focus on offering broader solutions successfully completed ontime and within budget.
for clients leveraging on our recent Read more online balfourbeatty.
com nea success with Thames Water.
The continuing outsourcing trend by local government will provide additional growth opportunities for Balfour Beatty Living Places, which increasingly, looks toleverage its strong position in the highways and street lighting markets industry across the globe asnew sources of2014.
We anticipate our 2014 revenue toprovide additional complementary of power in new places need to be will decline in this area by approximately services to local authority clients.
are well placed to take advantage of UK Volumes in the power transmission sector Looking to 2014 we expect overall cabling opportunities expected in 2014. are likely to reduce as current contracts revenues to drop in line with the order complete and we anticipate our 2014 We have continued to see increasing book.
Taking into account the change revenue will be down about 100 million.
competitive pressure in the routine rail in mix of business and some closure We will continue to target new renewals market over the year and are no costs of exiting the rail renewals work, opportunities outside the UK and seek longer bidding for Network Rails track margins are expected to reduce in 2014. opportunities in the power market linked renewal work, with our existing contract to the changing nature of the energy running to the end of the first quarter Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 34 Performance review INfraSTrUCTUrE INvESTMENTS significantly above both the Directors We reached financial close on two projects hIGhLIGhts valuation and our own expectations.
in the student accommodation market Strong financial performance, Despite the disposals, the PPP during the year: the 63 million Holyrood including 82 million in disposal gains investments portfolio remains substantial Postgraduate Student Accommodation and diverse, and the Directors valuation and Outreach Centre project for the The portfolio remains substantial increased to 766million using constant University of Edinburgh andthe 45 and diverse with a current discount rates at theend of 2013 2012: million Penglais Farm New Residences Directors valuation of 766 million 734 million including the benefit of Project for Aberystwyth University.
Financial close on eight projects, 76 million of inflation and operational Notably these projects were financed with another three advancing to performance gains.
withlong term debt from institutional preferred bidder stage.
investors, supporting the UK Governments oPeRAtIonAL ReVIeW drive to encourage low cost pension fund We continued to perform well in 2013, investment in infrastructure.
Building at % oF totAL ReVenue reaching financial close on eight projects, both sites has commenced with the first with another three advancing to preferred phases of both projects contracted to bidder stage.
The student accommodation bedelivered in the autumn, although market remained a key growth area for us Aberystwyth has incurred programme in the US and UK in 2013, as we secured delays at the beginning of 2014 with the four new projects with a construction extreme weather conditions.
We continue 6% value of over 500million.
to see further bidding opportunities in total revenue the sector in 2014.
Our strategy to diversify further our economic infrastructure capabilities In the UK power sector, the preferred delivered successes with preferred bidder bidder appointment for the Gwynt y Mr appointment on the 346 million Gwynt project strengthened our position in the yMr Offshore Transmission Owners OFTO market.
Greater Gabbard OFTO Read more on p3 OFTO project and financial close on 317 million achieved financial close theBirmingham Bio Power waste wood inNovember, with the Thanet OFTO FInAnCIAL PeRFoRMAnCe gasifier project.
These projects represent 163million expected to reach financial The Investments business delivered significant progress for our business and close during 2014.
Through these project another successful year of growth, the continued evolution of our portfolio.
successes we have developed a leading establishing a strong presence in new investor position in this growing market In addition to growing the business in new markets and generating a significant and supported the Groups wider strategy end markets we have continued to expand increase in underlying pre-tax profits to for developing our delivery capability our Investments business geographically.
132 million 2012: 97 million, whilst inoffshore transmission.
At the start of 2014 we achieved a growing the value of the portfolio.
The significant milestone as we secured We continue to see opportunities for pre-disposals operating profit of 20 million ourfirst win in Canada, with a preferred development in the waste market, was up 3million on the previous year bidder appointment on the 196 million achieving financial close on two waste as strong growth in US military housing C$350 million BC Childrens and projects in 2013, although these projects income and the favourable impact of cost Womens hospital redevelopment project savings throughout the division more than in Vancouver.
The Canadian pipeline outweighed the decline in UK income as remains strong and we are actively a result of disposals.
Net interest income, pursuing a number of other social and a significant element of total income, also economic infrastructure opportunities.
InAustralia we are working on a Following another strong year, the numberof waste, transportation disposals programme delivered an 82m andaccommodation projects.
increase in gains from 52 million in strong financial performance 2012 to 82 million in 2013, after uK including 82 million recycling 21million 2012: 48 million In the UK our most active markets were in disposal gains of revaluation reserves from other predominantly student accommodation, comprehensive income to the income power and waste.
The disposals realised value Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 35 can suffer from planning delays.
We were delighted to secure our first Infrastructure Partners BBIP.
Alongside Weachieved financial close on the project success in Canada with the external investors we have a total Gloucestershire waste project, but this preferred bidder appointment in January commitment of $110 million, which we iscurrently subject to a planning appeal 2014 on the BC Childrens and Womens expect to be drawn down and invested on which we anticipate the outcome hospital redevelopment project over the next three to four years.
will be announced later in 2014.
We representing a significant win for the The fund has so far raised approximately continue towork on a pipeline of biomass Group.
Construction is expected to $500 million and made a number of opportunities.
We are making good commence in April 2014 and the new investments and commitments, acquiring progress with our Essex waste treatment facility will be completed in June 2017.
10 operational UK solar projects in the UK, facility: construction is now well underway and entering into a definitive agreement Disposals programme and it is on schedule to open in 2017. subject to regulatory approval to acquire We had considerable success during 2013 a regulated electric utility business in north America as we continued our disposal strategy Michigan.
We anticipate subsequent In the US, military housing remains a key through the full or partial disposal of a closes to the fund during 2014. aspect of our portfolio with 21 operational number of our mature UK PFI assets projects.
In August 2013 we reached generating an accounting gain of 82 LooKInG FoRWARD financial close on the $442 million million, and at a value of 45 million in Our primary objective continues to be Northern Group project for the US Air excess of their Directors valuation.
theinvestment in projects where we can Force, which consists of six bases.
These included our 50% interests in use our investment skills and expertise Thisproject requires managing all four PFI schools projects in Birmingham, tomaximise the broader benefit to development, operations and Bassetlaw, Stoke and Rotherham: our the Groups growth and development.
maintenance, property management, 50% interests in two PFI hospital projects We will continue to evolve our developer construction, renovation and demolition in Salford and Tameside: and partial capabilities to realise new opportunities services for 4,540 homes.
We again equity disposals in the Carlisle Northern for the Investments business and the demonstrated our ability to launch Development Route CNDR and A30 A35 broader Group.
We have a significant innovative funding structures, with the road, where we have retained strategic pipeline of work globally as we project being financed by institutional interests of 25% and 20% respectively.
continue to pursue a variety of PPP and investors through a bond issue in the US.
We continue to see strong demand for non-PPP opportunities.
We anticipate a In addition we also assumed property these assets in the secondary market.
continuation of our disposals programme management services for the ACC III as a means of realising the value in mature Investment management business military housing privatisation project.
assets, but expect the gains to revert to In 2011 we launched an investment a more sustainable level of approximately We have continued to make significant management business, Balfour Beatty 40million in 2014. progress in the student accommodation market, as we share learning and best practice across geographies for the benefit of our clients.
We completed the building of a 233-bed facility for Lake Forest College, Illinois.
We successfully reached financial close on the University of Iowa and University of Nevada projects in 2013.
In the third quarter of 2013, we announced two significant preferred bidder positions in this market with the $500 million University of West Florida project followed by our second preferred bidder appointment with Texas A&M University for the $200 million College Station project.
We anticipate further growth opportunities in this sector in 2014.
We are also progressing on our strategy to utilise our developer capabilities in North America.
Through our involvement in the Lake Forest College project and Tarleton State University Phase 1 project, we have created an opportunity to earn development fees, while also generating income for the Construction Services division without investing Group capital.
This is further demonstration of how the investments business is able to deliver additional value to the wider Group beyond simply earning a return on dEvElOpING STUdENT aCCOMMOdaTION invested capital.
Diversification is also fOr TEXaS a&M UNIvErSITy taking place in our military housing Our $200 million student accommodation project at Texas A&M business as we explore opportunities for University is our sixth student accommodation project in the US.
third party management, leveraging our It is acollaboration between Balfour Beatty Campus Solutions management service capabilities.
We whowill belead developer and our US construction business, secured our first win in this market in based in Dallas, who will be the construction partner.
January 2013 with the Carriage House Townhomes project.
com texasstudent Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
