161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt2 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt2.
qxp 18 07 2013 12:47 Page 20 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance continued or fraud.
Measures include physical controls, segregation of duties, reviews by management and reviews by the Companys external auditors to the extent necessary to arrive at their audit opinion.
Monitoring and corrective action: The Board meets regularly, formally and informally, throughout the year to review the internal controls.
This includes an annual review of the significant business risks, formally considering the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
In addition, the executive Directors and senior management staff have a close involvement in the day to day operations of the Group and as such the controls are subject to ongoing monitoring.
Investor Relations The Board values communication with private and institutional shareholders and with analysts.
The Annual General Meeting is used as the primary opportunity for the Board as a whole to meet private shareholders.
Other opportunities are taken as they arise during the year to discuss the strategic and other issues with institutional shareholders and analysts.
The Board continues to support the concept of individual resolutions on separate issues at Annual General Meetings.
Details of proxy voting on each resolution are disclosed to the meeting after it has been dealt with by a show of hands.
In accordance with the Code, notice of the Annual General Meeting and the Annual Report and Financial Statements will be sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
Financial Reporting The Board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements within which it seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups business.
Further details are given in the Chairmans Statement.
Compliance Statement The Board considers the Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 March 2013 with the provisions of the Code with the exception of the following paragraphs: Paragraph Subject A.
3.1 Division of Chairman and CEO responsibilities A.
1.2 Non-executive directors and composition of the Board B.
3.1-2 Nomination committee and its responsibilities B.
6.1-3 Evaluation of the Board C. 3.1-6 Audit committee and its responsibilities D. 1.1: D. 2.1-2 Remuneration committee and its responsibilities Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 11, which also refers to the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
In addition, Note 17 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its financial risks, together with details of its financial instruments, hedging activities and exposures to credit, liquidity and market risks.
