12 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 The relative rankings are largely a result of the performance of the equity portfolio.
The Trust has a greater exposure Performance to the US than many of our peers.
The US market was one of the best performing markets in the early part of 2013 and our performance relative to our peers was enhanced Review of as a result.
On a rolling six month basis, we were ranked investment above median for the period up until July, but then as the Platform Purpose performance US started to suffer from political uncertainty arising from Obamacare and the debate over the Federal budget, we The Total Shareholder Profile Performance saw this position reverse.
Although the weakening of the Return TSR for the US Dollar relative to Sterling in the second half of the year Trust in 2013 was People will have helped make US companies more competitive, 22.7% and the Net the valuation of our portfolio was impacted more than Asset Value Total many of our peers, particularly in the third quarter of 2013.
The NAV TR is Alliance Trust NAV performance against peer group the best absolute return the Trust has generated for three % years and the TSR is the best absolute return that the Trust 14 has reported in eight years.
These returns are on top of the 12 10 double digit growth we reported in 2012.
The NAV and 8 share price at 31 December were the highest year-end levels 6 4 ever achieved.
2 0 The difference between the returns is explained by the -2 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 narrowing of the discount, which ended the year at 12.9%, Alliance Trust PLC NAV AIC Global Sector NAV having spent most of the year below 14%.
The discount has not traded consistently at this level since 2006.
We recognise that while these numbers are improving, there Portfolio performance analysis is always work to be done and we maintain our focus on delivering improved investment performance and a The table on the next page shows that the equity investment narrowing discount.
portfolio, which represented on average 94% of net assets, returned 21.6% during the year and contributed 19.4% to On page 9 we report on our Key Performance Indicators the NAV total return.
The attribution analysis table on page 14 KPIs.
We measure and report on our performance in terms gives more information on how this performance was of how we rank relative to the returns generated by other generated from a global sector perspective.
We look at our performance over one, three and five years and use the three year results in The total return of fixed income investments was affected the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP calculations see pages by the weakness in bond markets in the second quarter of 56, 57 and 64.
Over the year we were ranked median on the year but recovered in the second half, to give an overall a TSR basis and in the third quartile on an NAV basis.
The Trusts holding in the Alliance were ranked in the second quartile over three years on both Trust Monthly Income Bond Fund, which accounted for measures and in the third quartile over five years.
the majority of the investment in fixed income, had a total Alliance Trust Investments won its first segregated mandate January 2013 February 2013 SRI funds rebranded as Alliance Trust Sustainable Future Funds
