The Company does not have its own internal audit function, INTERNAL CONTROLS asall the administration is delegated to the Investment The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining Manager and other third party service providers.
The Board theCompanys systems of internal control and for reviewing monitors the controls in place through the Investment theireffectiveness, for ensuring that financial information Managers internal audit department and feels that there is published or used within the business is reliable, and for currently no need for the Company to have its owninternal regularly monitoring compliance with regulations governing audit function although this matter is kept underreview.
the operation of investment trusts.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control systems on an ongoing basis to identify, evaluate and manage the Companys FINANCIAL REPORTING signi cant risks.
As part of that process, there are procedures The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the designed to capture and evaluate any failings or weaknesses Annual Report and Financial Statements is set out on page 35, and should a case be categorised by the Board as signi cant, the Independent Auditors Report on pages 39 and 40 and the procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to Statement of Going Concern on page 23. remedy the failings.
The Board is not aware of any signi cant failings or weaknesses arising in the year under review.
SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Investment trusts do not employ staff and accordingly have Control of the risks identi ed, covering financial, operational, nodirect impact on social matters but can be signi cant compliance and risk management, is embedded in the investors in the economies of the regions in which they operations of the Investment Manager and BNYM.
The Company invests in mining companies around monitoring and reporting process to review these controls, theworld.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedures which has been in place throughout the year under review and and financial analysis of the companies within the portfolio up to the date of this report, carried out by the Investment includes research and appraisal, and also takes into account Managers corporate audit department.
This accords with environmental policies and other business issues.
The theFinancial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised Company invests primarily on financial grounds to meet its Guidance for Directors on the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Investment Manager reports to the Company on its review The Investment Manager is supportive of the UK Stewardship of internal controls, formally on a semi-annual basis and Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional verbally at each Board and Audit & Management Engagement shareholders in respect of investee companies, and is Committee meeting, and provides an annual report from the voluntary and operates on a comply or explain basis.
The Investment Managers reporting accountants on the control Investment Managers approach to the UK Stewardship Code, policies and procedures in operation.
The Audit & Management and policies on Socially Responsible Investment, are detailed Engagement Committee also receives quarterly reports from on the website at blackrock.
com corporate en-gb about-us BNYM on the internal controls of its custodial operations,   reports.
together with the opinion of their reporting accountants.
BRIBERY PREVENTION POLICY The Board recognises that these control systems can only be The provision of bribes of any nature to third parties in order to designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to gain a commercial advantage is prohibited and is a criminal achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but offence.
The Board has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or and a commitment to carry out business fairly, honestly and loss, and relies on the operating controls established by the openly.
The Board takes its responsibility to prevent bribery by Investment Manager and BNYM.
The Investment Manager the Companys Investment Manager on its behalf very seriously prepares revenue forecasts and management accounts which and BlackRock has anti-bribery policies and procedures in allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review place which are high level, proportionate and risk based.
The Board and the Investment Manager have Companys service providers have been contacted in respect of agreed clearly fide ned investment criteria, speci ed levels of their anti-bribery policies and, where necessary, contractual authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, changes are made to existing agreements in respect of including performance statistics and investment valuations, anti-bribery provisions.
are submitted to the Board at each meeting.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [33]
