Overview of the year Operating financial review We are pleased to report improved results demand, negatively impacting the currency from our Asset Management business and for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The and economic growth rates.
a subdued performance from our Specialist strategic realignment of the group as a Bank which continued to be affected by The South African banking system continues specialist bank and asset manager and the elevated impairments and a higher cost of to be highly regarded, maintaining its focus of developing capital light revenue funds.
The marginal cost of funds declined second ranking in the World Economic streams is paying off.
We were satisfied signicantly during the latter part of the year Forums Global Competitiveness Report.
with the progress made in both our Asset which should result in an improvement in our South Africas credit rating was, however, Management and Wealth & Investment net interest margin in the future.
downgraded as the countrys consolidated businesses.
Furthermore, substantial Optimism that the euro zone crisis is over deficit widened to around 4.8% of GDP.
We progress was made in implementing the One were pleased to see the recent adoption and that the UK economy is starting to Bank process to create the appropriate base of the National Development Plan by recover is becoming more prevalent.
This for future growth and development of the view is supported by both a recovery in Specialist Bank.
government, the effective implementation of which we believe is key to the transformation equity markets and a reduction in bond of South Africas economic landscape.
This at some point should translate into improved activity Summary of group We remain committed to achieving levels in the real economy resulting in a more and sustaining an equitable workplace performance positive environment going forward.
Meaningful engagement and consultation took place Australia The group achieved an increase in adjusted operating profit of 20.8% to 433.2 million with employees across the group as part of The Australian economy grew at pre-crisis a process to develop a new Employment 2012: 358.6 million.
Adjusted EPS levels in 2012, reaching 3.1% growth for the increased 16.4% from 31.8 pence to Equity Plan, which was submitted to the year.
Most of this was realised during the 37.0 pence.
Distributions to shareholders Department of Labour during the period.
first quarter as growth slowed in subsequent increased from 17 pence to 18 pence Building skills in entrepreneurship and quarters due to lowered expectations on resulting in a dividend cover of 2.1 times the hard sciences is essential to achieve Chinas GDP and demand for commodities.
We recently This slowdown resulted in the RBA pushing launched an enterprise development cash rates down to a record low of 3%.
The Asset Management and Wealth & programme to back entrepreneurs Investment businesses have benefited who manage their own businesses and Since 31 March, the economy has continued from higher levels of average funds under have potential to grow and create jobs.
to struggle with its transition to a post management and net inows in excess of Recognising that there is a significant mining investment boom world.
This has resulted in recurring shortage of skills in maths and science in resulted in further interest rate cuts and a income amounting to 68.6% of total South Africa, development of proficiency in weaker Australian Dollar and is expected operating income 2012: 67.7%.
these subjects remains a key focus of our to have a positive effect on the non-mining corporate social investment programme.
Impairments in the Specialist Bank have decreased by 22.8% from the prior year United Kingdom and Other resulting in a strong increase in operating profit.
We continue to maintain a sound The UK economy had another poor year Growth from all three balance sheet, appropriate capital and a of growth, narrowly missing a triple dip businesses robust liquidity prole.
Towards the end of the period, the UK was downgraded by credit rating Overall group results have been negatively All three of our core businesses achieved agencies as a result of disappointing shortgrowth for the financial year with Asset impacted by the depreciation of the Rand of term growth prospects and the continuation approximately 13% against our presentation Management and Wealth & Investment of the deleveraging process.
The latter months contributing 44% to group operating profit.
of the financial year saw a strong rally in The Retail Distribution Review became Asset Management equity markets which was overshadowed effective in the UK during the period, the full by difficult conditions on the ground and impact of which will take a number of years For the 2013 financial year, Asset low levels of corporate activity.
We do not however, envisage Management increased operating 1 rates remained at historically low economic this regulation having a material effect on profit by 4.8% to 140.2 million 2012: levels in all three geographies in which our business model.
We maintain an open 133.7 million, benefiting from higher we operate, as monetary policy remained and compliant relationship with regulators funds under management, net inows of accommodative.
and continue to adjust to the new regulatory 4.1 billion and strong growth in performance environment.
Total funds under management amounted to 69.8 billion 2012: Turning our attention towards the continent, Operating environment 61.6 billion.
Asset Management has the euro zone endured another year of established an international investment across our key uncertainty, living in recession throughout platform and a global distribution network the period under review.
The Irish economy, with the aim of continuing to drive organic geographies however, grew 0.9% and set its sights on growth by providing a quality service and recovery as it entered a second year of above benchmark performance to its South Africa consecutive growth.
Our UK and European client base.
The South African economy had its activities showed moderate growth with challenges as strong equity returns were a good performance from our Wealth & During the financial year we announced annulled by labour unrest and weak global Investment business, a stable performance the sale of a 15% equity stake in the Asset Investec integrated annual report 2013 19 Overview of the year Operating financial review continued Management business to top management lending and xed income balances, whilst Tribute to our people personnel, with the option to acquire an investment income was bolstered from a additional 5%.
The transaction is designed to solid performance from the private equity Some of our key differentiators are our ensure continuity and to retain and incentivise and investment property portfolios.
Net fees service levels and steadfast relationships the senior management team that has with clients.
These aspects of our company and commissions and trading income from been so instrumental in the success of the are a direct result of the dedication and hard customer ow were negatively impacted business to date.
We believe that institutional work of our employees, whom we would like by lower activity in the Corporate and clients are attracted to asset management to thank for contributing to an improved set Institutional Banking businesses.
companies that have significant operational of annual results.
independence and alignment of incentive The UK benefited from an increase in net We would like to bid farewell to the head structures to long-term performance.
fees and commissions in the Corporate of our Australian business, David Clark, Advisory business.
Levels of transactional Wealth & Investment who has helped to successfully rebuild and activity within the Private Banking and rebrand Investec in Australia.
We would From a macro-economic perspective, Corporate and Institutional Banking also like to thank Sam Abrahams for his Wealth & Investment has benefited from businesses were mixed, but with a promising dedicated 15 years of service to Investec a rise in equity markets supported by a pipeline developing.
The principal investment as a non-executive and eight years as the rotation from bonds into equities.
Operating portfolios performed well and the division chairman of the groups audit committees.
profit increased by 30.9% to 50.7 million recorded good growth in its professional We would further like to welcome 2012: 38.7 million benefiting from higher and specialised lending and asset finance David Friedland to our board of nonaverage funds under management and net portfolios.
The bank looks to reduce executive directors and to his new role as inows of 0.8 billion.
Total funds under chairman of the groups audit committees.
excess liquidity and to gain market share in management have grown to 40.4 billion niches where we believe we can compete 2012: 34.8 billion.
The past couple of years have been very effectively.
testing for the financial services industry.
The UK business is in a consolidation phase Investec has successfully navigated the Over the past year, our Australian business as Williams fide Bro was migrated onto the storm with the confidence of its investors returned to profitability.
A stable operating groups platforms in August 2012 and the and clients.
We thank you for your environment allowed for solid revenues in our business was rebranded as Investec Wealth unwavering support.
Corporate Advisory and Corporate Lending & Investment.
Costs relating to integration businesses, as well as consistent activity are reected in the groups 2013 results, but in our Private Banking business.
Going are largely non-repeatable as the business Outlook forward, our key focus will be to reshape sets to improve operating margins over the business to achieve strategic alignment the next few years.
The South African We have continued to improve efficiencies, with the broader group and to generate business saw an increase in the conversion streamline our processes, eliminate appropriate returns for shareholders.
of non-discretionary to discretionary client duplication and build scale.
Our focus is to mandates, resulting in strong growth in fully leverage the strength of the franchise discretionary funds under management.
and to continue deepening our core Building for the long term business activities, while ensuring that each Wealth & Investment continues to drive division and geography makes a notable the internationalisation of its client offering, Investec believes that in order to grow contribution to the group performance.
leverage off the groups banking client base and prosper in years to come we need as well as broaden the understanding of all Although global markets remain challenging, to contribute positively towards our services available behind the Investec brand.
the recent improvement in equity markets communities, our staff and the economy.
bodes well for our business.
With the We continue to invest in education and Specialist Banking rebalancing of the group between capital entrepreneurship as well as in numerous For the 2013 financial year, the Specialist light and capital intensive activities, we training and development programmes Banking business increased operating believe that we have the right mix of for our employees.
We are dedicated to profit 30.1% to 242.3 million 2012: businesses and revenue streams to capture preserving our natural environment, to 186.2 million.
the benets of a sustained market upturn reducing our carbon footprint and to playing and to drive longer-term performance.
1 a broader role in the support and upliftment In South Africa, the division reported an of the societies in which we operate.
increase in net interest due to higher On behalf of the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited 4JS %BWJE 1SPTTFS 'BOJ 5JUJ 4UFQIFO, PTFGG #FSOBSE, BOUPS Joint chairman Joint chairman Chief executive officer Managing director References to operating profit in the text above relates to operating profit before taxation, goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items and after non-controlling interests.
The operating financial review provides an overview of our strategic position, performance during the financial year and outlook for the business.
It should be read together with the sections that follow on pages 21 to 136 as well as volume two, which elaborate on the aspects highlighted in this review.
